To facilitate the discovery of novel compounds that modulate human GABA(A) receptor function, we have developed a high throughput functional assay using a fluorescence imaging system. L(tk-) cells expressing combinations of human GABA(A) receptor subunits were incubated with the pH-sensitive dye 2',7'bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5-(and 6)-carboxyfluorescein, then washed and placed in a 96-well real-time fluorescence plate reader. In buffer adjusted to pH 6.9 there was a robust and persisting acidification response to addition of GABA, which was antagonised by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline. The concentration-response relationship for GABA was modulated by allosteric ligands, including benzodiazepine (BZ) site agonists and inverse agonists. The effects of BZ site ligands on the pH response to GABA for receptors containing alpha1beta3gamma2, alpha3beta3gamma2 or alpha5beta3gamma2 subunits were well correlated with results from electrophysiological studies on the same receptor subunit combinations expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Most modulatory compounds tested were found to be relatively unselective across the three subunit combinations tested; however, some showed subtype-dependent efficacy, such as diazepam, which had highest agonist effects on the alpha3beta3gamma2 subtype, substantial but lesser agonism on alpha1beta3gamma2 and still substantial but the least agonism on alpha5beta3gamma2. This indicates that the alpha subunit within the recombinant receptor expressed in L(tk-) cells can affect the efficacy of the response to some BZ compounds. Inhibitors of Na(+)/Cl(-) cotransport, anion/anion exchange and the gastric type of H(+)/K(+) ATPase potently inhibited GABA-evoked acidification, indicating that multiple transporters are involved in the GABA-evoked pH change. This novel fluorescence-based high throughput functional assay allows the rapid characterization of allosteric ligands acting on human GABA(A) receptors.
A method is described to enable the recording of transient intracellular calcium changes in deep brain structures in anesthetized and awake animals using a fluorescent indicator combined with in vivo optical detection methods. Optrodes were fabricated using a bifurcated fiber-optic cable with an attached infusion guide cannula. After intracranial implantation of an optrode, animals were prepared in the following manner, (1) rats (intra-striatal) and monkeys (intra-putamen) were infused with the fluorescent calcium indicator, Oregon Green, to load intrinsic cells; or (2) rats were intra-striatally transplanted with a slurry of dye-loaded IMR-32 neuroblastoma cells via pipette ejection. Excitation light from an argon-ion laser was launched through the optrode and passed into the tissue. The resulting calcium-induced fluorescence signals were captured by the optrode, then detected and processed by externalized photomultiplier- and CCD-based spectrometer electronics. In approximately 25% of all intrinsic cell recordings, the baseline fluorescence intensity was relatively stable over time whereas in the remainder, large amplitude oscillations were observed with a frequency in the range of 0.5-2 Hz. These Ca(2+) transients were inhibited by local infusion of 10 microM omega-conotoxin MVIIC and 1 microM TTX. Extracellular electrophysiological recordings that were made adjacent to the optrode tip revealed that the Ca(2+) oscillations were in phase with the burst firing of striatal neurons. This suggested that the optical signals had a neuronal origin, most likely from medium spiny neurons. Baseline fluorescence intensity increased during infusion of high [K(+)](o), the calcium ionophore, A-23187, or during temporary bilateral carotid artery occlusion. Monkey (Saimiri sciureus) putamen recordings also affirmed the presence of similar calcium-related transients in a non-human primate. In the transplant preparations, the IMR-32 cells displayed a stable, non-oscillating baseline fluorescence. They were similarly responsive to high [K(+)](o) challenge and appeared viable for at least several hours. Similar optical recording approaches might be applied to monitor other fluorescent, chemiluminescent or bioluminescent events from almost any brain structure. Moreover, transplanted transfected cells expressing a single specific receptor or ion-channel protein may effectively serve as biosensing elements for the measurement of extracellular neurochemical signaling.
The position of neurotransmitter receptors relative to active neurotransmitter release sites may be a major factor influencing neuronal responses. The location of the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype mGluR2/3 was investigated in synaptic structures in the rat superficial spinal dorsal horn laminae by using a pre-embedding immunogold technique. Immunostaining for mGluR2/3 occurred in laminae I through III. Gold particles were encountered both in the cytosol and along the plasma membrane. Distinctive plasmalemmal immunodeposits were detected in vesicle-containing profiles, where they were located to membrane compartments distant from active release sites rather than in the close vicinity of synaptic specialisations. No distinct immunolabelling was observed in profiles meeting characteristics of primary afferent terminals. The extrasynaptic occurrence of mGluR2/3 suggests a presynaptic heteroreceptor role for these receptor subtypes in the spinal dorsal horn.
Fast neurotransmission in the brain is typically mediated by local actions of transmitters at ionotropic receptors within synaptic contacts. Recent studies now reveal that, in addition to point-to-point signaling, amino-acid transmitters mediate diffuse signaling at extrasynaptic metabotropic receptors.
The authors assessed the presence of brain abnormalities in 21 patients with nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (NFLE), using magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) and mean diffusivity (;D) histograms. Compared with healthy volunteers and patients with idiopathic generalized epilepsy, patients with NFLE had lower MTR (p = 0.002 and 0.01) and;D (p = 0.03 and 0.04) histogram peak heights. Subtle and widespread abnormalities related to intra- and extracellular distribution and motion of water are detectable in the brains of patients with NFLE.
Ligands of the mu-opiate receptor (MOR) are known to influence many functions that involve vagal afferent input to the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), including cardiopulmonary responses, gastrointestinal activity, and cortical arousal. The current study sought to determine whether a cellular substrate exists for direct modulation of vagal afferents and/or their neuronal targets in the NTS by ligands of the MOR. Anterograde tracing of vagal afferents arising from the nodose ganglion was achieved with biotinylated dextran amine (BDA), and the MOR was detected by using antipeptide MOR antiserum. The medial subdivision of the intermediate NTS was examined by electron microscopy for the presence of peroxidase-labeled, BDA-containing vagal afferents and immunogold MOR labeling. MOR was present in both presynaptic axon terminals and at postsynaptic sites, primarily dendrites. In dendrites, MOR immunogold particles usually were located along extrasynaptic portions of the plasma membrane. Of 173 observed BDA-labeled vagal afferent axon terminals, 33% contained immunogold labeling for MOR within the axon terminal. Many of these BDA-labeled terminals formed asymmetric, excitatory-type synapses with dendrites, some of which contained MOR immunogold labeling. MORs were present in 19% of the dendrites contacted by BDA-labeled terminals but were present rarely in both the vagal afferent and its dendritic target. Together, these results suggest that MOR ligands modulate either the presynaptic release from or the postsynaptic responses to largely separate populations of vagal afferents in the intermediate NTS. These results provide a cellular substrate for direct actions of MOR ligands on primary visceral afferents and their second-order neuronal targets in NTS.
The initiation step of cell-mediated immune responses in the central nervous system (CNS) involves the trafficking of the antigen-specific T cells into the brain. To study this trafficking, we developed an in vivo system for studying antigen-specific responses in the CNS. In this assay, T cell receptor (TCR) transgenic mice having 95% of T cells specific for a defined antigen-pigeon cytochrome c (PCC) were cannulated intraventricularly for PCC antigen infusion and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sampling. Upon PCC infusion into the CNS, the number of alpha/beta TCR(+) Vbeta3(+) Mac1(-) cells in the CSF was characterized. We found that infusion of antigen into the CSF induced an increased number of antigen-specific T cells in the CNS and activation of antigen-specific T cells in the peripheral blood. Hence, the drainage of CNS antigen into the periphery might play an important role in sustaining autoimmune reactivity in CNS inflammatory diseases.
In previous studies, 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), a novel iboga alkaloid congener, has been found to decrease the intravenous self-administration of morphine and cocaine in rats. In the present study, 18-MC (1-40 mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently decreased the i.v. self-administration of methamphetamine and nicotine. As in the previous studies, drug self-administration was reduced for &gt; or = 24 h after the highest dose of 18-MC. A comparison of 18-MC's interactions with all four drugs of abuse studied so far indicated that 18-MC is least effective in decreasing methamphetamine self-administration and most potent in decreasing nicotine self-administration. The results suggest that a nicotinic antagonist action of 18-MC contributes to its putative anti-addictive efficacy.
We constructed two replication-deficient recombinant adenovirus vectors coding human basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), one with and one without the interleukin-2 (IL-2) secretory signal sequence and examined their neurotrophic effects on primary neuronal cells in vitro. The primary neuronal cells were successfully infected at a high efficiency with the adenovirus vectors. bFGF protein was detected in the culture medium of the neurons infected with both these vectors. The cells infected with the bFGF-expressing adenovirus containing the IL-2 signal sequence showed 2- to 10-fold higher levels of secretion levels than cells infected with the native bFGF-expressing adenovirus alone. Both bFGF-expressing vectors augmented the survival of primary neuronal cells in an in vitro culture, compared with a mock infection or control virus infection. Notably, the cells infected with the bFGF-expressing adenovirus containing the IL-2 signal sequence were markedly enhanced cell survival in the early phase of the culture, compared with the control cells and even those infected with the bFGF-expressing adenovirus without the IL-2 signal sequence. However, in the late phase of neuronal culture, neither viral vector could support the cell survival. In contrast the co-infection of the bFGF-expressing vector with a Bcl-xL-expressing vector was extremely effective on neuronal survival.
It has been argued that dyslexics suffer from temporal sensory processing deficits which affect their ability to discriminate speech in quiet environments. The impact of auditory deficits on non-language aspects of perception, however, is poorly understood. In almost every natural-listening environment, one must constantly construct scenes of the auditory world by grouping and analyzing sounds generated by multiple sources. We investigated whether dyslexics have difficulties grouping sounds. The results demonstrate that dyslexics have an impairment in grouping auditory objects that depends both on the sounds' frequency and presentation rate (i.e. the spectrotemporal context of the sound). We conclude that dyslexics have difficulty constructing scenes of the auditory world, and that these deficits can contribute to learning impairments.
Little is known about the expression of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) in oligodendrocytes. We demonstrate that under normal culture conditions only 21% of oligodendrocytes express NF-kappaB p65; exposure to hypoxia increased this to 69%. A similar increase in total p65 was seen with Western blots. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that NF-kappaB p65 mRNA increased during the first few h following hypoxia, suggesting that exposure to hypoxia affects NF-kappaB p65 transcription or p65 mRNA stability. Under normoxic conditions only 2% of the oligodendrocytes exhibited activated NF-kappaB; this was increased to 8% by hypoxia followed by reoxygenation. Despite activation of NF-kappaB, no detectable expression of the pro-inflammatory genes iNOS and ICAM-1 was seen. This is the first demonstration that hypoxia can up-regulate p65.
We examined neuroprotective effects of an adenoviral vector encoding glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (AxCAhGDNF) on the lesioned adult rat facial motoneurons. After facial nerve avulsion, animals locally injected into the facial canal with AxCALacZ (adenovirus encoding beta-galactosidase gene) or AxCAhGDNF showed expression of beta-galactosidase activity or intense immunolabeling for GDNF in lesioned facial motoneurons, respectively. The treatment with AxCAhGDNF after avulsion significantly prevented the loss of lesioned facial motoneurons, ameliorated choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity, and suppressed the activity of nitric oxide synthase in these neurons. These results indicate that the adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of GDNF may prevent the degeneration of motoneurons in adult humans with peripheral nerve injury and motor neuron diseases.
6-Aminonicotinamide (6-AN) is thought to inhibit the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) since large increases in 6-phosphogluconate are observed following its administration. Immediately following 45 min i.v. infusion of [2-(13)C]glucose to controls and 6-AN-treated (50 mg/kg i.p. given 4 h previously) Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 5 for both groups), metabolism was arrested using freeze-funnel fixation. Chloroform-methanol-water neocortical extracts from animals administered with 6-AN demonstrated elevated levels of 6-phosphogluconate and 6-phosphoglucono-delta-lactone, both of which demonstrated labeling through metabolism of [2-(13)C]glucose. Comparison of the C-2 and C-3 lactate positions using 1H NMR spectroscopy showed that the fraction of glucose metabolized through the PPP is unchanged by 6-AN (14+/-0.6% vs 14+/-0.3% in control animals). It is hypothesized that as the PPP is inhibited by metabolites of 6-AN in the neocortex, glycolysis is inhibited in a proportionate manner through an inhibitory effect on phosphoglucose isomerase by 6-phosphogluconate and/or 6-phosphoglucono-delta-lactone.
To date, little is known about the molecular mechanisms controlling the regulation of phospholipase C-delta1 (PLC-delta1) gene expression. To understand the mechanisms responsible for the regulation of PLC-delta1 gene expression, the 5'-flanking region of the mouse PLC-delta1 gene was isolated from a mouse genomic DNA library. Primer extension analysis revealed that there is a single transcriptional start site located at 127 bases upstream from the translation start codon in the mouse PLC-delta1 gene. DNA sequence analysis showed that the sequence around the transcriptional start site is very GC-rich and has no TATA or CAAT boxes. Transient expression of a luciferase reporter gene under the control of serially deleted 5'-flanking sequences revealed that the 160-base-pair region from -622 to -462 upstream of the transcriptional start site includes a positive cis-acting element(s) for the efficient expression of the PLC-delta1 gene. Gel retardation analysis suggests that multiple transcription factors bind to separate sites on the promoter region. Based on these results, our study suggests that the minimal essential region located at -622 to +70 is fully sufficient to confer high-level transcriptional activity and contains high-affinity binding elements for multiple transcription factors.
Abnormal proteolytic processing of beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) underlies the formation of amyloid plaques in aging and Alzheimer's disease. The proteases involved in the process have not been identified. Here we found that spontaneous proteolysis of intact APP in detergent-lysed human platelets generated a N-terminal fragment that was immunologically indistinguishable from secreted APP, reminiscent of the action of a putative alpha-secretase. This proteolysis of APP was inhibited by EDTA, suggesting that a metal-dependent protease was involved. Among the several metals tested, calcium was the only one that enhanced APP proteolysis and the reaction was blocked by EGTA as well as by several calpain inhibitors. The APP fragments generated by spontaneous proteolysis in platelet lysates were identical to those produced by exposure of partially purified APP to exogenous calpain. Finally, the secretion of APP from intact platelets was inhibited by cell-permeable calpain inhibitors. Taken together, these results suggest that normal processing of APP in human platelets is mediated by a calcium-dependent protease that exhibits calpain-like properties.
Because of the reported presence of both CART peptide and NOS activity in the same hypothalamic nuclei, their colocalization was examined. Eighteen percent of the neurons in the supraoptic nuclei, and 16% of the neurons in the paraventricular nucleus contained both CART immunoreactivity and NOS activity. Many other neurons in these regions stained for only one marker although they were often close by. Thus, CART peptides and NO may interact in these regions.
In cells marked for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), we studied the relationship between the sensitive period for monocular deprivation and the expression of rat NMDAR subunits, NR2A and NR2B. In the rat the sensitive period ends sometime after postnatal day 50 (P50). Previous studies of the development of these subunit mRNAs focused on animals prior to the end of the sensitive period and did not examine the visual cortex specifically. We used a monoclonal antibody to the NR1 subunit of the receptor to identify cells containing NMDARs. We then used in situ hybridization to label the same sections for NR2A or NR2B mRNA. In an additional experiment we labeled sections for NR1 mRNA to see if the developmental profile was similar at both the mRNA and protein level. We used five animals at each of four ages: P22, P30, P45 and P90. Staining for NR2B mRNA, but not for NR2A mRNA, decreased dramatically from P22 to P45. Staining for NR1 mRNA declined dramatically between P22 and P45 even though most cells remained strongly immunopositive for the NR1 protein during this time. This discrepancy suggests that significant NR1 regulation occurs after gene transcription. Because most of the decrease in NR1 mRNA and NR2B mRNA occurs by P30, transcriptional regulation of these subunits does not easily explain the loss of sensitivity to monocular deprivation, which occurs around P50. The changes are, in fact, more closely synchronized with the beginning of experience-dependent plasticity than with its end.
3,4-Dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DOPAL) is a toxic metabolite formed by the oxidative deamination of dopamine. This aldehyde is mainly oxidized to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) by aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH), but is also partly reduced to 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylethanol (DOPET) by aldehyde or aldose reductase (ARs). In a previous study, we found that rotenone, a complex I inhibitor, induced a rapid accumulation of DOPAL and DOPET in the medium of cultured PC12 cells. Here, we examined the potential role of DOPAL in the toxicity induced by complex I inhibition in PC12 cells and compared the effects of rotenone on concentrations of DOPAL and DOPET to those of MPP(+). DOPAL and DOPET levels were increased by rotenone but decreased by MPP(+). Inhibition of ALDH by daidzein reduced the formation of DOPAC and increased the accumulation of DOPAL. Inhibition of ARs (with AL1576) diminished DOPET formation and elevated DOPAL concentrations. Combined inhibition of ALDH and ARs markedly elevated DOPAL concentrations while diminishing DOPET and DOPAC levels. The elevation of DOPAL levels induced by combined inhibition of ALDH and ARs had no effect on cell viability. However, combined inhibition of ALDH and ARs potentiated rotenone-induced toxicity. Both the potentiation of toxicity and the increase in DOPAL levels were blocked by inhibition of monoamine oxidase with clorgyline indicating that accumulation of DOPAL was responsible for the potentiated rotenone-induced toxicity following combined inhibition of ALDH and ARs. Since complex I dysfunction is reported to be involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, DOPAL potentiation of the deleterious effects of complex I inhibition may contribute to the specific vulnerability of dopaminergic neurons to injury.
Removal of a 712 base pair (bp) sequence following the coding region of a human micro opioid receptor (hmuOR) cDNA unexpectedly increased expression of the receptor protein. A series of 3'-noncoding region deletion mutants revealed that at least three discrete regions following the stop codon influenced receptor expression levels. Deletion of the 205-bp 5'-noncoding region immediately preceding the Kozak sequence doubled receptor expression relative to wild type, and simultaneous deletion of 5'- and 3'-noncoding regions increased expression several fold. The hmuOR noncoding regions may participate in a regulatory mechanism that controls the number of cell surface receptors.
Kalirin is a neuron-specific GDP/GTP exchange factor for Rho subfamily GTP-binding proteins. The major Kalirin transcripts in adult rat brain were identified. Most include a Sec14p-like putative lipid-binding motif followed by nine spectrin-like repeats and a Dbl homology/pleckstrin homology (DH-PH) domain. Kalirin proteins with four different NH(2) termini are generated through the use of five different 5'-ends; three of the proteins differ only at the extreme NH(2) terminus, and one is truncated because translation is initiated at a methionine in the 5th spectrin repeat. Four different 3'-ends yield Kalirin proteins with additional functional domains. Kalirin-7 (7-kilobase pair mRNA) terminates with a PDZ-binding motif, which in Kalirin-8 is replaced by an SH3 domain. Kalirin-9 contains another pair of DH-PH and SH3 domains. Kalirin-12 additionally encodes a putative Ser/Thr protein kinase. Antisera specific for different COOH termini established Kalirin-7 as the most abundant in cortex, with significant amounts of Kalirin-9 and Kalirin-12; Kalirin-7 was less prevalent in cerebellum and olfactory bulb. Kalirin proteins lacking the Sec14p-like domain and first four spectrin-like repeats were much less prevalent. Form-specific antisera demonstrated that different forms of Kalirin were localized to distinct subcellular regions of cultured neurons. Members of the family of Kalirin proteins may subserve different functions at these different locations.
Here we measured sigma receptor agonist, [3H](+)-pentazocine binding and (+)-pentazocine-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding throughout brain regions and peripheral organs of mice and guinea pigs to investigate the distribution of G protein-coupled sigma receptors. There was no significant correlationship between both distributions, in which the [3H](+)-pentazocine binding is highest in the liver of each species, while the [35S]GTP-gammaS binding is highest in the guinea pig spleen. The agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding in the spleen was also confirmed by in situ autoradiography using sections. Thus it is suggested that there are at least two subtypes, metabotropic and nonmetabotropic sigma receptors, and the former ones are abundant in the guinea pig spleen.
The notion that there is a &quot;critical period&quot; for learning in the first 3 years of life has cropped up widely in media reports recently. But although critical periods have been well documented for the development of sensory systems in the brain, especially vision, researchers differ over whether they exist for the development of the brain functions that underlie complex learning and thinking skills. Scientists do agree, however, that where critical periods do exist, they are not sharply defined, nor are they unique to the first 3 years of life, as has been conveyed in the media. The message should give hope to adults who may not learn with the ease of early childhood, but can still do it.
Bidirectional changes in the efficacy of neuronal synaptic transmission, such as hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), are thought to be mechanisms for information storage in the brain. LTP and LTD may be mediated by the modulation of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazloe proprionic acid) receptor phosphorylation. Here we show that LTP and LTD reversibly modify the phosphorylation of the AMPA receptor GluR1 subunit. However, contrary to the hypothesis that LTP and LTD are the functional inverse of each other, we find that they are associated with phosphorylation and dephosphorylation, respectively, of distinct GluR1 phosphorylation sites. Moreover, the site modulated depends on the stimulation history of the synapse. LTD induction in naive synapses dephosphorylates the major cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) site, whereas in potentiated synapses the major calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) site is dephosphorylated. Conversely, LTP induction in naive synapses and depressed synapses increases phosphorylation of the CaMKII site and the PKA site, respectively. LTP is differentially sensitive to CaMKII and PKA inhibitors depending on the history of the synapse. These results indicate that AMPA receptor phosphorylation is critical for synaptic plasticity, and that identical stimulation conditions recruit different signal-transduction pathways depending on synaptic history.
Neurogenesis normally only occurs in limited areas of the adult mammalian brain--the hippocampus, olfactory bulb and epithelium, and at low levels in some regions of macaque cortex. Here we show that endogenous neural precursors can be induced in situ to differentiate into mature neurons, in regions of adult mammalian neocortex that do not normally undergo any neurogenesis. This differentiation occurs in a layer- and region-specific manner, and the neurons can re-form appropriate corticothalamic connections. We induced synchronous apoptotic degeneration of corticothalamic neurons in layer VI of anterior cortex of adult mice and examined the fates of dividing cells within cortex, using markers for DNA replication (5-bromodeoxyuridine; BrdU) and progressive neuronal differentiation. Newly made, BrdU-positive cells expressed NeuN, a mature neuronal marker, in regions of cortex undergoing targeted neuronal death and survived for at least 28 weeks. Subsets of BrdU+ precursors expressed Doublecortin, a protein found exclusively in migrating neurons, and Hu, an early neuronal marker. Retrograde labelling from thalamus demonstrated that BrdU+ neurons can form long-distance corticothalamic connections. Our results indicate that neuronal replacement therapies for neurodegenerative disease and CNS injury may be possible through manipulation of endogenous neural precursors in situ.
Glutamine 143 in human manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) forms a hydrogen bond with the manganese-bound solvent molecule and is investigated by replacement using site-specific mutagenesis. Crystal structures showed that the replacement of Gln 143 with Ala made no significant change in the overall structure of the mutant enzyme. Two new water molecules in Q143A MnSOD were situated in positions nearly identical with the Oepsilon1 and Nepsilon2 of the replaced Gln 143 side chain and maintained a hydrogen-bonded network connecting the manganese-bound solvent molecule to other residues in the active site. However, their presence could not sustain the stability and activity of the enzyme; the main unfolding transition of Q143A was decreased 16 degrees C and its catalysis decreased 250-fold to k(cat)/K(m) = 3 x 10(6) M(-)(1) s(-)(1), as determined by stopped-flow spectrophotometry and pulse radiolysis. The mutant Q143A MnSOD and other mutants at position 143 showed very low levels of product inhibition and favored Mn(II)SOD in the resting state, whereas the wild type showed strong product inhibition and favored Mn(III)SOD. However, these differences did not affect the rate constant for dissociation of the product-inhibited complex in Q143A MnSOD which was determined from a characteristic absorbance at 420 nm and was comparable in magnitude ( approximately 100 s(-)(1)) to that of the wild-type enzyme. Hence, Gln 143, which is necessary for maximal activity in superoxide dismutation, appears to have no role in stabilization and dissociation of the product-inhibited complex.
Heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G-proteins) are transducers in many cellular transmembrane signaling systems where regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS) act as attenuators of the G-protein signal cascade by binding to the Galpha subunit of G-proteins (G(i)(alpha)(1)) and increasing the rate of GTP hydrolysis. The high-resolution solution structure of free RGS4 has been determined using two-dimensional and three-dimensional heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy. A total of 30 structures were calculated by means of hybrid distance geometry-simulated annealing using a total of 2871 experimental NMR restraints. The atomic rms distribution about the mean coordinate positions for residues 5-134 for the 30 structures is 0.47 +/- 0.05 A for the backbone atoms, 0. 86 +/- 0.05 A for all atoms, and 0.56 +/- 0.04 A for all atoms excluding disordered side chains. The NMR solution structure of free RGS4 suggests a significant conformational change upon binding G(i)(alpha)(1) as evident by the backbone atomic rms difference of 1. 94 A between the free and bound forms of RGS4. The underlying cause of this structural change is a perturbation in the secondary structure elements in the vicinity of the G(i)(alpha)(1) binding site. A kink in the helix between residues K116-Y119 is more pronounced in the RGS4-G(i)(alpha)(1) X-ray structure relative to the free RGS4 NMR structure, resulting in a reorganization of the packing of the N-terminal and C-terminal helices. The presence of the helical disruption in the RGS4-G(i)(alpha)(1) X-ray structure allows for the formation of a hydrogen-bonding network within the binding pocket for G(i)(alpha)(1) on RGS4, where RGS4 residues D117, S118, and R121 interact with residue T182 from G(i)(alpha)(1). The binding pocket for G(i)(alpha)(1) on RGS4 is larger and more accessible in the free RGS4 NMR structure and does not present the preformed binding site observed in the RGS4-G(i)(alpha)(1) X-ray structure. This observation implies that the successful complex formation between RGS4 and G(i)(alpha)(1) is dependent on both the formation of the bound RGS4 conformation and the proper orientation of T182 from G(i)(alpha)(1). The observed changes for the free RGS4 NMR structure suggest a mechanism for its selectivity for the Galpha-GTP-Mg(2+) complex and a means to facilitate the GTPase cycle.
Ramn y Cajal proposed 100 years ago that memory formation requires the growth of nerve cell processes. One-half century later, Hebb suggested that growth of presynaptic axons and postsynaptic dendrites consequent to coactivity in these synaptic elements was essential for such information storage. In the past 25 years, candidate growth genes have been implicated in learning processes, but it has not been demonstrated that they in fact enhance them. Here, we show that genetic overexpression of the growth-associated protein GAP-43, the axonal protein kinase C substrate, dramatically enhanced learning and long-term potentiation in transgenic mice. If the overexpressed GAP-43 was mutated by a Ser --&gt; Ala substitution to preclude its phosphorylation by protein kinase C, then no learning enhancement was found. These findings provide evidence that a growth-related gene regulates learning and memory and suggest an unheralded target, the GAP-43 phosphorylation site, for enhancing cognitive ability.
Physiological and ultrastructural evidence indicates that gap junctions link many classes of neurons in mammalian central nervous system (CNS), allowing direct electrical and metabolic communication. Among at least six gap junction-forming connexin proteins in adult rat brain, connexin- (Cx) 32, Cx36, and Cx43 have been reported to occur in neurons. However, no connexin has been documented at ultrastructurally defined neuronal gap junctions. To address this question directly, freeze-fracture replica immunogold labeling (FRIL) and immunofluorescence (IF) were used to visualize the subcellular and regional localization of Cx36 in rat brain and spinal cord. Three antibodies were generated against different sequences in Cx36. By Western blotting, these antibodies detected protein at 36 and 66 kDa, corresponding to Cx36 monomer and dimer forms, respectively. After double-labeling for Cx36 and Cx43 by FRIL, neuronal gap junctions in inferior olive, spinal cord, and retina were consistently immunogold-labeled for Cx36, but none were labeled for Cx43. Conversely, Cx43 but not Cx36 was detected in astrocyte and ependymocyte gap junctions. In &gt;250 Cx32/Cx43 single- and double-labeled replicas from 10 CNS regions, no neuronal gap junctions were labeled for either Cx32 or Cx43. Instead, Cx32 and Cx43 were restricted to glial gap junctions. By IF, Cx36 labeling was widely distributed in neuropil, including along dendritic processes and within neuronal somata. On the basis of FRIL identification of Cx36 in neuronal gap junctions and IF imaging of Cx36 throughout rat brain and spinal cord, neuronal gap junctions containing Cx36 appear to occur in sufficient density to provide widespread electrical and metabolic coupling in adult CNS.

Myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) is in the MADS (MCM1agamous-deficiens-serum response factor) family of transcription factors. Although MEF2 is known as a myogenic factor, the expression pattern of the MEF2 family of genes (MEF2A-D) in developing brain also suggests a role in neurogenesis. Here we show that transfection with MEF2C, the predominant form in mammalian cerebral cortex, induces a mixed neuronal/myogenic phenotype in undifferentiated P19 precursor cells. During retinoic acid-induced neurogenesis of these cells, a dominant negative form of MEF2 enhances apoptosis but does not affect cell division. The mitogen-activated protein kinase p38alpha activates MEF2C. Dominant negative p38alpha also enhances apoptotic death of differentiating neurons, but these cells can be rescued from apoptosis by coexpression of constitutively active MEF2C. These findings suggest that the p38alpha/MEF2 pathway prevents cell death during neuronal differentiation.
The anterior prefrontal cortex is known to subserve higher cognitive functions such as task management and planning. Less is known, however, about the functional specialization of this cortical region in humans. Using functional MRI, we report a double dissociation: the medial anterior prefrontal cortex, in association with the ventral striatum, was engaged preferentially when subjects executed tasks in sequences that were expected, whereas the polar prefrontal cortex, in association with the dorsolateral striatum, was involved preferentially when subjects performed tasks in sequences that were contingent on unpredictable events. These results parallel the functional segregation previously described between the medial and lateral premotor cortex underlying planned and contingent motor control and extend this division to the anterior prefrontal cortex, when task management and planning are required. Thus, our findings support the assumption that common frontal organizational principles underlie motor and higher executive functions in humans.
Increased accumulation of lipofuscin in cells of the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) is seen in several forms of macular degeneration, a common cause of blindness in humans. A major fluorophore of lipofuscin is the toxic bis-retinoid, N-retinylidene-N-retinylethanolamine (A2E). Previously, we generated mice with a knockout mutation in the abcr gene. This gene encodes rim protein (RmP), an ATP-binding cassette transporter in rod outer segments. Mice lacking RmP accumulate A2E in RPE cells at a greatly increased rate over controls. Here, we identify three precursors of A2E in ocular tissues from abcr-/- mice and humans with ABCR-mediated recessive macular degenerations. Our results corroborate the scheme proposed by C. A. Parish, M. Hashimoto, K. Nakanishi, J. Dillon &amp; J. Sparrow [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA (1998) 95, 14609-14613], for the biosynthesis of A2E: (i) condensation of all-trans-retinaldehyde (all-trans-RAL) with phosphatidylethanolamine to form a Schiff base; (ii) condensation of the amine product with a second all-trans-RAL to form a bis-retinoid; (iii) oxidation to yield a pyridinium salt; and (iv) hydrolysis of the phosphate ester to yield A2E. The latter two reactions probably occur within RPE phagolysosomes. As predicted by this model, formation of A2E was completely inhibited when abcr-/- mice were raised in total darkness. Also, once formed, A2E was not eliminated by the RPE. These data suggest that humans with retinal or macular degeneration caused by loss of RmP function may slow progression of their disease by limiting exposure to light. The precursors of A2E identified in this study may represent pharmacological targets for the treatment of ABCR-mediated macular degeneration.
Investigations using hippocampal slices maintained in vitro have demonstrated that bursts of oscillatory field potentials in the gamma frequency range (30-80 Hz) are followed by a slower oscillation in the beta 1 range (12-20 Hz). In this study, we demonstrate that a comparable gamma-to-beta transition is seen in the human electroencephalogram (EEG) in response to novel auditory stimuli. Correlations between gamma and beta 1 activity revealed a high degree of interdependence of synchronized oscillations in these bands in the human EEG. Evoked (stimulus-locked) gamma oscillations preceded beta 1 oscillations in response to novel stimuli, suggesting that this may be analogous to the gamma-to-beta shift observed in vitro. Beta 1 oscillations were the earliest discriminatory responses to show enhancement to novel stimuli, preceding changes in the broad-band event-related potential (mismatch negativity). Later peaks of induced beta activity over the parietal cortex were always accompanied by an underlying gamma frequency oscillation as seen in vitro. A further analogy between in vitro and human recordings was that both gamma and beta oscillations habituated markedly after the initial novel stimulus presentation.
A new class of N-(indol-3-ylglyoxylyl)piperidines are high affinity agonists at the benzodiazepine binding site of human GABA-A receptor ion-channels, with modest selectivity for receptors containing the alpha1 subunit over alpha2 and alpha3. All three receptor subtypes discriminate substantially between the two enantiomers of the chiral ligand 10.
The unipolar brush cells (UBCs), a class of neurons recently identified in the granular layer of the vestibulocerebellum, receive excitatory synaptic input from mossy fibers (MFs) in the form of a giant glutamatergic synapse. UBCs are provided with axons that bear synaptic endings situated at the center of glomeruli, similar to cerebellar MF afferents. A single MF stimulus evokes a prolonged train of action potentials in the UBC (Rossi et al., 1995), which is presumably distributed to postsynaptic targets. Knowledge of the synaptic connections of UBC axons is essential to define the role of these cells in the integration of vestibular signals in the cerebellar circuitry. To evaluate these connections, the nodulus (folium X) was isolated from vermal slices of postnatal day 8 mice, cultured for 2-4 or 15-30 days in vitro, and studied by electron and fluorescence microscopy. The peak of degeneration of extrinsic MF terminals, which have been severed from the parent cell bodies, was observed at 2 days in vitro (DIV). Quantification of degenerating and nondegenerating (e.g., intrinsic) MF terminals indicated that about half of the MF terminals were provided by local UBC axons synapsing on dendrites of granule cells and other UBCs. The proportion of nondegenerating vs. degenerating MF terminals terminating on UBCs also indicated that approximately two-thirds of the intrinsic MFs are involved in UBC-UBC connections. In long-term cultures, the granular layer appeared well preserved and the UBC axons formed an extensive system of MF collaterals. It is suggested that UBCs may act by spatially amplifying vestibular inputs carried by extrinsic MFs.
An extensive behavioral characterization was conducted with mice lacking the gene for neuropeptide Y (NPY) including response to 24 and 48 h fast and challenge with small molecule antagonists of NPY receptors implicated in mediating the feeding effects of NPY (i.e., Y1 and Y5). In addition, wildtype (WT) and NPY knockout (KO) mice were tested in locomotor monitors, elevated plus maze, inhibitory avoidance, acoustic startle, prepulse inhibition, and hot plate assays. One of the major findings was that the NPY KO mice have a reduced food intake relative to WT controls in response to fasting. Also, based on data from the behavioral models, the NPY KO mice may have an anxiogenic-like phenotype, and appear to be hypoalgesic in the hot plate paradigm. The data from these studies provide further evidence of involvement of NPY in energy balance, anxiety, and possibly nociception.
Recent observations suggest that nitric oxide (NO(.)) can increase or decrease growth cone motility. Here, these apparently paradoxical results are explained by distinct actions of different NO-related species. Filopodial morphology of 223 rat retinal ganglion cells was monitored under computer-enhanced video microscopy in the presence of NO synthase (NOS) substrates or inhibitors, donors of specific NO-related species, and membrane-permeant cyclic nucleotide analogs. Physiological NOS activity induced filopodial outgrowth, whereas inhibition of NOS stabilized filopodia. Similar to NOS, nitrosonium (NO(+) transfer) and peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)), which can regulate the activity of growth-associated proteins by S-nitrosylation and oxidation, respectively, induced filopodial outgrowth. In contrast, NO(.), which stimulates guanylate cyclase to increase cGMP, stabilized filopodial activity. Thus disparate NO-related species may offer a dynamic process of filopodial growth regulation.
To investigate a possible basis for the proposed anti-addictive property of ibogaine, the effects of ibogaine (40 mg/kg, i.p., 19 h earlier) on the expression of sensitization induced by cocaine were investigated. Ibogaine pretreatment potentiated the increase in the stereotypic effects of a cocaine challenge (20 mg/kg) in both sensitized (5 x 15 mg/kg, i.p.) and acutely treated rats. However, while ibogaine pretreatment did not significantly alter the dopamine response in the nucleus accumbens to acute cocaine, it abolished the expression of cocaine-induced dopamine sensitization. This result demonstrates that ibogaine pretreatment can reverse one of the neuroadaptations produced by chronic cocaine administration, an effect that may contribute to its putative anti-addictive property.
The role of Ca(2+) influx in activating phospholipase C in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells has been investigated. Phospholipase C activity in response to K(+) depolarization (56 mM) was blocked by the L-type Ca(2+) channel antagonist nifedipine and partially inhibited by the omega-conotoxins GVIA and MVIIC. In contrast, phospholipase C activity in response to histamine receptor activation was unaffected by omega-conotoxin GVIA and partially inhibited by omega-conotoxin MVIIC or nifedipine. This response was however markedly inhibited by the non-selective Ca(2+) channel antagonists La(3+) or 1-[beta-[3-(4-Methoxyphenyl)propoxy]-4-methoyphenethyl]-H-imidazol e (SKF-96365). Despite this Ca(2+) dependence phospholipase C activity was not increased during periods of &quot;capacitative&quot; Ca(2+) inflow generated by histamine-, caffeine- or thapsigargin-mediated depletion of internal Ca(2+) stores. Thus, while Ca(2+) influx in response to K(+) depolarization or G-protein receptor activation can increase phospholipase C activity in these cells, in the latter case it appears to be ineffective unless there is concurrent agonist occupation of the receptor.


The S100 proteins are a family of calcium-binding proteins found in the central and peripheral nervous systems of vertebrates. S100beta, the most abundant member of this family in the CNS, mediates calcium signal transduction, and shows neurotrophic, gliotrophic and mitogenic actions that influence the development and maintenance of the nervous system. Another member of the S100 family (S100A10) was found to modulate phospholipid turnover by inhibiting the activity of enzyme phospholipase A2 (PLA2). We determined the concentration of S100beta protein in the plasma of 23 medicated schizophrenic patients and 23 healthy controls. S100beta protein accounts for 96% of the total S100 in the brain. Schizophrenic patients showed reduced S100beta concentrations (p=0.003), and this finding was not related to clinical variables or to intake of antipsychotic medication. Decreased S100beta could be related to the findings of increased PLA2 activity and to brain maldevelopment in schizophrenia. These results are discussed further with respect to the role of adenosine in S100beta release.

Recent evidence indicates that Alzheimer disease typically involves different degrees of impairment in a variety of neurotransmitter systems, behaviors, and cognitive abilities in different patients. To investigate the relations between neurotransmitter system, behavioral, and cognitive impairments in an animal model of Alzheimer disease we studied spatial learning in a Morris water maze in male Long-Evans rats given neurochemical agents that targeted muscarinic cholinergic, NMDA, or benzodiazepine systems. Naive rats given a single agent or a combination of agents were severely impaired in place responding and had behavioral strategy impairments. Rats made familiar with the required water maze behavioral strategies by non-spatial pretraining performed as well as controls if given a single agent. Non-spatially pretrained rats with manipulation of both muscarinic cholinergic and NMDA or muscarinic cholinergic and benzodiazepine systems had a specific place response impairment but no behavioral strategy impairments. The results suggest that impairment of both muscarinic cholinergic and NMDA, or muscarinic cholinergic and benzodiazepine systems may model some aspects of human Alzheimer disease (impairments in navigation in familiar environments), but not other aspects of this disorder (global dementia leading to general loss of adaptive behavior). Previous research suggests that impairment of both muscarinic cholinergic and serotonergic systems may provide a better model of global dementia. The water maze testing and detailed behavioral analysis techniques used here appear to provide a means of investigating the contributions of various combinations of neurotransmitter system impairments to an animal model of Alzheimer disease.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY), has been implicated in the pathophysiology of depression and the mechanisms of action of electroconvulsive treatment (ECT). In this series of experiments, we explored whether there are differences between Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats, an animal model of depression, and controls, Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) in (1) baseline brain NPY-LI concentrations, (2) effects of ECS on locomotion and brain neuropeptides, (3) amphetamine effects on behavior, and (4) effects of ECS pretreatment on subsequent effects of amphetamine on behavior. Both strains were divided into two groups, receiving eight ECS or ShamECS. Twenty-four hours after the last session, animals were habituated in activity boxes for 45 min before given d-amphetamine (1.5 mg.kg(-1), subcutaneously) or vehicle. Locomotor activity was then recorded for an additional 45 min. Twenty-four hours later, rats were sacrificed by microwave irradiation, the brains dissected into frontal cortex, occipital cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus and striatum, and the neuropeptides extracted and measured by radioimmunoassay. No differences between FSL and FRL rats in baseline locomotor activity were found. FSL compared to FRL animals showed a significantly larger locomotion increase following saline and a significantly smaller increase following amphetamine. ECS pretreatment significantly decreased the saline effects on locomotion in the FSL and the amphetamine effects in the FRL rats. 'Baseline' NPY-like immunoreactivity (LI) concentrations were lower in the hippocampus of the 'depressed' rats. ECS increased NPY-LI in frontal cortex, occipital cortex and hippocampus of both strains. The hippocampal NPY-LI increase was significantly larger in the FSL compared to FRL animals.
Rapid activation of central serotonergic systems occurs in response to the social stress of aggression in dominant lizards. The most rapid expression of serotonergic activity occurs in nucleus accumbens, hippocampus and brainstem. To compare previously measured responses induced by social stressors with those provoked by physical stress, serotonergic activity was examined following restraint stress (handling) and forced physical exertion. After handling, some male Anolis carolinensis were placed on a race track and either run until there was no movement following 1 min of prodding, or half that time. Controls were killed without treatment. Lizards stressed by handling showed rapid (25 s) increases in serotonergic activity (5-HIAA/5-HT) in striatum, dorsal cortex, locus ceruleus, and nucleus accumbens. Other changes in serotonergic systems caused by stress occurred in raphe and hippocampus. Serotonergic changes induced by handling stress were reversed by exercise (to 50% maximal exertion time) in subiculum, striatum and nucleus accumbens. The serotonergic profile of lizards run until they would no longer respond to prodding (maximal exertion time) was significantly different from that for more acute exertion in hippocampus, subiculum, striatum, medial amygdala, locus ceruleus, area postrema, and raphe. Physical stress (handling) mimicked social stress by producing rapid serotonergic changes in hippocampus, subiculum, nucleus accumbens and locus ceruleus. In contrast, the medial amygdala, which has previously been demonstrated to respond serotonergically to social stress only after a temporal delay, did not show a rapid response to restraint stress.
L-Deprenyl, an irreversible MAO-B (monoamine oxidase B, EC 1.4.3.4) inhibitor, is used for the treatment of Parkinson's disease and to delay the progression of Alzheimer's disease. L-Deprenyl also exhibits protective effects against neuronal apoptosis which are independent of its ability to inhibit MAO-B. The purpose of this study was to compare the antiapoptotic efficacy of L-deprenyl against different types of apoptotic inducers in three neuronal cell culture models. The level of apoptosis was quantified by measuring the activation of caspase-3 enzyme, which is the main apoptotic executioner in neuronal cells. MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] and LDH (lactate dehydrogenase, EC 1. 1.1.27) assays were used to demonstrate the cytotoxic response of apoptotic treatments. Our results showed that okadaic acid, an inhibitor of protein phosphatase 1 and 2A, induced a prominent increase in caspase-3 activity both in cultured hippocampal and cerebellar granule neurons as well as in Neuro-2a neuroblastoma cells. Interestingly, L-deprenyl offered a significant protection against the apoptotic response induced by okadaic acid in all three neuronal models. The best protection appeared at the concentration level of 10(-9) M. L-Deprenyl also provided a protection against apoptosis after AraC (cytosine beta-D-arabinoside) treatment in hippocampal neurons and Neuro-2a cells and after etoposide treatment in Neuro-2a cells. However, L-deprenyl did not offer any protection against apoptosis caused by serum withdrawal or potassium deprivation. Okadaic acid treatment in vivo is known to induce an Alzheimer's type of hyperphosphorylation of tau protein, formation of beta-amyloid plaques, and a severe memory impairment. Our results show that the okadaic acid model provides a promising tool to study the molecular basis of Alzheimer's disease and to screen the neuroprotective capacity of L-deprenyl derivatives.
We tested the hypothesis that estrogen acutely stimulates constitutive nitric oxide synthase activity in human granulocytes by acting on a cell surface estrogen receptor (ER). The release of nitric oxide was measured in real time with an amperometric probe. Exposure of granulocytes to 17beta-estradiol stimulated NO release within seconds in a concentration-dependent manner. The NO release was also stimulated by 17beta-estradiol conjugated to bovine serum albumin (E(2)-BSA), which suggests mediation by a cell surface receptor. Tamoxifen, an ER inhibitor, antagonized the action of both 17beta-estradiol and E(2)-BSA, whereas ICI 182,780, an inhibitor of the nuclear ER, had no effect. Using dual emission microfluorometry in a calcium-free medium, the 17beta-estradiol-stimulated release of NO from granulocytes was shown to be dependent on intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)]i) transients in a tamoxifen-sensitive process. Exposure to BAPTA-AM (1,2bis-(-aminophenoxy)ethans-N,N,N', N'-tetraacetic acid tetra(acetoxyymethyl) ester), a [Ca(2+)]i chelator, reduced [Ca(2+)]i in response to E(2)-BSA, and depleting [Ca(2+)]i stores abolished the effect of 17beta-estradiol on NO release. Confocal photomicrographs using E(2)-BSA-FITC (fluorescein isothiocyanate) revealed cell membrane reactivity. Estrogen-stimulated NO release had an immunosuppressive effect, and it initiated granulocyte rounding and loss of adherence in a tamoxifen-sensitive manner. Finally, using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, human neutrophil granulocytes expressed ERalpha but not ERbeta, suggesting that ERalpha may be the membrane receptor for 17beta-estradiol. The study demonstrated that a physiological dose of estrogen down-regulates granulocyte activity by acutely stimulating NO release via the activation of a cell surface ER which is coupled to increases in [Ca(2+)]i. (Blood. 2000;95:3951-3958)
Chicks (4 or 5 days old), which are able to use either eye freely, use the right eye (RE) preferentially in approach to a food dish when a lid, which has to be removed, is visible during approach. They use the left eye (LE) instead when no manipulation is required, but the same dish is similarly visible. The RE is also used preferentially in selecting food grains scattered over the floor; RE use in these two contexts is thus associated with visual control which brings the bill in planned contact with a visible target rather than with approach to a site where it is anticipated that feeding will occur. Zebrafish also use the RE preferentially when preparing to bite a target; during purely visual examination of the same target, this preference disappears. This evidence is used together with evolutionary evidence to support a new hypothesis for the origin of cerebral lateralization: paired anterior eyes evolved in filter-feeding ancestors of the vertebrates as part of the acquisition of prey catching. A key use for early vision was to predict likely contact with prey so as to inhibit reflexes of rejection and avoidance normally elicitated by tactile input to the mouth and so to allow ingestion. Innervation of mouth structures by the left side of the CNS caused control of mouth reflexes to become predominantly a left CNS affair. As visual abilities developed this starting condition meant that control of manipulation (which is by the mouth for most vertebrates) remained predominantly with the left side of the CNS.
Mash1, a neural-specific bHLH transcription factor, is essential for the formation of multiple CNS and PNS neural lineages. Transcription from the Mash1 locus is elevated in mice null for Mash1, suggesting that MASH1 normally acts to repress its own transcription. This activity is contrary to the positive autoregulation of other proneural bHLH proteins. To investigate the mechanisms involved in this process, sequences flanking the Mash1 gene were tested for the ability to mediate negative autoregulation. A Mash1/lacZ transgene containing 36 kb of cis-regulatory sequence exhibits an increase in lacZ expression in the Mash1 mutant background, which phenocopies the observation of transcriptional autoregulation at the endogenous Mash1 locus. Using Mash1/lacZ lines with progressively less cis-acting sequence, autoregulatory responsive elements were demonstrated to colocalize with a previously characterized 1.2-kb CNS enhancer. Mutations of E-box sites within this enhancer did not result in an apparent loss of autoregulation, suggesting that MASH1 does not directly repress its own transcription. Interestingly, these mutations did not indicate any underlying positive auto- or cross-regulation of Mash1. Furthermore, the loss of autoregulation in the Mash1 mutant background is reminiscent of a loss of lateral inhibitory signaling. However, mutations in HES consensus sites, the likely purveyors of Notch-mediated lateral inhibition, do not support a role for these sites in negative autoregulation. We hypothesize that MASH1 normally inhibits its own expression indirectly, possibly through a HES-mediated repression of positive regulators or through novel HES binding sites.
We generated a yeast artificial chromosome (YAC)/bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)-based physical and transcript map of a region containing the gracile axonal dystrophy (gad) locus on mouse chromosome 5. The YAC/BAC contig consists of 13 YAC and 49 BAC clones onto which 4 genes, 40 expressed sequence tags, and 7 new DNA polymorphisms were ordered. Using this physical map, we mapped Uchl1 encoding ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase I, whose deletion has been determined to cause the gad mutation. We also mapped three other recently identified genes: Hip2, encoding Huntingtin interacting protein 2; Atp3a2, encoding a P-type ATPase; and Pmx2b, encoding PHOX2b.
Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings in patients with systemic immune-mediated diseases (SID) affecting the central nervous system (CNS) are heterogeneous and lack diagnostic specificity. In the present study, we evaluated the potential role of cervical cord MRI for increasing confidence when making a diagnosis of SID. Sagittal, T2-weighted images of the cervical cord were obtained in patients affected by systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with (NSLE, n=9) and without clinical CNS involvement (n=15), Behet disease (BD, n=5), Wegener granulomatosis (WG, n=9), antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (APLAS, n=6) and multiple sclerosis (MS, n=10). Spinal cord hyperintense lesions were found in 9/10 MS patients, while no lesions were visible in the cervical cord of any patient with SID, regardless of the presence or absence of brain abnormalities. Cervical cord MRI can be useful in diagnosing patients suspected of having a SID.
Many animal species show flexible behavioral responses to environmental and social changes. Such responses typically require changes in the neural substrate responsible for particular behavioral states. We have shown previously in the African cichlid fish, Haplochromis burtoni, that changes in social status, including events such as losing or winning a territorial encounter, result in changes in somatic growth rate. Here we demonstrate for the first time that changes in social status cause changes in the size of neurons involved in the control of growth. Specifically, somatostatin-containing neurons in the hypothalamus of H. burtoni increase up to threefold in volume in dominant and socially descending animals compared with cell sizes in subordinate and socially ascending fish. Because somatostatin is known to be an inhibitor of growth hormone release, the differences in cell size suggest a possible mechanism to account for the more rapid growth rates of subordinate and socially ascending animals compared with those of dominant or socially descending fish. These results reveal possible mechanisms responsible for socially induced physiological plasticity that allow animals to shift resources from reproduction to growth or vice versa depending on the social context.
Previous studies have used recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vectors to deliver glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in the substantia nigra to protect the nigral dopamine (DA) neurons from 6-hydroxydopamine-induced damage. However, no regeneration or functional recovery was observed in these experiments. Here, we have used an rAAV-GDNF vector to express GDNF long-term (6 months) in either the nigral DA neurons themselves, in the striatal target cells, or in both of these structures. The results demonstrate that both nigral and striatal transduction provide significant protection of nigral DA neurons against the toxin-induced degeneration. However, only the rats receiving rAAV-GDNF in the striatum displayed behavioral recovery, accompanied by significant reinnervation of the lesioned striatum, which developed gradually over the first 4-5 months after the lesion. GDNF transgene expression was maintained at high levels throughout this period. These results provide evidence that rAAV is a highly efficient vector system for long-term expression of therapeutic proteins in the nigrostriatal system.
Schwann cell proliferation is regulated by multiple growth factors and axonal signals. However, the molecules that control growth arrest of Schwann cells are not well defined. Here we describe regulation of the cyclin-dependent kinase-2 (CDK2) protein, an enzyme that is necessary for the transition from G1 to S phase. Levels of CDK2 protein were elevated in proliferating Schwann cells cultured in serum and forskolin. However, when cells were grown with either serum-free media or at high densities, CDK2 levels declined to low levels. The decrease in CDK2 levels was associated with growth arrest of Schwann cells. The modulation of CDK2 appears to be regulated at the transcriptional level, because CDK2 mRNA levels and its promoter activity both decline during cell cycle arrest. Furthermore, analysis of the CDK2 promoter suggests that Sp1 DNA binding sites are essential for maximal activation in Schwann cells. Together, these data suggest that CDK2 may represent a significant target of developmental signals that regulate Schwann cell proliferation and that this regulation is mediated, in part, through regulation of Sp1 transcriptional activity.
In mature mammals, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are unable to regenerate their axons after optic nerve injury, and they soon undergo apoptotic cell death. However, a small puncture wound to the lens enhances RGC survival and enables these cells to regenerate their axons into the normally inhibitory environment of the optic nerve. Even when the optic nerve is intact, lens injury stimulates macrophage infiltration into the eye, Mller cell activation, and increased GAP-43 expression in ganglion cells across the entire retina. In contrast, axotomy, either alone or combined with intraocular injections that do not infringe on the lens, causes only a minimal change in GAP-43 expression in RGCs and a minimal activation of the other cell types. Combining nerve injury with lens puncture leads to an eightfold increase in RGC survival and a 100-fold increase in the number of axons regenerating beyond the crush site. Macrophage activation appears to play a key role, because intraocular injections of Zymosan, a yeast cell wall preparation, stimulated monocytes in the absence of lens injury and induced RGCs to regenerate their axons into the distal optic nerve.
The activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase regulates the physiological activity of AMPA-type glutamate receptors. In this study, phosphorylation of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1 at Ser(845) was increased in neostriatal slices by activation of D1-type dopamine receptors and by inhibitors of protein phosphatase 1/protein phosphatase 2A. In contrast, Ser(831), a residue which, when phosphorylated by protein kinase C or calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II, increases AMPA receptor channel conductance, was unaffected by either D1 or D2 receptor agonists in neostriatal slices. The phosphorylation of Ser(845), but not Ser(831), was strongly increased in neostriatum in vivo in response to the psychostimulants cocaine and methamphetamine. The effects of dopamine and psychostimulants on the phosphorylation of GluR1 were attenuated in dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein M(r) 32 kDa (DARPP-32) knock-out mice. These results identify DARPP-32 and AMPA-type glutamate receptors as likely essential cellular effectors for psychostimulant actions.
Glutamate produces a hyperpolarizing synaptic potential in On bipolar cells by binding to the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR6, leading to closure of a cation channel. Here it is demonstrated that this cation channel is regulated by intracellular Ca(2+). Glutamate-evoked currents were recorded from On bipolar cells in light-adapted salamander retinal slices in the presence of 2 mm external Ca(2+). When glutamate was applied almost continuously, interrupted only briefly to measure the size of the response, the glutamate response remained robust. However, currents elicited by intermittent and brief applications of glutamate exhibited time-dependent run down. Run down of the glutamate response was also voltage dependent, because it was accelerated by membrane hyperpolarization. Run down was triggered, at least in part, by a rise in intracellular Ca(2+); measured as a function of time or voltage, it was attenuated by intracellular buffering of Ca(2+) with BAPTA or by omitting Ca(2+) from the bathing solution. Current-voltage measurements demonstrated that Ca(2+) induced run down of the glutamate response by downregulating cation channel function, rather than by preventing closure of the channel by glutamate and mGluR6. A major source of the Ca(2+) that mediated this inhibition is the cation channel itself, which was found to be permeable to Ca(2+), accounting for the use dependence of the run down. These results suggest that Ca(2+) influx through the cation channel during background illumination could provide a signal to close the cation channel and repolarize the membrane toward its dark potential, an adaptive mechanism for coping with changes in ambient light.
When the presynaptic membrane protein syntaxin is coexpressed in Xenopus oocytes with N- or P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels, it promotes their inactivation (Bezprozvanny et al., 1995; Wiser et al., 1996, 1999; Degtiar et al., 2000) (I. B. Bezprozvanny, P. Zhong, R. H. Scheller, and R. W. Tsien, unpublished observations). These findings led to the hypothesis that syntaxin influences Ca(2+) channel function in presynaptic endings, in a reversal of the conventional flow of information from Ca(2+) channels to the release machinery. We examined this effect in isolated mammalian nerve terminals (synaptosomes). Botulinum neurotoxin type C1 (BoNtC1), which cleaves syntaxin, was applied to rat neocortical synaptosomes at concentrations that completely blocked neurotransmitter release. This treatment altered the pattern of Ca(2+) entry monitored with fura-2. Whereas the initial Ca(2+) rise induced by depolarization with K(+)-rich solution was unchanged, late Ca(2+) entry was strongly augmented by syntaxin cleavage. Similar results were obtained when Ca(2+) influx arose from repetitive firing induced by the K(+)-channel blocker 4-aminopyridine. Cleavage of vesicle-associated membrane protein with BoNtD or SNAP-25 with BoNtE failed to produce a significant change in Ca(2+) entry. The BoNtC1-induced alteration in Ca(2+) signaling was specific to voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, not Ca(2+) extrusion or buffering, and it involved N-, P/Q- and R-type channels, the high voltage-activated channels most intimately associated with presynaptic release machinery. The modulatory effect of syntaxin was not immediately manifest when synaptosomes had been K(+)-predepolarized in the absence of external Ca(2+), but developed with a delay after admission of Ca(2+), suggesting that vesicular turnover may be necessary to make syntaxin available for its stabilizing effect on Ca(2+) channel inactivation.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) are persistent modifications of synaptic strength that have been implicated in learning, memory, and neuronal development. Despite their opposing effects, both forms of plasticity can be triggered by the activation of NMDA receptors. One mechanism proposed for this bidirectional response is that the specific patterns of afferent stimulation producing LTP and LTD activate to different degrees a uniform receptor population. A second possibility is that these patterns activate separate receptor subpopulations composed of different NMDA receptor (NR) subunits. To test this hypothesis we examined the inhibition of LTP and LTD by a series of competitive NMDA receptor antagonists that varied in their affinities for NR2A/B and NR2C/D subunits. The potency for the inhibition of LTP compared with inhibition of LTD varied widely among the agents. Antagonists with higher affinity for NR2A/B subunits relative to NRC/D subunits showed more potent inhibition of LTP than of LTD. D-3-(2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl)-1-propenyl-1-phosphonic acid, which binds to NR2A/B with very high affinity relative to NR2C/D, showed an approximately 1000-fold higher potency for LTP than for LTD. These results show that distinct subpopulations of NMDA receptors characterized by different NR2 subunits contribute to the induction mechanisms of potentiation and depression.
The antipsychotics haloperidol and risperidone are widely used in the therapy of schizophrenia. The former drug mainly acts on the dopamine (DA) D(2) receptor whereas risperidone binds to both DA and serotonin (5HT) receptors, particularly in the neurons of striatal and limbic structures. Recent evidence suggests that neurotrophins might also be involved in antipsychotic action in the central nervous system (CNS). We have previously reported that haloperidol and risperidone significantly affect brain nerve growth factor (NGF) level suggesting that these drugs influence the turnover of endogenous growth factors. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) supports survival and differentiation of developing and mature brain DA neurons. We hypothesized that treatments with haloperidol or risperidone will affect synthesis/release of brain BDNF and tested this hypothesis by measuring BDNF and TrkB in rat brain regions after a 29-day-treatment with haloperidol or risperidone added to chow. Drug treatments had no effects on weight of brain regions. Chronic administration of these drugs, however, altered BDNF synthesis or release and expression of TrkB-immunoreactivity within the brain. Both haloperidol and risperidone significantly decreased BDNF concentrations in frontal cortex, occipital cortex and hippocampus and decreased or increased TrkB receptors in selected brain structures. Because BDNF can act on a variety of CNS neurons, it is reasonable to hypothesize that alteration of brain level of this neurotrophin could constitute one of the mechanisms of action of antipsychotic drugs. These observations also support the possibility that neurotrophic factors play a role in altered brain function in schizophrenic disorders.
Metabolite levels in cerebrospinal fluid from patients with Parkinson disease or Huntington chorea were compared with the levels in healthy controls using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy. No significant differences were found for any metabolite measured in cerebrospinal fluid from patients with Parkinson disease compared to controls. Slight but significantly reduced levels of both lactate and citrate, however, were found in cerebrospinal fluid from patients with Huntington chorea compared to controls. This suggests possible impairment of both glycolysis and tricarboxylic acid cycle function. The reduction in lactate found in the present study may reflect neuronal loss. The decrease in citrate supports the theory of mitochondrial dysfunction in the brain of patients with Huntington chorea, but also suggests that there may be an important astrocytic component in this disease. If so, it would certainly have implications for neuronal function.
To quantify the importance of reflexes due to muscle length changes in generating force during walking, we studied high decerebrate cats that walked on a treadmill. One leg was denervated except for the triceps surae and a few other selected muscles. The triceps surae muscles are ankle extensor muscles that attach to the Achilles' tendon which was cut and connected to a muscle puller. In some steps the EMG activity triggered the puller to move the muscle through the pattern of length changes that are normally produced by ankle movements in intact cats walking over ground (simulated walking). In other steps the muscles were held isometrically. The EMG and force produced during the two types of steps were compared. On average about 50 % more EMG was generated during the E2 part of the simulated stance phase in the triceps surae muscles, but not in other muscles studied. Force was increased significantly over the entire stance phase by about 20 %, when muscle stretches simulating walking were applied. However, during much of the stance phase the triceps surae muscles are shortening and so would produce less force. The effect of shortening was assessed in control experiments in which these muscles were stimulated at a constant frequency, either isometrically or during simulated walking movements. By combining data from the walking and control experiments, we estimate that about 35 % of the force produced in the cat ankle extensors during stance is produced by reflexes due to muscle length changes. Other sensory inputs may also contribute to force production, but the total reflex contribution will vary under different conditions of speed, length, loading, task difficulty, etc. Since a substantial percentage of the force in the stance phase of walking is normally produced by muscle reflexes, this force can be continuously adjusted up or down, if the muscles receive extra stretch or unloading during a particular step cycle.
Whole-cell voltage-clamp techniques were used to investigate the capsaicin-, voltage- and time-dependent properties of the rat vanilloid receptor (rVR1) stably expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. At a holding potential of -70 mV, application of capsaicin (0.03-30 microM) to HEK 293 cells expressing the rVR1 receptor led to the appearance of inward currents (EC50, 497 nM; Hill coefficient, nH, 2.85) which were reversibly antagonized by 10 microM capsazepine. Current-voltage relationships, determined using depolarizing or hyperpolarizing voltage ramps, had reversal potentials close to 0 mV, exhibited substantial outward rectification and possessed a region of negative slope conductance at holding potentials negative to around -70 mV. Further experiments indicated that the outward rectification and the region of negative slope conductance did not result from external block of the channel by either Ba2+, Ca2+ or Mg2+. During our characterization of rVR1, it became apparent that the rectification behaviour of this receptor was not entirely instantaneous as might be expected for a ligand-gated ion channel, but rather displayed clear time-dependent components. We characterized the kinetics of these novel gating properties in a series of additional voltage-step experiments. The time-dependent changes in rVR1-mediated conductance due to membrane depolarization or repolarization occurred with bi-exponential kinetics. On depolarization to +70 mV the time-dependent increase in outward current developed with mean time constants of 6.7 +/- 0.7 and 51.8 +/- 18.4 ms, with the faster time constant playing a dominant role (64.4 +/- 3.8 %). Similar kinetics also described the decay of 'tail currents' observed on repolarization. Furthermore, these time-dependent changes appeared to be unaffected by the removal of extracellular divalent cations and were not significantly voltage dependent. Our data reveal that rVR1 exhibits substantial time- and voltage-dependent gating properties that may have significance for the physiology of sensory transduction of nociceptive signals.
Voltage-gated potassium channels were studied in cell-attached and outside-out patches from the soma and primary apical dendrite of large layer 5 pyramidal neurons in acute slices of rat sensorimotor cortex (22-25 degrees C). Ensemble averages revealed that some patches contained only fast, I(A)-like channels, other contained only I(K)-like channels that did not inactivate or inactivated slowly, and the remainder contained mixtures of both types. I(A) and I(K) channels had mean unitary conductances of 8.5 and 20.3 pS, respectively, and had distinctive patterns of gating. Peak activation curves for ensemble-averaged currents were described by the Boltzmann equation with half-maximal voltage [V(1/2)] and slope factor (k) values of -24.5 mV and 16.9 mV for I(A) and -7.6 mV and 10.1 mV for I(K) (patches &lt; 250 microm from the soma) or -22.9 mV and 16.2 mV for I(A) (patches &gt; 250 microm from the soma). The steady-state inactivation curve for I(A) gave V(1/2) and k values of -72.3 mV and -5.9 mV (&lt; 250 microm from the soma) or -83.1 mV and -6.5 mV (&gt; 250 microm from the soma). These values were similar to the corresponding data for I(A) and I(K) in nucleated patches from the same cell. The amount of I(A) and I(K) present in patches depended weakly on distance along the primary apical dendrite from the soma. The amplitude of I(A) increased, on the average, by 2.3 pA per 100 microm, while the amplitude of I(K) decreased by 0.4 pA per 100 microm. I(A) and I(K) channels in dendritic cell-attached patches were activated by the passage of a back-propagating action potential past the tip of the patch electrode. These results show directly that these potassium channels participate in action potential repolarisation, and thus contribute to the process of synaptic integration in these neurons.
Voltage-gated potassium currents were studied in nucleated outside-out patches obtained from large layer 5 pyramidal neurons in acute slices of sensorimotor cortex from 13- to 15-day-old Wistar rats (22-25 C). Two main types of current were found, an A-current (IA) and a delayed rectifier current (IK), which were blocked by 4-aminopyridine (5 mM) and tetraethylammonium (30 mM), respectively. Recovery from inactivation was mono-exponential (for IA) or bi-exponential (for IK) and strongly voltage dependent. Both IA and IK could be almost fully inactivated by depolarising prepulses of sufficient duration. Steady-state inactivation curves were well fitted by the Boltzmann equation with half-maximal voltage (V ) and slope factor (k) values of -81.6 mV and -6.7 mV for IA, and -66.6 mV and -9.2 mV for IK. Peak activation curves were described by the Boltzmann equation with V and k values of -18.8 mV and 16.6 mV for IA, and -9.6 mV and 13.2 mV for IK. IA inactivated mono-exponentially during a depolarising test pulse, with a time constant ( approximately 7 ms) that was weakly dependent on membrane potential. IK inactivated bi-exponentially with time constants ( approximately 460 ms, approximately 4.2 s) that were also weakly voltage dependent. The time to peak of both IA and IK depended strongly on membrane potential. The kinetics of IA and IK were described by a Hodgkin-Huxley-style equation of the form mNh, where N was 3 for IA and 1 for IK. These results provide a basis for understanding the role of voltage-gated potassium currents in the firing properties of large layer 5 pyramidal neurons of the rat neocortex.
Gastropod molluscs provide attractive model systems for behavioral and cellular analyses of the action of nitric oxide (NO), specifically due to the presence of many relatively giant identified nitrergic neurons in their CNS. This paper reviews the data relating to the presence and distribution of NO as well as its synthetic enzyme NO synthase (NOS) in the CNS and peripheral tissues in ecologically and systematically different genera representing main groups of gastropod molluscs. Several species (Lymnaea, Pleurobranchaea, and Aplysia) have been analyzed in greater detail with respect to immunohistochemical, biochemical, biophysical, and physiological studies to further clarify the functional role of NO in these animals.
A striking finding in recent years has been that the transition from sleep to waking is accompanied in many brain regions by a widespread activation of c-fos and other immediate-early genes (IEGs). IEGs are induced by various electrical or chemical signals to which neural cells are exposed and their protein products act as transcription factors to regulate the expression of other genes. After a few hours of sleep, the expression of these transcription factors in the brain is absent or restricted to very few cells. However, after a few hours of spontaneous waking or sleep deprivation, the expression of c-fos and other IEGs is high in cerebral cortex, hypothalamus, septum, and several thalamic and brainstem nuclei. While cells expressing c-fos during waking are widely distributed, they represent only a subset of all neurons in any given area. These observations raise several questions: Why is c-fos expressed during waking and not during sleep? Is waking always accompanied by c-fos induction? Which subset of cells express c-fos during waking and why only a subset? Once c-fos has been induced, what are the functional consequences of its activation? In this review, we summarize our current understanding of the meaning of c-fos activation in the brain in relation to the sleep-waking cycle and suggest that c-fos induction in the cerebral cortex during waking might be related to the occurrence of plastic phenomena.
Annualized rates of cognitive change in Alzheimer's disease (AD), an important index of disease progression, show marked variability. To determine factors leading to such variability, we computed rates of change in a cohort of patients with AD tested annually with the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the more detailed Dementia Rating Scale (DRS). Estimates of rates of change (slopes) and intercepts were calculated using least squares and best linear unbiased predictors (BLUPs). Potential predictors of rates of change were examined using multivariate linear regression analysis. We found that the MMSE had more noise than the DRS. For the MMSE, slopes showed a moderate floor effect and a slight ceiling, depending on initial MMSE scores. These effects were less prominent for the DRS, for which slopes increased as intercepts decreased. In analyses of predictors of change, the MMSE was less useful than the DRS. In multiple linear regression models using DRS data, predictors showed statistically stronger effects and explained a greater extent of variation of slopes than did similar models using MMSE data. For example, among patients who died and underwent brain examination at autopsy, neuropathology of Lewy bodies plus AD (Lewy Body variant; LBV) was associated with significantly faster rates of cognitive decline compared to pure AD in analyses that used the DRS, but only trends were identified with the MMSE. The metric properties and longitudinal characteristics of cognitive tests and the statistical methods used to calculate change are key factors in obtaining reliable estimates of change in studying cohorts of patients with AD.
Using in vivo extracellular single-cell recording and microiontophoresis, we compared the responsiveness of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) neurons (layers V-VI) to dopamine and glutamate in rats that had received repeated amphetamine or saline injections. Neurons from amphetamine-pretreated rats showed increased responsiveness to glutamate and decreased responsiveness to dopamine after three days of withdrawal, suggesting that the mPFC is transiently hyperexcitable during amphetamine withdrawal. Published 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Long-term potentiation (LTP), one of the most compelling models of learning and memory, has been associated with changes in synaptic morphology. In this study, LTP was induced and animals were sacrificed 1 h after the stimulation of the LTP group (induction / early maintenance phase). Synapses in the directly stimulated middle third of the dentate gyrus molecular layer (MML) were examined while synapses from the inner third of the dentate molecular layer (IML) of the LTP animals and both the MML and the IML of implanted animals served as controls. The total number of synapses per neuron, synaptic curvature, the presence of synaptic perforations, and the maximum length of the synaptic contact and active zone were examined. No overall change in the number of synapses per neuron was observed in the LTP tissue. LTP was associated with a significant increase in the proportion of perforated and irregular-shaped synapses compared to controls. The increase in perforated synapses was particularly apparent in the proportion of concave perforated synapses. Nonperforated concave synapses were found to be significantly larger in potentiated tissue. The total synaptic length per neuron of synapses in a concave configuration was also significantly higher following potentiation. These results suggest that the specific structural profile associated with 1-h post-LTP induction, which differed from the profile observed at 24 h post-induction, may represent a unique early phase of synaptic remodeling in a series of changes observed during LTP induction, maintenance, and decay.
Tropomyosin (TM) is a coiled-coil that binds head-to-tail along the helical actin filament. The ends of 284-residue tropomyosins are believed to overlap by about nine amino acids. The present study investigates the function of the N- and C-terminal overlap regions. Recombinant tropomyosins were produced in Escherichia coli in which nine amino acids were truncated from the N-terminal, C-terminal, or both ends of striated muscle alpha-tropomyosin (TM9a) and TM2 (TM9d), a nonmuscle alpha-tropomyosin expressed in many cells. The two isoforms are identical except for the C-terminal 27 amino acids encoded by exon 9a (striated) or exon 9d (TM2). Removal of either end greatly reduces the actin affinity of both tropomyosins in all conditions and the cooperativity with which myosin promotes tropomyosin binding to actin in the open state. N-Terminal truncations generally are more deleterious than C-terminal truncations. With TM9d, truncation of the N-terminus is as deleterious as both for myosin S1-induced binding. None of the TM9d variants binds well to actin with troponin (+/-Ca(2+)). TM9a with the truncated N-terminus binds more weakly to actin with troponin (-Ca(2+)) than when the C-terminus is removed but more strongly than when both ends are removed; the actin binding of all three forms is cooperative. The results show that the ends of TM9a, though important, are not required for cooperative function and suggest they have independent functions beyond formation of an overlap complex. The nonadditivity of the TM9d truncations suggests that the ends may primarily function as a complex in this isoform. A surprising result is that all variants bound with the same affinity, and noncooperatively, to actin saturated with myosin S1. Evidently, end-to-end interactions are not required for high-affinity binding to acto-myosin S1.

The authors report a patient with postischemic parkinsonism who responded neither to levodopa nor to bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation. MRI revealed bilateral lesions of the substantia nigra, the striatum, the external pallidum, and part of the internal pallidum. PET showed reduced striatal dopa-decarboxylase activity, D2 receptor binding, and glucose metabolism. Perioperative microrecording showed low-frequency activity of STN cells. This case suggests that parkinsonian patients who do not have a good response to levodopa or in whom a postsynaptic dopaminergic lesion can be shown may not be good candidates for STN surgery.
Probands affected with eating disorders (ED) present a higher number of relatives affected with obsessive-compulsive disorders/tic disorders than a comparison population. Therefore, we hypothesized that ED and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) might share the same biological liability, and that a single major gene might account for that liability. We tested this hypothesis by applying a complex segregation analysis to 141 families of probands affected with ED (89 with anorexia nervosa, restricting and binge-eating types, 52 with bulimia nervosa). Given the hypothesized relationship between OCD and genetic spectrum disorders, we considered these diagnoses as affected phenotype in relatives. In Italian ED families, ED and OCD followed a Mendelian dominant model of transmission. When probands were divided according to co-diagnosis of OCD, best fit in the subgroup of families of 114 probands without OCD co-diagnosis was for a Mendelian dominant model of transmission whereas a Mendelian additive model of transmission represented best fit in the subgroup of families of 27 probands with an OCD co-diagnosis. Genetic transmission was not shown in those families where the only affected phenotype was ED. The existence of a Mendelian mode of genetic transmission within ED families supports the hypothesis that a common genetic liability could account for both ED and OCD.

The lateral line system of the channel catfish is formed by mechanoreceptive neuromasts located within five pairs of cephalic and one pair of trunk canals, as well as superficial lines of neuromasts, termed accessory and/or pit lines. Five pairs of pit lines occur on the head, and three pairs of superficial lines occur on the trunk. In addition to these mechanoreceptors, which are found in most teleost fishes, catfish also possess a total of over 4000 electroreceptive ampullary organs scattered over the entire body. The lateral line receptors are innervated by five pairs of lateral line nerves whose rami are secondarily associated with facial and trigeminal fibers that innervate taste buds and the dermis of the skin, respectively. The neuromasts of the trunk canal and the ramules of the posterior lateral line nerve that innervate them seem to be organized in a segmental pattern. The same is true for the intervertebral ramules of the recurrent facial ramus, which innervate the external taste buds on the trunk. The fibers of the gustatory and lateral line systems may use the neural crest, the developing spinal nerves, or both, to establish this segmental pattern. In this context, it may not be surprising that there is an intimate relationship among each of the sensory systems in the trunk.
This study investigates the role of the psittacid (parrot) central nucleus of the lateral neostriatum (NLc) in the production of learned English and natural vocalizations. Anatomic data have led researchers to define NLc alternately as the parrot homologue (Paton et al. [1981] J Neurosci. 11:1279-1288) or analogue (Striedter [1994] J Comp Neurol. 343:35-56) of the songbird high vocal center. Although numerous functional and electrophysiological studies have identified the role of various songbird vocal control nuclei, few similar functional studies have been performed in parrots, particularly with respect to NLc. In this study, both novel behavioral techniques and precise neurochemical lesions have been used to investigate the role of NLc in the production of learned vocalizations. The results suggest that NLc is involved in the production of, but not memory for, learned English and natural vocalizations. Specifically, NLc lesions disrupted the amplitude of amplitude-modulated vocalizations, but did not affect the frequency of the dominant or carrier signal of these vocalizations. These data provide some of the first evidence for the functional role of a parrot vocal control nucleus.
Ca(2+)-activated non-selective cation (CAN) channels are activated by cytoplasmic Ca(2+) and I(CAN) underlies many slow depolarizing processes in neurons including a putative role in excitotoxicity. CAN channels in many non-neuronal cells are blocked by non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs that are derivatives of diphenylamine-2-carboxylate (DPC). The DPC derivative flufenamate (FFA) has a complex effect on certain neurons, whereby it blocks CAN channels and increases [Ca(2+)](i). We report here that FFA, but not the parent compound, DPC, blocks CAN channels in hippocampal CA1 neurons. As was the case in other neurons, the effects of FFA are complex and include a maintained rise in [Ca(2+)](i). Furthermore, the CAN channel blocking ability of FFA persists even when the channels have been potentiated by a Ca(2+)-dependent process. The use of a CAN channel-blocking drug is important for delineating CAN channel-dependent processes and may provide a basis for therapy for CAN channel-dependent events in ischemia.
5-Hydroxytryptamine exerts modulatory physiological effects on both the central and peripheral nervous systems by activation of discrete receptor families. 5-ht(5A) is among the recently cloned, novel 5-HT receptors and currently under investigation to identify its pharmacological characteristics and potential physiological function(s). In this study, antibodies raised to a 5-ht(5A)-specific peptide were characterized using dot blot, sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and immunohistochemistry, and the distribution of 5-ht(5A)-like immunoreactive material determined in rat brain. A major band of 41 kDa was observed following SDS-PAGE, corresponding to the predicted size of this receptor. 5-ht(5A)-like immunoreactivity was detected in areas known to have significant serotonergic input, such as hypothalamic and amygdaloid nuclei. Interestingly, 5-ht(5A)-like immunoreactivity showed a predilection for the suprachiasmatic nucleus, suggesting its possible role in the regulation of circadian rhythms, a function previously ascribed to 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(7) receptors.
Adult rats who have undergone neonatal 192 IgG-saporin induced lesions of forebrain acetylcholine (ACH) neurons are normal on many behavioral tasks. In this study we determined whether ectopic hippocampal ingrowths, a documented consequence of these neonatal cholinergic lesions, functionally compensate for ACH denervation in these rats. Neonatal rats underwent systemic 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) injections on postnatal days (PND) 1-3 to prevent the ingrowths, and/or intraventricular 192 IgG-saporin injections on PND 7. The 192 IgG-saporin profoundly reduced basal forebrain p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) immunoreactive (IR) neurons. The 6-OHDA treatment abolished hippocampal and cortical dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH) IR terminals, indicating the absence of normal norepinephrine (NE) innervation. Ectopic DBH IR and p75(NTR) IR varicosities which occurred in the hippocampus of 192 IgG-saporin treated rats were also eliminated by 6-OHDA treatment. Behavioral testing in adulthood indicated no effect of the treatments on the Morris water maze. 192 IgG-saporin treatment caused perseveration during delayed spatial alternation (DSA) and increased working but not reference memory errors on the radial arm maze (RAM). The 6-OHDA plus 192 IgG-saporin treated rats did not differ from the 192 IgG-saporin only rats on any task. These results indicate that ectopic hippocampal NE ingrowths do not functionally compensate for neonatal ACH lesions. Neonatal forebrain ACH lesion impairs working memory on the RAM but the absence of an effect on DSA contraindicates a basic dysfunction of short term memory. Despite severe combined neonatal loss of forebrain ACH and NE innervation, behavior is remarkably intact.
We have explored the neuroprotective efficacy of the cell penetrant caspase inhibitor, Ac-YVAD-cmk, in a hippocampal slice model of neuronal cell death induced by oxygen and glucose deprivation. Organotypic hippocampal slice cultures were prepared from 8 to 10-day-old rats and maintained for 10 to 12 days in vitro. Pre-treatment with Ac-YVAD-cmk prior to 45 min oxygen and glucose deprivation was neuroprotective as measured by propidium iodide uptake, with an EC(50) between 1 and 10 micromol/l. Ac-YVAD-cmk was also able to preserve synaptic function in the organotypic hippocampal slice cultures 24 h after oxygen and glucose deprivation. Ac-YVAD-cmk prevented the increase in histone-associated DNA fragmentation induced by oxygen and glucose deprivation. Interleukin-1beta did not reverse the protective effect of Ac-YVAD-cmk, and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist alone was not protective. These results show that caspase inhibitors are neuroprotective in a hippocampal slice culture system, using structural, biochemical and electrophysiological endpoints, and that this effect is not a result of inhibition of interleukin-1beta production.
The effects of bradykinin and the bradykinin B(2) receptor antagonists D-Arg-[Hyp(3),Thi(5,8),D-Phe(7)]-bradykinin (NPC 349) and D-Arg-[Hyp(3),Thi(5),D-Tic(7),Oic(8)]-bradykinin (Hoe 140) were examined in the electrically-stimulated rat vas deferens. Cumulative additions of bradykinin (1-3000 nM) produced two distinct responses: an enhancement in the magnitude of the basal electrically-induced twitch response (neurogenic response) and an increase in the baseline tension (musculotropic response). NPC 349 (10-100 microM) produced concentration-dependent surmountable rightward shifts of both the bradykinin neurogenic and musculotropic response curves. In contrast, while Hoe 140 (10-100 nM) caused an apparently surmountable antagonism of the bradykinin neurogenic response, it caused an apparent insurmountable antagonism of the bradykinin musculotropic response. Interestingly, co-incubation of Hoe 140 (30 nM) with NPC 349 (30 and 100 microM) resulted in a concentration-related upwards displacement of the Hoe 140-suppressed bradykinin musculotropic response curve. Thus, Hoe 140 can be described as a pseudo-irreversible antagonist against the bradykinin musculotropic response. No time-dependent changes were observed in the maximum bradykinin musculotropic response attainable when NPC 349 (100 microM) additions were made for the final 2 or 18 min of the Hoe 140 incubation (20 min). These findings indicate that slow reversibility of Hoe 140 from the bradykinin B(2) receptor is unlikely to be the mechanism responsible for the pseudo-irreversible antagonism of the bradykinin-induced musculotropic response. Instead, we propose an alternative explanation involving a third, unstable and inactive form of the bradykinin B(2) receptor.
Non-dopaminergic therapies are of potential interest in the treatment of Parkinson's disease given the complications associated with current dopamine-replacement therapies. In this study we demonstrate that SB 206553 (5-methyl-1-(3-pyridylcarbamoyl)-1,2,3, 5-tetrahydropyrrol[2,3-f]indole) (20 mg/kg) enhanced the actions of the dopamine D(1) receptor agonist, SKF 82958 ((+)-6-chloro-7, 8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide) (1 mg/kg), in eliciting locomotion in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease. This action was only seen following prior priming with L-DOPA (L-3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine). SB 206553 had no effect on rotational behaviour when given alone. 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonists may have potential as a means of reducing reliance on dopamine replacement in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Metabolic mapping of discrete brain regions using cytochrome oxidase histochemistry was used as a marker for alterations in mitochondrial function and cytochrome oxidase enzymatic activity in response to high doses of amphetamine derivatives. The activity of cytochrome oxidase, complex IV of the electron transport chain, was determined at three different time-points following administration of high doses of methamphetamine or 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) (four injections of 10-15 mg/kg administered over 8 h). There was a rapid decrease in cytochrome oxidase staining in the striatum (23-29%), nucleus accumbens (29-30%) and substantia nigra (31-43%), 2 h following administration of either methamphetamine and MDMA. This decrease in cytochrome oxidase activity was transient and returned to control levels within 24 h. Since the methamphetamine and MDMA-induced decrease in cytochrome oxidase activity was localized to dopamine-rich regions, increased extracellular concentrations of dopamine may contribute to the inhibition of metabolic function via its metabolism to form quinones or other reactive oxygen species. These results support previous studies demonstrating that psychostimulants induce a rapid and transient decrease in striatal ATP stores and provide further evidence that these drugs of abuse can disrupt mitochondrial function.
Neuronal pentraxin 1 (NP1), neuronal pentraxin 2 (NP2), and neuronal pentraxin receptor (NPR) are members of a new family of proteins identified through interaction with a presynaptic snake venom toxin taipoxin. We have proposed that these three neuronal pentraxins represent a novel neuronal uptake pathway that may function during synapse formation and remodeling. We have investigated the mutual interactions of these proteins by characterizing their enrichment on taipoxin affinity columns; by expressing NP1, NP2, and NPR singly and together in Chinese hamster ovary cells; and by generating mice that fail to express NP1. NP1 and NP2 are secreted, exist as higher order multimers (probably pentamers), and interact with taipoxin and taipoxin-associated calcium-binding protein 49 (TCBP49). NPR is expressed on the cell membrane and does not bind taipoxin or TCBP49 by itself, but it can form heteropentamers with NP1 and NP2 that can be released from cell membranes. This is the first demonstration of heteromultimerization of pentraxins and release of a pentraxin complex by proteolysis. These processes are likely to directly effect the localization and function of neuronal pentraxins in neuronal uptake or synapse formation and remodeling.
Period 1 (Per1), 2 (Per2) and arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AA-NAT) mRNA levels were determined by semi-quantitative in situ hybridization in rat pineal glands. In agreement with previous reports, AA-NAT mRNA levels were rhythmic in light:dark (LD) cycles and the rhythm persisted in constant dim light (DLL). Per1 and Per2 mRNA also showed significant variations both in LD and DLL. AA-NAT and Per1 mRNA levels showed very similar patterns of variations in LD and DLL to one another, whereas Per2 showed a different pattern of expression from AA-NAT and Per1. Exposure to 30 min of light did not affect the expression of the three genes, while exposure to a longer light pulse (1 or 2 h) decreased AA-NAT and Per1 mRNA levels; Per2 mRNA levels were also decreased but only temporarily. Our results demonstrate that Per1 and Per2 expression in the rat pineal is under circadian control, and suggest Per1 may be regulated by the same mechanism which controls the expression of AA-NAT gene. Per2 seem to be controlled by a different mechanism.
The expression of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) influenced by lipid peroxidation has been investigated. The results showed that exposure of PC12 cells to a free radical insult (FeSO(4)) induced concentration-dependent increase in level of MDA (malondialdehyde), and a significant decline in MTT [3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazoliumbromide] reduction. In cultured cells exposed to FeSO(4), a significant dose-dependent decrease in [(3)H] epibatidine binding sites was detected and a significant reduction in B(max) value was observed in the high affinity epibatidine binding site. These results demonstrate that lipid peroxidation in cellular membranes can induce a reduction in numbers of neuronal nAChRs.
Autonomic dysreflexia (AD) occurs in up to 80% of quadriplegics and high paraplegics and is characterized by exaggerated sympathetic reflexes which induced paroxysmal hypertension. The aim of this study was to determine if plasma catecholamine levels increased during autonomic dysreflexia in the chronic spinal cord-injured (SCI) rats with special care to adrenaline. Catecholamine samples were collected before, during and 1 h after AD induced hypertension with colorectal distension. Results showed that plasma noradrenaline and adrenaline levels increased respectively 1.5-fold and 5-fold during AD in the chronic SCI rats. This suggests substantial roles for these two hormones in mediating the cardiovascular changes during AD. Knowledge of catecholamine levels during AD may thus aid in determining pathophysiology and potential pharmacologic treatments of this autonomic dysfunction.
The aim of the present study was to observe the effect of repeated subcutaneous (sc) injections of low doses of ketamine for the treatment of acute inflammatory pain in a complete Freund's adjuvant-induced monoarthritic pain model in rats. The results show: (1) sc injection of ketamine at a dose of 2 mg x kg(-1) or 10 mg x kg(-1) produced significant analgesia (P&lt;0.01) in arthritic rats starting from the 2nd week and 3rd week, respectively. (2) Repeated administration of ketamine produced a significant reduction of the circumference of the arthritic ankle (P&lt;0.05 and P&lt;0.01 with different doses). (3) The body weight of the rats was not affected by continuous administration of ketamine for 4 weeks. No abnormal locomotor behavior was observed (It was concerned but not systemically evaluated in this study). The results suggest that repeated sc injection of ketamine for 4 weeks significantly reduce inflammatory pain in monoarthritis without notable aversive side effects.

The distribution of neurotensin receptor 1 immunoreactivity in the rat brain was studied using an antibody against the amino-terminal of the receptor expressed as a fusion protein with glutathione-S transferase. Affinity purified antibodies detected the fusion protein and the complete neurotensin receptor sequence expressed in Escherichia coli. The immunostaining was abolished by preabsorption with the amino-terminal fusion protein. Immunoreactive neurotensin receptor 1 immunoreactivity was detected on cell bodies and their processes in a number of CNS regions. In agreement with previous binding studies neurotensin receptor 1 immunoreactivity was particularly localised in cell bodies in the basal forebrain, nucleus basalis and substantia nigra. At the electron microscope level immunoreactivity was found both in axonal bouton and dendrites and spines in the basal forebrain indicating that neurotensin may act both pre- and post-synaptically. There were several regions such as the substantia gelatinosa, ventral caudate-putamen and the lateral reticular nucleus where the neurotensin receptor 1 positive cells had not previously been reported, indicating that distribution of this receptor is widespread.
The regulation of stress-induced vocalisations by central NK(1) receptors was investigated using pharmacological antagonists in guinea-pigs, a species with human-like NK(1) receptors, and transgenic NK1R-/- mice. In guinea-pigs, i.c.v. infusion of the selective substance P agonist GR73632 (0.1 nmol) elicited a pronounced vocalisation response that was blocked enantioselectively by the NK(1) receptor antagonists CP-99,994 and L-733,060 (0.1-10 mg/kg). GR73632-induced vocalisations were also markedly attenuated by the antidepressant drugs imipramine and fluoxetine (30 mg/kg), but not by the benzodiazepine anxiolytic diazepam (3 mg/kg) or the 5-HT(1A) agonist buspirone (10 mg/kg). Similarly, vocalisations in guinea-pig pups separated from their mothers were blocked enantioselectively by the highly brain-penetrant NK(1) receptor antagonists L-733,060 and GR205171 (ID(50) 3 mg/kg), but not by the poorly brain-penetrant compounds LY303870 and CGP49823 (30 mg/kg). Separation-induced vocalisations were also blocked by the anxiolytic drugs diazepam, chlordiazepoxide and buspirone (ID(50) 0.5-1 mg/kg), and by the antidepressant drugs phenelzine, imipramine, fluoxetine and venlafaxine (ID(50) 3-8 mg/kg). In normal mouse pups, GR205171 attenuated neonatal vocalisations when administered at a high dose (30 mg/kg) only, consistent with its lower affinity for the rat than the guinea-pig NK(1) receptor. Ultrasound calls in NK1R-/- mouse pups were markedly reduced compared with those in WT pups, confirming the specific involvement of NK(1) receptors in the regulation of vocalisation. These observations suggest that centrally-acting NK(1) receptor antagonists may have clinical utility in the treatment of a range of anxiety and mood disorders.
Anatomical, neurochemical and behavioural evidence support a role for galanin in hippocampally mediated functions such as spatial learning and memory. To obtain more precise information on this role, galanin (3 nmol/rat) was infused via bilateral chronic cannulae into different areas of the hippocampal formation which are characterized by different galanin receptor subtypes and also by different galanin innervation patterns. The effects of infused galanin on spatial learning were examined in the Morris swim maze. Infusions of galanin into both the dorsal and ventral dentate gyrus, which mainly contain GAL-R2 receptor mRNA and a high degree of galanin-noradrenaline coexistence, significantly retarded spatial acquisition without affecting swim speed or performance in the visible platform test. This spatial learning deficit was fully blocked by pretreatment with the non-selective galanin antagonist M35. Analysis of retention performance suggested that the major effect of intrahippocampal galanin is mediated via a specific disruption of acquisition mechanisms of importance for performance in the probe trial. Galanin infused into the ventral CA1 (a mainly GAL-R1 receptor mRNA expressing region) or into anterior, ventral CA3 regions did not produce any deficits in spatial learning compared to control animals. These results suggest that galanin mediates its action on spatial learning mainly through the GAL-R2 receptor subtype in areas where most of the galanin is present in noradrenergic terminals. A possible role for the GAL-R1 receptor subtype in cognition in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus remains to be defined. The results suggest a differential functional role for galanin and galanin receptor subtypes within subregions of the hippocampal formation.
The modulation of the central cardiovascular effects of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor activation by galanin and its N-terminal fragment galanin-(1-15) has been evaluated by quantitative receptor autoradiography and cardiovascular analysis. Intracisternal coinjections of threshold doses of galanin and the selective and hypotensive alpha(2)-receptor agonist clonidine induced rapid and maintained vasopressor and tachycardic responses (p&lt;0.001) instead of a hypotensive response, whereas the coinjections of threshold doses of the N-terminal galanin fragment (1-15) and clonidine did not elicit significant cardiovascular changes. Receptor autoradiographical experiments showed that galanin (1 nM) significantly increased the K(d) (p&lt;0.01) and B(max) values (p&lt;0.01) of [(3)H]p-Aminoclonidine binding sites in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) compatible with a possible antagonistic interaction with the alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, and this effect was blocked by the presence of the specific galanin receptor antagonist M35. In addition, clonidine (30 nM) induced a 50% increase in the B(0) values of galanin based on competition experiments with [(125)I]-galanin binding in the NTS. These findings suggest the existence of an antagonistic effect of galanin, but not of galanin fragment (1-15), on the cardiovascular responses mediated by alpha(2)-receptors as well as a reciprocal facilitatory effect of alpha(2)-receptors on galanin binding. These mechanisms could be mediated by a reciprocal galanin-alpha(2) receptor interaction within the NTS.
The present article provides a brief overview of various aspects on neuropeptides, emphasizing their multitude and their wide distribution in both the peripheral and central nervous system. Interestingly, neuropeptides are also expressed in various types of glial cells under normal and experimental conditions. The recent identification of, often multiple, receptor subtypes for each peptide, as well as the development of peptide antagonists, have provided an experimental framework to explore functional roles of neuropeptides. A characteristic of neuropeptides is the plasticity in their expression, reflecting the fact that release has to be compensated by de novo synthesis at the cell body level. In several systems peptides can be expressed at very low levels normally but are upregulated in response to, for example, nerve injury. The fact that neuropeptides virtually always coexist with one or more classic transmitters suggests that they are involved in modulatory processes and probably in many other types of functions, for example exerting trophic effects. Recent studies employing transgene technology have provided some information on their functional role, although compensatory mechanisms in all probability could disguise even a well defined action. It has been recognized that both 'old' and newly discovered peptides may be involved in the regulation of food intake. Recently the first disease-related mutation in a peptidergic system has been identified, and clinical efficacy of a substance P antagonist for treatment of depression has been reported. Taken together it seems that peptides may play a role particularly when the nervous system is stressed, challenged or afflicted by disease, and that peptidergic systems may, therefore, be targets for novel therapeutic strategies.
Previous research showed that age-related division of labor in honey bees is associated with changes in activity rhythms; young adult bees perform hive tasks with no daily rhythms, whereas older bees forage with strong daily rhythms. We report that this division of labor is also associated with differences in both circadian rhythms and mRNA levels of period, a gene well known for its role in circadian rhythms. The level of period mRNA in the brain oscillated in bees of all ages, but was significantly higher at all times in foragers. Elevated period mRNA levels cannot be attributed exclusively to aging, because bees induced to forage precociously because of a change in social environment had levels similar to normal age foragers. These results extend the regulation of a &quot;clock gene&quot; to a social context and suggest that there are connections at the molecular level between division of labor and chronobiology in social insects.
Neurotrophin nerve growth factor (NGF) has been suggested to be involved in age-related neurodegenerative diseases, but no transgenic model is currently available to study this concept. We have obtained transgenic mice expressing a neutralizing anti-NGF recombinant antibody, in which the levels of antibodies are three orders of magnitude higher in adult than in newborn mice [F.R., S. C. , A.C., E. Di Daniel, J. Franzot, S. Gonfloni, G. Rossi, N. B. &amp; A. C. (2000) J. Neurosci., 20, 2589-2601]. In this paper, we analyze the phenotype of aged anti-NGF transgenic mice and demonstrate that these mice acquire an age-dependent neurodegenerative pathology including amyloid plaques, insoluble and hyperphosphorylated tau, and neurofibrillary tangles in cortical and hippocampal neurons. Aged anti-NGF mice also display extensive neuronal loss throughout the cortex, cholinergic deficit in the basal forebrain, and behavioral deficits. The overall picture is strikingly reminiscent of human Alzheimer's disease. Aged anti-NGF mice represent, to our knowledge, the most comprehensive animal model for this severe neurodegenerative disease. Also, these results demonstrate that, in mice, a deficit in the signaling and/or transport of NGF leads to neurodegeneration.
In Huntington's disease (HD), mutation of huntingtin causes selective neurodegeneration of dopaminoceptive striatal medium spiny neurons. Transgenic HD model mice that express a portion of the disease-causing form of human huntingtin develop a behavioral phenotype that suggests dysfunction of dopaminergic neurotransmission. Here we show that presymtomatic mice have severe deficiencies in dopamine signaling in the striatum. These include selective reductions in total levels of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, M(r) 32 kDA (DARPP-32) and other dopamine-regulated phosphoprotein markers of medium spiny neurons. HD mice also show defects in dopamine-regulated ion channels and in the D(1) dopamine/DARPP-32 signaling cascade. These presymptomatic defects may contribute to HD pathology.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and mu-opioid receptors (MOR) have been implicated in gustatory and cardiorespiratory visceral reflexes, respectively involving second order sensory neurons in rostral and intermediate portions of the medial nucleus of the solitary tract (mNTS). To determine whether there are cellular sites suggesting functional interaction involving NMDA receptors and MOR in these regions, we examined their ultrastructural immunocytochemical localization by using antisera recognizing the functional subunit of NMDA receptors (NR1) or MOR in rat brain. In both mNTS subdivisions, NR1 labeling was prominently seen along membranes of cytoplasmic organelles in somata and large dendrites, as well as on asymmetric postsynaptic densities in small dendrites and dendritic spines. Many of these profiles also contained MOR immunoreactivity that was mainly distributed along extrasynaptic plasma membranes. Quantitative regional comparison showed that dendrites composed 64% (167 of 261) and 35% (137 of 390) of the dually labeled structures in the rostral and intermediate mNTS, respectively. In contrast, only 11% (28 of 261) of the total dually labeled profiles in the rostral, but 46% (180 of 390) of those in the intermediate mNTS were axon terminals. Many of the terminals containing NR1 and/or MOR were large and formed asymmetric synapses with multiple targets, resembling those features of known visceral afferents. Our results suggest that opioids, active at MOR in mNTS, modulate excitatory visceral reflexes involving mainly postsynaptic NMDA receptors in the rostral region. In addition, they suggest that similar mechanisms exist in the intermediate mNTS, where both NMDA receptors and MOR may differentially regulate the presynaptic release of glutamate from the visceral afferents.
A specific microdialysis probe combined with high performance liquid chromatography analysis was used to compare the basal levels of extracellular amino acids (AAs) in the dorsal horn (DH) between two groups of patients undergoing spinal surgery for the treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain (n = 5) or disabling spasticity (n = 5). A stabilized concentration was reached in the dialysates 45 min after probe implantation for excitatory AAs (glutamate and aspartate) and inhibitory AAs (GABA and glycine). A significant increase in the ratios aspartate/GABA and aspartate/glycine was found in the group of patients suffering from neuropathic pain. This study shows the feasibility of a microdialysis investigation in the DH of patients during a neurosurgical operation and supports in humans the hypothesis of an imbalance between excitatory AAs and inhibitory AAs within the DH in neuropathic pain states, as suggested by previous animal studies.
Prosaposin (the precursor of saposins A-D) has been identified as a neurotrophic factor in vitro and in vivo. In this study, a novel 11-mer retro-inverso peptidomimetic, Prosaptide D5, was injected i.m. to assess its effectiveness in a rat ischemic model produced by reversible total occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA). Prosaptide (300 microg/kg, i.m.) injected 3 h after reversible occlusion reduced brain infarct area by 56% compared with a saline group (p &lt; 0.01) at 21 h of reperfusion. A similar injection of D5 6h after occlusion produced a 32% decrease.
Cerebrospinal fluid from 15 patients with ALS and 11 controls without neurological disease were analysed for levels of the neurotrophic factors BDNF and GDNF. Analyses were performed using a sensitive sandwich immunoassay (ELISA). There was no significant difference in BDNF levels between the ALS patients and the control subjects studied. Measurable levels of GDNF were found in 12 out of 15 ALS samples. GDNF was not detected in CSF from any of the control subjects. The finding of increased CSF levels of GDNF in ALS compared to controls, together with earlier findings of increased expression of GDNF mRNA in muscle in ALS, indicates that the capacity to synthesize GDNF is enhanced in this disorder.
Tasks requiring subjects to attend emotional attributes of words have been used to study mood-congruent information processing biases in anxiety and affective disorders. In this study we adapted an emotional go/no-go task, for use with fMRI to assess the neural substrates of focusing on emotional attributes of words in normal subjects. The key findings were that responding to targets defined on the basis of meaning of words compared to targets defined on the basis of perceptual features was associated with response in inferior frontal gyrus and dorsal anterior cingulate. Further, selecting emotional targets, whether happy or sad, was associated with enhanced response in the subgenual cingulate, while happy targets elicited enhanced neural response in ventral anterior cingulate. These findings reaffirm the importance of medial prefrontal regions in normal emotional processing.
Pulmonary slowly adapting receptors (SARs) and rapidly adapting receptors (RARs) are important components of various respiratory reflexes. In anesthetized, paralyzed and artificially ventilated rats, we found an inhibitory linkage from the former to the latter system at the level of their second-order relay neurons (P cells and RAR cells, respectively). Lung inflation which activates RARs as well as SARs suppressed RAR cell activity evoked by electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve. Intracellular recordings from RAR cells showed IPSPs locked to electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral and contralateral vagus nerves at an intensity just above the threshold for P cell activation. Activation of P cells with glutamate suppressed RAR cell firing. Since P cells project to the area of RAR cells, taken together, these results strongly suggest that P cells synaptically inhibit RAR cells.
Studies of neural correlates of working memory functions in the auditory-verbal, visuo-spatial and visuo-object domain suggest a category-specific organization of working memory processes in prefrontal cortex. Here, we used fMRI to explore brain areas that underlie different working memory operations directed to the temporal domain, which so far has been widely neglected. Significant activations related to memory updating and comparison processes were found right-accentuated in prefrontal and lateral premotor cortices. Furthermore, both subvocal rhythm encoding and maintenance enhanced left-lateralized activity in Broca's and supplementary motor area as well as in the sensorimotor cortex. Hemispheric lateralization effects of brain activity during temporal processing tasks may depend on the presence or absence of subvocal rehearsal strategies.
Somatosensory cortical areas are widely studied with new functional imaging techniques, but usually with poor control over the attentional state of subjects. We applied fMRI to determine possible changes in activations of these areas due to modulations of attention. Attention induced large regional changes, mostly enlargements of activated areas, and more of those at SII than at SI. The number of instances where activation was only seen in attend conditions was also larger at SII than at SI. These results show the importance of controlling the attentional state of the subjects in imaging studies, and give evidence of the different roles of SI and SII cortices in the somatosensory system.
Hypothermia can reduce neuronal death caused by ischemia and traumatic brain injury. We therefore investigated whether mild hypothermia in rats receiving a transplant of embryonic mesencephalic rat tissue increases survival of the implanted dopaminergic neurons. Mild hypothermia (32-33 degrees C) during graft implantation and for the following 90 min significantly increased the survival of transplanted dopaminergic neurons to 171% of control values in normothermic (37 degrees C) rats. This demonstrates that treatment of the graft recipient for a relatively short period during and after surgery has a favorable effect on the survival of grafted dopaminergic neurons. These findings may be of importance for clinical neural transplantation trials which are in need of procedures that improve transplant survival.
The glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family of growth factors may be involved in the regenerative support of neurons in the peripheral nervous system. In order to study the role of these growth factors and their receptors following rat peripheral nerve injury we examined the changes in their mRNA levels in the spinal cord, the dorsal root ganglia and the peripheral nerve trunk. Following transaction of the sciatic nerve GDNF mRNA was up-regulated rapidly in the denervated nerve distal to the cut along with the mRNA for one of its receptors, GFRalpha-1. GFRalpha-1 mRNA was also increased in the DRG ipsilateral to the nerve injury suggesting that GDNF may be involved in the trophic support of DRG sensory neurons. In contrast there were no analogous changes in the mRNA levels of neurturin, persephin and artemin following injury.
The influence of pulsed radiofrequency (RF) electromagnetic fields of digital GSM mobile phones on working memory in healthy subjects were studied. Memory load was varied from 0 to 3 items in an n-back task. Each subject was tested twice within a single session, with and without the RF exposure (902MHz, 217Hz). The RF field speeded up response times when the memory load was three items but no effects of RF were observed with lower loads. The results suggest that RF fields have a measurable effect on human cognitive performance and encourage further studies on the interactions of RF fields with brain function.

Tinuvin 123, a compound used in the manufacture of plastics, has recently been suggested to possibly cause Parkinson's disease (PD). Herein, we revisited this issue by assessing the effect of Tinuvin 123 on dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra following its stereotaxic injection in the rat. Twenty-one days post unilateral stereotaxic injection of Tinuvin 123, systemic injection of both apomorphine and amphetamine caused rotations toward the side of the lesion in these rats. Tinuvin 123 produced a small to moderate dose-dependent reduction in striatal levels of dopamine and metabolites on the side of the lesion. This compound also produced dramatic cell loss in the substantia nigra on the side of the lesion. However, the loss of cells lacked the phenotypic specificity for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons that is expected with a dopaminergic neurotoxin. Indeed, aside from a robust glial reaction, both TH-positive and glutamic acid dehydrogenase (GAD)-positive neurons were destroyed, and near the site of the injection, there was complete tissue destruction. This study indicates that, using this mode of injection, Tinuvin 123 exerts a dramatic tissue toxicity without any evidence of specificity for dopaminergic neurons. Thus, our data argues against a role for Tinuvin 123 as an environmental toxin causing a clinical condition characterized by the selective loss of dopaminergic neurons as seen in PD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the appearance of intracytoplasmic inclusions called Lewy bodies (LB) in dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra and the progressive loss of these neurons. Recently, mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene have been identified in early-onset familial PD, and alpha-synuclein has been shown to be a major component of LB in all patients. Yet, the pathophysiological function of alpha-synuclein remains unknown. In this report, we have investigated the toxic effects of adenovirus-mediated alpha-synuclein overexpression on dopamine neurons in rat primary mesencephalic cultures and in a rat dopaminergic cell line - the large T-antigen immortalized, mesencephalon-derived 1RB3AN27 (N27). Adenovirus-transduced cultures showed high-level expression of alpha-synuclein within the cells. Overexpression of human mutant alpha-synuclein (Ala(53)Thr) selectively induced apoptotic programmed cell death of primary dopamine neurons as well as N27 cells. The mutant protein also potentiated the neurotoxicity of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). By contrast, overexpression of wild-type human alpha-synuclein was not directly neurotoxic but did increase cell death after 6-OHDA. Overexpression of wild-type rat alpha-synuclein had no effect on dopamine cell survival or 6-OHDA neurotoxicity. These results indicate that overexpression of human mutant alpha-synuclein directly leads to dopamine neuron death, and overexpression of either human mutant or human wild-type alpha-synuclein renders dopamine neurons more vulnerable to neurotoxic insults.
The microinjection of nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) into the rostral pontine tegmentum of adult cats rapidly induces long-lasting episodes of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep [J. Yamuy, F.R. Morales, M.H. Chase, Induction of rapid eye movement sleep by the microinjection of nerve growth factor into the pontine reticular formation of the cat, Neuroscience 66 (1995) 9-13]. Because this effect may be mediated by neurotrophin receptors, we sought to determine the distribution of neurons that contain low- and high-affinity neurotrophin receptors in regions of the feline pons and mesencephalon which are involved in the generation of REM sleep as well as neuronal groups that are involved in the control of REM sleep-related patterns of physiological activity. Using antibodies directed against p75, trkA, trkB and trkC, immunolabeled neurons were present in the latero-dorsal and pedunculo-pontine tegmental nuclei, the peribrachial nuclei, medial and lateral pontine reticular formation, the raphe nuclei, and the locus coeruleus. Giant reticular cells and large neurons in the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus were immunoreactive for p75 and all trk receptors. Neurons that were devoid of neurotrophin-receptor immunoreactivity were intermingled with immunostained neurons in all explored structures. Thus, both low- and high-affinity neurotrophin receptors are conspicuously present in neurons located in mesopontine regions of adult cats. These data underscore the importance of neurotrophin-induced trophic actions on mesopontine neurons. Furthermore, the results support the hypothesis that NGF and NT-3 may modulate the electrical activity of neurons in the rostral pontine tegmentum that are responsible for the generation of REM sleep by acting on one or more of the neurotrophin receptors.
An N-terminal dopamine D(2s) receptor clone was constructed and coexpressed in COS-7 cells together with a separate gene fragment coding for the C-terminal sequence of the dopamine D(2s) receptor. The truncated receptor (referred to as D(2trunc)) contained transmembrane domains I-V and the N-terminal portion of the third cytoplasmic loop, whereas the C-terminal receptor fragment (referred to as D(2tail)) contained transmembrane domains VI and VII and the adjacent intra- and extracellular sequences of the dopamine D(2s) receptor. Expression in COS-7 cells of either of these two polypeptides alone did not result in any detectable [3H]methylspiperone binding activity. However, specific [3H]methylspiperone binding could be observed after coexpression of the D(2trunc) and D(2tail) gene constructs; the number of receptors present on the plasma membrane was about 10% with respect to that of the wild type. The binding properties of the coexpressed fragments were similar to those of the wild-type dopamine D(2s) receptor for agonists and antagonists. Functional stimulation of the cotransfected D(2trunc) and D(2tail) fragments with quinpirole resulted in the inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity. Maximal inhibition corresponds to a 28% decrease in forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase. The apparent IC(50) of quinpirole was 5.1+/-0.3 mcM. These findings confirm and extend analogous data for other G protein-coupled receptors and indicate that this phenomenon is of general importance for the entire family of these proteins.
Based on studies of agonist potencies on intact rat superior cervical ganglia, it has been suggested that this ganglion possesses distinct receptors for purine and pyrimidine nucleotides. However, the potency of an agonist is dependent upon whether it is susceptible to extracellular metabolism by the tissue. The aim of this investigation was to study the metabolism of uridine or adenosine nucleotides and nucleosides and the effects of dipyridamole and an ecto-ATPase inhibitor ARL 67156 (6-N, N-diethyl-D-beta-gamma-dibromomethylene-ATP) on their metabolism. Adenosine- and uridine-5'-triphosphates (ATP and UTP) were catabolised by cultured rat superior cervical ganglia, to their di- and monophosphates. Both ATP and UTP breakdown was significantly inhibited by dipyridamole (10 mcM), whereas ARL 67156 (100 mcM), was a weaker inhibitor of ATP degradation and inhibited UTP breakdown by approximately 40%. Metabolism of ATP and UTP by cultured rat superior cervical ganglia was reduced after treatment with cytosine-beta-arabinoside, suggesting that non-neuronal cells along with neuronal cells contribute to their breakdown. In conclusion, these results indicate that rat superior cervical ganglia possess ecto-nucleotidases capable of catabolising purine and pyrimidine nucleotides to their nucleosides, and that dipyridamole is a potent inhibitor of ecto-nucleotidase activity.
[3H]MK-801 binding in vivo was used to determine the occupancy of NMDA receptor ligands shown to allosterically modulate binding in vitro. ED(50) values (mg/kg) were obtained for the channel blockers (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5,4-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate ((+)-MK-801, 0.2), 1-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)piperidine (phencyclidine, PCP, 1.7) and ketamine (4.4). Antagonists at the glutamate (DL-(2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonate (DL-CPP, 5.7)) and glycine site (7-Chloro-4-hydroxy-3-(3-phenoxy)-phenyl-2(H)quinolinone (L-701,324, 14.1), 3R(+)cis-4-methyl-pyrrollid-2-one (L-687,414, 15.1)) inhibited [3H]MK-801 binding in vivo to varying maximum levels (69%, 103% and 45%, respectively). NR2B subunit-selective compounds acting at the ifenprodil site inhibited [3H]MK-801 in vivo by a maximum of 52-72% and gave ED(50) values (mg/kg) of: (+/-)-(1S*, 2S*)-1-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-2-(4-hydroxy-4-phenylpiperidino)-1-propanol ((+/-)CP-101,606), 1.9; (+/-)-(3R, 4S)-3-[4-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-hydroxypiperidin-1-yl]chroman-4,7-diol ((+/-)CP-283,097), 1.8; (+/-)-(R*, S*)-alpha-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-beta-methyl-4-(phenylmethyl)-1-piperidine propanol ((+/-)Ro 25-6981), 1.0; ifenprodil, 6.0. The glycine site agonist D-serine stimulated binding to 151% of control with an ED(50) of 1.7 mg/kg. Results show that [3H]MK-801 binding in vivo may be used to measure receptor occupancy of ligands acting not only within the ion channel but also at modulatory sites on the NMDA receptor complex.
The metabotropic glutamate receptors belong to family C of the G-protein coupled receptor superfamily. These receptors all possess large extracellular amino terminal domains, where agonist binding takes place. We have previously constructed a molecular model of the amino terminal domain of the mGlu(1) receptor based on a weak amino acid sequence similarity with a family of bacterial periplasmic binding proteins (PBPs). The residues Ser(165) and Thr(188) were demonstrated to be involved in agonist binding to the receptor. Here, we report that mutation of Arg(78) in the mGlu(1b) receptor to leucine or glutamate completely knocks out [3H]quisqualic acid binding to the receptor. The constructed mutants, R78L and R78E, have also been characterized in a inositol phosphate assay. Here, the potency of (S)-glutamic acid and (S)-quisqualic acid was reduced 1000- and 100-fold, respectively, on R78L compared to the wild type (WT) receptor. (S)-Quisqualic acid was as potent on mutant R78E as it was on R78L, whereas (S)-glutamic acid was unable to activate R78E significantly at concentrations up to 10 mM. In conclusion, Arg(78) appears to be essential for agonist binding to the mGlu(1) receptor, most likely, through the formation of an ionic bond between its positively charged side chain and the distal acid group of the agonists. Furthermore, the different impact of the two mutations on (S)-glutamic acid and (S)-quisqualic acid potencies strongly indicates that while Arg(78) appears to be a common site of interaction for the agonists, the Group I subtype selectivity of (S)-quisqualic acid is probably determined by other residues in the amino terminal domain.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are implicated in the pathogenesis of several proliferative diseases, including atherosclerosis and cancer. Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) plays an important role in cell proliferation and differentiation. To gain insight into molecular mechanisms by which ROS influence the pathogenesis of these diseases, I have studied the effect of H(2)O(2), a ROS, on eIF4E phosphorylation. H(2)O(2) induced eIF4E phosphorylation in a dose- and time-dependent manner in growth-arrested smooth muscle cells (SMC). H(2)O(2)-induced eIF4E phosphorylation occurred on serine residues. PD098059, a specific inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) kinase inhibited ERK activities but had no significant effect on eIF4E phosphorylation induced by H(2)O(2). Similarly, SB203580, a specific inhibitor of p38 MAPK, although inhibiting H(2)O(2)-induced p38 MAPK activity, had no effect on H(2)O(2)-induced eIF4E phosphorylation. Calphostin C, a specific inhibitor of protein kinase C, also had no effect on H(2)O(2)-induced eIF4E phosphorylation. In contrast, trifluoperazine, an antagonist of calcium/calmodulin kinases, completely blocked H(2)O(2)-induced eIF4E phosphorylation. In addition, intracellular and extracellular Ca(2+) chelators significantly inhibited H(2)O(2)-induced eIF4E phosphorylation. Despite its ability to induce eIF4E phosphorylation, H(2)O(2) had no significant effect on protein levels and new protein synthesis as compared with control. In contrast, it induced the expression of c-Fos, c-Jun, and HSP70 in a time-dependent manner in SMC. Together, these results suggest that H(2)O(2), a ROS and a cellular oxidant, induces eIF4E phosphorylation in a manner that is dependent on Ca(2+) and Ca(2+)/calmodulin kinases and independent of ERKs, p38 MAPK, and protein kinase C. These results also suggest that enhanced eIF4E phosphorylation by H(2)O(2) appears to be an important event in SMC in response to oxidant stress and that eIF4E phosphorylation may be associated with the translation of a small subset of mRNAs such as c-fos, c-jun, and HSP70 gene mRNAs, whose products may have a critical role in cell survival.
The neuronal cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) is a key mediator of structural plasticity in the central nervous system, but the mechanisms that control its expression are unknown. Equally, although the transcription factor NF-kappaB is present in the brain, few NF-kappaB-regulated genes relevant for central nervous system function have been identified. We have previously demonstrated that NF-kappaB is activated in neuronal cultures treated with kainic acid or nitric oxide. We show here that kainic acid or nitric oxide also increase the levels of NCAM mRNA and protein in neurons and that this induction of NCAM expression is sensitive to dexamethasone and to antisense, but not missense, oligonucleotides designed to suppress NF-kappaB synthesis. Nitric oxide also stimulates protein binding to an NF-kappaB site in the promoter of the NCAM gene. This indicates that NF-kappaB, which has recently been implicated in synaptic plasticity and also in the etiology of neurodegenerative disease, plays a crucial role in the activity-dependent regulation of NCAM gene expression. In addition, since both NCAM and NF-kappaB are present in the post-synaptic density, this represents a route allowing direct communication between the synapse and the nucleus.
PSD-95 is a major postsynaptic density protein that is degraded as a result of synaptic activity. We used four different methods to test the hypothesis that calpain is involved in PSD-95 turnover. Treatment of synaptic membranes with purified calpain resulted in a decrease in immunoreactivity of the native 95 kDa protein and the appearance of two smaller molecular weight species, migrating at 50 and 36 kDa, respectively. Calcium treatment of frozen-thawed brain sections produced an identical digestion pattern, an effect blocked by calpain inhibitors. N-methyl-D-aspartate treatment of organotypic hippocampal cultures produced truncation of PSD-95 and accumulation of the 36 kDa species. Finally, calpain-generated degradation products of PSD95 were prominent in neonatal hippocampus, and disappeared with postnatal development. Our data suggest that PSD-95 is a substrate for calpain, and that calpain-mediated truncation contributes to PSD-95 turnover.
A circadian oscillator located within the retina controls melatonin synthesis in the retina of mammals. In non-mammalian vertebrates retinal melatonin and dopamine appear to act as mutually inhibitory paracrine signals for night and day, respectively; while in mammals this mutually inhibitory capability has now been fully demonstrated. In this study using a flow-through culture apparatus we investigated melatonin release from cultured retinas of golden hamster (Mesocricetus auratus) in the presence of dopamine or dopaminergic agonists and antagonists. Neural retinas were cultured with medium 199 for 24 h in a flow-through apparatus at the temperature 33 degrees C. During the subjective night the culturing medium was supplemented with dopamine, dopamine receptor antagonists or agonists. At the concentration of 0.1 microM dopamine did not inhibit melatonin release, while at higher dopamine concentration (1 to 1000 microM) melatonin release was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner. These effects appeared to be mediated by a D2/D4 receptor, because D2 and D4 receptor agonists (100 microM), but not D1/D5 receptor agonists (100 microM), inhibited melatonin release. Furthermore, D2/D4 selective receptor antagonists (100 microM) in conjunction with 100 microM dopamine blocked melatonin suppression, whereas a D1/D5 selective receptors antagonist was completely ineffective. Taken together, these results directly demonstrate for the first time that in the retina of mammals dopamine may suppress melatonin, and that suppression is mediated by D2/D4 dopaminergic receptors.
Appearance of tau epitopes in ischemic foci was investigated immunohistochemically on a series of autopsied human brains using a panel of anti-tau antibodies. While neurons were immunopositive for Alz-50, microglia and oligodendroglia around ischemic foci abundantly contained tau-2 immunoreactivity. Some astrocytes contained tau-2 immunoreactive granules in their cytoplasm. This difference suggests that neurons and glia react differently to an ischemic insult by exhibiting different tau epitopes. Immunohistochemical visualization tau-2 epitope represents its conformational change, as was reported with neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer type. Lack of argyrophilia in any of these tau-immunoreactive cells distinguishes them from tau-immunoreactive structures seen in various neurodegenerative disorders.
Event-related potentials were recorded in order to determine how brain activity is lateralized during the encoding and the recognition of visual durations (700 and 2500 ms ranges). It is assumed in the Hemispheric Encoding Retrieval Asymmetry model that the encoding of words, faces and odours involves left frontal areas whereas their recognition involves right frontal areas. The present results indicate that, for temporal information, the hemispheric bias is different: a negativity developed over right frontal electrodes for both encoding and recognition, and for both duration ranges. Thus, the involvement of right frontal areas appears critical for time perception. Conversely to what was expected, contingent negative variation during recognition was large over both left and right frontal electrodes. These results suggest that the involvement of both hemispheres is necessary for recognition of temporal information.
Using the gerbil model of post-ischemic neuron death in the hippocampal CA1 region, it was recently shown that there is a strong down-regulation of voltage-gated Ca2+ influx in neurons examined at 2 days after the ischemic insult (Connor, J.A., Razani-Boroujerdi, S., Greenwood, A.C., Cormier, R.J., Petrozzino, J.J. and Lin, R.C., Reduced voltage-dependent Ca2+ signaling in CA1 neurons after brief ischemia in gerbils, J. Neurophysiol., 81 (1999) 299-306). The aim of the present study was to determine whether a similar change occurs in pyramidal neurons of the CA3 region that are relatively resistant to transient ischemia. In vitro intracellular recordings and fluorometric Ca2+ measurements were made from CA3 neurons in coronal slices prepared from controls and 1 or 2 days following in vivo ischemia. In slices from control and post-ischemic animals, the electrophysiological properties of CA3 neurons were consistent with significant voltage-gated Ca2+ influx, leading to spike frequency adaptation. Quantitative results indicated no significant difference in Ca2+ transients evoked by action potential trains. This Ca2+ signaling was compared with responses in CA1 neurons from the same preparations, which showed substantially diminished Ca2+ influx at 2 days post-ischemia. These findings suggest that diminished Ca2+-signaling is not a general feature of pyramidal neurons following ischemia, but is characteristic of neurons destined to die.
Levodopa is the gold standard for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) because of its outstanding clinical efficacy. However, the majority of patients experience various adverse reactions, including the wearing-off phenomenon, the on-off phenomenon, dyskinesia and psychiatric symptoms. The response to levodopa depends not only on the intrinsic responsiveness of the patients, but also on various other important factors including the type of levodopa preparation, its absorption/metabolism, the blood-brain barrier, age at onset of disease and concomitant use of anti-parkinsonian drugs. This review summarizes factors which influence the effects of levodopa in PD. To minimize levodopa-induced adverse reactions and to relieve long-term parkinsonian symptoms, levodopa therapy should be conducted by taking these factors into consideration.
This study combined ultrastructural and statistical methods to learn the effects of weightlessness on rat utricular maculae. A principle aim was to determine whether weightlessness chiefly affects ribbon synapses of type II cells, since the cells communicate predominantly with branches of primary vestibular afferent endings. Maculae were microdissected from flight and ground control rat inner ears collected on day 13 of a 14-day spaceflight (F13), landing day (R0) and day 14 postflight (R14) and were prepared for ultrastructural study. Ribbon synapses were counted in hair cells examined in a Zeiss 902 transmission electron microscope. Significance of synaptic mean differences was determined for all hair cells contained within 100 section series, and for a subset of complete hair cells, using SuperANOVA software. The synaptic mean for all type II hair cells of F13 flight rats increased by 100%, and that for complete cells by 200%. Type I cells were less affected, with synaptic mean differences statistically insignificant in complete cells. Synapse deletion began within 8 h upon return to Earth. Additionally, hair cell laminated rough endoplasmic reticulum of flight rats was reversibly disorganized on R0. Results support the thesis that synapses in type II hair cells are uniquely affected by altered gravity. Type II hair cells may be chiefly sensors of gravitational and type I cells of translational linear accelerations.

This study evaluates the effectiveness of delivering the core curriculum of an introductory neuroscience course using a software application referred to as a virtual learning interface (VLI). The performance of students in a virtual learning environment (VLE) is compared with that of students in a conventional lecture hall in which the same lecturer presented the same material. This study was not designed to determine whether grades are improved by augmenting a lecture with other information. The VLI takes advantage of audio, video, animation, and text in a multimedia computer environment. Our results indicate that raw average scores on weekly examinations were 14 percentage points higher for students in the VLE compared with those for students in a conventional lecture hall setting. Moreover, normalized test scores were over 5 points higher for students in the VLE. This analysis suggest that a core curriculum can be effectively presented to students using the VLE, thereby making it possible for faculty to spend less class time relaying facts and more time engaging students in discussion of scientific theory.
Sexual dysfunction problems are common in people with HIV infection, but their relevance has been recently highlighted in response to the increased survival shown by many individuals with HIV, and the publicity surrounding the development of new treatments for male sexual dysfunction. Thirty-four gay/bisexual men with HIV infection presenting with sexual dysfunction were assessed. Antiretroviral combination therapy including protease inhibitors was taken by 44%, other combinations not including protease inhibitors by 24%, while 32% were not taking any antiretrovirals. Primarily psychogenic sexual dysfunction was thought to be present in 44%, primarily organic dysfunction in 22% and a mixed aetiology in 34%. Treatments offered included psychological interventions and physical methods of treatment, alone or in combination. Treatment was effective, with 76% reporting resolution of the problems, 14% reporting improvement and only 10% reporting no change. Practical and ethical issues raised by the findings are discussed.
We report the imaging findings in three symptomatic cases of partial aplasia of the posterior arch of the atlas with an isolated posterior remnant of the arch. These cases are instructive in illustrating the mechanism of cord impingement produced by the posterior arch remnant during extension of the cervical spine. Additionally, focal increased T2 signal was observed within the cord at the level of the anomaly in two of the patients.


Neonatal mice were administered nicotine (66 microg (-)-nicotine base/kg body weight (bw) s.c. twice daily at 0800 and 1700 h on postnatal days 10 and 14) and control mice received saline (10 ml 0. 9% NaCl/kg bw s.c.) on the same occasions. Behavioral testing was initiated 3 months after birth. In Experiment 1, neonatal nicotine administration did not affect spontaneous motor activity but altered the peak dose stimulatory effect of ethanol upon locomotion and rearing activity from 3.0 mg/kg, in the control mice, to 1.5 mg/kg. Administration of the nicotine antagonist, mecamylamine (MEC, 2.0 mg/kg), had no effect upon the peak dose stimulatory effect (i.e., 1. 5 mg/kg) evidenced in the nicotine-treated mice, but attenuated the stimulatory effect of the 3.0 mg/kg dose of ethanol in the control mice. In Experiment 2, the effects of neonatal nicotine administration upon ethanol intake and preference were assessed. In the single fluid access (one-bottle) test, nicotine-treated mice consumed both more ethanol (2%, 4%, or 6% concentrations) and more tap water than control mice. In the two-bottle ethanol preference test, nicotine-treated mice consumed more ethanol and tap water. Further analysis of the high-preferring (HP) ethanol mice indicated higher ethanol intake and preference in the nicotine-treated mice but no differences in tap water or total fluid intake. The present findings are considered together with prevailing notions of nicotine receptor alterations and possible cross-sensitization effects modulating substance abuse.
Massive splenomegaly is a frequent finding in patients with Gaucher disease, the most common of the sphingolipidoses. Even so, the risk for splenic rupture and intracapsular hemorrhage has not been emphasized due to the rarity of this occurrence and the fibrotic, rubbery consistency of splenic tissue in these patients. We report two adult patients with type 1 Gaucher disease who suffered life-threatening splenic bleeds that were not acutely diagnosed. Both patients ultimately required emergent splenectomies. Factors complicating the diagnosis of splenic hemorrhage in patients with Gaucher disease are discussed. Published 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Gaucher disease results from the inherited deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase (EC 3.2.1.45). Although &gt;100 mutations in the gene for human glucocerebrosidase have been described, most genotype-phenotype studies have focused upon screening for a few common mutations. In this study, we used several approaches-including direct sequencing, Southern blotting, long-template PCR, restriction digestions, and the amplification refraction mutation system (ARMS)-to genotype 128 patients with type 1 Gaucher disease (64 of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry and 64 of non-Jewish extraction) and 24 patients with type 3 Gaucher disease. More than 97% of the mutant alleles were identified. Fourteen novel mutations (A90T, N117D, T134I, Y135X, R170C, W184R, A190T, Y304X, A341T, D399Y, c.153-154insTACAGC, c.203-204insC, c.222-224delTAC, and c.1122-1123insTG) and many rare mutations were detected. Recombinant alleles were found in 19% of the patients. Although 93% of the mutant alleles in our Ashkenazi Jewish type 1 patients were N370S, c.84-85insG, IVS2+1G--&gt;A or L444P, these four mutations accounted for only 49% of mutant alleles in the non-Jewish type 1 patients. Genotype-phenotype correlations were attempted. Homozygosity or heterozygosity for N370S resulted in type 1 Gaucher disease, whereas homozygosity for L444P was associated with type 3. Genotype L444P/recombinant allele resulted in type 2 Gaucher disease, and homozygosity for a recombinant allele was associated with perinatal lethal disease. The phenotypic consequences of other mutations, particularly R463C, were more inconsistent. Our results demonstrate a high rate of mutation detection, a large number of novel and rare mutations, and an accurate assessment of the prevalence of recombinant alleles. Although some genotype-phenotype correlations do exist, other genetic and environmental factors must also contribute to the phenotypes encountered, and we caution against relying solely upon genotype for prognostic or therapeutic judgements.
To assess the participation of the 150-kDa oxygen-regulated protein (ORP150) in protein transport, its function in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells was studied. Exposure of MDCK cells to hypoxia resulted in an increase of ORP150 antigen and increased binding of ORP150 to GP80/clusterin (80-kDa glycoprotein), a natural secretory protein in this cell line. In ORP150 antisense transformant MDCK cells, GP80 was retained within the endoplasmic reticulum after exposure to hypoxia. Metabolic labeling showed the delay of GP80 maturation in antisense transformants in hypoxia, whereas its matured form was detected in wild-type cells, indicating a role of ORP150 in protein transport, especially in hypoxia. The affinity chromatographic analysis of ORP150 suggested its ability to bind to ATP-agarose. Furthermore, the ATP hydrolysis analysis showed that ORP150 can release GP80 at a lower ATP concentration. These data indicate that ORP150 may function as a unique molecular chaperone in renal epithelial cells by facilitating protein transport/maturation in an environment where less ATP is accessible.
Energetic demands are high while energy availability is minimum during winter. To cope with this energetic bottleneck, animals exhibit numerous energy-conserving adaptations during winter, including changes in immune and reproductive functions. A majority of individual rodents within a population inhibits reproductive function (responders) as winter approaches. A substantial proportion of small rodents within a species, however, fails to inhibit reproduction (nonresponders) during winter in the field or in the laboratory when maintained in winter-simulated day lengths. In contrast, immune function is bolstered by short day lengths in some species. The specific mechanisms that link reproductive and immune functions remain unspecified. Leptin is a hormone produced by adipose tissue, and several studies suggest that leptin modulates reproductive and immune functions. The present study sought to determine if photoperiodic alterations in reproductive function and leptin concentrations are linked to photoperiod-modulated changes in immune function. Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) were housed in either long (LD 16:8) or short (LD 8:16) day lengths for 9 wk. After 9 wk, blood samples were collected during the middle of the light and dark phase to assess leptin concentrations. One week later, animals were injected with keyhole limpet hemocyanin to evaluate humoral immunity. Body mass, body fat content, and serum leptin concentrations were correlated with reproductive responsiveness to photoperiod; short-day animals with regressed gonads exhibited a reduction in these measures, whereas short-day nonresponders resembled long-day animals. In contrast, immune function was influenced by photoperiod but not reproductive status. Taken together, these data suggest that humoral immune function in Siberian hamsters is independent of photoperiod-mediated changes in leptin concentrations.

beta-amyloid (A beta) peptides are known to disrupt calcium homeostasis in cells. In the present study, the effects of A beta(25-35) upon the activity of soluble Ins(1,4,5)P3-5-phosphatase have been investigated. A beta(25-35) inhibited, and dithiothreitol (DTT) increased the activity of soluble rat cerebellar Ins(1,4,5)P3-5-phosphatase. The change in activity was not accompanied by an obvious change in the sensitivity of the Ins(1,4,5)P3-5-phosphatase to inhibition by glucose-6-phosphate or phytic acid. A beta(35-25) also inhibited soluble Ins(1,4,5)P3-5-phosphatase activity, but at a lower potency than A beta(25-35). It is concluded that A beta(25-35) affects the metabolism of Ins(1,4,5)P3 although the potency is not sufficiently high to contribute to any significant extent to the effects of this peptide upon calcium homeostasis.
To investigate cell turnover in the vomeronasal epithelium we used electron microscopy to obtain quantitative measurements of changes observed at the surface of the sensory epithelium. Receptor cell degeneration was induced by sensory nerve transection and animals were examined at postoperative recovery times of 2, 4, 6, 10, 15, 35 and 60 days. We measured the number and density of receptor and supporting cells, and membrane length at the surface of the sensory epithelium. The number of receptor cells rapidly decreased during the degeneration period, reaching a minimum at 6 days. After 15 days of recovery the number and density of receptor cells returned to control levels. The surface membrane length for regenerated receptor cells was similar to that of controls, however the morphological appearance was characteristic of immature cells. In contrast to the receptor cells, the number and density of supporting cells did not change during degeneration and regeneration. However, there was a significant increase in the length of supporting cell-surface membranes. These results suggest that during receptor cell degeneration, supporting cell membranes compensate for the loss of receptor cells by expanding their surface membrane length to help to maintain the continuity of the epithelial surface. Thus, an important role of vomeronasal supporting cells may be to maintain the structural integrity of the epithelium during turnover of the receptor cell population.

The hippocampal system, consisting of the hippocampus, subiculum, and adjacent parahippocampal region, is known to play an important role in learning and memory processes. It is also known that the originally proposed trisynaptic circuit is a simplified representation of the organization of this system. In this paper, we present evidence, both anatomically and electrophysiologically, for the existence of direct and indirect parallel pathways through the hippocampal memory system arising from the perirhinal and postrhinal cortex. These pathways form nested loops. The subiculum occupies a central position within these loops. In the subiculum, both &quot;raw&quot; and highly processed information will converge. Therefore, we propose that the subiculum occupies a pivotal position in the hippocampal memory system, both as recipient and comparator of signals and as a distributor of processed information.
This chapter reviews recent postmortem studies of schizophrenic brain and discusses the potential role of the amygdala in the induction of hippocampal abnormalities in this disorder. Based on available evidence, sectors CA4, CA3, and CA2, but not CA1, show preferential changes in schizophrenic subjects, although the most pronounced changes have been found in CA3 and CA2. It seems likely that the amygdala would contribute in some way to the induction of abnormalities along the trisynaptic pathway via its direct input to sectors CA3 and CA2, as well as an indirect one that involves the entorhinal cortex and its perforant path projection to the area dentata. The postmortem findings reported to date have been integrated into a working model in which decreases of inhibitory GABAergic modulation are invoked to explain the observation from a recent PET scan study (Heckers et al., 1999) that baseline metabolic activity in the hippocampus of schizophrenics is increased. In addition, however, the apparent inability of schizophrenics to increase metabolic activity in the hippocampus when challenged with a memory retrieval task may reflect a disturbance of disinhibitory modulation postulated herein to occur in sector CA3, a key relay point along the trisynaptic pathway. Overall, it seems plausible that an increase of excitatory activity entering the hippocampus from the basolateral complex via both direct and indirect pathways may make a significant contribution to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is regarded as an autoimmune disorder, but no clearly defined autoimmune mechanism has been described. Although most patients respond to plasma exchange, no convincing role for autoantibodies has yet been demonstrated. In this study, we have successfully passively transferred disease using sera and purified IgG from 4 of 12 patients responsive to plasma exchange by bypassing the blood-nerve barrier by intraneural injection or opening it by activated T cells. The sera from CIDP patients or purified IgG produced marked conduction block and demyelination, but normal sera or IgG or that from patients with multiple sclerosis or other neuropathies did not. These observations strongly support an important role for anti-myelin/Schwann cell autoantibodies in the pathogenesis of CIDP at least in some patients.
The objectives of this study were to describe a population of elderly patients at the beginning of their rehabilitation period as regards subjective well-being and dependence in activities of daily living (ADL). In a Swedish rural county 244 patients aged 65+ who had begun rehabilitation within the last month were targeted. One part of the self-administered Gteborg Quality of Life Instrument and a revised version of the ADL Staircase were used. No correlation was found between subjective well-being and ADL dependence. However, significant correlations between ADL dependence and separate subjective well-being items were found in three out of 17, i.e. the items 'energy', 'leisure', and 'sense of significance and appreciation outside home'. Overall subjective well-being did not show any gender differences, but significant gender differences due to the distribution of scores was shown; females scored the items 'health', 'sleeping', and 'economy' as bad to a larger extent than males. Males were significantly more dependent than females in three out of nine ADL: 'going to the toilet', 'dressing', and 'cooking'. Additional knowledge of subjective well-being and ADL dependence at the beginning of the rehabilitation process challenges the traditional goal-setting and evaluation procedures of geriatric rehabilitation services.

Previous work has shown that individuals overestimate the diameter of holes presented to the tongue when they use their fingers to select matching holes from a range of comparators. This disparity is known as the oral size illusion. The hypothesis that this illusion arises from the greater pliability of the tongue surface compared with that of the fingertip was tested here. Two experiments were carried out on 64 participants. In experiment 1 (n=32), the stimuli were two sets of holes, 1 and 5 mm deep and 2.4, 5.6, 8.2, 12 mm dia. , which were presented to the tongue. The comparator was a series of holes 5 mm deep and 0.8-15 mm dia., which were explored manually. Participants significantly overestimated all diameters of the 1- and 5-mm deep stimulus holes (p&lt;0.05). Apart from the 2.4-mm dia. holes, there were no significant differences between the illusions produced with the holes 1 mm and 5 mm deep (p0.7). In experiment 2 (n=32) individuals were tested with small cylinders ('pegs') 1 mm high and 2.6, 5.2. 7.6, 12.6 mm dia. and also with the four 5-mm deep stimulus holes used in experiment 1. The 'peg' stimuli presented to the tongue were matched against a similar set of 1-mm pegs, 2-18 mm dia., explored with the fingers. The comparator series for the 5-mm deep holes was the same as for experiment 1. Participants consistently overestimated the size of the 5-mm holes (p&lt;0.001). However, there was no illusion with the peg stimuli (p=0.08), except for the 7.6-mm dia. stimulus (p&lt;0.05). The results of experiment 1 did not support the experimental hypothesis that the oral size illusion was due to the greater pliability of the tongue surface. The result of experiment 2 suggests that the oral size illusion does not occur when peg stimuli are used instead of holes. The form and diameter of the stimulus is thus important in determining the magnitude of the oral size illusion.
Pavlovian fear conditioning procedures have been a fruitful means of exploring the neural substrates of associative learning. There is now substantial evidence suggesting that many aspects of conditioned fear depend critically upon the integrity of the amygdala and the perirhinal cortex. Recent studies in our laboratory examining the contributions of these areas to olfactory and contextual fear conditioning are reviewed; collectively the results of these studies suggest that the amygdala participates critically in the acquisition and expression of fear conditioned to both an olfactory conditioned stimulus (CS) and to the training context, while the perirhinal cortex contributes to olfactory, but not contextual, fear conditioning. Moreover, it appears that perirhinal cortex may play a prominent role in recognition of the CS following conditioning. These results are discussed in light of the extent to which they replicate and extend previous research examining the contributions of these areas to fear conditioned to auditory and visual CSs.
Several theories of hippocampal function have suggested a role for the hippocampus in contextual memory retrieval. However, these theories are based on studies using permanent pretraining lesions, which confound the role of the hippocampus in learning with its role in retrieval. We argue that an alternative methodology is required to assess the role of the hippocampus in memory retrieval processes. This alternative methodology involves temporary inactivation of the hippocampus in Pavlovian paradigms that lend themselves to an examination of retrieval. An example of this approach is considered in a Pavlovian fear-conditioning paradigm. We examined the influence of hippocampal inactivation on the context-specific expression of latent inhibition, a response decrement displayed when excitatory conditioning is preceded by non-reinforced presentations of a to-be-conditioned stimulus. Reversible inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus prior to retrieval testing eliminated the context-specific expression of latent inhibition. The nature of the hippocampal role in retrieval processes is discussed in the light of these data.
Though once of central importance to psychologists and neurophysiologists alike, the elucidation of neural substrates for individual differences in learning no longer attracts a broad research effort and occupies a place of largely historical interest to the contemporary disciplines. The decline in interest in this subject ensued in part from the perception, arrived at decades ago, that individual differences in learning were not quantified as easily as had once been presumed. Furthermore, the dominant hypotheses in the field defied testing within the constraints imposed by the complex and largely inaccessible vertebrate nervous system. Using a 'model systems' approach where the individual cells and synaptic interactions that comprise a neural network can be identified, we have returned to this question and have established a framework by which we can begin to discern the basis for much of the variability between individuals in their capacity to learn. In the marine mollusc Hermissenda, we have found that a common influence on transmitter exocytosis is expressed homogeneously throughout the nervous system regardless of transmitter system or receptor class. Though uniformly expressed within an individual, this influence on synaptic efficacy is differentially expressed between animals. Importantly, the basal efficiency of exocytosis expressed in an individual nervous system is strongly correlated with the degree to which activity-dependent forms of neuronal/synaptic facilitation can be induced in that nervous system, and predicts the capacity for the intact animal to learn a Pavlovian association. Furthermore, we have established that a decline in basal synaptic efficacy in aged animals, arising from chronic presynaptic Ca(2+) 'leak', may contribute to age-related learning impairments. Because certain fundamental components of the exocytotic cascade are conserved widely across cell types, transmitter systems and species, the principles that we describe may have broad implications for understanding normal variability in learning, but also, in the development of specific strategies to compensate for mild learning deficits and age-related cognitive decline.
Exposure to stressful experiences as well as sex differences in the brain are known to influence the acquisition of new memories. This review focuses on acquisition of two types of Pavlovian learning paradigms: hippocampal-independent delay conditioning and hippocampal-dependent trace conditioning and their modulation by exposure to stressful experience and sex differences in the brain. We concentrate on two sets of findings: the first is that exposure to an acute stressful experience enhances Pavlovian conditioning in the male rat, while exposure to the very same experience dramatically impairs conditioning in female rat. The sexually-opposed effects of stress on conditioning are mediated by differing hormonal substrates (adrenal versus ovarian steroids) and possibly by differing anatomical and biochemical pathways. The second set of findings is that training with hippocampal-dependent trace conditioning enhances the survival of newly generated neurons in the adult hippocampal formation. The same amount of training with hippocampal-independent delay conditioning does not affect their survival. In addition, females acquire the trace task faster than males and generate more new neurons. As with the stress effects on learning, these sex effects are influenced by hormonal status. It is our contention that identifying the hormonal and neuronal processes that modulate associative memory formation will provide insight into the processes of memory formation itself.
In 1942, Brogden and Gantt reported that electrical stimulation of cerebellar white matter elicited specific behavioral responses (limb flexion, eyeblink, etc.) and that these movements so elicited could easily be conditioned to a neural tone CS, using standard Pavlovian procedures. This early evidence for the key role of the cerebellum in learning of discrete movements has in recent years been replicated and much extended. It is now clear that the cerebellum is the essential structure for associative learning of discrete movements elicited by peripheral aversive or intracerebellar stimuli and that the memory traces so formed are stored in the cerebellum.
To determine whether ovariectomy exacerbates age-related cognitive decline, the performance of 6 aged monkeys that had been ovariectomized early in life (OVX-Aged) was compared to that of 8 age-matched controls with intact ovaries (INT-Aged) and that of 5 young controls with intact ovaries (INT-Young) in tasks of visual recognition memory, object and spatial memory, and executive function. The OVX-Aged monkeys were marginally more impaired than the INT-Aged monkeys on the delayed nonmatching-to-sample with a 600-s delay. In contrast, they performed significantly better than the INT-Aged controls on the spatial condition of the delayed recognition span test. The hypothesis that prolonged estrogenic deprivation may exaggerate the age-related decline in visual recognition memory will require additional support. However, the findings suggest that long-term ovariectomy may protect against the development with aging of spatial memory deficits.
Inhibitory effects of various purinergic compounds on the Mg(2+)-dependent enzymatic hydrolysis of [(3)H]ATP in rat liver plasma membranes were evaluated. Rat liver enzyme ecto-ATPase has a broad nucleotide-hydrolyzing activity, displays Michaelis-Menten kinetics with K(m) for ATP of 368+/-56 microM and is not sensitive to classical inhibitors of the ion-exchange and intracellular ATPases. P2-antagonists and diadenosine tetraphosphate (Ap(4)A) progressively and non-competitively inhibited ecto-ATPase activity with the following rank order of inhibitory potency: suramin (pIC(50), 4.570)&gt;Reactive blue 2 (4.297)&amp;z.Gt;Ap(4)A (3. 268)&gt;pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS) (2. 930). Slowly hydrolyzable P2 agonists ATPgammaS, ADPbetaS, alpha, beta-methylene ATP and beta,gamma-methylene ATP as well as the diadenosine polyphosphates Ap(3)A and Ap(5)A did not exert any inhibitory effects on the enzyme activity at concentration ranges of 10(-4)-10(-3) M. Thin-layer chromatography analysis of the formation of [(3)H]ATP metabolites indicated the presence of other enzyme activities on liver surface (ecto-ADPase and 5'-nucleotidase), participating in concert with ecto-ATPase in the nucleotide hydrolysis through the stepwise reactions ATP--&gt;ADP--&gt;AMP--&gt;adenosine. A similar pattern of sequential [(3)H]ATP dephosphorylation still occurs in the presence of ecto-ATPase inhibitors suramin, Ap(4)A and PPADS, but the appearance of the ultimate reaction product, adenosine, was significantly delayed. In contrast, hydrolysis of [(3)H]ATP in the presence of Reactive blue 2 only followed the pattern ATP--&gt;ADP, with formation of the subsequent metabolites AMP and adenosine being virtually eliminated. These data suggest that although nucleotide-binding sites of ecto-ATPase are distinct from those of P2 receptors, some purinergic agonists and antagonists can potentiate cellular responses to extracellular ATP through non-specific inhibition of the ensuing pathways of purine catabolism.
Cortical circuits have been proposed to encode information by forming stable spatially structured attractors. Experimentally in the primary somatosensory cortex of the monkey, temporally invariant stimuli lead to spatially structured activity patterns. The purpose of this work is to study a recurrent cortical neural network model with lateral inhibition and examine what effect additive random noise has on the networks' ability to form stable spatially structured representations of the stimulus pattern. We show numerically that this network performs edge enhancement and forms statistically stationary, spatially structured responses when the lateral inhibition is of moderate strength. We then derive analytical conditions on the connectivity matrix that ensure stochasticly stable encoding of the stimulus spatial structure by the network. For stimuli whose strength falls in the near linear region of the sigmoid, we are able to give explicit conditions on the eigenvalues of the connection matrix. Finally, we prove that a network with a connection matrix, where the total excitation and inhibition impinging upon a neural unit are nearly balanced, will yield stable spatial attractor responses.
Mutations in segment IVS6 of voltage-gated Na(+) channels affect fast-inactivation, slow-inactivation, local anesthetic action, and batrachotoxin (BTX) action. To detect conformational changes associated with these processes, we substituted a cysteine for a valine at position 1583 in the rat adult skeletal muscle sodium channel alpha-subunit, and examined the accessibility of the substituted cysteine to modification by 2-aminoethyl methanethiosulfonate (MTS-EA) in excised macropatches. MTS-EA causes an irreversible reduction in the peak current when applied both internally and externally, with a reaction rate that is strongly voltage-dependent. The rate increased when exposures to MTS-EA occurred during brief conditioning pulses to progressively more depolarized voltages, but decreased when exposures occurred at the end of prolonged depolarizations, revealing two conformational changes near site 1583, one coupled to fast inactivation, and one tightly associated with slow inactivation. Tetraethylammonium, a pore blocker, did not affect the reaction rate from either direction, while BTX, a lipophilic activator of sodium channels, completely prevented the modification reaction from occurring from either direction. We conclude that there are two inactivation-associated conformational changes in the vicinity of site 1583, that the reactive site most likely faces away from the pore, and that site 1583 comprises part of the BTX receptor.
Cooperativity of molecular adhesion has been proposed as a mechanism for enhanced binding strength of adhesion molecules on the cell surface. Direct evidence for its mechanism, however, has been lacking until now. Atomic force microscopy (AFM) was used to measure the adhesive strength between concanavalin A (Con A) coupled to an AFM tip and Con A receptors on the surface of NIH3T3 fibroblast cells. Cross-linking of receptors with either glutaraldehyde or 3, 3'-dithio-bis(sulfosuccinimidylproprionate) (DTSSP) led to an increase in adhesion that could be attributed to enhanced cooperativity among adhesion complexes. An increase in loading rate due to greater stiffness of fixed cells also contributed to the twofold increase in binding strength. These results show that receptor cross-linking can greatly contribute to a total increase in cell adhesion by creating a shift toward cooperative binding of receptors.
It has long been assumed that one important mechanism for the dissipation of local potassium gradients in the brain extracellular space is the so-called spatial buffer, generally associated with glial cells. To date, however, there has been no analytical description of the characteristic patterns of K(+) clearance mediated by such a mechanism. This study reanalyzed a mathematical model of Gardner-Medwin (1983, J. Physiol. (Lond.). 335:393-426) that had previously been solved numerically. Under suitable approximations, the transient solutions for the potassium concentrations and the corresponding membrane potentials of glial cells in a finite, parallel domain were derived. The analytic results were substantiated by numerical simulations of a detailed two-compartment model. This simulation explored the dependence of spatial buffer current and extracellular K(+) on the distribution of inward rectifier K(+) channels in the glial endfoot and nonendfoot membranes, the glial geometric length, and the effect of passive KCl uptake. Regarding the glial cells as an equivalent leaky cable, the analyses indicated that a maximum endfoot current occurs when the glial geometric length is equal to the corresponding electrotonic space constant. Consequently, a long glial process is unsuitable for spatial buffering, unless the axial space constant can match the length of the process. Finally, this study discussed whether the spatial buffer mechanism is able to efficiently transport K(+) over distances of more than several glial space constants.
Intraparenchymal pericatheter cyst is rarely reported. Obstruction in the ventriculoperitoneal shunt leads to recurrence of hydrocephalus, signs of raised intracranial pressure and possibly secondary complications. Blockage of the distal catheter can result, unusually, in cerebrospinal fluid oedema and/or intraparenchymal cyst around the ventricular catheter which may produce focal neurological deficit. We report two cases of distal catheter obstruction with formation of cysts causing local mass effect and neurological deficit. Both patients had their shunt system replaced, which led to resolution of the cyst and clinical improvement. One patient had endoscopic exploration of the cyst which confirmed the diagnosis made on imaging studies. Magnetic resonance imaging was more helpful than computed tomography in differentiating between oedema and collection of cystic fluid. Early recognition and treatment of pericatheter cyst in the presence of distal shunt obstruction can lead to complete resolution of symptoms and signs.
Neurocysticercosis is a major cause of epilepsy and other neurological morbidity in endemic areas of the world but is exceptionally rare in the West. We have recently had experience of eight patients with this condition, seven presenting with epilepsy and single or multiple small, enhancing parenchymal lesions and one with hydrocephalus caused by a midbrain lesion. One lesion was stereotactically excised after it persisted, but in five other cases spontaneous cyst resolution was observed during expectant management with anticonvulsants. Two patients with multiple lesions were referred to us for further management but were free of active infection. Recent studies show that neurocysticercosis may often be diagnosed based upon the clinical, epidemiological and radiological features. Spontaneous cyst resolution is to be expected in this condition and suspected patients should be carefully observed and surgery avoided. We believe that this disease presents more commonly than has been appreciated in the UK and propose a protocol for management.
The vanilloid receptor (VR1) is a ligand-gated ion channel, which plays an important role in nociceptive processing. Therefore, a pharmacological characterization of the recently cloned rat VR1 (rVR1) was undertaken. HEK293 cells stable expressing rVR1 (rVR1-HEK293) were loaded with Fluo-3AM and then incubated at 25 degrees C for 30 min with or without various antagonists or signal transduction modifying agents. Then intracellular calcium concentrations ([Ca(2+)](i)) were monitored using FLIPR, before and after the addition of various agonists. The rank order of potency of agonists (resiniferatoxin (RTX)&gt;capsaicin&gt;olvanil&gt;PPAHV) was as expected, and all were full agonists. The potencies of capsaicin and olvanil, but not RTX or PPAHV, were enhanced at pH 6.4 (pEC(50) values of 7.47+/-0.06, 7.16+/-0.06, 8.19+/-0.06 and 6.02+/-0.03 respectively at pH 7.4 vs 7.71+/-0.05, 7.58+/-0.14, 8.10+/-0.05 and 6.04+/-0.08 at pH 6.4). Capsazepine, isovelleral and ruthenium red all inhibited the capsaicin (100 nM)-induced Ca(2+) response in rVR1-HEK293 cells, with pK(B) values of 7.52+/-0.08, 6.92+/-0.11 and 8.09+/-0.12 respectively (n=6 each). The response to RTX and olvanil were also inhibited by these compounds. None displayed any agonist-like activity. The removal of extracellular Ca(2+) abolished, whilst inhibition of protein kinase C with chelerythrine chloride (10 microM) partially (approximately 20%) inhibited, the capsaicin (10 microM)-induced Ca(2+) response. However, tetrodotoxin (3 microM), nimodipine (10 microM), omega-GVIA conotoxin (1 microM), thapsigargin (1 microM), U73122 (3 microM) or H-89 (3 microM) had no effect on the capsaicin (100 nM)-induced response. In conclusion, the recombinant rVR1 stably expressed in HEK293 cells acts as a ligand-gated Ca(2+) channel with the appropriate agonist and antagonist pharmacology, and therefore is a suitable model for studying the effects of drugs at this receptor.
Using in vivo microdialysis in the frontal cortex of the freely moving rat we evaluated the effects of chronic treatment with the serotonin specific reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine in the presence and absence of the 5-HT(1A)/beta-adrenergic antagonist (+/-)pindolol. Chronic vehicle treated animals produced no significant response to a challenge with fluoxetine (10 mg kg(-1)) on day 8 and 15. Alternatively, a significant (P&lt;0.05) decrease in extracellular 5-HT was observed in control animals upon challenge with the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT; 0.03 and 0.1 mg kg(-1)). Conversely, animals treated with fluoxetine (10 mg kg(-1) o.d.) for 7 and 14 days produced a significant (P&lt;0.05) 2 fold increase in extracellular 5-HT when challenged with fluoxetine (10 mg kg(-1)) on day 8 and 15. Moreover, no significant decrease in extracellular 5-HT was observed upon challenge with either dose of 8-OH-DPAT. Animals chronically treated with (+/-)pindolol (10 or 20 mg kg(-1) b.i.d.) produced a significant dose-related increase in extracellular 5-HT upon challenge with fluoxetine on day 15 only. Furthermore, both doses produced a significantly blunted response to the low dose challenge of 8-OH-DPAT (0.03 mg kg(-1)). In addition, 20 mg kg(-1) (+/-)pindolol treated animals also had no response to the higher 0.1 mg kg(-1) dose of 8-OH-DPAT. Animals treated for 14 days with a combination of (+/-)pindolol (10 or 20 mg kg(-1)) and fluoxetine were not significantly different from vehicle treated animals when challenged with fluoxetine or 8-OH-DPAT. Taken together it would therefore appear that although (+/-)pindolol alone has sufficient intrinsic activity to produce a desensitization of the 5-HT(1A) receptor, when given in combination with fluoxetine it is able to prevent the desensitization induced by not only fluoxetine but also itself. This may suggest that the clinical augmentation of antidepressant action by pindolol, when co-administered with a SSRI, is via antagonism of the 5-HT(1A) receptor.
5-HT(4) receptor antagonism prevents the ability of exogenous 5-HT or 5-HTP to sensitize the intestinal peristaltic reflex and increase the rate of defecation, generally without affecting non-stimulated intestinal function. In this study we confirmed the ability of the selective 5-HT(4) receptor antagonist SB-207266 1 - 1000 microg kg(-1) p.o., to prevent the increase in defecation evoked over a 60 min period by 5-HTP 10 mg kg(-1) s.c. in conscious mice, in the absence of an apparent constipating action. The role of endogenous 5-HT in the mechanisms of increased defecation and/or diarrhoea was then investigated in conscious, fed rats. This was evoked by 180 min exposure to restraint stress, which increased both the number and mean weight of formed, faecal pellets excreted over the entire time period. SB-207266 1 - 1000 microg kg(-1) p.o. (dosed 30 min before restraint) did not affect the increase in defecation evoked during the first 60 min of restraint stress, but significantly and dose-dependently reduced or prevented the increased defecation during the remaining 120 min of the experiment; this action occurred in the absence of an apparent constipating action of SB-207266. In fasted rats exposed to restraint stress, watery diarrhoea developed and although there was a tendency for SB-207266 1 - 1000 microg kg(-1) p.o. (dosed 30 min before restraint) to reduce the incidence of diarrhoea, this inhibition was not complete. We conclude that selective 5-HT(4) receptor antagonism prevents disruptions in defecation behaviours caused by exogenous or endogenous enteric 5-HT and that this activity is not accompanied by a concomitant suppression of activity (constipation-like) within the intestine itself.
This study examined the ability of basal nitric oxide activity to suppress intrinsic and vasoconstrictor tone in isolated rings of porcine cerebral artery. Following stretch of approximately 1 g, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 100 microM) produced a rise in tone in endothelium-containing but not endothelium-denuded rings. Thus, intrinsic tone was present and was powerfully suppressed by basal nitric oxide activity. Nevertheless, when concentration-response curves were constructed to U46619 and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), no endothelium-dependent depression of vasoconstriction was observed. It therefore appeared that basal nitric oxide activity was able to suppress intrinsic but not vasoconstrictor tone in these vessels. Stretch-tension curves generated following the application of stretch over the range 0 - 5. 5 g on endothelium-denuded rings showed that tension was stretch-induced. Experiments conducted in the presence of L-NAME (100 microM) revealed that the level of tone present in endothelium-containing rings was substantially higher than in endothelium-denuded rings across the entire range of stretch. When endothelium-containing and endothelium-denuded rings were set at similar levels of stretch-induced tone, rather than similar levels of stretch, the presence of the endothelium now depressed significantly vasoconstrictor responses to U46619 and 5-HT. Thus, when endothelium-containing and endothelium-denuded rings of porcine cerebral artery are set at similar points along their respective stretch-tension curves, rather than at similar levels of stretch, basal nitric oxide activity can be seen to inhibit both stretch-induced and vasoconstrictor tone.
The novel 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist, SB-269970-A, potently displaced [(3)H]-5-CT from human 5-HT(7(a)) (pK(i) 8.9+/-0.1) and 5-HT(7) receptors in guinea-pig cortex (pK(i) 8.3+/-0.2). 5-CT stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in 5-HT(7(a))/HEK293 membranes (pEC(50) 7.5+/-0.1) and SB-269970-A (0.03 - 1 microM) inhibited the 5-CT concentration-response with no significant alteration in the maximal response. The pA(2) (8.5+/-0.2) for SB-269970-A agreed well with the pK(i) determined from [(3)H]-5-CT binding studies. 5-CT-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in guinea-pig hippocampal membranes (pEC(50) of 8.4+/-0.2) was inhibited by SB-269970-A (0.3 microM) with a pK(B) (8.3+/-0.1) in good agreement with its antagonist potency at the human cloned 5-HT(7(a)) receptor and its binding affinity at guinea-pig cortical membranes. 5-HT(7) receptor mRNA was highly expressed in human hypothalamus, amygdala, thalamus, hippocampus and testis. SB-269970-A was CNS penetrant (steady-state brain : blood ratio of ca. 0.83 : 1 in rats) but was rapidly cleared from the blood (CLb=ca. 140 ml min(-1) kg(-1)). Following a single dose (3 mg kg(-1)) SB-269970 was detectable in rat brain at 30 (87 nM) and 60 min (58 nM). In guinea-pigs, brain levels averaged 31 and 51 nM respectively at 30 and 60 min after dosing, although the compound was undetectable in one of the three animals tested. 5-CT (0.3 mg kg(-1) i.p.) induced hypothermia in guinea-pigs was blocked by SB-269970-A (ED(50) 2.96 mg kg(-1) i.p.) and the non-selective 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist metergoline (0.3 - 3 mg kg(-1) s.c.), suggesting a role for 5-HT(7) receptor stimulation in 5-CT induced hypothermia in guinea-pigs. SB-269970-A (30 mg kg(-1)) administered at the start of the sleep period, significantly reduced time spent in Paradoxical Sleep (PS) during the first 3 h of EEG recording in conscious rats.
Despite the considerable interest in the possibility that ATP may function as a peripheral pain mediator, there has been little quantitative study of the pain-producing effects of ATP in humans. Here we have used iontophoresis to deliver ATP to the forearm skin of volunteers who rated the magnitude of the evoked pain on a visual analogue scale. ATP consistently produced a modest burning pain, which began within 20 s of starting iontophoresis and was maintained for several minutes. Persistent iontophoresis of ATP led to desensitization within 12 min but recovery from this was almost complete 1 h later. Different doses of ATP were delivered using different iontophoretic driving currents. Iontophoresis of ATP produced a higher pain rating than saline, indicating that the pain was specifically caused by ATP. The average pain rating for ATP, but not saline, increased with increasing current. Using an 0.8 mA current, subjects reported pain averaging 27.7 +/- 2.8 (maximum possible = 100). Iontophoresis of ATP caused an increase in blood flow, as assessed using a laser Doppler flow meter. The increase in blood flow was significantly greater using ATP than saline in both the iontophoresed skin (P &lt; 0.01) and in the surrounding skin, 3 mm outside the iontophoresed area (P &lt; 0.05). The pain produced by ATP was dependent on capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons, since in skin treated repeatedly with topical capsaicin pain was reduced to less than 25% of that elicited on normal skin (2.1 +/- 0.4 compared with 9.3 +/- 1.5 on normal skin). Conversely, the pain-producing effects of ATP were greatly potentiated in several models of hyperalgesia. Thus, with acute capsaicin treatment when subjects exhibited touch-evoked hyperalgesia but no ongoing pain, there was a threefold increase in the average pain rating during ATP iontophoresis (22.7 +/- 3.1) compared with pre-capsaicin treatment (7.8 +/- 2.6). Moreover, ATP iontophoresed into skin 24 h after solar simulated radiation (2 x minimal erythymic dose) resulted in double the pain rating of normal skin, increasing from 15.3 +/- 4.1 to 32.7 +/- 4.1. The pain response to saline was not significantly altered after UV irradiation at any time-point studied. We conclude that ATP produces pain by activating capsaicin-sensitive nociceptive afferents when applied to skin. The possibility that ATP activates nociceptors indirectly via its degradation products cannot be ruled out. The effects of ATP are dose-dependent and responses desensitize only slowly. In inflammatory conditions, ATP may be a potent activator of nociceptors and an endogenous mediator of pain.
In this study, we report a patient (J.S.) who, following trauma to the right frontal region, including the orbitofrontal cortex, presented with 'acquired sociopathy'. His behaviour was notably aberrant and marked by high levels of aggression and a callous disregard for others. A series of experimental investigations were conducted to address the cognitive dysfunction that might underpin his profoundly aberrant behaviour. His performance was contrasted with that of a second patient (C.L.A.), who also presented with a grave dysexecutive syndrome but no socially aberrant behaviour, and five inmates of Wormwood Scrubs prison with developmental psychopathy. While J.S. showed no reversal learning impairment, he presented with severe difficulty in emotional expression recognition, autonomic responding and social cognition. Unlike the comparison populations, J.S. showed impairment in: the recognition of, and autonomic responding to, angry and disgusted expressions; attributing the emotions of fear, anger and embarrassment to story protagonists; and the identification of violations of social behaviour. The findings are discussed with reference to models regarding the role of the orbitofrontal cortex in the control of aggression. It is suggested that J.S.'s impairment is due to a reduced ability to generate expectations of others' negative emotional reactions, in particular anger. In healthy individuals, these representations act to suppress behaviour that is inappropriate in specific social contexts. Moreover, it is proposed that the orbitofrontal cortex may be implicated specifically either in the generation of these expectations or the use of these expectations to suppress inappropriate behaviour.
The neocortex is composed of areas that are functionally, anatomically and histochemically distinct. In comparison to most other mammals, humans have an expanded neocortex, with a pronounced increase in the number of cortical areas. This expansion underlies many complex behaviors associated with human capabilities including perception, cognition, language and volitional motor responses. In the following review we consider data from comparative studies as well as from developmental studies to gain insight into the mechanisms involved in arealization, and discuss how these mechanisms may have been modified in different lineages over time to produce the remarkable degree of organizational variability observed in the neocortex of mammals. Because any phenotype is a result of the complex interactions between genotypic influences and environmental factors, we also consider environmental, or epigenetic, contributions to the organization of the neocortex.
Cortical neuroscience is founded on studies of a very few model organisms, mainly rats, cats, and macaque monkeys. The concentration of effort on such a few species would be defensible if cortical organization were basically uniform across mammals, as is commonly believed. Although there is little reason to doubt that some features of cortical organization are indeed widespread among mammals, phyletic variation in cortical organization is far more extensive than has generally been appreciated or acknowledged. Rats, for example, differ from other mammals in the genetics and chemistry of their cortical neurons, in connectivity and areal organization, and in the functions of specific cortical regions. Likewise, macaque monkeys, although widely used as models of the human visual system, lack a number of features found in human visual cortex. Given the variability of cortical organization, how should neuroscientists approach the study of nonhuman species, and what can we reasonably expect to learn from them? First, by examining a wider range of species than are currently employed, and by using modern techniques of phyletic analysis, neuroscientists can more rigorously identify those features of cortical organization that are, in fact, widely shared among mammals or among particular mammalian subgroups. Second, by taking account of variations, neuroscientists can abstract more reliable and general principles of structure-function relationships in the nervous system. Finally, freed from the doctrine of basic uniformity, neuroscientists can pursue the study of human cortical specializations, and so advance our understanding of what distinguishes humans as a biological species.
The nineteenth century witnessed many advances in neuroscientific concepts. Among the notable are Charles Bell's (1774-1842) and Franois Magendie's (1783-1855) identification of sensory and motor pathways, Thomas Henry Huxley's (1825-1895) elaboration of evolutionary theory in the context of comparative neuroanatomy, and Emile Du Bois-Reymond's (1818-1896) and Hermann von Helmholtz's (1821-1894) work in experimental neurophysiology and on the concept of nervous energy. In Germany, the idea that the nervous system consisted of two elements, one that generated nervous energy and another that conducted it throughout the body, had wide currency in mid-nineteenth century. In France, Pierre Jean Georges Cabanis (1757-1808), physician, philosopher, and one of the founders of modern psychophysiology, argued that the brain is the part of the body in which electricity is stored. In his Rapports du Physique et du Moral de l'Homme, published between 1796 and 1802 (translated into German under the title Verhltnis der Seele zum Krper (1808)), Cabanis proposed new ideas on brain function, on the brain's own sensibility, on the concept of will, and on the chemical basis of nervous activity. In the Rapports Cabanis proposed a theory of how brain and nerves relate to thought and behavior. Foreshadowing later developments in neuropsychology, he suggested that different parts of the nervous system have separate functions. Despite the fact that Cabanis had many interesting ideas about brain function, he has been largely ignored by historians of neuroscience; e. g., he is mentioned briefly in Clark and Jacyna (1989), in only two footnotes in Neuburger (1897/1981), and not at all in Finger (1994). Cabanis's far-reaching theory of how the brain works helped shape understanding of the general notion of nervous energy in nineteenth-century European neuroscience.
A longitudinal study was conducted to document and compare evolution of children with linguistic acquisition impairment. To determine whether development of the analytic mechanisms underlying linguistic processing occured in similar fashion, two children with mixed developmental dysphasia were assessed from 4 to 5:6 years of age with psycholinguistic tests at 6-months interval. Spontaneous speech and language production (consonant repertory in initial word position, MLU, and lexical diversity) were investigated in a standardized symbolic play context. The phonologic and lexico-morphologic evolution analyses revealed a marked improvement in motor control of phonology and in the application of morphosyntaxic rules in child 1, whereas child 2 was still impaired in phonology and morphosyntax. The singular developmental changes in spontaneous speech results indicate dynamic relationships between various language production facets and variability in the kind of deficit and lexical automation presented by these children. These contrasts in the evolution of language production profiles between child 1 and child 2 also underline the importance of longitudinal studies in the analysis of the atypical linguistic processing paths used by children with developmental dysphasia.
A longitudinal study of a left hemispherectomized boy (AB) was conducted to document linguistic evolution and maturation and determine the extent to which right hemisphere processes allow development of language. Resection of the left hemisphere occurred at age 5 years 6 months, following intractable epilepsy. Tests of language comprehension (pointing, understanding of prepositions, understanding of narratives) and production (naming, repetition, lexical diversity, grammatical production) were administered at ages 6:2, 6:4, 6:6, and 6 years 9 months. Observations showed little progress, if any, in most aspects of linguistic performance. In contrast to studies with left-hemispherectomized children, AB showed only a modest expansion of the semantic lexicon and the phonological repertoire more than a year after the surgical intervention. These observations indirectly suggest (1) poor functional involvement of the right hemisphere in the development of adequate linguistic abilities, (2) the necessary integrity of the LH for adequate development of language, or (3) that variations in individual brain maturation rates may account for AB's linguistic progress.
An event-related potential termed the N4 has been widely studied due to its sensitivity to semantic incongruity. A recent report (Nobre &amp; McCarthy, 1994) indicates there is also an N3 component that is sensitive to semantic incongruity. To differentiate these two components, an existing data set with 65 electrode sites, 78 subjects, and 120 sentences was examined. Instead of the usual procedure of averaging over the stimuli within distinct categories for each subject, a new approach--averaging over subjects--was employed. In this item average approach, 120 averages (one per sentence) were produced. Correlational analyses indicate that the N3 is equally sensitive to cloze probability and sentential constraint. The N4, by contrast, is more sensitive to sentential constraint and less to cloze probability; it is also correlated with familiarity. We interpret these results as evidence that the N3 is more responsive to semantic fit whereas the N4 is more responsive to semantic expectancy.
Spasmophilia is a relatively unknown condition characterized by perturbations of the neuromuscular system. We hypothesized that spasmophilia may negatively affect neuromotor functions in subtle ways. Three tests including tremor, rapid pointing movements, and alternating movements were quantified in a group of subjects with spasmophilia symptoms (SS) (n = 10) and a healthy control group (n = 10). Most of the characteristics used to evaluate motor functions in these three tests revealed no significant differences between the two groups except for two characteristics in alternating movements and two characteristics in rapid pointing movements. In terms of variances, a dissociation between voluntary movements and involuntary movements was observed for the two groups. Control subjects had significantly higher variances in involuntary movements such as tremor, while subjects with SS had significantly higher variances in voluntary movements such as alternating and rapid pointing movements. A significant increase in asymmetry in hand laterality was also noted for some characteristics in subjects with SS.
The evolution of hemispheric specialization of function has obvious benefits in terms of overall processing capacity, but it may also have associated costs to each hemisphere in isolation. These costs are not apparent in an intact brain since information can be readily transferred between the hemispheres via the cortical commissures. We suggest that the evolution of language in the left hemisphere may have occurred at the expense of some visuospatial functions. Because the right hemisphere was still capable of performing those functions, the relative left-hemisphere impairment for visuospatial processing would be invisible. If the cortical commissures are severed, as in callosotomy patients, the costs of specialization may become more apparent. We report data supporting the idea that the left hemisphere may have lost visuospatial abilities that it once possessed, and suggest that this process may also result in right hemisphere deficits in abilities related to linguistic processing.
Five patients with a diagnosis of Herpes Simplex Virus Encephalitis (HSVE) underwent neuropsychological assessment to explore the integrity of their visual perceptual abilities. Selective deficits affecting different levels of the recognition processing were found; impaired recognition abilities were also influenced by selective task requirements, which resulted either in facilitatory or constraining effects on patients' performance. A theoretical model of object recognition (Humphreys &amp; Riddoch, 1987) was taken into account to explain patients' performance. Further, the role of specific components of visual processing was evidenced in explaining the performance of patients affected by HSVE.
Eye movements, alternating movements, rapid pointing movements, and various tremors were measured on patients with Parkinson's disease (n = 21), on Cree subjects exposed to methylmercury (n = 36), and on healthy control subjects (n = 30). Neuromotor profiles were created according to thirty characteristics extracted from test results of four subgroups matched for age and composed of six subjects each. Z scores were calculated with respect to the mean and standard deviation of the control group for each of the 30 characteristics. The subgroup with the lower methylmercury blood level had larger z scores than the control subgroup and with a few positive values above one standard deviation. The subgroup with the higher methylmercury blood level had several z scores above two standard deviations. Interestingly, the abnormal values for the subgroup with Parkinson's disease were mostly limited to static tremor recorded with no visual feedback and reached up to 5 standard deviations. These results indicate that neuromotor profiles can be used to summarize information extracted from different neuromotor tests and to differentiate neurological conditions.
Deficits in procedural learning remain a controversial issue in schizophrenia. This may be related to the nature of the neuroleptic treatment of schizophrenic patients as conventional neuroleptics may be more deleterious than new atypical neuroleptics. However, there is no comparative study on the effect of specific neuroleptics on procedural learning. In this study, three groups of patients treated with different neuroleptics were compared to normal controls on two procedural learning tasks. In a visuo-motor task, patients and controls showed similar learning rates, although schizophrenic patients showed generally lower performances than normal controls. However, patients treated with a conventional neuroleptic, but not those treated with the atypical neuroleptics, showed many fluctuations during the initial learning phase. In a problem-solving task, all groups were comparable in performance and learning fluctuations, but learning rates were lower in patients treated with the neuroleptic showing the higher incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms. This suggests that procedural learning abilities may be significantly affected by neuroleptics in schizophrenia, although the effect may differ between tasks and the specific neuroleptics. Fluctuations in the initial learning phase of the visuo-motor task probably results from a frontal dysfunction while reduced learning rates, such as those observed in the problem solving task, may be attributed to a striatal dysfunction. This is concordant with the differential pharmacological actions of the conventional and atypical neuroleptics in these two cerebral areas.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a prevalent cause of cognitive impairments and dysfunctions and affects over 2 million individuals each year. Mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) is generally defined by a brief loss of consciousness, and post-traumatic amnesia that lasts for less than 24 hours. One region of the brain that is likely affected in patients with MTBI is the pre-frontal cortex. This region mediates several functions, including those required for adequate attention. Three individuals, diagnosed with MTBI and difficulties with attention, volunteered to participate in the study. Individuals were presented with 10 weeks of cognitive retraining with the Attention Process Training-II (APT-II) programme, followed by 6 or 7 weeks of educational and applicational programmes. Cognitive tests were administered both pre- and post-training to assess the effectiveness of the programme. Analysis of the results showed that the APT-II programme improved attention and performance speed in each of the three individuals. In addition, any rehabilitated cognitive skills remained stable in each individual in the absence of the rehabilitation programme for at least 6 weeks.
In order to account for the memory span [G.A. Miller, The magical number seven, plus minus two: some limits on our capacity for processing information, Psychol. Rev. 63 (1956) 81-97.], the magical number seven, plus minus two, and high-speed scanning in human memory S. Sternberg, High speed scanning in human memory, Science 153 (1966) 652-654., Lisman and collaborators [O. Jensen, J.E. Lisman, An oscillatory short-term memory buffer model can account for data on the Sternberg task, J. Neurosci. 18 (1998) 10688-10699; J.E. Lisman, M.A.P. Idiart, Storage of 7+/-2 short-term memories in oscillatory subcycles, Science 267 (1995), 1512-1515.] proposed an oscillatory short-term memory buffer model. In this neurophysiological model: &quot;a single brain network can separately maintain up to seven memories by a multiplexing mechanism that uses theta and gamma brain oscillations for clocking. A memory is represented by groups of neurons that fire in the same gamma cycle&quot; O. Jensen, J.E. Lisman, An oscillatory short-term memory buffer model can account for data on the Sternberg task, J. Neurosci. 18 (1998) 10688-10699, p. 10688. To test this model, we tried to modify the memory scanning time by shifting the gamma oscillation frequency. To this aim, we replicated the visual short-term memory scanning task S. Sternberg, High speed scanning in human memory, Science 153 (1966) 652-654., and we simultaneously used the protocol that Treisman M. Treisman, A. Faulkner, P.L.N. Naish, D. Brogan, The internal clock: evidence for a temporal oscillator underlying time perception with some estimates of its characteristics frequency, Perception 19 (1990) 705-743. designed to drive, slowing down or speeding up, a temporal oscillator acting in the gamma range J.G.R. Jefferys, R.D. Traub, M.A. Whittington, Neuronal networks for induced &quot;40 Hz rhythms, Trends Neurosci. 19 (1996) 202-208; W. MacKay, Synchronized neuronal oscillations and their role in motor processes, Trends Cog. Sci. 1 (1997) 176-183; M. Treisman, N. Cook, P.L.N. Naish, J.K. MacCrone, The internal clock: electroencephalographic evidence for oscillatory processes underlying time perception, Q. J. Exp. Psychol. 47A (1994) 241-289.. In this protocol, an auditory periodic stimulus (click train) was delivered at various frequencies during the task. The reaction time (RT), the slope, and the intercept of the linear function associating RT to memorized list length showed systematic modulations according to the stimulation frequency. The predicted driving effects due to the click trains were obtained, consisting of localised modulations of performance on the stimulation frequency band. We argue that memory scanning is indeed paced by a temporal oscillator, thus providing behavioral arguments for the serial oscillatory model of Lisman.
Acetylcholine (ACh) efflux in the frontoparietal cortex was studied with in vivo microdialysis while rats performed in an operant task designed to assess sustained attention. Transferring animals from the baseline environment into the operant chambers elicited a robust increase in cortical ACh efflux that persisted throughout the 18-min pre-task period. Subsequent performance in the 36-min sustained attention task was associated with further significant increases in frontoparietal ACh efflux, while the termination of the task resulted in a delayed decline in ACh levels. Upon the 12-min presentation of a visual distracter (flashing houselight, 0.5 Hz) during task performance, animals initially developed a significant response bias to the left lever in the first 6-min distracter block, reflecting a reduction of attentional effort. Under continued conditions of increased attentional demand, performance recovered during the second 6-min distracter block. This return to attentional processing was accompanied by an increase in cortical ACh efflux, suggesting that the augmentation of attentional demand produced by the distracter elicited further increases in ACh release. The enhancement of cortical ACh efflux observed prior to task performance implies the presence of complex relationships between cortical ACh release and anticipatory and/or contextual factors related to operant performance and attentional processing. This finding, along with the further increases in cortical ACh efflux associated with task performance, extends hypotheses regarding the crucial role of cortical cholinergic transmission for attentional functions. Furthermore, the effects of the distracter stimulus provide evidence for a direct relationship between attentional effort and cortical ACh release.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) and behavioral data were recorded while subjects performed two tasks on the same set of faces (presented in pairs). One task was identity matching and the other expression matching. Two groups of subjects participated, one familiar and the other unfamiliar with the faces. Subjects were less accurate in matching expressions than identity. Familiarity facilitated identity but not expression matching. ERPs to mismatches in both tasks elicited a negativity around 400 ms, which was similar in latency and amplitude in the two tasks, but differed in scalp topography. Whereas the mismatch negativity had the same landscape over the left hemisphere for both tasks, the component related to expression had larger amplitudes over the right-temporal regions. Familiarity had no effect on these negativities, although it affected a late positivity (LP). These results support the idea of distinct neural systems subserving face processing, and agree with a role of the right hemisphere for the processing of emotional expressions.
The purpose of this study was to identify, from the personal perspective of students with disability, their needs for physical and social accommodations in upper secondary schools specially adapted for students with severe physical disabilities. The study also aimed to identify those areas of student-environment fit which were most often achieved. Forty-eight students in four schools in Sweden were assessed by occupational therapists using the School Setting Interview. Forty-seven students reported needs for accommodations in the school setting. The study indicates that schools generally were able to meet the students' accommodation needs in the physical environment. The schools also met students' accommodation needs for field trips, sport activities and assistance. Student-environment fit in occupations requiring reading, remembering and speaking was unsatisfactory. Accommodations on a general, group and individual level are highlighted and discussed. The study recommends that occupational therapists become more involved and offer society their expertise in barrier removal to a greater extent.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is a significant environmental contaminant that will continue to pose great risk to human health. Considerable attention in the scientific and health policy fora is focused on the question of whether MeHg intake from a diet high in fish is associated with aberrant CNS function. A number of recent studies (McKeown-Eyssen et al., 1983; Kjellstrom et al., 1989; Grandjean et al., 1997) suggest that fetal exposure at levels attained by mothers eating fish regularly during pregnancy are associated with neurological deficits in their offspring. Astrocytes play a key role in MeHg-induced excitotoxicity as evidence by the following points: 1) MeHg preferentially accumulates in astrocytes; 2) MeHg potently and specifically inhibits glutamate uptake in astrocytes; 3) Neuronal dysfunction is secondary to disturbances in astrocytes; 4) Co-application of non-toxic concentrations of MeHg and glutamate leads to the typical appearance of neuronal lesions associated with excitotoxic stimulation, and 5) MeHg induces swelling of astrocytes. These observations are fully consistent with MeHg-induced dysregulation of excitatory amino acid homeostasis, and indicate that a glutamate-mediated excitotoxic mechanism is involved. The manuscript will outline a number of critical target sites for MeHg-induced neurotoxicity. It will address the interrelationship between the activation of cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) and the ensuing hydrolysis and release of arachidonic acid (AA) as potential mediators for glutamate release upon exposure to MeHg, and determine the relationship between cytosolic cPLA2 activation, regulatory volume decrease (RVD), and glutamate release. In addition, the effect of MeHg on glutathione (GSH) homeostasis will be discussed, with particular emphasis on its effects on cystine and cysteine uptake, precursors of GSH synthesis.
Iron regulatory proteins (IRPs) are cytoplasmic mRNA binding proteins involved in intracellular regulation of iron homeostasis. IRPs regulate expression of ferritin and transferrin receptor at the mRNA level by interacting with a conserved RNA structure termed the iron-responsive element (IRE). This concordant regulation of transferrin receptors and ferritin is designed so a cell can obtain iron when it is needed, and sequester iron when it is in excess. However, we have reported that iron accumulates in the brain in Alzheimer's disease without a concomitant increase in ferritin. An increase in iron without proper sequestration can increase the vulnerability of cells to oxidative stress. Oxidative stress is a component of many neurological diseases including Alzheimer's. We hypothesized that alterations in the IRP/IRE interaction could be the site at which iron mismanagement occurs in the Alzheimer's brains. In this report we demonstrate that in normal human brain extracts, the IRP is detected as a double IRE/IRP complex by RNA band shift assay, but in 2 of 6 Alzheimer's brain (AD) extracts examined a single IRE/IRP complex was obtained. Furthermore, the mobility of the single IRE/IRP complex in Alzheimer's brain extracts is decreased relative to the double IRE/IRP complex. Western blot and RNA band super shift assay demonstrate that IRP1 is involved in the formation of the single IRE/IRP complex. In vitro analyses suggest that the stability of the doublet complex and single AD complex are different. The single complex from the AD brain are more stable. A more stable IRE/IRP complex in the AD brain could increase stability of the transferrin receptor mRNA and inhibit ferritin synthesis. At the cellular level, the outcome of this alteration in the molecular regulatory mechanism would be increased iron accumulation without an increase in ferritin; identical to the observation we reported in AD brains. The appearance of the single IRE/IRP complex in Alzheimer's brain extracts is associated with relatively high endogenous ribonuclease activity. We propose that elevated RNase activity is one mechanism by which the iron regulatory system becomes dysfunctional.
The functional organization of primary auditory cortex in non-primates is generally modeled as a tonotopic gradient with an orthogonal representation of independently mapped binaural interaction columns along the isofrequency contours. Little information is available regarding the validity of this model in the primate brain, despite the importance of binaural cues for sound localization and auditory scene analysis. Binaural and monaural responses of A1 to pure tone stimulation were studied using auditory evoked potentials, current source density and multiunit activity. Key findings include: (i) differential distribution of binaural responses with respect to best frequency, such that 74% of the sites exhibiting binaural summation had best frequencies below 2000 Hz; (ii) the pattern of binaural responses was variable with respect to cortical depth, with binaural summation often observed in the supragranular laminae of sites showing binaural suppression in thalamorecipient laminae; and (iii) dissociation of binaural responses between the initial and sustained action potential firing of neuronal ensembles in A1. These data support earlier findings regarding the temporal and spatial complexity of responses in A1 in the awake state, and are inconsistent with a simple orthogonal arrangement of binaural interaction columns and best frequency in A1 of the awake primate.
Ten healthy extremely pre-term (EPT) children, born before gestational week 29, were tested at age 10 using mismatch negativity (MMN) and a three-tone odd-ball task; the results were then compared to age-matched full-term controls. We found no difference in MMN. By contrast, EPT children had generally shorter N1 latencies and larger P2 amplitudes, possibly indicating a more stimulus-driven response mode. However, P300 parameters, indicative of controlled attention, were unaffected.

The relationship between metacognition and executive control is explored. According to an analysis by Fernandez-Duque, Baird, and Posner (this issue), metacognitive regulation involves attention, conflict resolution, error correction, inhibitory control, and emotional regulation. These aspects of metacognition are presumed to be mediated by a neural circuit involving midfrontal brain regions. An evaluation of the proposal by Fernandez-Duque et al. is made, and it is suggested that there is considerable convergence of issues associated with metacognition, executive control, working memory, and frontal lobe function. By integrating these domains and issues, significant progress could be made toward a cognitive neuroscience of metacognition.
This paper develops an empirically motivated theory of visual consciousness. It begins by outlining neuropsychological support for Jackendoff's (1987) hypothesis that visual consciousness involves mental representations at an intermediate level of processing. It then supplements that hypothesis with the further requirement that attention, which can come under the direction of high level representations, is also necessary for consciousness. The resulting theory is shown to have a number of philosophical consequences. If correct, higher-order thought accounts, the multiple drafts account, and the widely held belief that sensation precedes perception will all be found wanting. The theory will also be used to illustrate and defend a methodology that fills the gulf between functionalists who ignore the brain and neural reductionists who repudiate functionalism.


A few neuropsychological studies have suggested the existence of bilateral hemispheric representations for the proximal parts of the limbs in humans. We report the case of a patient who presented with a callosal disconnection syndrome, which at a later stage of disease became restricted to left agraphia, left agraphesthesia and left auditory extinction. The anomic character of the agraphesthesia was demonstrated. Tactile naming was normal, which allows us to conclude that separate callosal pathways related to the left language areas transmit information for graphesthesia and tactile naming. Agraphia and agraphesthesia were not observed when the proximal part of the left upper limb was utilized. These observations support the conclusion that writing and graphesthesia with the proximal part of the limb can be mediated by the ipsilateral cortex.
The anatomy and physiology of the upper esophageal sphincter (UES) are complex. Much progress has been made over the past few years in our understanding this important sphincter. The closing muscles of the UES include the inferior pharyngeal sphincter, the cricopharyngeus (CP), and the cervical esophagus. The CP is composed of two parts, which may have different functions. The CP is innervated by the pharyngeal plexus and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Tone of the UES is probably generated by numerous reflexes rather than by specific tone-generating circuitry. The major tone-generating muscle is the CP, which is highly elastic and produces more active tension the more it is stretched. The UES opens by relaxation of the closing muscles, traction by muscles attached to the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage, and pulsion of the bolus. The various muscles of the UES behave differently during its many dynamic states, so that similar functions are accomplished by different muscles.
The proteins of the Homer family bind to proline-rich sequences in group I metabotropic glutamate receptors, inositol trisphosphate receptors, ryanodine receptors, and Shank family proteins. Homer proteins also self associate and function as adaptors to couple interacting proteins. Recent observations indicate a role for Homer complexes in signal transduction, synaptogenesis and receptor trafficking.
Following vesicular release, the biogenic amine neurotransmitters dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin are actively cleared from extracellular spaces by presynaptic transporters. These transporters interact with multiple psychoactive agents including cocaine, amphetamines and antidepressants. Recent findings indicate that amine reuptake is likely to be a tightly regulated component of synaptic plasticity rather than a constitutive determinant of transmitter clearance. Protein kinase C activation and transporter phosphorylation have been linked to regulatory protein trafficking, and both phosphorylation and trafficking may be influenced by transporter ligands. Recognition that transmitters, antagonists and second messengers can modify the intrinsic activity, surface expression or protein levels of amine transporters raises new questions about the fundamental nature of drug actions in vivo. The theory that dysregulation of transporters may contribute to disease states is supported by the recent discovery that a coding mutation in the human norepinephrine transporter contributes to orthostatic intolerance.
Signal transduction research has made some glowing progress in the past 12 months. Recent advances in fluorescent proteins, small molecule fluorophores and imaging technology are generating new ways to investigate signal transduction.
Synaptic vesicles are recycled with remarkable speed and precision in nerve terminals. A major recycling pathway involves clathrin-mediated endocytosis at endocytic zones located around sites of release. Different 'accessory' proteins linked to this pathway have been shown to alter the shape and composition of lipid membranes, to modify membrane-coat protein interactions, and to influence actin polymerization. These include the GTPase dynamin, the lysophosphatidic acid acyl transferase endophilin, and the phosphoinositide phosphatase synaptojanin. Protein perturbation studies in living nerve terminals are now beginning to link the actions of these proteins with morphologically defined steps of endocytosis.
Acute transverse myelitis (ATM) with moderate symptomatology and smaller multiple magnetic resonance imaging lesions is often caused by multiple sclerosis. Severe ATM with extensive magnetic resonance imaging lesions with or without associated meningitis often has a viral cause, particularly in the younger age groups, whereas vascular disorders may prevail among older patients. Previously, one had to rely on indirect evidence such as viral serology or viral identification in throat washings to confirm a diagnosis of myelitis. Thus, mycoplasma myelitis may occur coincident with a mycoplasma pneumonia. Viral myelitis is now often diagnosed by specific polymerase chain reaction of the cerebrospinal fluid, for echovirus, Coxsackie virus, mumps virus, herpes simplex virus or varicella-zoster virus, but an autoimmune component may still be important. An anterior horn syndrome may be produced by the tick-borne encephalomyelitis virus. Severe ATM may also be a postinfectious or postvaccinal disorder [i.e. a partial acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM)]. Neuromyelitis optica, a combination of severe myelitis and optic neuritis, is often a manifestation of ADEM or systemic lupus erythematosus. Many of these disorders are potentially treatable with specific antiviral agents or immunosuppression. 'Idiopathic' ATM is probably a consequence of inadequate examination and follow up. The differential diagnoses-viral myelitis, multiple sclerosis, ADEM, neuromyelitis optica, spinal arteriovenous malformation and arteritis-should be considered and are usually identified by a rapid diagnostic work-up, leaving few ATM cases undiagnosed.
Cell-specific magnetic resonance imaging, magnetization transfer imaging, proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and diffusion-weighted imaging have all recently been applied to the study of multiple sclerosis. These techniques can give more accurate and pathologically specific estimates of the multiple sclerosis lesion burden than conventional magnetic resonance. Their extensive application should improve the understanding of the mechanisms leading to multiple sclerosis-related irreversible disability and help in the diagnostic work-out of patients with suspected multiple sclerosis.
Primary motoneurons, the earliest developing spinal motoneurons in zebrafish, have highly stereotyped axon projections. Although much is known about the development of these neurons, the molecular cues guiding their axons have not been identified. In a screen designed to reveal mutations affecting motor axons, we isolated two mutations in the stumpy gene that dramatically affect pathfinding by the primary motoneuron, CaP. In stumpy mutants, CaP axons extend along the common pathway, a region shared by other primary motor axons, but stall at an intermediate target, the horizontal myoseptum, and fail to extend along their axon-specific pathway during the first day of development. Later, most CaP axons progress a short distance beyond the horizontal myoseptum, but tend to stall at another intermediate target. Mosaic analysis revealed that stumpy function is needed both autonomously in CaP and non-autonomously in other cells. stumpy function is also required for axons of other primary and secondary motoneurons to progress properly past intermediate targets and to branch. These results reveal a series of intermediate targets involved in motor axon guidance and suggest that stumpy function is required for motor axons to progress from proximally located intermediate targets to distally located ones.

The growing number of individuals affected by dementia will intensify the ethical issues that emerge in clinical practice and research, issues early in disease relate to genetic testing, use of medications in mildly affected persons, and diagnostic disclosure. Research issues relate to appropriate informed consent processes, conflict of interests, and research design issues, such as the use of placebos and the use of biological tissues, in the later stages of disease concern about appropriate therapeutic goals and end-of-life care is appropriate.
Neurotrophic factors are a large class of molecules that can influence neuronal survival, modulate neuronal function and induce axonal growth. They act on specific receptors in specific subsets of neurons and glia. Since their discovery, neurotrophic factors have received considerable interest as possible means for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases and central nervous system (CNS) trauma. In vitro experiments, as well as studies in animal models of CNS disease, have supported the concept of neuroprotection as a new treatment strategy in degenerative neurologic disease, using neurotrophic factor delivery to CNS targets. Despite the encouraging results from animal studies, progress in adaptation of this treatment strategy to human disease has been slow and sometimes disappointing. One of the major keys for the successful use of neurotrophic factors in treating neurologic disease is the mode of delivery. Neurotrophic factors need to be specifically targeted and regionally restricted to the area of interest to achieve significant results without widespread, unwanted adverse effects. This article summarizes results from recent studies of neurotrophic factors in models of neurodegenerative diseases and CNS trauma and outlines current knowledge and future perspectives of trophic factor gene therapy in the CNS.
Current symptomatic treatments for Parkinson's disease are based largely on dopamine replacement therapies; however, the fact that these treatments are characterized by many long-term side effects has led to widespread interest in nondopaminergic therapies. To date, a nondopaminergic therapy with comparable efficacy to dopamine replacement has not been devised. Here the authors discuss recent findings that systemic administration of a selective delta-opioid receptor agonist has powerful antiparkinsonian effects in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's disease that are equivalent to those of dopamine replacement. delta-Opioid receptor agonists may prove to be useful for the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease in humans.
Telomerase activity has been found in most cancer cells, but not in the majority of normal differentiated tissues. Therefore, telomerase has been considered a relatively selective and widely expressed tumor marker to be used as a diagnostic tool, and in some cases, as a potential prognostic indicator. Telomerase activity can also be used to evaluate chemosensitivity of neoplastic cells obtained from cancer patients, by measuring residual telomerase activity after drug treatment. Finally, telomerase has been considered to represent a suitable target for designing new anticancer strategies. This review focuses on present and future clinical applications of telomerase studies in cancer management. Copyright 2000 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.
Navajo neuropathy is a unique sensorimotor neuropathy which is geographically restricted to Navajo children living on the Navajo Reservation. Affected patients present with weakness, loss of sensation in extremities, corneal ulcerations, and a high incidence of childhood infections. Metabolic complications, such as severe liver disease, may further contribute to peripheral nerve injury in affected patients. In this study, serum-mediated injury to rat peripheral nerve was critically assessed. Serum samples from affected Navajo patients were tested in vivo for effects on peripheral nerve function. Injection of serum from affected Navajo patients into rat sciatic nerve produced a modest slowing of nerve conduction velocity without effecting evoked-compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitudes. By comparison, injection of serum from patients with MGUS neuropathy, an immune-mediated disorder, diminished evoked-CMAP amplitudes by approximately 70%. Navajo neuropathy sera had no effect in vitro on the neurite outgrowth of developing dorsal root ganglia neurons. The results argue against serum-mediated toxic injury to peripheral nerves in Navajo neuropathy.
We have found that exogenous prolactin (PRL) stimulates all three populations of hypothalamic neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons. In this study, we investigated the effects of immunoneutralization of endogenous PRL on the activity of these neurons. Injection of 17beta-estradiol (E2) (20 microg subcutaneously) 10 d after ovariectomy induced a proestrus-like increase in PRL in peripheral plasma the following afternoon. At 1000 h the day after E2 injection, rats received either rabbit antirat PRL antiserum (PRL-AS) (200 microL) or normal rabbit serum (NRS, 200 microL, controls) intraperitoneally. Groups of rats were then decapitated every 2 h from 1100 h to 2100 h. Trunk blood was collected and serum extracted with protein A to remove the PRL-AS/PRL complex, and the remaining free PRL was measured by radioimmunoassay. Sites of neuroendocrine dopaminergic nerve terminals, the median eminence (ME), and intermediate and neural lobes of the pituitary gland were excised and stored for determination of dopamine (DA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC) concentrations by high-performance liquid chromatography electrochemical detection (EC). In addition, the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland, the locus of DA action, was collected. The concentration of PRL in NRS-treated animals increased by 1500 h, peaked by 1700 h, and returned to low levels by 2100 h. PRL-AS prevented the increase in PRL secretion in response to E2. The turnover of DA (DOPAC:DA ratio; an index of dopaminergic neuronal activity) in the ME of NRS-treated animals increased at 1500 h and rapidly returned to basal levels. Treatment with PRL-AS prevented the increase in DA turnover in the ME. DA turnover in the intermediate lobe increased coincident with the peak of PRL in serum of NRS-treated rats. PRL-AS administration prevented increased DA turnover in the intermediate lobe. The turnover of DA in the neural lobe increased by 1300 h and decreased steadily through 2100 h. However, administration of PRL-AS minimally suppressed the turnover of DA in the neural lobe. Moreover, administration of PRL-AS attenuated the rise of DA in the anterior lobe associated with the waning phase of the E2-induced PRL surge. These results clearly indicate that endogenous PRL regulates its own secretion by activating hypothalamic neuroendocrine dopaminergic neurons.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) represents a common neurodegenerative disorder. An estimated 2% of the U.S. population, age 65 and older, develops IPD. The number of IPD patients will certainly increase over the next several decades as the baby-boomers gradually step into this high-risk age group, concomitant with the increase in the average life expectancy. While many studies have suggested that industrial chemicals and pesticides may underlie IPD, its etiology remains elusive. Among the toxic metals, the relationship between manganese intoxication and IPD has long been recognized. The neurological signs of manganism have received close attention because they resemble several clinical disorders collectively described as extrapyramidal motor system dysfunction, and in particular, IPD and dystonia. However, distinct dissimilarities between IPD and manganism are well established, and it remains to be determined whether Mn plays an etiologic role in IPD. It is particularly noteworthy that as a result of a recent court decision, methylcyclopentadienyl Mn tricarbonyl (MMT) is presently available in the United States and Canada for use in fuel, replacing lead as an antiknock additive. The impact of potential long-term exposure to low levels of MMT combustion products that may be present in emissions from automobiles has yet to be fully evaluated. Nevertheless, it should be pointed out that recent studies with various environmental modeling approaches in the Montreal metropolitan (where MMT has been used for more than 10 years) suggest that airborne Mn levels were quite similar to those in areas where MMT was not used. These studies also show that Mn is emitted from the tail pipe of motor vehicles primarily as a mixture of manganese phosphate and manganese sulfate. This brief review characterizes the Mn speciation in the blood and the transport kinetics of Mn into the central nervous system, a critical step in the accumulation of Mn within the brain, outlines the potential susceptibility of selected populations (e.g., iron-deficient) to Mn exposure, and addresses future research needs for Mn.


The Q-SNARE syntaxin 1 is a central component of the synaptic membrane fusion machinery. Syntaxin probably interacts with multiple proteins during synaptic vesicle exocytosis. In vitro, the tightest binding partners for syntaxin 1 are other SNAREs (synaptobrevin/VAMP and SNAP-25) and munc18-1 (also known as rbsec1/nsec1). Recent studies on Drosophila syntaxin led to the surprising finding that a syntaxin mutant which does not bind the munc18-homolog Rop nevertheless functionally substitutes for wild-type syntaxin in membrane fusion (Wu et al., Neuron 23, 593-605, 1999). This observation suggested that syntaxin 1 binding to munc18-1 is not essential for fusion, a puzzling conclusion in view of the tight binding of munc18 and syntaxin homologs in all organisms. To address this issue, we have now reinvestigated the interaction of syntaxin with munc18 and Rop. We find that the syntaxin sequence that was mutated in the Drosophila studies is not essential for munc18/Rop binding, and that the mutant is in fact able to bind to munc18/Rop. Thus the fact that the mutant syntaxin rescues release cannot be used as an argument that munc18 binding is not essential. In addition to munc18 and SNAREs, several other proteins have been suggested to interact with various domains of syntaxin 1, notably the calcium-sensor synaptotagmin and the vesicle protein CSP. Our results confirm that the SNARE motif in syntaxin binds to synaptotagmin, but this interaction does not require the very C-terminus of the motif. Interestingly, binding of synaptotagmin appears to be decreased in the closed conformation of syntaxin. In contrast, no interaction of CSP with syntaxin was detected even under low-stringency conditions. Our data suggest 1., that assays measuring protein/protein interactions that involve syntaxin may be more difficult to evaluate than is often assumed because of the sticky nature of the proteins involved, and 2., that it is currently not possible to draw conclusions about the importance of the various interactions with the available data from Drosophila or vertebrates.
Activity-dependent synaptic plasticity has been proposed as a contributory factor in the patterning of rhythmic network activity. However, its role has not been examined in detail. Here, paired or triple intracellular recordings have been made from identified neurons in the lamprey locomotor network to examine the potential relevance of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in segmental and intersegmental spinal networks. Segmental inputs from glutamatergic excitatory interneurons (EIN) to ipsilateral glycinergic crossed caudal (CC) interneurons were facilitated or depressed during spike trains at 5-20 Hz. Connections between EINs were depressed. Glycinergic inputs from small ipsilateral inhibitory interneurons were depressed in motor neurons, but were facilitated in CC interneurons. Excitatory inputs from small crossing interneurons to motor neurons were depressed, whereas inhibitory inputs were unaffected. With the exception of connections between EINs, significant effects occurred with stimulation that mimicked interneuron spiking during network activity. Intersegmental EIN synaptic properties were also investigated. EIN inputs did not differ significantly when examined from zero to four segments rostral to motor neurons or CC interneurons. However, caudally located EINs evoked greater activity-dependent facilitation than did rostral EINs. Whilst the amplitude or plasticity of EIN inputs in the rostral or mid-trunk regions of the spinal cord did not differ, EINs in the caudal trunk region evoked greater facilitation. Synaptic transmission between locomotor network neurons thus exhibits activity-dependent plasticity in response to physiologically relevant stimulation. Activity-dependent plasticity could thus contribute to the patterning of the rhythmic network output.
Recent studies have shown that non-linear analysis of intracranial activities can detect a 'pre-ictal phase' preceding the epileptic seizure. Nevertheless, the dynamical nature of the underlying neuronal process and the spatial extension of this pre-ictal phase still remain unknown. In this paper, we address these aspects using a new non-linear measure of dynamic similarity between different parts of intracranial recordings of nine patients with medial temporal lobe epilepsy recorded during transitions to seizure. Our results confirm that non-linear changes in neuronal dynamics allow, in most cases (16 out of 17), a seizure anticipation several minutes in advance. Furthermore, we show that the spatial distribution of pre-ictal changes often involves an extended network projecting beyond the limits of the epileptogenic region. Finally, the pre-ictal phase could frequently (13 out of 17) be characterized with a marked shift toward slower frequencies in upper delta or theta frequency range.
Intraventricular administration of the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin in rats has been shown to cause a selective loss of cholinergic afferents to the hippocampus and cortical areas, and to facilitate seizure development in hippocampal kindling. Here we demonstrate that this lesion also accelerates seizure progression when kindling is induced by electrical stimulations in the amygdala. However, whereas intraventricular 192 IgG-saporin facilitated the development of the initial stages of hippocampal kindling, the same lesion promoted the late stages of amygdala kindling. To explore the role of various parts of the basal forebrain cholinergic system in amygdala kindling, selective lesions of the cholinergic projections to either hippocampus or cortex were produced by intraparenchymal injections of 192 IgG-saporin into medial septum/vertical limb of the diagonal band or nucleus basalis, respectively. Cholinergic denervation of the cortical regions caused acceleration of amygdala kindling closely resembling that observed after the more widespread lesion induced by intraventricular 192 IgG-saporin. In contrast, removal of the cholinergic input to the hippocampus had no effect on the development of amygdala kindling. These data indicate that basal forebrain cholinergic neurons suppress kindling elicited from amygdala, and that this dampening effect is mediated via cortical but not hippocampal projections.
This study examined whether conditioned hyperactivity measured in a cocaine-paired environment was associated with increased expression of Fos-related antigens (FRA) within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and associated forebrain regions of rats. Three groups of rats were given repeated injections of either cocaine in the test environment and saline in the colony room (group Paired), saline in the test environment and cocaine in the colony room (group Unpaired), or saline in both environments (group Control). All rats were subsequently given a drug-free test for conditioned hyperactivity in the test environment, and their brains were removed so that FRA immunohistochemistry could be conducted. Rats in the Paired group showed conditioned hyperactivity during the conditioning test, and this behavioural response was associated with increased FRA expression within the caudal NAc, the medial prefrontal cortex and the lateral septum relative to the Unpaired and Control groups. Paired rats also showed increased FRA expression within the orbital prefrontal cortex, the claustrum, the caudal amygdala (basolateral and central regions), the paraventricular thalamic nucleus, the subiculum of the hippocampus, and the lateral habenula relative to the Control group. However, the FRA levels in these latter sites were not significantly increased relative to those of Unpaired rats, indicating that genomic responses in these regions were not entirely context dependent. The correspondence between conditioned hyperactivity and enhanced FRA expression within the caudal NAc, the medial prefrontal cortex and lateral septum suggests that these regions may participate in the expression of conditioned responses to cocaine-related stimuli.
Microglial cells serve as pathologic sensors of the brain. They are highly abundant in all regions of the central nervous system (CNS) and are characterized by a ramified morphology within the normal tissue. In the present study, we have developed a procedure to study the membrane properties of identified, in situ microglia in acutely isolated brain slices from rat cortex, striatum and facial nucleus. Unlike the well characterized cultured microglial cells, ramified microglia of the slice are characterized by little, if any, voltage-gated membrane currents and a very low membrane potential. They are thus distinct from neurons, other glial cells and nonbrain macrophages. To study the consequences of microglial activation on the membrane channel pattern, we compared cells in the normal facial nucleus and at defined times after facial nerve axotomy. Within 12 h of axotomy, microglial cells expressed a prominent inward rectifier current and thus acquired the physiological properties of cultured microglia. Within 24 h of the lesion, the cells expressed an additional outward current, which is typical for lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated microglia in vitro. Seven days after the lesion, at a time of major regenerative processes in the facial nucleus, the physiological properties of microglial cells had reverted to those present prior to the pathological event. In conclusion: (i) ramified microglial cells represent a physiologically unique population of cells in the brain; (ii) are distinct from their cultured counterparts; and (iii), undergo a defined pattern of physiological states in the course of pathologic events.
We investigated the role of desensitization of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors on the neurotoxicity and on the [Ca2+]i changes induced by kainate or by AMPA in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The neuronal viability was evaluated either by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, or by analysis of cell morphology. Short-term exposure of the neurons to kainate or AMPA (30 min) was not toxic, but the exposure for 24 h to the excitotoxic drugs caused a concentration-dependent neurotoxic effect which was prevented by LY 303070, a noncompetitive AMPA receptor antagonist. In the presence of cyclothiazide (CTZ), kainate or AMPA was toxic (30 min exposure), or the toxic effect was significantly enhanced (24 h exposure), but in this case LY 303070 did not completely protect the cells against kainate-induced toxicity. The alterations in the [Ca2+]i caused by kainate or AMPA showed a great cell-to-cell variability. LY 303070 completely or partially inhibited the responses stimulated by kainate. CTZ differentially affected the responses evoked by kainate or AMPA. In the majority of hippocampal neurons, CTZ did not potentiate, or only slightly potentiated, the kainate-stimulated responses but in 11% of neurons there was a great potentiation. In AMPA-stimulated neurons, the responses were slightly or greatly potentiated in the majority of neurons, but not in all of them. The results show that AMPA and kainate may be toxic, depending on the time of exposure and on the blockade of the desensitization of the AMPA receptors. Overall, our results clearly show that there exist different populations of hippocampal neurons with different sensitivities to kainate, AMPA, CTZ and LY 303070. Moreover, the effects of CTZ on both [Ca2+]i alterations and neurotoxicity are not fully correlated.
We review experiments in which single-cell primary motor cortical activity was recorded from Rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) while they performed reaching and drawing tasks. The directional tuning curves generated during reaching were modulated by the speed of movement and this was reflected in the magnitude of population vectors calculated from firing rates of a large population of cells. Directional and speed representation in the firing rates of these cells is robust across both reaching and drawing. Several behavioural invariants related to the speed of drawing were represented in the time-series of population vectors. This high fidelity neural representation of velocity found in motor cortex can be used to visualize the dynamics of motor cortical activity during drawing and suggests that the cost function governing the rate of drawing is bound by neural processing.
The present study investigated the intrinsic connections of the basal and accessory basal nuclei of the Macaca fascicularis monkey by means of the anterograde tracers Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) and biotinylated dextran amine (BDA). Analysis of the intranuclear connections of the basal nucleus indicates that there are five modules: dorsal, intermediate, ventral lateral, ventral medial and periamygdaloid sulcal cortex. The dorsal division projects to the intermediate division. Laterally, the intermediate division projects to the ventral lateral division and dorsal parts of the ventral medial division. Ventrally, the ventral lateral division projects to the ventral medial division and periamygdaloid sulcal cortex, which appears to constitute a medial extension of the basal nucleus onto the cortical surface of the amygdala. Medially, the ventral medial division projects to the intermediate and dorsal divisions. Thus, the connections between these modules form functional microcolumns within the nucleus with distinct patterns of information flow that are dorsal to ventral laterally, lateral to medial ventrally, and ventral to dorsal medially. Observations on the intranuclear connections of the accessory basal nucleus suggest that they are organized into two relatively distinct domains: the dorsal division projects to the ventral division and the ventral division projects primarily to the ventromedial division. Projections to other amygdaloid areas originate in select divisions of the basal and accessory basal nuclei, and are topographically distributed. The organization of intrinsic connections of the basal nuclei correlates with specific amygdalo-cortical connections and suggests that extensive convergence of information takes place within the amygdala, which potentially influences activity at both the temporal and parietal pathways and hippocampal fields.

One hundred fifty-five (77%) of 201 participants recruited in a trial of intensive vs standard case management of patients with recurrent psychotic illness had their personality status measured before treatment and were followed up for two years. The primary outcome was the total number of days spent in psychiatric hospitalisation in the two years following randomisation. Thirty-three (21%) of the patients had a personality disorder and their duration of hospital stay (105 days) was greater than in those without personality disorder (56 days). There was weak evidence that intensive case management more effective in reducing the duration of care in those with personality disorder than in those without personality disorder.
Much uncertainty still exists regarding higher level phylogenetic relationships in the insect order Diptera, and the need for independent analyses is apparent. In this paper, I present a parsimony analysis that is based on details of the nervous system of flies. Because neural characters have received little attention in modern phylogenetic analyses and the stability of neural traits has been debated, special emphasis is given to testing the robustness of the analysis itself and to evaluating how neurobiological constraints (such as levels of neural processing) influence the phylogenetic information content. The phylogenetic study is based on 14 species in three nematoceran and nine brachyceran families. All characters used in the analysis are based on anatomical details of the neural organization of the fly visual system. For the most part they relate to uniquely identifiable neurons, which are cells or cell types that can be confidently recognized as homologues among different species and thus compared. Parsimony analysis results in a phylogenetic hypothesis that favors specific previously suggested phylogenetic relationships and suggests alternatives regarding other placements. For example, several heterodactylan families (Bombyliidae, Asilidae, and Dolichopodidae) are supported in their placement as suggested by Sinclair et al. (1993), but Tipulidae and Syrphidae are placed differently. Tipulidae are placed at a derived rather than ancestral position within the Nematocera, and Syrphidae are placed within the Schizophora. The analysis suggests that neural characters generally maintain phylogenetic information well. However, by &quot;forcing&quot; neural characters onto conventional phylogenetic analyses it becomes apparent that not all neural centers maintain such information equally well. For example, neurons of the second-order visual neuropil, the medulla, contain stronger phylogenetic &quot;signal&quot; than do characters of the deeper visual center, the lobula plate. These differences may relate to different functional constraints in the two neuropils.
During sustained constant velocity and low-frequency off-vertical axis rotations (OVAR), otolith signals contribute significantly to slow-phase eye velocity. The adaptive plasticity of these responses was investigated here after semicircular canal plugging. Inactivation of semicircular canals results in a highly compromised and deficient vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR). Based on the VOR enhancement hypothesis, one could expect an adaptive increase of otolith-borne angular velocity signals due to combined otolith/canal inputs after inactivation of the semicircular canals. Contrary to expectations, however, the steady-state slow-phase velocity during constant velocity OVAR decreased in amplitude over time. A similar progressive decrease in VOR gain was also observed during low-frequency off-vertical axis oscillations. This response deterioration was present in animals with either lateral or vertical semicircular canals inactivated and was limited to the plane(s) of the plugged canals. The results are consistent with the idea that the low-frequency otolith signals do not simply enhance VOR responses. Rather, the nervous system appears to correlate vestibular sensory information from the otoliths and the semicircular canals to generate an integral response to head motion.
Retinas of diabetic individuals develop early functional changes measurable by electrophysiological and psychometric testing. Using a rat model of diabetes, we previously identified diabetes-induced alterations in metabolism of the neurotransmitter glutamate which may ultimately lead to accumulation of glutamate in the retina (Diabetes, 47: 815, 1998). We therefore investigated the function of enzymes that mediate the synthesis and breakdown of glutamate in retinas from rats made diabetic by injection of streptozotocin. De novo synthesis of nitrogen-containing amino acids including glutamate, glutamine and aspartate was assessed by measuring the rate of carbon fixation in freshly dissected retinas, and was unchanged by diabetes. In contrast, the oxidation of glutamate was significantly reduced in retinas from diabetic rats (62%, P &lt; 0.05). Furthermore, diabetic retinas were less susceptible to inhibition of glutamate oxidation by the transaminase inhibitor aminoxyacetate (80%, N.S.), compared to the significant decrease seen in control rats (61%, P &lt; 0.001). The activity and content of glutamine synthetase were also significantly reduced in retinas from rats diabetic for 2-6 months [range of 48% (P &lt; 0.005) to 83% (P &lt; 0.05) compared to control]. The activity of glutamine synthetase was normalized by acute injections of insulin, but not by reducing blood sugar levels with injections of phlorizin. These results indicate two enzymatic abnormalities in the glutamate metabolism pathway in the retina during diabetes: transamination to alpha-ketoglutarate and amination to glutamine. The reduced flux through these pathways may be associated with the accumulation of glutamate. These results are also consistent with the possibility that some of the glial changes in the retina during diabetes may be caused by hypoinsulinemia rather than hyperglycemia.
We sought to prolong the window for stroke treatment using synergistic combinatorial therapy. We used the intraluminal filament occlusion model in rats to cause focal cerebral ischemia and a quantal bioassay to measure efficacy. The GABA agonist muscimol and the glutamate antagonist MK-801 were used alone and in combination at various times after ischemia onset. At progressively longer treatment delay intervals (30, 60, 75, 120, 240, and 360 min), higher doses of the single drugs were required to achieve neuroprotection. In contrast, the combination 1.0 mg/kg muscimol plus 0.5 mg/kg MK-801 was effective at all delay intervals studied except the longest (P &lt; 0.05 at each time). After 240 min from ischemia onset, the combination was more effective than either single agent (P &lt; 0.05 for each drug dose), suggesting synergism. The neuroprotective effect could not be demonstrated using morphometry. The treatment effects were probably not due to hypothermia because brain temperatures recorded in awake, unregulated subjects remained normo- or slightly hyperthermic following all treatments. Awake subjects kept on a heating pad exhibited mild brain hyperthermia. The combination caused a drop and MK-801 caused a significant increase in mean arterial blood pressure (main effects F(5,172) = 29, P &lt; 0.0001). The combination of a GABA agonist and glutamate antagonist appears to possess synergistic neuroprotective effects when treatment is delayed up to 240 min following the onset of cerebral ischemia. Temperature regulation causes hyperthermia in awake subjects. The quantal bioassay is one method suitable for studies of synergistic stroke therapy.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is the second most common cause of presenile dementia. Here we have investigated the frequency of the epsilon4 allele of the Apolipoprotein (APOE) gene in FTD and in other non-Alzheimer forms of dementia related to FTD such as Motor Neurone disease dementia, semantic dementia, progressive aphasia, progressive supranuclear palsy, and corticobasal degeneration. In none of these diagnostic groups did we find a significant increase in the APOE epsilon4 allelic frequency, compared to population values. Neither did we observe any affects of the epsilon4 allele upon age at onset or duration of disease. We conclude therefore that polymorphic variations in the APOE gene do not modulate either the occurrence or progression of these non-Alzheimer forms of dementia.
In the present study we have compared histochemically determined cytochrome oxidase activity with the levels of immunocytochemically stained cytochrome oxidase subunits (CO II and CO IV) and ATP synthase in the human hippocampus in relation with Alzheimer's disease. Cytochrome oxidase activity was significantly reduced in all hippocampal areas of Alzheimer patients. The protein levels of subunits II and IV were not different between control subjects and Alzheimer patients. Additionally, it was observed that the active cytochrome oxidase is evenly distributed over both cell bodies and neuropil, while a relatively large pool of inactive enzyme or precursors is limited to the neuronal somata. Further, in Alzheimer patients the CO IV immunoreactivity decreased with age, whereas in control subjects it increased with age. Our results suggest that the assembly of cytochrome oxidase or the processing of its subunits may be impaired.
Spinal cord injuries disrupt the communication between the brain and peripheral nerves, but leave motoneurons and networks of interneurons below the level of the lesion intact. It is therefore possible to restore some function following injury by providing an artificial stimulus to the surviving neurons below the level of the lesion. We report here on a novel approach for generating functional movements by electrically stimulating the spinal cord through chronically implanted ultrafine, hair-like electrodes. Six to 12 microwires were implanted in the lumbar enlargement of intact cats for 6 months. Twice a week, trains of stimuli were delivered through each microwire and the evoked electromyographic and torque responses were recorded. Strong coordinated hindlimb movements were obtained by stimulating through individual electrodes. The joint torques elicited were capable of supporting the animals' hindquarters. The responses were stable over time and the contractions caused no apparent discomfort to the animals. No obvious motor deficits were seen throughout the 6-month duration of implantation. The results demonstrate that microwires implanted in the spinal cord remain stably in place and stimulation through these electrodes produces strong, controllable movements. This provides a promising basis for the use of spinal cord neuroprostheses in restoring mobility following spinal cord injury.
Neurofilaments (NFs; made by copolymerization of three intermediate filament proteins NF-L, NF-M, and NF-H, for light, medium, and heavy) constitute the most abundant cytoskeletal structure in large myelinated axons. The presence of aberrant NF accumulation has been associated with neurodegenerative diseases (such as ALS). The possible causal role of NF in neurodegeneration has been supported by studies on recently available transgenic mice in which expression of human NF-H (hNF-H +/+) leads to overt neuropathy. We have examined electrophysiological properties of myelinated axons in hNF-H +/+ mice using intraaxonal microelectrode recording from isolated sciatic and tibial nerves. Transgenic mice showed several deficits in physiological properties of low threshold myelinated fibers: conduction velocity and resting membrane potential were significantly decreased (20 +/- 1.6 vs 40 +/- 2 m/s; -71.3 +/- 0.9 vs -75.5 +/- 0.5 m/s; mean +/- SE; n = 25; 22 degrees C). While the amplitude of action potentials was of comparable size (82 +/- 5 vs 86 +/- 3 mV) duration of action potential (at half-amplitude, AP/2) in hNF-H +/+ was significantly prolonged (0.82 +/- 0.02 vs 0.65 +/- 0.02 ms). Voltage-current properties of axonal membrane indicate a significant decrease in inward and outward rectification. Occasionally, impaled axons of hNF-H +/+ showed membrane oscillations and repetitive activity (reminiscent of fasciculations) never observed in normal animals. These results are compatible with an imbalance between ion conductances in axons from transgenic animals (an increase in Na(+) and a decrease in K(+) conductances), in agreement with recent suggestion based on clinical studies on ALS patients (H. Bostock et al., 1995, Brain 118, 217-225). One may hypothesize that these changes could contribute to neurodegenerative processes (i.e., via an increase in [Na(+)](i)), as well as clinical symptoms (fasciculations) observed in patients with degenerative motor neuron diseases.
Recent studies have shown that amyloid precursor protein (APP), which plays a central role in Alzheimer's disease (AD), protects against excitotoxic neuronal injuries by regulating the function of the glial glutamate transporters. The mechanisms underlying these effects and their relationship to the neurodegenerative process in AD are under intense scrutiny. In this context, the main objective of the present study was to determine if overexpression of mutant human APP in transgenic mouse brains results in altered functioning of the excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs). Transgenic mice expressing the 695 amino acid form of the human APP from the Thy-1 promoter showed a significant decrease in B(max) and K(D) for aspartate uptake when compared to nontransgenic controls. This decrease in glutamate transporter activity was associated with decreased protein expression of glial specific glutamate transporters, EAAT1 and 2, but did not affect mRNA levels. These results suggest that expression of mutant forms of APP disturbs astroglial transport of excitatory amino acids at the posttranscriptional level leading, in turn, to increased susceptibility to glutamate toxicity.


This article attempts to summarise our current understanding of TSEs as they affect man. Specific aspects relevant to ophthalmological practice, in particular the management of patients in day-to-day clinical practice and with respect to corneal transplantation, have been discussed. In the companion article we discuss the specific ophthalmic and neuro-ophthalmic features of these diseases.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is primarily nonfamilial or sporadic (SAD) in origin, although several genetic linkages are reported. Tissues from AD patients contain fibrillar plaques made of 39 to 43 amino acid-long amyloid beta peptide (AbetaP), although the mechanisms of AbetaP toxicity are poorly understood. AbetaP(1-40) is the most prevalent AbetaP present in the neuronal and non-neuronal tissues from SAD patients. AbetaP(1-40) toxicity has been examined mainly after prolonged incubation and correlates with the age and fibrillar morphology of AbetaP(1-40). Globular and nonfibrillar AbetaPs are released continually during normal cellular metabolism; they elevate cellular Ca(2+) and form cation-permeable channels. However, their role in cellular toxicity is poorly understood. We have used an integrated atomic force and light fluorescence microscopy (AFM-LFM), laser confocal microscopy, and calcium imaging to examine real-time and acute effect of fresh and globular AbetaP(1-40) on cultured, aged human, AD-free fibroblasts. AFM images show that freshly prepared AbetaP(1-40) in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) are globular and do not form fiber for an extended time period. AbetaP(1-40) induced rapid structural modifications, including cytoskeletal reorganization, retraction of cellular processes, and loss of cell-cell contacts, within minutes of incubation. This led to eventual cellular degeneration. AbetaP(1-40)-induced degeneration was prevented by anti-AbetaP antibody, zinc, and Tris, but not by tachykinin neuropeptides. In Ca(2+)-free extracellular medium, AbetaP(1-40) did not induce cellular degeneration. In the presence of extracellular Ca(2+), AbetaP(1-40) induced a sustained increase in the cellular Ca(2+). Thus, short-term and acute AbetaP(1-40) toxicity is mediated by Ca(2+) uptake, most likely via calcium-permeable AbetaP pores. Such rapid degeneration does not require fibrillar plaques, suggesting that the plaques may not have any causative role.
Amyloid beta peptides (AbetaP) deposit as plaques in vascular and parenchymal areas of Alzheimer's disease (AD) tissues and Down's syndrome patients. Although neuronal toxicity is a feature of late stages of AD, vascular pathology appears to be a feature of all stages of AD. Globular and nonfibrillar AbetaPs are continuously released during normal cellular metabolism, form calcium-permeable channels, and alter cellular calcium level. We used atomic force microscopy, laser confocal microscopy, and calcium imaging to examine the real-time and acute effects of fresh and globular AbetaP(1-42), AbetaP(1-40), and AbetaP(25-35) on cultured endothelial cells. AbetaPs induced morphological changes that were observed within minutes after AbetaP treatment and led to eventual cellular degeneration. Cellular morphological changes were most sensitive to AbetaP(1-42). AbetaP(1-42)-induced morphological changes were observed at nanomolar concentrations and were accompanied by an elevated cellular calcium level. Morphological changes were prevented by anti-AbetaP antibody, AbetaP-channel antagonist zinc, and the removal of extracellular calcium, but not by tachykinin neuropeptide, voltage-sensitive calcium channel blocker cadmium, or antioxidants DTT and Trolox. Thus, nanomolar fresh and globular AbetaP(1-42) induces rapid cellular degeneration by elevating intracellular calcium, most likely via calcium-permeable AbetaP channels and not by its interaction with membrane receptors or by activating oxidative pathways. Such rapid degeneration also suggests that the plaques, and especially fibrillar AbetaPs, may not have a direct causative role in AD pathogenic cascades.
The aim of this essay is to retell the life and work of philosopher and psychiatrist Gustav Wilhelm Strring (1860-1946) during his early years in Leipzig and Erdmannshain. His &quot;Lectures on Psychopathology and its Impact on Normal Psychology&quot;, written 100 years ago, are acknowledged as his most important work. With this book Strring stands in opposition to many of his contemporaries, which is illustrated with his concept of mania. In some aspects, however, his ideas coincide with those of other well-known psychiatrists such as Emil Kraepelin. Both were inclined to the idea that psychiatry and psychology could mutually stimulate each other. Strring's work in Wundt's laboratory of experimental psychology had a major impact on his work. Wundt's ideas gave impetus to a lot of his work and also influenced papers Strring was to write later on. Strring's biography is followed until 1902 when he was appointed professor of philosophy of Zurich University, in which his friend Ernst Meumann was substantially involved. In Leipzig Strring had started his work as Flechsig's assistant at the hospital of psychiatry and neurology of Leipzig University. In 1897 he founded his own sanitarium for mentally and neurologically ill in Erdmannshain, a village near Leipzig, which he managed together with his wife Marie, ne Bonacker. With the help of Wundt Strring qualifies as a university lecturer. During the years regarded here, however, he got more and more attracted to philosophical matters, thus turning away from neurosciences. In time he started to regard his work as physician as nothing more than necessary for making his living. His relationship with Wundt, who together with his laboratory of experimental psychology had previously made him wish to come to Leipzig, cooled down, at least on the part of the first. That puts an end to Strring's early years not only from the point of view of his biography but also from his work.
Cerebral ischemic disease often causes morbidity and mortality, while the induction of new blood vessels is expected to provide a therapeutic effect in this occlusive cerebrovascular disease. In this study, we utilized two replication-deficient adenoviral vectors containing cDNA from basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), a well-known angiogenic factor, and examined whether biological angiogenic activity of adenovirally gene-transferred bFGF could be observed in the rat brain. One vector contained native cDNA from bFGF without the secretory signal sequence and the other contained the same cDNA fused with an interleukin-2 secretory signal sequence. After ventricular administration of these viral vectors, gene-transferred cells demonstrated a high immunoreactivity against the anti-bFGF antibody and a remarkably high concentration of bFGF was detected in the cerebrospinal fluid. A semiquantitative analysis of angiogenic activity revealed that bFGF gene transfer induced angiogenesis in normal rat brains, with a more pronounced angiogenic effect seen with the vector of a secreted form than with the vector without a secretory signal sequence. These results suggest that bFGF gene transfer using these adenoviral vectors might be useful for the treatment of ischemic cerebrovascular disease.
The galactolipids galactocerebroside and sulfatide, which require the enzyme UDP-galactose:ceramide galactosyltransferase (CGT) for their synthesis, are among the most prevalent molecules in the myelin sheath. Numerous studies, mainly using antibody perturbation methods in vitro, have suggested that these molecules are crucial mediators of oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelin formation. Although we have previously demonstrated that myelin formation occurs in CGT null mutant mice, which are incapable of synthesizing the myelin galactolipids, here we show that there are developmental alterations in the CNS of these animals. There is a significant decrease in the number of myelinated axon segments in the mutant spinal cord despite normal levels of myelin gene-specific mRNAs and proteins. Also, there is an increased cellularity in the mature mutant spinal cord and the distinctive morphology of the additional cells suggests that they are actively myelinating oligodendrocytes. Using in situ hybridization techniques, we show that there is a 50% increase in the number of oligodendrocytes in the mutant spinal cord. The data suggest that galactolipids play an important developmental role in regulating the maturation program and final number of oligodendrocytes.
The purpose of the present study was to determine if the synaptic terminals and nerve fibers in the gerbil cochlea fall into morphologically and spatially classified groups. In cats and guinea pigs, these groups, based on size, location on inner hair cell (IHC) and stratification within the osseous spiral lamina, have been found to correlate with spontaneous rate, threshold sensitivity and projection pattern to the cochlear nucleus. Thus, there may be anatomical data to suggest mechanisms for intensity coding of different frequencies of sound. Afferent nerve terminals contacting IHCs in the gerbil cochlea were analyzed with regard to size and location. Data were obtained from serial thin sections (700 for each IHC) cut perpendicular to the long axis of eight IHCs (two apical and two basal IHCs from two cochleas), observed and photographed using a transmission electron microscope. Results indicate that the percentage of modiolar versus pillar-side terminals around each IHC varies from cell to cell. In some cases, the smallest fibers were located on the modiolar side, but a consistent distribution of the smallest fibers on this side of the cell was not characteristic. While a size-based segregation of terminals does not appear around the perimeter of the IHC, modest size-based segregation of nerve fibers is found in the osseous spiral lamina. Perimeter measurements were made from myelinated fibers cut in cross-section, obtained from semi-thin sections in the distal (near the IHCs) and proximal (near the spiral ganglion) regions of the osseous spiral lamina. Best-fit line analysis indicates there is a modest nerve fiber size/vertical organization along the scala tympani/scala vestibuli (SV) axis of the nerve bundles within the osseous spiral lamina such that more of the smaller perimeter fibers are located on the SV side and more of the larger perimeter fibers are located on the ST side. Our data for terminals at the IHC are different from those seen in the cat; our data for nerve fibers in the osseous spiral lamina support those seen in the cat and guinea pig.
Head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) are direction-specific acoustic filters formed by the head, the pinnae and the ear canals. They can be used to assess acoustical cues available for sound localization and to construct virtual auditory environments. We measured the HRTFs of three anesthetized Rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) from 591 locations in the frontal hemisphere ranging from -90 degrees (left) to 90 degrees (right) in azimuth and -60 degrees (down) to 90 degrees (up) in elevation for frequencies between 0.5 and 15 kHz. Acoustic validation of the HRTFs shows good agreement between free field and virtual sound sources. Monaural spectra exhibit deep notches at frequencies above 9 kHz, providing putative cues for elevation discrimination. Interaural level differences (ILDs) and interaural time differences (ITDs) generally vary monotonically with azimuth between 0.5 and 8 kHz, suggesting that these two cues can be used to discriminate azimuthal position. Comparison with published subsets of HRTFs from squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) shows good agreement. Comparison with published human HRTFs from the frontal hemisphere demonstrates overall similarity in the patterns of ILD and ITD, suggesting that the Rhesus monkey is a good acoustic model for these two sound localization cues in humans. Finally, the measured ITDs in the horizontal plane agree well between -40 degrees and 40 degrees in azimuth with those calculated from a spherical head model with a radius of 52 mm, one-half the interaural distance of the monkey.
Eating and drinking are motivated behaviors that are made up of coordinated sets of neuroendocrine, autonomic, and behavioral motor events. Although the spinal cord, hindbrain, and hypothalamus contain the motor neurons and circuitry sufficient to maintain the reflex parts of these motor events, inputs from the telencephalon are required to furnish the behavioral components with a motivated (goal-directed) character. Each of these motor events derives from the complex interaction of a variety of sensory inputs with groups of neural networks whose components are distributed throughout the brain and collectively support motor expression and coordination. At a first approximation based on a variety of data, these networks can be divided into three groups: networks that stimulate, those that inhibit, and those that disinhibit motor functions. A fourth contributor is the circadian timing signal that originates in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus and provides the temporal anchor for the expression of all behaviors. This article discusses the nature of these networks using neuroanatomical (tract-tracing and neuropeptide in situ hybridization), endocrine, and behavioral evidence from a variety of experimental models. A persistent problem when studying the control of food intake from a neural systems perspective has been the difficulty in separating those neuronal changes that result in hunger from those that are as a consequence of eating. To address this problem, dehydration-associated anorexia is presented as a particularly useful experimental model because it can be used to distinguish between neural mechanisms underlying anorexia and those changes that occur as a consequence of anorexia. The article concludes by highlighting the potential role of neuropeptidergic action in the operation of these networks, using forebrain neuropeptidergic innervation of the parabrachial nucleus as an example.
The aim of this study was to explore the developmental character of neurons from dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of embryonic chicken in vitro. The DRG neurons of Hamburger stage 35 were cultured and prepared at 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 14 and 21 days respectively. The number of neuronal survival was counted at each cultured stage (observed area: 2.5 x 10(5) microns 2) and the morphological change of neurons in vitro was observed and compared with that of neurons in vivo. The results showed the counts of neuronal survival were 94 +/- 4, 83 +/- 6, 67 +/- 4, 65 +/- 7, 68 +/- 5, 71 +/- 9, 73 +/- 6, 22 +/- 4, and 0 respectively; the cultured neuronal shape during 48 h incubation was mainly oval or sphere, similar to that of neurons in vivo. However, the shape of some neurons changed into cone or shuttle after three days incubation, while the neuronal shape in vivo did not change. These findings indicate that only some of neurons can survive and grow and the lifetime is limited in vitro, on the other hand, the developmental character of neurons in vitro may be different from that of neurons in vivo.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that the extract from dorsal horn of embryonic chicken can promote apparently the neurite growth of spinal ganglion during development. In this study, we investigated progressively the neurotrophic factors for primary sensory neurons in spinal dorsal horn. The tissues of spinal dorsal horn from five hundred Hamburger Stage-40 embryonic chickens were taken. After homogenization and centrifugation, the supernatant was subjected to SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) for analyzing the protein in dorsal horn. The simple protein band fishing by cell (SPBFC) technique was employed in finding the protein bands with neurons attached, and then such protein bands, were taken and transferred to nitric cellulose paper for Western hybridization analysis by antibody for NGF, BDNF, NT-3 and GDNF respectively. The results of SPBFC showed that some neurons were attached to gel within the scope of mobility relative front (Rf) 0.10-0.19, 0.30-0.35, 0.50-0.55, 0.60-0.67 and 0.90-0.94 respectively, indicating there were some neurotrophic factors for maintaining neuron survival in the above Rf scope. Moreover, the result of Western hybridization showed that the positive hybridization bands in each scope were that of NGF, BDNF, GDNF; NGF, BDNF, NT-3; NGF, BDNF, NT-3; NGF, NT-3 and BDNF, NT-3 respectively; indicating that the neurotrophic effect of spinal dorsal horn tissue on primary sensory neurons involves NGF, BDNF, NT-3 and GDNF. These also suggest that the neuronal survival effect in each Rf scope involves at least two or more neurotrophic factors.
Although much has been learned about the functional organization of the human brain through lesion-deficit analysis, the variety of statistical and image-processing methods developed for this purpose precludes a closed-form analysis of the statistical power of these systems. Therefore, we developed a lesion-deficit simulator (LDS), which generates artificial subjects, each of which consists of a set of functional deficits, and a brain image with lesions; the deficits and lesions conform to predefined distributions. We used probability distributions to model the number, sizes, and spatial distribution of lesions, to model the structure-function associations, and to model registration error. We used the LDS to evaluate, as examples, the effects of the complexities and strengths of lesion-deficit associations, and of registration error, on the power of lesion-deficit analysis. We measured the numbers of recovered associations from these simulated data, as a function of the number of subjects analyzed, the strengths and number of associations in the statistical model, the number of structures associated with a particular function, and the prior probabilities of structures being abnormal. The number of subjects required to recover the simulated lesion-deficit associations was found to have an inverse relationship to the strength of associations, and to the smallest probability in the structure-function model. The number of structures associated with a particular function (i.e., the complexity of associations) had a much greater effect on the performance of the analysis method than did the total number of associations. We also found that registration error of 5 mm or less reduces the number of associations discovered by approximately 13% compared to perfect registration. The LDS provides a flexible framework for evaluating many aspects of lesion-deficit analysis.
ERPs were recorded from 12 subjects performing duration and intensity visual discrimination tasks which have been previously used in a PET study. PET data showed that the same network was activated in both tasks [P. Maquet et al., NeuroImage 3:119-126, 1996]. Different ERP waveforms were observed for the late latency components depending on the dimension of the stimulus to be processed: frontal negativity (CNV) for the duration task and parieto-occipital positivity (P300) for the intensity task. Using BESA software, the sources were first modelled with a &quot;PET dipolar model&quot; (right prefrontal, right parietal, anterior cingulate, left and right fusiforms). To obtain a better fit for ERPs recorded in each task, two sources (cuneus, left prefrontal area) had to be added. Consistently with PET findings, dipole modelling indicates that duration and intensity dimensions of a visual stimulus are processed in the same areas. However, ERPs also reveal prominent differences between the time course of the dipole activations for each task, particularly for sources contributing to the late latency ERP components. In the intensity task, dipoles located in the cuneus, the anterior cingulate, and the left prefrontal area yield largest activity within the P300 interval, then activity diminishes rapidly as the stimulus ends, whereas in the duration task, the cuneus and anterior cingulate are still active several hundred milliseconds following stimulus offset. Moreover, in the duration task, the activity of the right frontal dipole parallels the CNV waveform, whereas in the intensity task, this dipole is largely inactive. We assume that the right frontal area plays a specific role in the formation of temporal judgments.
We identified a novel nonsense CLN2 mutation (Q509X) in three Italian children with classical late-infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (LINCL) from two unrelated families. The mutation introduced a premature stop codon in exon 12 of the CLN2 gene, resulting in a protein lacking the last 54 residues. Haplotype analysis suggested independent origin of the mutation in our families. The protein truncation test was employed to verify the functional consequences of the novel Q509X mutation. In Patient 1, the mutant alleles were transcribed but translated in a shorted peptide suggesting that the Q509X mutation is likely to interfere with CLN2p function. While expanding the list of genetic variants in LINCL, our findings represent the first molecular characterization of LINCL patients in South Europe.
Esteve is developing E-5842, a sigma1 opioid receptor ligand, as a potential therapy for psychosis. It has completed phase I trials [344879,346244]. As of May 1999, the site and protocol for phase II schizophrenia trials in the UK had been finalized and these were scheduled to begin shortly thereafter, with results likely to be available by the end of 2000 [365516]. E-5842 acted as an atypical antipsychotic in preclinical neurochemical and behavioral tests. Both acute (40 mg/kg ip for 2 h) and chronic (20 mg/kg ip daily for 21 days) administration of E-5842 increased PLC activity and the drug may thus achieve its antipsychotic effects via a signalling pathway involving phosphoinositide second messengers [336324]. E-5842 has a K(i) value of 4 nM at the sigma receptor [306875]. It blocks apomorphine-induced climbing, and antagonizes amphetamine-induced locomotor activity in mice [271405].
The time-frequency characteristics of synaptic potentials contain valuable information about the process of neurotransmission between nerves and their target organs. For example, at the synapse between autonomic nerves and smooth muscle, two central issues of neurophysiology, i.e., 1) the probability of neurotransmitter release and 2) the quantal behavior of transmission can be deduced from analysis of the rising phases of evoked excitatory junction potentials (eEJP's) recorded from smooth muscle. eEJP rising phases are marked by prominent inflexions, which reflect these features of neuronal activity. Since these inflexions contain time-varying frequency information, we have applied recent techniques of time-frequency analysis based upon wavelet transforms to eEJP's recorded from the guinea-pig vas deferens in vitro. We find that these techniques allow accurate and convenient characterization of neuronal release sites, and that their probability of release falls between 0.001-0.004. We have also analyzed eEJP's recorded in the presence of the chemical 1-heptanol, which reveals quantal depolarizations. These results have helped clarify the nature of the quantal depolarizations that underly eEJP's. The present method offers significant advantages over those previously employed for these tasks, and holds promise as a novel approach to the analysis of synaptic potentials.
Pleural malignant mesothelioma (MM) shows poor survival, regardless of tumour stage at diagnosis. MM is unresponsive to present treatment regimens and new protocols are desperately needed. The localised nature, the potential accessibility, and the relative lack of distant metastases make MM a particularly attractive candidate for somatic gene therapy. A common target for cancer gene therapy is the tumour suppressor protein p53. p53 does not seem to be mutated or deleted in MM, but it can be inactivated by binding to other proteins, like mdm2 and SV40 large T antigen. We tested the effects of a replication-deficient adenoviral vector carrying wild-type p53 cDNA in human MM cells. Our results show that &gt;95% of MM cells were efficiently infected with 25 multiplicity of infection (MOI) of vector. Wild-type p53 was effectively expressed resulting in &gt;80% inhibition of proliferation in MM cells. AdCMV.p53 infection induced apoptosis while controls did not show any evident morphological alterations. Ex vivo p53 gene transfer experiments inhibited tumourigenesis in nude mice. In vivo, direct intratumour injection of AdCMV.p53 arrested tumour growth and prolonged survival of treated mice. These results indicate that p53-gene therapy should be strongly exploited for clinical trials in MM patients.
The goal of this study was to investigate habituation processes in the brain, and in particular, to identify the brain structures involved in these processes. Therefore, event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded in response to a series of repeated, task-irrelevant, salient stimuli presented against the background of a cognitive task which required the subjects to attend to a fixation sign on a TV screen. Stimuli were presented randomly in one of four possible quadrants of the TV screen. Dipole analyses were performed in order to localize the source of stimulus repetition effects (habituation). As expected, there was a decrease in amplitude of the N1 and P3 components as a function of stimulus repetition; habituation of N1 occurred faster than that of the P3 component. It is suggested from the results of dipole analyses that the N1 effect concerns diffuse cortical activation. The P3 habituation effect seemed to involve the temporal cortex especially.

Significant confusion exists in the literature about functional status. Despite its importance, little attention has focused on developing and substantiating frameworks that detail the underpinnings of functional status, which has resulted in lack of agreement about its definition and dimensions. The purpose of this literature review was to examine the development of functional status and to describe the inclusion of its cognitive dimension. Cognition is one key dimension of functional status. One must 'know how' to perform to be successful in an activity. While cognitive capacity is generally considered in relation to functional status, the nature of the cognitive dimension is poorly described and poorly understood. Three databases were selected for review: Citations in Nursing and Allied Health (CINAHL), Psychology Literature (PsychLit), and the Medical data base known as MedLine. Key word searches identified thousands of sources. This analysis includes an extensive sampling of these sources from the 1960s through to 1998. The sources sorted into four primary categories and demonstrate a growing recognition of the cognitive dimension of functional status in the literature. Despite this recognition, the lack of conceptual clarity of both the term functional status and its cognitive dimension limits communication among disciplines and limits comparisons of functional status outcomes across studies. Functional status models are needed that include cognition as a core dimension. Population specific descriptions of the cognitive dimension should be guided by knowledge in the neurosciences.


Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been intensively studied for decades, but why has its common pathological cause remained so enigmatic? Our studies have suggested that plaques and tangles occur spontaneously during aging as a result of a natural decline of energy metabolism and Ca2+ signaling, but not necessarily due to conventional pathogens. This view would lead to an unexpected outcome; that is, natural aging plays a more important role in neurodegeneration than is currently recognized. Does this model over-simplify the disease origin? We know that AD-type neurodegeneration typically occurs at the end stages of life when not only do plaques and tangles appear, but also many other bodily changes as well (bone loss and skin wrinkling, etc). Neurodegeneration differs from the latter changes mainly by &quot;social&quot; consequences, not by &quot;physiological&quot; origin. If neurodegeneration is a natural event, then why do only some people, but not others, develop AD? Obviously, additional factors are required for neurodegeneration to develop into AD. By comparing current models and ruling out other possibilities, we think that several known &quot;risk factors&quot; most likely play a critical role in the late-onset sporadic AD. These risk factors can exert their effects either by providing the conditions for ailing neurons to die (extended longevity and sedentary lifestyle), or by enhancing the individual's &quot;vulnerability&quot; to natural neurodegeneration (low synapse reserve). In this context, late-onset sporadic AD would be similar to many other age-related conditions where perhaps no single pathogen can be held exclusively responsible for most cases; rather, many risk factors are important to allow the initial defect to turn into clinical diseases. Accordingly, these factors should be the primary targets for AD prevention. Yet, some other AD cases, especially the early-onset ones, may be complicated by the concomitant involvement of other diseases in the brain.

Elevated vascular (VSMC) and bladder smooth muscle (BSMC) NGF are associated with altered visceral innervation in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR: hypertensive, behaviorally hyperactive) compared with control Wistar-Kyotos (WKYs). Stretch stimulates increased NGF production in BSMCs. To elucidate whether stretch induces NGF synthesis in VSMCs, and to determine if disturbances in stretch-mediated NGF production contribute to the elevated tissue levels of NGF in SHRs, we subjected VSMCs and BSMCs cultured from four established inbred rat strains (WKY, WKHA: hyperactive; SHR and WKHT: hypertensive) to several stretch paradigms. For VSMCs, acute and cyclic stretch affected cells derived from hypertensive rats (80-100% increase over control) but not from normotensive strains. For BSMCs, cyclic and static stretch increased NGF secretion in all four strains, but had a two- to threefold greater effect in cells from SHRs and WKHTs (increase up to 600%) at early time points. At later time points of a 24-h experimental period, stretch increased NGF output up to 400% in SHR and WKHA cultures. Thus, defects that influence early induction of stretch-mediated SHR NGF secretion cosegregate with the hypertensive phenotype. Stretch-gated ion channel inhibitors, voltage-gated ion channel inhibitors, and protease inhibitors failed to affect stretch-induced BSMC NGF secretion. In contrast, gene transcription, intracellular calcium, protein kinase C (PKC), and autocrine release of an unknown factor may play a role in the elevated NGF secretion observed in smooth muscle from hypertensive animals. Altered stretch-induced smooth muscle NGF secretion may contribute to the augmented vascular and bladder NGF content associated with high blood pressure and hyperactive voiding in SHRs.
The expression of neuron-type glutamate transporters (EAAC-1), AMPA glutamate receptor subunits (GluR1 and GluR2/3), polyadenosine (5'diphosphate-ribose) polymerase (PARP), and transforming growth factor-beta1 was investigated in 20 cases of neonatal pontosubicular neuron necrosis and 12 gestational-age matched controls. Developmental immunoreactivities of EAAC-1, GluR1, and GluR2/3 appeared in the neurons of the pontine nuclei at 29 to 30 weeks' gestation in controls, and then gradually increased with age. However, these activities were decreased in the pontine nucleus of patients with pontosubicular neuron necrosis. Decreases in these immunoreactivities might indicate early degeneration of neurons. Although PARP and transforming growth factor-beta1 immunoreactivity was insignificant or very weak in the pontine nuclei at any age in controls, PARP was markedly expressed in karyorrhectic neurons of the pontine nucleus in patients with pontosubicular neuron necrosis. Transforming growth factor-beta1 immunoreactivity was observed in nonkaryorrhectic neurons of the pontine nuclei. PARP could contribute to the pathogenesis of pontosubicular neuron necrosis more than EAAC-1 or GluR1 or GluR2/3. Transforming growth factor-beta1 could play a role in the protection and repair of damaged neurons.
The highly effective psychopharmacologist will develop the habit of &quot;sharpening the saw&quot; by clever selection of unbiased and efficient CME programs that incorporate the most thoughtful applications of the principles of adult education to enhance retention rates after a single exposure.
Course directors of the seventeen neuroscience courses offered in U.S. dental schools were surveyed. Information was obtained about the course organization, topics covered, and the amount of didactic and nondidactic instruction for sixteen neuroscience courses, which included four courses that combined medical and dental student instruction. The courses averaged 51.4 contact hours with a range of 11 to 110 hours. Approximately 75 percent of time was for didactic instruction. Most courses emphasized neuroanatomy, electrochemical cell signaling, and the somatic sensory system, including specific lectures on pain sensation. The majority of courses also included several lectures on topics dealing with motor control and the limbic and the autonomic systems, whereas limited time was allocated to topics concerned with higher cortical functions. The nondidactic instruction typically included neuroanatomy laboratories and group discussions of the relation between lesions of sensory and motor pathways and neurological signs. The establishment of guidelines for neuroscience could encourage dental schools to provide a strong basic science foundation in neuroscience.
During the last decade the use of herbal medicinal substances in the attenuation of anterograde and retrograde amnesia induced by electroconvulsive shock (ECS) has been studied using animal research. We will discuss the background of herbal medicine in India, review the research findings on herbal medicines for ECS-induced amnestic deficits, and examine the applications and limitations of animal models in this context. We will focus on our own research and insights, with particular emphasis on practical issues.
This study examined the effect of stimulus conditions on rate pressure product (RPP) during ECT. Seizure duration as well as baseline, ictal, and postictal RPP were recorded in 28 patients who received ECT under four stimulus conditions (unilateral threshold, unilateral suprathreshold, bilateral threshold, and bilateral suprathreshold). Seizure duration did not differ between the stimulus conditions. RPP significantly rose from baseline under every stimulus condition. Both ictal and postictal RPP values were different between stimulus conditions (one-way repeated-measure analysis of variance). Pair-wise comparisons showed that unilateral threshold ECT produced significantly lower RPP than unilateral suprathreshold and bilateral suprathreshold ECT conditions. The selective differences in RPP during ECT as well as their correspondence with the known therapeutic potency of ECT under these stimulus conditions suggest that RPP may be a potential index of ECT's therapeutic potency.
A member of a new photopigment family first isolated from teleost fish, vertebrate ancient (VA) opsin, has recently been shown to form a functional photopigment and to be expressed within a subset of horizontal and amacrine cells of the inner retina. These sites of expression (and structural features) of VA opsin suggest that this photopigment might mediate non-image-forming light-detection tasks. We attempted to gain support for this hypothesis by examining the expression of VA opsin within the central nervous system (CNS) (pineal and deep brain) of the Atlantic salmon Salmo salar. In addition, we examined the sites of rod-opsin, cone-opsin and &amp;agr; -transducin expression within the salmon CNS to provide a more complete description of the extraretinal photoreceptors of a teleost vertebrate. We show that multiple populations of cells within the salmon CNS appear to contain photoreceptors: VA opsin was strongly expressed in the pineal organ and in bilateral columns of subependymal cells in the epithalamus; anti-cone-opsin antibodies labelled cells within the pineal and numerous cells in the anterior hypothalamus (suprachiasmatic nucleus, nucleus preopticus magnocellularis, nucleus preopticus parvocellularis); anti-rod-opsin antibodies labelled cells within the pineal but no other areas within the central brain; and anti- &amp;agr; -transducin antibodies labelled cells within the pineal and the ventral telencephalon. Collectively, our results suggest that VA opsin is a photopigment specialised for irradiance detection tasks within the eye, pineal and central brain, and that the salmon has multiple and varied populations of photoreceptors within the CNS. We review the significance of these findings within the broad context of vertebrate extraretinal photoreception.
This study traces developmental changes in automatic and intentional processing of Arabic numerals using a numerical-Stroop paradigm. In Study 1, university students compared the numerical or physical size of Arabic numerals varying along both dimensions. In Study 2, first graders (mean age = 6 years 6 months), third graders (mean age = 8 years 4 months), and fifth graders (mean age = 10 years 3 months) were tested to examine developmental changes in numerical and physical comparisons. In the numerical comparison task, a size congruity effect was found at all ages (i.e., relative to a neutral control, congruent physical sizes facilitated, and incongruent sizes interfered with, the numerical comparison). The pattern of facilitation and interference, however, was modulated by age. In the physical comparison task, the incongruity between physical and numerical size affected only older children and adults. These findings strongly suggest that the automatization in number processing is achieved gradually as numerical skills progress.
Olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) from the squid, Lolliguncula brevis, respond to the odors l-glutamate or dopamine with increases in internal Ca(2+) concentrations ([Ca(2+)](i)). To directly asses the effects of increasing [Ca(2+)](i) in perforated-patched squid ORNs, we applied 10 mM caffeine to release Ca(2+) from internal stores. We observed an inward current response to caffeine. Monovalent cation replacement of Na(+) from the external bath solution completely and selectively inhibited the caffeine-induced response, and ruled out the possibility of a Ca(2+)-dependent nonselective cation current. The strict dependence on internal Ca(2+) and external Na(+) indicated that the inward current was due to an electrogenic Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger. Block of the caffeine-induced current by an inhibitor of Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange (50-100 microM 2',4'-dichlorobenzamil) and reversibility of the exchanger current, further confirmed its presence. We tested whether Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange contributed to odor responses by applying the aquatic odor l-glutamate in the presence and absence of 2', 4'-dichlorobenzamil. We found that electrogenic Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange was responsible for approximately 26% of the total current associated with glutamate-induced odor responses. Although Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers are known to be present in ORNs from numerous species, this is the first work to demonstrate amplifying contributions of the exchanger current to odor transduction.

The synthetic opioid peptide analog Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-N-methyl-Phe-Gly-ol (DAMGO), which is a mu opioid receptor-selective agonist, was quantified in ovine plasma samples with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOFMS), using delayed extraction and a reflectron. The internal standard was pentadeuterated DAMGO. Timed-ion selection was used to select the precursor ion. The analysis of the post-source decay fragments improved the detection sensitivity, and the use of the precursor-product ion relationship optimized the specificity. For plasma samples, the inter-assay variability of this method was 6.4% (n = 79) and the intra-assay variability was 6.0% (n = 10). The variability for controls was 3.4% (n = 43). The profile of DAMGO amount versus time was determined in sheep plasma, and the corresponding pharmacokinetic data were calculated.
Second-generation methods for docking ligands into their biological receptors, such as FLOG, provide for flexibility of the ligand but not of the receptor. Molecular dynamics based methods, such as free energy perturbation, account for flexibility, solvent effects, etc., but are very time consuming. We combined the use of statistical analysis of conformational samples from short-run protein molecular dynamics with grid-based docking protocols and demonstrated improved performance in two test cases. Our statistical analysis explores the importance of the average strength of a potential interaction with the biological target and optionally applies a weighting depending on the variability in the strength of the interaction seen during dynamics simulation. Using these methods, we improved the num-top-ranked 10% of a database of drug-like molecules, in searches based on the three-dimensional structure of the protein. These methods are able to match the ability of manual docking to assess likely inactivity on steric grounds and indeed to rank order ligands from a homologous series of cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors with good correlation to their true activity. Furthermore, these methods reduce the need for human intervention in setting up molecular docking experiments.
Carbon nanotubes are strong, flexible, conduct electrical current, and can be functionalized with different molecules, properties that may be useful in basic and applied neuroscience research. We report the first application of carbon nanotube technology to neuroscience research. Methods were developed for growing embryonic rat-brain neurons on multiwalled carbon nanotubes. On unmodified nanotubes, neurons extend only one or two neurites, which exhibit very few branches. In contrast, neurons grown on nanotubes coated with the bioactive molecule 4-hydroxynonenal elaborate multiple neurites, which exhibit extensive branching. These findings establish the feasability of using nanotubes as substrates for nerve cell growth and as probes of neuronal function at the nanometer scale.
Recently, researchers have discovered that individuals who are consistent timers in a tapping task are not necessarily consistent timers when they perform a continuous drawing task. In other words, nonsignificant correlations were found among tapping and drawing movements for timing precision (S. D. Robertson et al., 1999). In the present experiment, the authors investigated whether or not consistency in timing for tapping and drawing was correlated when participants (N = 24) were allowed to move at their preferred rate of movement. There were no significant correlations between tapping and drawing in terms of timing precision. That result lends further support to the notion that timing behavior is specific to the nature of the task, and thus further weakens the idea that timing is a generalized ability that can be imposed on a variety of different types of tasks.
We examined the effects of acute and chronic psychogenic stress on the activation pattern of enkephalin-containing perikarya in the rat ventrolateral medulla. Rats allocated to the chronic stress groups were subjected to 90 min of immobilization for 10 days. On the 11th day, the chronically stressed rats were exposed to homotypic (90-min immobilization) or to heterotypic but still psychogenic (90-min immobilization coupled to air jet stress) stress. The acute stress group was subjected once to an acute 90-min immobilization. For each group, the rats were anesthetized either before stress (time 0) or 90, 180, and 270 min after the onset of stress. Brain sections were then processed using immunocytochemistry (Fos protein) followed by radioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry (enkephalin mRNA). Following immobilization, the acute group displayed a marked increase in the number of activated enkephalin-containing perikarya within the paragigantocellularis and lateral reticular nuclei. This level of activation was sustained up to 180 min following the onset of the immobilization stress and had returned to baseline levels by 270 min from the initiation of the stress. However, this stress-induced activation of enkephalin-containing perikarya of the ventrolateral medulla was not seen following either homotypic or heterotypic stress in the chronically stressed group. These results provide evidence that enkephalin-containing perikarya of the ventrolateral medulla may constitute a potential circuit through which they regulate some aspect of the stress responses. Conversely, this enkephalinergic influence from the ventrolateral medulla was shown to be absent following chronic stress exposure. This would suggest a decrease in enkephalin inhibitory input originating from the ventrolateral medulla, thereby allowing a neuroendocrine and/or autonomic response to chronic stress.
The activity of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of dopamine, is stimulated by phosphorylation. In this study, we examined the effects of activation of NMDA receptors on the state of phosphorylation and activity of tyrosine hydroxylase in rat striatal slices. NMDA produced a time-and concentration-dependent increase in the levels of phospho-Ser(19)-tyrosine hydroxylase in nigrostriatal nerve terminals. This increase was not associated with any changes in the basal activity of tyrosine hydroxylase, measured as DOPA accumulation. Forskolin, an activator of adenylyl cyclase, stimulated tyrosine hydroxylase phosphorylation at Ser(40) and caused a significant increase in DOPA accumulation. NMDA reduced forskolin-mediated increases in both Ser(40) phosphorylation and DOPA accumulation. In addition, NMDA reduced the increase in phospho-Ser(40)-tyrosine hydroxylase produced by okadaic acid, an inhibitor of protein phosphatase 1 and 2A, but not by a cyclic AMP analogue, 8-bromo-cyclic AMP. These results indicate that, in the striatum, glutamate decreases tyrosine hydroxylase phosphorylation at Ser(40) via activation of NMDA receptors by reducing cyclic AMP production. They also provide a mechanism for the demonstrated ability of NMDA to decrease tyrosine hydroxylase activity and dopamine synthesis.
The CNS is enriched in phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PLC) and in the G proteins linked to its activation. Although the regional distributions of these signaling components within the brain have been determined, neither their cell type-specific localizations (i.e., neuronal versus glial) nor the functional significance of their high expression has been definitively established. In this study, we have examined the expression of phosphoinositide signaling proteins in human NT2-N cells, a well characterized model system for CNS neurons. Retinoic acid-mediated differentiation of NT2 precursor cells to the neuronal phenotype resulted in five- to 15-fold increases in the expression of PLC-beta1, PLC-beta4, and Galpha(q/11) (the prime G protein activator of these isozymes). In contrast, the expression of PLC-beta3 and PLC-gamma1 was markedly reduced following neuronal differentiation. Similar alterations in cell morphology and in the expression of PLC-beta1, PLC-beta3, and Galpha(q/11) expression were observed when NT2 cells were differentiated with berberine, a compound structurally unrelated to retinoic acid. NT2-N neurons exhibited a significantly higher rate of phosphoinositide hydrolysis than NT2 precursor cells in response to direct activation of either G proteins or PLC. These results indicate that neuronal differentiation of NT2 cells is associated with dramatic changes in the expression of proteins of the phosphoinositide signaling system and that, accordingly, differentiated NT2-N neurons possess an increased ability to hydrolyze inositol lipids.
In a previous study using corticosterone treatment of adrenalectomized rats, we hypothesized that mineralocorticoid receptor (MR)-related mechanisms are constitutively active and that glucocorticoid receptor (GR)-mediated mechanisms are more efficient in Brown Norway rats compared to Fischer 344 (F344) rats. In order to discriminate the mineralocorticoid from the glucocorticoid actions exerted by corticosterone, F344 and Brown Norway adrenalectomized rats were treated with increasing doses (1, 5 and 25 microg/ml of drinking water) of deoxycorticosterone (DOC, MR-specific ligand) or RU 28362 (GR-specific ligand). These rats were compared with long-term adrenalectomized (ADX) untreated rats and sham-ADX rats. This study confirms our previous results, notably the lack of effect of ADX on body weight and fluid intake in Brown Norway rats. Moreover, DOC treatment had no effect in Brown Norway rats whereas the higher dose restored fluid intake of the F344 ADX group to sham values. These results support the hypothesis of a constitutive activation of the MR and therefore the insensitivity of this receptor to its ligand in Brown Norway rats. Alternatively, RU 28362 treatment induced greater weight loss, decrease in food intake, anxiolysis, thymus involution, and decrease in plasma transcortin concentration and pituitary corticosteroid receptor densities in Brown Norway rats than in F344 rats, which is consistent with greater efficiency of GR mechanisms in Brown Norway rats than in F344 rats. Therefore, these strains are of great utility to disentangle MR and GR effects on complex phenotypes.
The impact of glucocorticoids on beta-amyloid(1-42) (Abeta(1-42)) and NMDA-induced neurodegeneration was investigated in vivo. Abeta(1-42) or NMDA was injected into the cholinergic magnocellular nucleus basalis in adrenalectomized (ADX) rats, ADX rats supplemented with 25%, 100%, 2x100% corticosterone pellets, or sham-ADX controls. Abeta(1-42)- or NMDA-induced damage of cholinergic nucleus basalis neurones was assessed by quantitative acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Plasma concentrations of corticosterone and cholinergic fibre loss after Abeta(1-42) or NMDA injection showed a clear U-shaped dose-response relationship. ADX and subsequent loss of serum corticosterone potentiated both the Abeta(1-42) and NMDA-induced neurodegeneration. ADX+25% corticosterone resulted in a 10-90 nM plasma corticosterone concentration, which significantly attenuated the Abeta(1-42) and NMDA neurotoxicity. ADX+100% corticosterone (corticosterone concentrations of 110-270 nM) potently decreased both Abeta(1-42)- and NMDA-induced neurotoxic brain damage. In contrast, high corticosterone concentrations of 310-650 nM potentiated Abeta(1-42)- and NMDA-triggered neurodegeneration. In conclusion, chronic low or high corticosterone concentrations increase the vulnerability of cholinergic cells to neurotoxic insult, while slightly elevated corticosterone levels protect against neurotoxic injury. Enhanced neurotoxicity of NMDA in the presence of high concentrations of specific glucocorticoid receptor agonists suggests that the corticosterone effects are mediated by glucocorticoid receptors.
Mycobacterium leprae antigen and antibody complexes could be detected in the serum of leprosy patients using monoclonal antibody ML34 and anti-BCG antibodies by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. This simplified system detects disease related complexes without the need for isolating and purifying them from the serum. Immune complexes captured using monoclonal antibody ML34 revealed positivity in seven out of eight neuritic, two out of nine tuberculoid (TT), five out of ten borderline tuberculoid (BT), four out of ten borderline lepromatous (BL) and four out of ten lepromatous (LL), leprosy cases. One of the controls also showed immune complex of an IgM type. Anti-BCG based IgG immune complexes assay revealed positivity in six out of eight neuritic, one out of nine TT, four out of ten BT, two out of ten BL, four out of ten LL leprosy cases, and two out of 24 healthy controls. IgM type of mycobacterial immune complexes were almost negligible. Capture of complexes using monoclonal antibody ML34 which is against lipoarabinomannan of M. leprae seems to work better than polyclonal anti-BCG antibody. The probable role of immune complexes in nerve damage needs to be evaluated, as very high levels of immune complexes are found in neuritic leprosy by both the assays. The above test would be useful in immunodiagnosis of neuritic leprosy and also in cases where antibody response is not detectable because of the formation of immune complexes.

The authors report the case of a patient with an ischemic lesion in the left midbrain. The patient presented with paresis of left inferior rectus, pupil, right superior rectus, convergence and transiently, of the left medial rectus. A lesion in the left dorsal midbrain close to the oculomotor nuclear complex, selectively involving the fascicles innervating the above muscles, is proposed. Fine magnetic resonance sections showed a consistent lesion in the left paramedian dorsal midbrain. A detailed, three-dimensional, schematic computer model of the oculomotor nucleus and fascicles was constructed. Using this model, the authors topographically validate the putative site of the lesion. The medial rectus subnucleus is divided into three subgroups, A, B, and C. Subgroup C is thought to be the site of the majority of neurons controlling convergence. In the above model, the putative lesion is closer to subgroup A than to C; this suggests that subgroup A, rather than subgroup C, may have a higher concentration of neurons involved in convergence.
A retrospective chart review was performed for identification of patients with isolated internuclear ophthalmoplegia (INO) postcardiac catheterization from two neuro-ophthalmology units. Of the 110 patients with a diagnosis of INO who were evaluated during the observation period, five patients (4.5%) demonstrated relatively isolated INO occurring in the perioperative period of a cardiac endovascular procedure. These five patients underwent diagnostic catheterization alone (three patients), balloon angioplasty (one patient), or stent placement (one patient). All patients improved, with resolution of diplopia in primary position after a mean period of 82 days. The occurrence of INO in the postcardiac catheterization setting is not uncommon, and it appears to be related to dorsal pontine ischemia. The pontomesencephalic medial longitudinal fasciculus is supplied by small-caliber perforating end-arteries from the basilar trunk, which increases selective vulnerability of this area. Cardiac catheterization may precipitate microemboli involving these vessels, leading to internuclear ophthalmoplegia.
Each year brings new scientific knowledge that builds on itself in a geometric fashion. Ocular motility basic and clinical neurosciences continue to advance with this accelerating pace. The years 1997 through 1998 brought new knowledge to the motility world. This review focuses on the clinical advances within this realm, presented in supranuclear to myopathic organization. Part II of this review will appear in the September 2000 (20:3) issue.
Since neuronal excitability is sensitive to changes in extracellular pH and there is regional diversity in the changes in extracellular pH during neuronal activity, we examined the activity-dependent extracellular pH changes in the CA1 region and the dentate gyrus. In vivo, in the CA1 region, recurrent epileptiform activity induced by stimulus trains, bicuculline, and kainic acid resulted in biphasic pH shifts, consisting of an initial extracellular alkalinization followed by a slower acidification. In vitro, stimulus trains also evoked biphasic pH shifts in the CA1 region. However, in CA1, seizure activity in vitro induced in the absence of synaptic transmission, by perfusing with 0 Ca(2+)/5 mM K(+) medium, was only associated with extracellular acidification. In the dentate gyrus in vivo, seizure activity induced by stimulation to the angular bundle or by injection of either bicuculline or kainic acid was only associated with extracellular acidification. In vitro, stimulus trains evoked only acidification. In the dentate gyrus in vitro, recurrent epileptiform activity induced in the absence of synaptic transmission by perfusion with 0 Ca(2+)/8 mM K(+) medium was associated with extracellular acidification. To test whether glial cell depolarization plays a role in the regulation of the extracellular pH, slices were perfused with 1 mM barium. Barium increased the amplitude of the initial alkalinization in CA1 and caused the appearance of alkalinization in the dentate gyrus. In both CA1 and the dentate gyrus in vitro, spreading depression was associated with biphasic pH shifts. These results demonstrate that activity-dependent extracellular pH shifts differ between CA1 and dentate gyrus both in vivo and in vitro. The differences in pH fluctuations with neuronal activity might be a marker for the basis of the regional differences in seizure susceptibility between CA1 and the dentate gyrus.
Prior to the inception of inspiratory synaptic drive transmission from medullary respiratory centers, rat phrenic motoneurons (PMNs) have action potential and repetitive firing characteristics typical of immature embryonic motoneurons. During the period spanning from when respiratory bulbospinal and segmental afferent synaptic connections are formed at embryonic day 17 (E17) through to birth (gestational period is approximately 21 days), a pronounced transformation of PMN electrophysiological properties occurs. In this study, we test the hypothesis that the elaboration of action potential afterpotentials and the resulting changes in repetitive firing properties are due in large part to developmental changes in PMN potassium conductances. Ionic conductances were measured via whole cell patch recordings using a cervical slice-phrenic nerve preparation isolated from perinatal rats. Voltage- and current-clamp recordings revealed that PMNs expressed outward rectifier (I(KV)) and A-type potassium currents that regulated PMN action potential and repetitive firing properties throughout the perinatal period. There was an age-dependent leftward shift in the activation voltage and a decrease in the time-to-peak of I(KV) during the period from E16 through to birth. The most dramatic change during the perinatal period was the increase in calcium-activated potassium currents after the inception of inspiratory drive transmission at E17. Block of the maxi-type calcium-dependent potassium conductance caused a significant increase in action potential duration and a suppression of the fast afterhyperpolarizing potential. Block of the small conductance calcium-dependent potassium channels resulted in a marked suppression of the medium afterhyperpolarizing potential and an increase in the repetitive firing frequency. In conclusion, the increase in calcium-mediated potassium conductances are in large part responsible for the marked transformation in action potential shape and firing properties of PMNs from the time between the inception of fetal respiratory drive transmission and birth.
Manual tracking was studied by asking subjects to follow, with their finger, a target moving on a touch-sensitive video monitor. The target initially moved in a straight line at a constant speed and then, at a random point in time, made one abrupt change in direction. The results were approximated with a simple model according to which, after a reaction time, the hand moved in a straight line to intercept the target. Both the direction of hand motion and its peak speed could be predicted by assuming a constant time to intercept. This simple model was able to account for results obtained over a broad range of target speeds as well as the results of experiments in which both the speed and the direction of the target changed simultaneously. The results of an experiment in which the target acceleration was nonzero suggested that the error signals used during tracking are related to both speed and direction but poorly (if at all) to target acceleration. Finally, in an experiment in which target velocity remained constant along one axis but the perpendicular component underwent a step change, tracking along both axes was perturbed. This last finding demonstrates that tracking in two dimensions cannot be decomposed into its Cartesian components. However, an analytical model in a hand-centered frame of reference in which speed and direction are the controlled variables could account for much of the data.
Calcium-activated potassium currents have an essential role in regulating excitability in a variety of neurons. Although it is well established that mature CA1 pyramidal neurons possess a Ca(2+)-activated K(+) conductance (I(K(Ca))) with early and late components, modulation by various endogenous neurotransmitters, and sensitivity to K(+) channel toxins, the properties of I(K(Ca)) on hippocampal interneurons (or immature CA1 pyramidal neurons) are relatively unknown. To address this problem, whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were made from visually identified interneurons in stratum lacunosum-moleculare (L-M) and CA1 pyramidal cells in hippocampal slices from immature rats (P3-P25). A biphasic calcium-activated K(+) tail current was elicited following a brief depolarization from the holding potential (-50 mV). Analysis of the kinetic properties of I(K(Ca)) suggests that an early current component differs between these two cell types. An early I(K(Ca)) with a large peak current amplitude (200.8 +/- 13.2 pA, mean +/- SE), slow time constant of decay (70.9 +/- 3.3 ms), and relatively rapid time to peak (within 15 ms) was observed on L-M interneurons (n = 88), whereas an early I(K(Ca)) with a small peak current amplitude (112.5 +/- 7.3 pA), a fast time constant of decay (39.4 +/- 1.6 ms), and a slower time-to-peak (within 26 ms) was observed on CA1 pyramidal neurons (n = 85). Removal of extracellular calcium or addition of inorganic Ca(2+) channel blockers (cadmium, nickel, or cobalt) was used to demonstrate the calcium dependence of these currents. Addition of norepinephrine, carbachol, and a variety of channel toxins (apamin, iberiotoxin, verruculogen, paxilline, penitrem A, and charybdotoxin) were used to further distinguish between I(K(Ca)) on these two hippocampal cell types. Verruculogen (100 nM), carbachol (100 microM), apamin (100 nM), TEA (1 mM), and iberiotoxin (50 nM) significantly reduced early I(K(Ca)) on CA1 pyramidal neurons; early I(K(Ca)) on L-M interneurons was inhibited by apamin and TEA. Combined with previous work showing that the firing properties of hippocampal interneurons and pyramidal cells differ, our kinetic and pharmacological data provide strong support for the hypothesis that different types of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) current are present on these two cell types.
In the present study, possible mechanisms involved in the tetanus-induced potentiation of gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABA-A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were investigated using the whole cell voltage-clamp technique on CA1 neurons in rat hippocampal slices. Stimulations (100 Hz) of the stratum radiatum, while voltage-clamping the membrane potential of neurons, induces a long-term potentiation (LTP) of evoked fast IPSCs while increasing the number but not the amplitude of spontaneous IPSCs (sIPSCs). The potentiation of fast IPSCs was input specific. During the period of IPSC potentiation, postsynaptic responses produced by 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol hydrochloride and baclofen, GABA-A and GABA-B agonists respectively, were not significantly different from control. CGP 36742, a GABA-B antagonist, blocked the induction of tetanus-induced potentiation of evoked and spontaneous IPSCs, while GTPgammaS, an activator of G proteins, substitution for GTP in the postsynaptic recording electrode did not occlude potentiation. Since GABA-B receptors work through G proteins, our results suggest that pre- but not postsynaptic GABA-B receptors are involved in the potentiation of fast IPSCs. A tetanus delivered when GABA-A responses were completely blocked by bicuculline suggests that GABA-A receptor activation during tetanus is not essential for the induction of potentiation. Rp-cAMPs, an antagonist of protein kinase A (PKA) activation, blocks the induction of potentiation of fast IPSCs. Forskolin, an activator of PKA, increases baseline evoked IPSCs as well as the number of sIPSCs, and a tetanic stimulation during this enhancement uncovers a long-term depression of the evoked IPSC. Sulfhydryl alkylating agents, N-ethylmaleimide and p-chloromercuribenzoic acid, which have been found to presynaptically increase GABA release and have been suggested to have effects on proteins involved in transmitter release processes occurring in nerve terminals, occlude tetanus-induced potentiation of evoked and spontaneous IPSCs. Taken together our results suggest that LTP of IPSCs originates from a presynaptic site and that GABA-B receptor activation, cyclic AMP/PKA activation and sulfhydryl-alkylation are involved. Plasticity of IPSCs as observed in this study would have significant implications for network behavior in the hippocampus.
Cannabinoids receptors have been reported to modulate synaptic transmission in many structures of the CNS, but yet little is known about their role in the prefrontal cortex where type I cannabinoid receptor (CB-1) are expressed. In this study, we tested first the acute effects of selective agonists and antagonist of CB-1 on glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in slices of rat prefrontal cortex (PFC). EPSCs were evoked in patch-clamped layer V pyramidal cells by stimulation of layer V afferents. Monosynaptic EPSCs were strongly depressed by bath application (1 microM) of the cannabinoid receptors agonists WIN55212-2 (-50.4 +/- 8.8%) and CP55940 (-42.4 +/- 10.9%). The CB-1 antagonist SR141716A reversed these effects. Unexpectedly, SR141716A alone produced a significant increase of glutamatergic synaptic transmission (+46.9 +/- 11.2%), which could be partly reversed by WIN55212-2. In the presence of strontium in the bath, the frequency but not the amplitude of asynchronous synaptic events evoked in layer V pyramidal cells by stimulating layer V afferents, was markedly decreased (-54.2 +/- 8%), indicating a presynaptic site of action of cannabinoids at these synapses. Tetanic stimulation (100 pulses at 100 Hz, 4 trains) induced in control condition, no changes (n = 7/18), long-term depression (LTD; n = 6/18), or long-term potentiation (LTP; n = 5/18) of monosynaptic EPSCs evoked by stimulation of layer V afferents. When tetanus was applied in the presence of WIN 55,212-2 or SR141716-A (1 microM) in the bath, the proportion of &quot;nonplastic&quot; cells were not significantly changed (n = 7/15 in both cases). For the plastic ones (n = 8 in both cases), WIN 55,212-2 strongly favored LTD (n = 7/8) at the apparent expense of LTP (n = 1/8), whereas the opposite effect was observed with SR141716-A (7/8 LTP; 1/8 LTD). These results demonstrate that cannabinoids influence glutamatergic synaptic transmission and plasticity in the PFC of rodent.
Subjects who are in an enclosed chamber rotating at constant velocity feel physically stationary but make errors when pointing to targets. Reaching paths and endpoints are deviated in the direction of the transient inertial Coriolis forces generated by their arm movements. By contrast, reaching movements made during natural, voluntary torso rotation seem to be accurate, and subjects are unaware of the Coriolis forces generated by their movements. This pattern suggests that the motor plan for reaching movements uses a representation of body motion to prepare compensations for impending self-generated accelerative loads on the arm. If so, stationary subjects who are experiencing illusory self-rotation should make reaching errors when pointing to a target. These errors should be in the direction opposite the Coriolis accelerations their arm movements would generate if they were actually rotating. To determine whether such compensations exist, we had subjects in four experiments make visually open-loop reaches to targets while they were experiencing compelling illusory self-rotation and displacement induced by rotation of a complex, natural visual scene. The paths and endpoints of their initial reaching movements were significantly displaced leftward during counterclockwise illusory rotary displacement and rightward during clockwise illusory self-displacement. Subjects reached in a curvilinear path to the wrong place. These reaching errors were opposite in direction to the Coriolis forces that would have been generated by their arm movements during actual torso rotation. The magnitude of path curvature and endpoint errors increased as the speed of illusory self-rotation increased. In successive reaches, movement paths became straighter and endpoints more accurate despite the absence of visual error feedback or tactile feedback about target location. When subjects were again presented a stationary scene, their initial reaches were indistinguishable from pre-exposure baseline, indicating a total absence of aftereffects. These experiments demonstrate that the nervous system automatically compensates in a context-specific fashion for the Coriolis forces associated with reaching movements.
Substance P (SP) is a peptide that is present in unmyelinated primary afferents to the dorsal horn and is released in response to painful or noxious stimuli. Opiates active at the mu-opiate receptor (MOR) produce antinociception, in part, through modulation of responses to SP. MOR ligands may either inhibit the release of SP or reduce the excitatory responses of second-order neurons to SP. We examined potential functional sites for interactions between SP and MOR with dual electron microscopic immmunocytochemical localization of the SP receptor (NK1) and MOR in rat trigeminal dorsal horn. We also examined the relationship between SP-containing profiles and NK1-bearing profiles. We found that 56% of SP-immunoreactive terminals contact NK1 dendrites, whereas 34% of NK1-immunoreactive dendrites receive SP afferents. This result indicates that there is not a significant mismatch between sites of SP release and available NK1 receptors, although receptive neurons may contain receptors at sites distant from the peptide release site. With regard to opioid receptors, we found that many MOR-immunoreactive dendrites also contain NK1 (32%), whereas a smaller proportion of NK1-immunoreactive dendrites contain MOR (17%). Few NK1 dendrites (2%) were contacted by MOR-immunoreactive afferents. These results provide the first direct evidence that MORs are on the same neurons as NK1 receptors, suggesting that MOR ligands directly modulate SP-induced nociceptive responses primarily at postsynaptic sites, rather than through inhibition of SP release from primary afferents. This colocalization of NK1 and MORs has significant implications for the development of pain therapies targeted at these nociceptive neurons.
The studies reported here were designed to investigate the role of the mutation eat-4 in the response to tap and in habituation in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. In C. elegans eat-4 has been found to affect a number of glutamatergic pathways. It has been hypothesized to positively regulate glutaminase activity and therefore glutamatergic neurotransmission. In the eat-4(ky5) loss-of-function worms, there is presumably insufficient glutamate available for sustained transmission. In the experiments reported here eat-4 worms showed no differences from wild-type in the magnitude of response to a single tap, indicating that the neural circuit underlying the response was intact and functional in the mutant worms. However, when eat-4 worms were given repeated taps the resulting habituation was different from that seen in wild-type worms: eat-4 worms habituate more rapidly and recover more slowly than wild-type worms at all interstimulus intervals tested. In addition, eat-4 worms do not show dishabituation. The same transgene rescues pharyngeal activity defects and both the habituation and dishabituation deficits seen in the eat-4 worms. Our results suggest that neurotransmitter regulation plays a role in habituation and may play a role in dishabituation.
The temporal and spatial distributions of several growth factors suggest roles in the regulation of neuronal differentiation in the neocortex. Among such growth factors, the insulin-like growth factors (IGF-I and -II) are of particular interest because they are available to neurons from multiple sources under independent control. IGF-I is produced by many neurons throughout the brain and also by cells in the cerebral vasculature. IGF-II is found at high levels in the CSF, and both IGF-I and IGF-II cross the blood-brain barrier. Thus, the IGFs may act as both paracrine and endocrine regulators of neuronal development. As an initial step toward understanding the influence of IGFs in the developing cerebral cortex, the present study examined the effects of IGF-I and of the neurotrophins brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) on the dendritic complexity of layer 2 pyramidal neurons. The results demonstrate that IGF-I increased the branching and total extent of both apical and basal dendrites of pyramidal cells in organotypic slices of rat primary somatosensory cortex. BDNF and NT-3 also enhanced dendritic development, but the two neurotrophins increased the extent of only basal, not apical, dendrites and promoted greater elongation than was seen after IGF-I treatment. These results provide direct evidence that IGF-I can regulate the dendritic elaboration of cortical neurons and indicate that endogenous IGFs may influence dendritic differentiation and the formation of cortical connections. In addition, IGF-dependent regulation of dendritic structure may represent a link between age-related declines in IGFs and cognitive deficits seen in senescence.
The vertebrate CNS is composed of a variety of longitudinal axonal tracts extending rostrally and caudally. Although recent studies have demonstrated that chemoattraction and chemorepulsion play key roles in axon guidance along the circumferential axis in the neural tube of the vertebrate, mechanisms of axonal elongation along the longitudinal axis, and most importantly, what determines rostrocaudal polarity of axonal growth, remains unknown. Here, we examined the mechanism that guides midbrain dopaminergic axons rostrally, using flat whole-mount preparations of embryonic rat brain both in vivo and in vitro. At embryonic day 11 (E11) and early stage E12, dopaminergic neurons in the ventral midbrain extended short axons dorsally. By middle stage E12, these axons had increased in number, some deflecting rostrally and others caudally. At E13, almost all axons showed rostrally oriented growth heading toward the forebrain targets. In in vitro whole-mount preparations prepared from an E12 embryo and cultured for 24 hr, these axons showed rostrally oriented growth, but when they were forced to grow on substratum of reversed rostrocaudal polarity, they turned abruptly and grew following the polarity of the reversed midbrain substratum. These results suggest that local directional cues in the midbrain guide these axons rostrally and support the idea that substratum-associated polarized cues play an important role in axon guidance along the longitudinal axis.
Amyloid plaques are a neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but their relationship to neurodegeneration and dementia remains controversial. In contrast, there is a good correlation in AD between cognitive decline and loss of synaptophysin-immunoreactive (SYN-IR) presynaptic terminals in specific brain regions. We used expression-matched transgenic mouse lines to compare the effects of different human amyloid protein precursors (hAPP) and their products on plaque formation and SYN-IR presynaptic terminals. Four distinct minigenes were generated encoding wild-type hAPP or hAPP carrying mutations that alter the production of amyloidogenic Abeta peptides. The platelet-derived growth factor beta chain promoter was used to express these constructs in neurons. hAPP mutations associated with familial AD (FAD) increased cerebral Abeta(1-42) levels, whereas an experimental mutation of the beta-secretase cleavage site (671(M--&gt;I)) eliminated production of human Abeta. High levels of Abeta(1-42) resulted in age-dependent formation of amyloid plaques in FAD-mutant hAPP mice but not in expression-matched wild-type hAPP mice. Yet, significant decreases in the density of SYN-IR presynaptic terminals were found in both groups of mice. Across mice from different transgenic lines, the density of SYN-IR presynaptic terminals correlated inversely with Abeta levels but not with hAPP levels or plaque load. We conclude that Abeta is synaptotoxic even in the absence of plaques and that high levels of Abeta(1-42) are insufficient to induce plaque formation in mice expressing wild-type hAPP. Our results support the emerging view that plaque-independent Abeta toxicity plays an important role in the development of synaptic deficits in AD and related conditions.
The present study deals with the functional interaction of antipsychotic drugs and NMDA receptors. We show that both the conventional antipsychotic drug haloperidol and the atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine mediate gene expression via intracellular regulation of NMDA receptors, albeit to different extents. Data obtained in primary striatal culture demonstrate that the intraneuronal signal transduction pathway activated by haloperidol, the cAMP pathway, leads to phosphorylation of the NR1 subtype of the NMDA receptor at (897)Ser. Haloperidol treatment is likewise shown to increase (897)Ser-NR1 phosphorylation in rats in vivo. Mutation of (896)Ser and (897)Ser to alanine, which prevents phosphorylation at both sites, inhibits cAMP-mediated gene expression. We conclude that antipsychotic drugs have the ability to modulate NMDA receptor function by an intraneuronal signal transduction mechanism. This facilitation of NMDA activity is necessary for antipsychotic drug-mediated gene expression and may contribute to the therapeutic benefits as well as side effects of antipsychotic drug treatment.
As a first step in the study of the developing motor circuitry of the embryonic zebrafish spinal cord, we obtained patch-clamp recordings in vivo from identified motoneurons in curarized embryos from the onset of the first motor behavior. At an early developmental stage in which embryos showed slow and repetitive spontaneous contractions of the trunk, motoneurons showed periodic depolarizations that triggered rhythmic bursts of action potentials with a frequency and duration that were consistent with those of the spontaneous contractions. The periodic depolarizations were blocked by tetrodotoxin or Cd(2+). Surprisingly, the contractions and periodic depolarizations were insensitive to general blockade of synaptic transmission (by elevated Mg(2+) and reduced Ca(2+), or by Co(2+)) and to selective blockade of the major neurotransmitter receptors of the mature spinal cord (acetylcholine, GABA(A), NMDA, AMPA/kainate, and glycine). The periodic depolarizations were suppressed by heptanol or by intracellular acidification, treatments that are known to uncouple gap junctions, indicating that electrotonic synapses could underlie the earliest motor behavior. A few hours later, most motoneurons already showed a new pattern of repetitive activity consisting of bursts of glycinergic synaptic events, but these were not necessary for the spontaneous contractions. Transecting the spinal cord at the hindbrain border did not affect the rhythmic activity patterns of the motoneurons. We suggest that spontaneous contractions of the zebrafish embryo are mediated by an early spinal circuit that is independent of the main neurotransmitter systems and descending hindbrain projections that are required for locomotion in the mature vertebrate spinal cord.
The cone signal reaches the cat's On-beta (X) ganglion cell via several parallel circuits (bipolar cell types b1, b2, and b3). These circuits might convey different regions of the cone's temporal bandwidth. To test this, I presented a step of light that elicited a transient depolarization followed by a sustained depolarization. The contribution of bipolar cells to these response components was isolated by blocking action potentials with tetrodotoxin and by blocking inhibitory synaptic potentials with bicuculline and strychnine. Stationary fluctuation analysis of the sustained depolarization gave the rate of quantal bombardment: approximately 5100 quanta sec(-1) for small central cells and approximately 45,000 quanta sec(-1) for large peripheral cells. Normalizing these rates for the vastly different numbers of bipolar synapses (150-370 per small cell vs 2000 per large cell), quantal rate was constant across the retina, approximately 22 quanta synapse(-1) sec(-1). Nonstationary fluctuation analysis gave the mean quantal EPSP amplitude: approximately 240 microV for the transient depolarization and 30 microV for the sustained depolarization. The b1 bipolar cell is known from noise analysis of the On-alpha ganglion cell to have a near-maximal sustained release of only approximately two quanta synapse(-1) sec(-1). This implies that the other bipolar types (b2 and b3) contribute many more quanta to the sustained depolarization (&gt;/=46 synapse(-1) sec(-1)). Type b1 probably contributes large quanta to the transient depolarization. Thus, bipolar cell types b1 and b2/b3 apparently constitute parallel circuits that convey, respectively, high and low frequencies.

Motor neurons innervating tiny muscles in the antennal system of the cockroach, Periplaneta americana, were stained by two new approaches to backfilling motor axons and somata. Both methods are easier, and produce less leakage of dye, than conventional methods that rely on application of dye to the distal cut end of a motor nerve or immersion of a whole muscle in dye. One approach used here was to pressure-inject nickel (or cobalt) chloride directly into a muscle from a micropipette. The other was to place filter paper soaked in nickel chloride on the muscle surface. The first approach enabled staining of motor neurons most reliably and with preservation of stain to the specific muscle of interest. The second approach had different advantages: it was easier to perform, resulted in more intense staining and frequently more complete staining of dendritic structure than the first approach. Taken together, these two approaches should prove useful for tracing motor circuits in a number of model systems.
Microscopic analysis of anatomic relationships within the neural networks of adult and developing tissues often requires sampling large spatial regions of neuronal architecture. To accomplish this, there are two common imaging approaches: (1) image the entire area at once with low spatial resolution; or (2) image small sections at higher magnification/resolution and then join the sections back together by mosaic reconstruction (photomontaging). Low magnification imaging is relatively rapid to perform, resulting in a visualization that encompasses a large field of view with an extended depth of field. However, for fluorescence microscopy, low magnification visualizations are often plagued by poor spatial resolution. High magnification imaging possesses superior spatial resolution, but it produces an image with limited depth of field. When creating a larger field of view, the final image is also fragmented at the boundaries where multiple images are stitched together. Using confocal microscopy as well as features of common image processing programs, we outline a new method to transform individual, spatially contiguous z-series into a montage with a seamless field of view and an extended depth of field. In addition, we show that the manual alignment of images our method requires does not introduce significant errors into the final image. We illustrate our method for visualizing neural networks using tissues from the adult gastropod mollusc, Tritonia diomedea, and the developing zebrafish, Danio rerio.
A simple system for cutting dendrites of single neurons without damaging the viability of the cell is described. The system utilizes a rapidly vibrating (100 Hz) micropipette (&lt;1 microm tip diameter), which is dragged under direct visual control across the dendrite of a selected neuron. We used this system in a thin slice preparation to dissect the apical dendrites of rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. We then used the patch-clamp technique in the whole-cell configuration to record from the isolated somata of these cells and to inject a dye into them. Both a functional and an anatomical disconnection of the dendrites from their somata were verified.
This paper describes a new tripolar spiral cuff electrode, composed of a thin (10 microm) and flexible polyimide insulating carrier and three circumneural platinum electrodes, suitable for stimulation of peripheral nerves. The cuffs were implanted around the sciatic nerve of two groups of ten rats each, one in which the polyimide ribbon was attached to a plastic connector to characterize the in vivo stimulating properties of the electrode, and one without a connector for testing possible mechanical nerve damage by means of functional and histological methods. The polyimide cuff electrodes induced only a very mild foreign body reaction and did not change the nerve shape over a 2-6 month implantation period. There were no changes in the motor and sensory nerve conduction tests, nociceptive responses and walking track pattern over follow-up, and no morphological evidence of axonal loss or demyelination, except in one case with partial demyelination of some large fibers after 6 months. By delivering single electrical pulses through the cuff electrodes graded recruitment curves of alpha-motor nerve fibers were obtained. Recruitment of all motor units was achieved with a mean charge density lower than 4 microC/cm(2) for a pulse width of 50 micros at the time of implantation as well as 45 days thereafter. These data indicate that the polyimide cuff electrode is a stable stimulating device, with physical properties and dimensions that avoid nerve compression or activity-induced axonal damage.
Transgenic strategies are useful for functional studies and they may also lead to novel therapies. Controlling transgene expression in defined cell populations over time is increasingly important for both functional and gene therapy experiments. The adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector may provide sufficient spatio-temporal control of gene expression for these purposes. This paper reviews in vivo somatic gene transfer methodology using AAV. Advantageous features of this system include neuronal gene expression that is: (1) efficient; (2) long-lived; and (3) non-toxic. Thus, AAV-mediated gene transfer is a good method for functional genomic research. From characterizing vector activity in the brain using different combinations of promoters and transgenes in the mid to late 1990s, researchers continue to discover novel uses of AAV for both basic and clinical neuroscience.
Among the responses to this month's question, the most common strategy for motivating compliance is providing information. This finding is also supported with the example from Australia, where stoke sufferers are highly compliant with any intervention aimed at prevention of future strokes. In this case, the high level of compliance and (probably) motivation can be explained by the fact that stroke is potentially fatal and highly disabling. Other important issues also were identified in the responses: (a) patients' trust and belief in healthcare professionals in terms of providing information and motivation, and (b) a lack of motivation in some patients who simply do not want to comply and prefer a certain level of seizure activity or other impairments and disabilities over the potential side effects of the treatment. This raises another question that goes beyond the concept of compliance and noncompliance: How does the system comply to the patient? I will leave this topic open, and I welcome comments for a future round of discussion here at Global Views.
Raising neurotransmitter levels is only one means by which antidepressants act. The activity of modern drugs appears to readjust the balance between serotonin and noradrenaline by more fundamental means. Likely mechanisms include correction of the diminished sensitivity and numbers of specific serotonin and noradrenaline receptors found in depression. Also responsible may be changes in the normal pattern of movements of these transmitters across the synaptic membranes within the diffuse modulatory systems. It is possible that by increasing the serotonin levels these drugs may increase neurogenesis, suggesting that neuronal losses may be a fundamental cause of the symptoms.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI), typically resulting from vehicle accidents or acts of violence, is a major public health concern. Survivors often face lifelong impairments affecting functional status, cognition, and mood. Depression, the most common mood disorder affecting TBI survivors, most likely is underdiagnosed and presents differently than primary depression or depression after other brain insults. Unfortunately, few studies have been reported that advance theoretical perspectives on post-TBI depression. Currently, there is some evidence that neurochemical and anatomical changes contribute to post-TBI depression. Interpersonal factors, such as sense of belonging and social support, may contribute to the incidence of post-TBI depression. Because of limited theoretical viewpoints, advances have not been made in cost-effective and efficient interventions for this mood disorder, which prolongs rehabilitation and contributes to family suffering.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that causes severe deterioration of functional and cognitive abilities. As the leading cause of dementia in adults, it affects one in every 10 people who are more than 65 years of age. There is a vital need for neuroscience nurses with knowledge of AD to provide high-quality care for the growing number of patients. The use of effective nursing interventions for the management of AD can help nurses promote independence and quality of life for AD patients. Nursing care must include interventions that focus on maintaining AD patients' functional and cognitive abilities as well as on preventing further disability and decline. Nurses can implement these measures in acute, long-term, and home healthcare settings.
During surgical intervention in medically refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients, diagnosed with either mesial temporal lobe sclerosis (MTS)- or tumor (T)-associated TLE, biopsies were taken from the anterior temporal neocortex and the hippocampal region. Synaptosomes, isolated from these biopsies were used to study intrasynaptosomal Ca(2+) levels ([Ca(2+)](i)), and glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) contents and release. All synaptosomal preparations demonstrated a basal [Ca(2+)](i) of about 200 nM, except neocortical synaptosomes from MTS-associated TLE patients (420 nM). K(+)-induced depolarization resulted in a robust increase of the basal [Ca(2+)](i) in all preparations. Neocortical synaptosomes from TLE patients contained 22.9 +/- 3.0 nmol glutamate and 4.6 +/- 0.5 nmol GABA per milligram synaptosomal protein, whereas rat cortical synaptosomes contained twice as much glutamate and four times as much GABA. Hippocampal synaptosomes from MTS-associated TLE patients, unlike those from T-associated TLE patients, contained about 70% less glutamate and 55% less GABA than neocortical synaptosomes. Expressed as percentage of total synaptosomal content, synaptosomes from MTS-associated TLE patients exhibited an increased basal and a reduced K(+)-induced glutamate and GABA release compared to rat cortical synaptosomes. In MTS-associated TLE patients, only GABA release from neocortical synaptosomes was partially Ca(2+)-dependent. Control experiments in rat synaptosomes demonstrated that at least part of the reduction in K(+)-induced release can be ascribed to resection-induced hypoxia in biopsies. Thus, synaptosomes from MTS-associated TLE patients exhibit a significant K(+)-induced increase in [Ca(2+)](i), but the consequent release of glutamate and GABA is severely impaired. Our data show that at least part of the differences in glutamate and GABA content and release between human biopsy material and fresh rat tissue is due to the resection time.
An unusual case of craniocerebral missile injury, with orbital roof perforation and spontaneous bullet migration into the maxillary sinus, is reported. Emergency treatment consisted in wide craniectomy around the bullet entry point, blood and foreign bodies debridement. Subsequent procedures were necessary for abscess evacuation, transmaxillary bullet removal and later cranial vault reconstruction. Challenging aspects were the treatment of the infectious complications, following cerebrospinal fluid fistula through the wound, and the onset of post-traumatic epilepsy, scarcely responsive to common antiepileptic drugs. The treatment of the abscess by combined systemic and intracavitary antibiotic therapy and of the chronic seizures by progressive adjustment with new protocols of antiepileptic drugs under EEG and brain mapping revealed successful.
We analysed 108 patients, operated on day surgery, for carpal tunnel release of median nerve compression, to evaluate peri- and postoperative pain. We made in all cases a short intertenarian incision (25 mm) with microsurgical technique and local anaesthesia using mepivacaine 2% without vasoconstrictor. We evaluated pain for local anaesthetic infiltration as VRS (Verbal Rating Scale) 6,3 median-time to the first possible analgesic assumption (in all cases paracetamol 500 mg), total analgesic assumption, pressure algometry (to evaluate &quot;allodiny&quot;) after the first 48 hours and subjective pain intensity by a numerical pain scale. Pain intensity on first drug assumption (after a mean time of 7 hours from the end of surgery) had a mean VAS value of 2,15; while after a second assumption of analgesic (after a mean time of 15 hours from surgery) had a mean VAS value of 2. Mean total analgesic assumption was 1,64 tablets of paracetamol 500 mg. From these data we may deduce that peri- and postoperative pain following median nerve decompression with this technique and anaesthesia, has a moderate intense peak of brief duration, for local anaesthetic infiltration (that seems to be the most painful event) and modest and not constant pain in the postoperative time (more evident 7 and 15 hours from the end of surgery). It may be useful association with mepivacaine bicarbonate solutions or injecting less painful local anaesthetic.

Phe-activated Ca(2+) signals recorded from single rat-1 fibroblasts stably expressing the bovine alpha(1a)-adrenoceptor (AR) were characterized and used to analyze functional agonist-antagonist interactions. The response to Phe was initiated by the mobilization of stored Ca(2+) and subsequently sustained by receptor-regulated Ca(2+) influx. The selective alpha(1A)-AR agonist (R)-A-61603 was 141-fold more potent as an agonist than Phe. This potency ratio was consistent with the pharmacology of the native alpha(1A)-ARs. Functional responses evoked by concentrations of Phe of more than 0. 3 microM displayed fade, which could be explained by agonist-dependent depletion of Ca(2+) stores. The antagonists tested did not conform to the predictions of the Schild equation for competitive antagonism as expected from the nonequilibrium nature of the response. The antagonist potency series WB4101 &gt; or = prazosin &gt; BMY7378, however, was consistent with alpha(1A)-ARs. Antagonism exhibited by WB4101 and prazosin was compatible with a model in which antagonists dissociate so slowly from the receptor that this is a major factor in their inhibition of the transient agonist-mediated response, leading to the appearance of insurmountable antagonism. A consequence of this phenomenon was that an inverse concentration-response relationship at high agonist concentrations was abolished by low concentrations of antagonists. Overall, the results indicate that quantitative pharmacology can be studied successfully in single cells even though equilibrium could not be achieved in the agonist-antagonist-response relationship in this particular cell phenotype. The study also showed a form of fade that could be readily explained.
Genetic manipulations of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)(1) and CRF(2) receptors have resulted in data suggesting that the CRF(2) receptor could mediate the effects of CRF on appetite or satiety. We have attempted to obtain pharmacological evidence for this hypothesis by comparing the ability of a high-affinity peptide, mixed CRF antagonist [cyclo 30-33,f12,L18,21E30, A32,K33]sucker fish urotensin (12-41)NH(2) [cUTSN (12-41)] with a small-molecule CRF(1)-selective antagonist, NBI-27914, and a CRF(2)-selective peptide antagonist, antisauvagine-30, to attenuate the anorexic effects of CRF. We also monitored other behaviors that accompanied CRF-induced anorexia. CRF-induced anorexia was significantly correlated with a reduction in locomotor activity and an increase in freezing behavior and piloerection. cUTSN (12-41) and antisauvagine-30 significantly attenuated the effects of CRF (0.04 nmol) on food intake along with the behavioral syndrome that accompanied anorexia. In contrast, NBI-27914 did not attenuate either of the above-mentioned CRF-induced phenomena when given centrally at doses ranging from 0.13 to 10 nmol/2.5 microl or when given orally at 20 to 40 mg/kg. Although these data support the hypothesis that the CRF(2) receptor mediates the appetite suppression induced by CRF, they also suggest that the CRF(2) receptor could mediate the stress-like behaviors that accompany CRF-induced appetite suppression.
The regulation of gas exchange requires coordination of the respiratory and cardiovascular systems. Previous work suggested that medullary raphe neurones transform and transmit information from baroreceptors to neurones in the ventral respiratory group. This study tested the hypothesis that distributed brainstem neuronal assemblies are transiently reconfigured during the respiratory cycle and baroreceptor stimulation. Blood pressure was perturbed by intravenous injection of an alpha1-adrenergic receptor agonist, unilateral pressure changes in the carotid sinus, or occlusion of the descending aorta in 14 Dial-urethane anaesthetized, vagotomized, paralysed, artificially ventilated cats. Neurones were monitored simultaneously with microelectrode arrays in two or more of the following sites: n. raphe obscurus, n. raphe magnus, rostral and caudal ventrolateral medulla, and the nucleus tractus solitarii. Transient configurations of baroresponsive assemblies were detected with joint pericycle-triggered histograms, the gravitational representation, and related pattern detection methods. Data were also analysed with cycle-triggered histograms, peristimulus-time and cumulative sum histograms, cross-correlograms, spike-triggered averages of efferent phrenic activity, and joint impulse configuration scatter diagrams (snowflakes). Five to nine simultaneously recorded spike trains from control expiratory phases were compared with data from interleaved equal-duration time blocks from control inspiratory phases. In each of seven animals, significant impulse synchrony detected by gravity analysis was confined to one phase of the respiratory cycle. Repeated patterns of distributed synchrony confined to periods of altered baroreceptor activity were detected and involved neurones that individually did not change firing rates during stimulation. Snowflakes and logical cross-correlation analysis provided evidence for the cooperative actions of impulses in concurrently active parallel channels. In 12 of 17 pairs of neurones with at least one baroresponsive cell, joint pericycle-triggered histograms detected synchrony indicative of shared inputs or functional excitatory interactions that varied as a function of time in the respiratory cycle. Neurones in four of the pairs had no respiratory modulation of their individual firing rates. Data from eight other pairs were indicative of fluctuations in inhibition during the respiratory cycle. The results demonstrate repeated transient configurations of baroresponsive neuronal assemblies during the respiratory cycle, without concomitant firing rate changes in the constituent neurones, and suggest distributed network mechanisms for the modulation of baroreceptor-mediated reflexes.
In order to further understand the role of voltage- and ligand-gated ryanodine receptors in the control of intracellular Ca2+ signalling during myogenesis, changes in cytosolic free calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) were investigated by fura-2 videoimaging in C2C12 mouse myotubes developing in vitro. A synchronous [Ca2+]i increase was observed after depolarisation with high [K+], while the Ca2+ response propagated as a wave following caffeine administration. Application of the two stimuli to the same myotube often revealed the existence of cellular zones that were responsive to depolarisation but not to caffeine. Focal application of high [K+] promoted a [Ca2+]i response detectable only in the cellular areas close to the pipette tip, while focal application of caffeine elicited a [Ca2+]i increase which spread as a Ca2+ wave. Buffering of [Ca2+]i by BAPTA did not affect the pattern of the depolarisation-induced [Ca2+]i transient but abolished the Ca2+ waves elicited by caffeine. When high [K+] and caffeine were applied in sequence, reciprocal inhibition of the [Ca2+]i responses was observed. Our results suggest that the different spatial patterns of [Ca2+]i responses are due to uneven distribution of voltage- and ligand-gated ryanodine receptors within the myotube. These two types of receptor control two functionally distinct Ca2+ pools which are part of a common intracellular compartment. Finally, the two differently operated ryanodine receptor channels appear to be independently activated, so that a mechanism of Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release is not required to sustain the global response in C2C12 myotubes.
Many inhibitory nerve terminals in the mammalian anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) contain both glycine and GABA, but the reason for the co-localization of these two inhibitory neurotransmitters in the AVCN is unknown. We have investigated the roles of glycine and GABA at synapses on bushy cells in the rat AVCN, using receptor immunohistochemistry and electrophysiology. Our immunohistochemical results show prominent punctate labelling of postsynaptic clusters of glycine receptors and of the receptor clustering protein gephyrin over the surface of bushy cells. In contrast, weak diffuse membrane immunolabelling of GABAA receptors was observed. Whole-cell recordings from bushy cells in AVCN slices demonstrated that evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were predominantly (81 %) glycinergic, based on the decrease in amplitude of the IPSCs in bicuculline (10 microM). This observation was supported by the effect of strychnine (1 microM), which was to decrease the evoked IPSC (to 10 % of control IPSC amplitude) and to produce a greater than 90 % block of spontaneous miniature IPSCs. These results suggest a minor role for postsynaptic GABAA receptors in bushy cells, despite a high proportion of GABA-containing terminals on these cells. Therefore, a role for metabotropic GABAB receptors was investigated. Activation of GABAB receptors with baclofen revealed a significant attenuation of evoked glycinergic IPSCs. The effect of baclofen was presynaptic, as indicated by a lack of change in the mean amplitude of spontaneous IPSCs. Significantly, the decrease in the amplitude of evoked glycinergic IPSCs observed following repetitive nerve stimulation was reduced in the presence of the GABAB antagonist, CGP 35348. This indicates that synaptically released GABA can activate presynaptic GABAB receptors to reduce transmitter release at glycinergic synapses. Our results suggest specific pre- versus postsynaptic physiological roles for GABA and glycine in the AVCN.
We have characterized the actions of arachidonic acid (AA) on whole cell and unitary calcium (Ca2+) currents in rat neonatal superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons using barium (Ba2+) as the charge carrier. Whole cell currents were elicited by stepping the membrane potential from -90 mV to +10 mV. Arachidonic acid (5 microM) was introduced into the bath in the continued presence of 1 microM (+)-202-791, an L-type Ca2+ channel agonist. Under these conditions, the peak current, comprised mainly of N-type current, and a slow, (+)-202-791-induced component of the tail current were inhibited by 67 +/- 6 and 60 +/- 10 %, respectively, indicating that AA inhibits both N- and L-type currents. At a test potential of +30 mV, AA (5 microM) decreased unitary L- and N-type Ca2+ channel open probability (Po) in cell-attached patches that contained a single channel. For both channels, the underlying causes of the decrease in Po were similar. Arachidonic acid caused an increase in the percentage of null sweeps and in the number of null sweeps that clustered together. In sweeps with activity, the average number of openings per sweep decreased, while first latency and mean closed time increased. Arachidonic acid had no significant effect on unitary current amplitude or mean open time. Our findings are the first description of the inhibition of unitary L- and N-type Ca2+ channel activity by AA and are consistent with both channels spending more time in their null mode and with increased dwell time in one or more closed states.
Regulation of serotonin release by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate was examined by microdialysis in unanaesthetized rats. The GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol, or the glutamate receptor agonists kainate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolaproprionate or N-methyl-D-aspartate were infused into the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) while extracellular serotonin was measured in the DRN and nucleus accumbens. Muscimol produced decreases, and the glutamate receptor agonists produced increases in serotonin. To determine if these receptors have a tonic influence on serotonergic neurons, glutamate or GABA(A) receptor antagonists were infused into the DRN. Kynurenate, a nonselective glutamate receptor blocker, produced a small, 30% decrease in serotonin. A similar decrease was obtained with combined infusion of AP-5 and DNQX into the DRN. The GABAA receptor blocker bicuculline produced an approximately three-fold increase in DRN serotonin. In conclusion, glutamate neurotransmitters have a weak tonic excitatory influence on serotonergic neurons in the rat DRN. However, the predominate influence is mediated by GABA(A) receptors.
Microarousals (MAs) are brief transient events that occur during normal sleep in humans and with increased frequency in disordered sleep, especially in association with sleep apnoea. In a feline model, we discovered transient cardiorespiratory events during nonrapid eye movement (NREM) sleep that exhibited consistent features with similarities to human MAs. It was observed that MAs have two distinct phases. Phase I (MAI) is characterized by an abrupt increase in electromyogram (EMG) amplitude (&gt; 50%), increased electrooculogram (EOG) activity and accelerated frequency of hippocampal electroencephalographic (EEG) activity. MAI lasts 4.1 +/- 0.3 s. Phase II (MAII), lasting 9.8 +/- 0.8 s, is characterized by high frequency EEG activity, but EMG, EOG and hippocampal activity remain at baseline levels. Mean inspiratory rate begins to increase 15 s before the onset of the MA, followed 10 s later by the increase in mean heart rate. Mean respiratory rate decreases sharply through MAII, and returns to baseline levels 15 s after the MA. During MAII mean heart rate decreases quickly; there is increased respiratory irregularity, followed by a prolonged ventilatory overshoot. The abrupt shift in heart rate is coincident with the change in breath timing seen during MAII. Heart rate returns to baseline levels 10 s following the MA. Integrating our findings with those described previously in humans, we propose that MAs may serve as a homeostatic mechanism which is designed to restore cardiorespiratory function allowing the continuity of sleep.
Because of advances in technology, the non-invasive study of the human brain has enhanced the knowledge base within the neurosciences, resulting in an increased impact on the psychological study of human behaviour. We argue that application of this knowledge base should be considered in theoretical modelling within sport psychology and motor behaviour alongside existing ideas. We propose that interventions founded on current theoretical and empirical understanding in both psychology and the neurosciences may ultimately lead to greater benefits for athletes during practice and performance. As vehicles for exploring the arguments of a greater integration of psychology and neurosciences research, imagery and perception-action within the sport psychology and motor behaviour domains will serve as exemplars. Current neuroscience evidence will be discussed in relation to theoretical developments; the implications for sport scientists will be considered.

Mice with partial ligation of the sciatic nerve exhibited marked increase in the second phase nociceptive biting and licking behavior following intraplantar injection of formalin. The intrathecal pretreatment with botulinum toxin C3 dose-dependently attenuated the hyperalgesia in the second phase. These results suggest that a small G protein, Rho, and its downstream mechanisms are involved in the hyperalgesia following partial nerve injury.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain is now generally indispensable to state of art clinical medicine. Robust, high resolution imaging systems are currently available worldwide. The availability of MRI has, in little more than a decade, revolutionized the certainty and efficiency of clinical diagnosis and management. As a dividend of this revolution, clinicians and radiologists who are expert in the many and varied applications of MRI methods are able to relate this expertise to a confident mastery of the topographic anatomy of the brain as revealed in magnetic resonance images. Whereas the yield to clinical objectives has been massive, the clinician as yet draws upon a relatively limited sampling of the potential informational harvest from this technology which in theory could further enrich both clinical concerns and those of fundamental neuroscience. Here we will review early explorations into these other offerings with the expectation that the coming decade will see them established comfortably with current uses. We will also consider potential offerings of the extended applications of brain MRI to the characterization and insights into biological origins of certain obscure developmental disorders.

The Meis and Pbx genes encode for homeodomain proteins of the TALE class and have been shown to act as co-factors for other homeodomain transcription factors (Mann and Affolter, 1998. Curr. Opin. Genet. Dev. 8, 423-429). We have studied the expression of these genes in the mouse telencephalon and found that Meis1 and Meis2 display region-specific patterns of expression from embryonic day (E)10.5 until birth, defining distinct subterritories in the developing telencephalon. The expression of the Meis genes and their proteins is highest in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and mantle regions of the ventral telencephalon. Compared to the Meis genes, Pbx genes show a broader expression within the telencephalon. However, as is the case in Drosophila (Rieckhof et al., 1997. Cell 91, 171-183; Kurrant et al., 1998. Development 125, 1037-1048; Pai et al., 1998. Genes Dev. 12, 435-446), nuclear localized PBX proteins were found to correlate highly with Meis expression. In addition, DLX proteins co-localize with nuclear PBX in distinct regions of the ventral telencephalon.

The nature of kinesin interactions with membrane-bound organelles and mechanisms for regulation of kinesin-based motility have both been surprisingly difficult to define. Most kinesin is recovered in supernatants with standard protocols for purification of motor proteins, but kinesin recovered on membrane-bound organelles is tightly bound. Partitioning of kinesin between vesicle and cytosolic fractions is highly sensitive to buffer composition. Addition of either N-ethylmaleimide or EDTA to homogenization buffers significantly increased the fraction of kinesin bound to organelles. Given that an antibody against kinesin light chain tandem repeats also releases kinesin from vesicles, these observations indicated that specific cytoplasmic factors may regulate kinesin release from membranes. Kinesin light tandem repeats contain DnaJ-like motifs, so the effects of hsp70 chaperones were evaluated. Hsc70 released kinesin from vesicles in an MgATP-dependent and N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive manner. Recombinant kinesin light chains inhibited kinesin release by hsc70 and stimulated the hsc70 ATPase. Hsc70 actions may provide a mechanism to regulate kinesin function by releasing kinesin from cargo in specific subcellular domains, thereby effecting delivery of axonally transported materials.
The importance of genetic susceptibility in determining the progression of demyelination and neurologic deficits is a major focus in neuroscience. We studied the influence of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DQ polymorphisms on disease course and neurologic impairment in virus-induced demyelination. HLA-DQ6 or DQ8 was inserted as a transgene into mice lacking endogenous expression of MHC class I (beta(2)m) and class II (H2-A(beta)) molecules. Following Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV) infection, we assessed survival, virus persistence, demyelination, and clinical disease. Mice lacking expression of endogenous class I and class II molecules (beta(2)m(o) Abeta(o) mice) died 3 to 4 weeks postinfection (p.i.) due to overwhelming virus replication in neurons. beta(2)m(o) Abeta(o) DQ6 and beta(2)m(o) Abeta(o) DQ8 mice had increased survival and decreased gray matter disease and virus replication compared to nontransgenic littermate controls. Both beta(2)m(o) Abeta(o) DQ6 and beta(2)m(o) Abeta(o) DQ8 mice developed chronic virus persistence in glial cells of the white matter of the spinal cord, with greater numbers of virus antigen-positive cells in beta(2)m(o) Abeta(o) DQ8 than in beta(2)m(o) Abeta(o) DQ6 mice. At day 45 p.i., the demyelinating lesions in the spinal cord of beta(2)m(o) Abeta(o) DQ8 were larger than those in the beta(2)m(o) Abeta(o) DQ6 mice. Earlier and more profound neurologic deficits were observed in beta(2)m(o) Abeta (o) DQ8 mice compared to beta(2)m(o) Abeta(o) DQ6 mice, although by 120 days p.i. both strains of mice showed similar extent of demyelination and neurologic deficits. Delayed-type hypersensitivity and antibody responses to TMEV demonstrated that the mice mounted class II-mediated cellular and humoral immune responses. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that rates of progression of demyelination and neurologic deficits are related to the differential ability of DQ6 and DQ8 transgenes to modulate the immune response and control virus.
NESP55, a novel member of the chromogranins, was originally implicated as a precursor of a peptide LSAL with 5-HT1B receptor antagonist activity. In humans, NESP55 (MIM 139320) is encoded by an alternative transcript of GNAS1, the gene encoding the guanine nucleotide-binding alpha subunit of G(S). As a result of the potential relevance of NESP55 to serotoninergic neurotransmission, we screened its sequence using genomic DNA pools from autistic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) probands and control subjects. Six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified and the allele frequencies of those SNPs were determined. In addition, a 24-bp in-frame deletion in the coding region was found in one of the OCD probands. To further investigate its pattern of inheritance and the relevance to studied phenotypes, we genotyped 123 total subjects from autism, OCD and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) families. The deletion was detected only in one OCD family and followed Mendelian inheritance. All subjects with the deletion were heterozygous. However, there are no specific behavioural or physical alterations in the subjects with this deletion variant. The physiological role of NESP55 in serotoninergic neurotransmission as well as the effect of the deletion on its function should be evaluated in future studies.
Odorant signal transduction and neurogenesis are fundamental properties of the olfactory epithelium. Many preparations have been used to elucidate some of the mechanisms underlying these properties. In this article, we briefly review these research areas and describe some of the techniques used to obtain the data. We focus specifically on the cell-culture paradigm and the data obtained from various immortal cell lines in their attempts to reconstruct the olfactory epithelium in vitro.
The development of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) provided a major advancement in the treatment of depression. However, these drugs suffer from a variety of drawbacks, most notably a delay in the onset of efficacy. One hypothesis suggests that this delay in efficacy is due to a paradoxical decrease in serotonergic (5-HT) neuronal impulse flow and release, following activation of inhibitory presynaptic 5-HT1A autoreceptors, following acute administration of SSRIs. According to the hypothesis, efficacy is seen only when this impulse flow is restored following desensitization of 5-HT1A autoreceptors and coincident increases in postsynaptic 5-HT levels are achieved. Clinical proof of this principal has been suggested in studies that found a significant augmenting effect when the beta-adrenergic/5-HT1A receptor antagonist, pindolol, was coadministered with SSRI treatment. In this article, we review preclinical electrophysiological and microdialysis studies that have examined this desensitization hypothesis. We further discuss clinical studies that utilized pindolol as a test of this hypothesis in depressed patients and examine preclinical studies that challenge the notion that the beneficial effect of pindolol is due to functional antagonism of the 5-HT1A autoreceptors.
A hallmark of senescence is sensorimotor impairment, involving locomotion and postural control as well as fine-tuned movements. Sensory and motoneurons are not lost to any significant degree with advancing age, but do show characteristic changes in gene-expression pattern, morphology, and connectivity. This review covers recent experimental findings corroborating that alterations in trophic signaling may induce several of the phenotypic changes seen in primary sensory and motoneurons during aging. Furthermore, the data suggests that target failure, and/or breakdown of neuron-target interaction, is a critical event in the aging process of sensory and motoneurons.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(3) receptor is a member of the ligand-gated ion channel receptor family with significant homology to the nicotinic acetylcholine, gamma-aminobutyric acid(A), and glycine receptors. In this receptor class, the agonist binding site is formed by parts of the extracellular amino-terminal region. This study examines the effects of altering phenylalanine 107 (F107) of the 5-HT(3AL) subunit, obtained from NG108-15 cells, using site-directed mutagenesis. The wild-type (WT) and mutant receptors were expressed in HEK 293 cells and characterized using both whole-cell patch-clamp and radioligand binding. The tyrosine mutant F107Y exhibits a significantly lower affinity for the agonist 5-HT (K(i) = 203 versus 15.6 nM) and an increase of similar magnitude in the EC(50) value (10.6 versus 1.2 microM) compared with WT. The activation kinetics of the maximal currents generated by 5-HT with this mutant were markedly slower than those of the WT receptor, but application of supramaximal concentrations of the agonist markedly decreased the time to half-peak. The asparagine mutant F107N displayed a significantly higher affinity for 5-HT than the WT receptor (1.62 versus 15.6 nM), which was mirrored in direction and magnitude by changes in the EC(50) value for this agonist (0.2 versus 1.2 microM). In contrast to the WT receptor, the mutant F107N was activated by acetylcholine (EC(50) = 260 microM). The response to acetylcholine was blocked by the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist renzapride with a similar IC(50) value as that determined against currents generated by 5-HT in the WT receptor. These data suggest that F107 is an important determinant of agonist recognition at the 5-HT(3) receptor.
Inhibitory neurotransmission in the brain is largely mediated by GABA(A) receptors. Potentiation of GABA receptor activation through an allosteric benzodiazepine (BZ) site produces the sedative, anxiolytic, muscle relaxant, anticonvulsant and cognition-impairing effects of clinically used BZs such as diazepam. We created genetically modified mice (alpha1 H101R) with a diazepam-insensitive alpha1 subtype and a selective BZ site ligand, L-838,417, to explore GABA(A) receptor subtypes mediating specific physiological effects. These two complimentary approaches revealed that the alpha1 subtype mediated the sedative, but not the anxiolytic effects of benzodiazepines. This finding suggests ways to improve anxiolytics and to develop drugs for other neurological disorders based on their specificity for GABA(A) receptor subtypes in distinct neuronal circuits.
For mammalian cochlear hair cells, fate determination is normally completed by birth. We report here that overexpression of Math1, a mouse homolog of the Drosophila gene atonal, in postnatal rat cochlear explant cultures resulted in extra hair cells. Surprisingly, we found that the source of the ectopic hair cells was columnar epithelial cells located outside the sensory epithelium in the greater epithelial ridge, which normally give rise to inner sulcus cells. Moreover, Math1 expression also facilitated conversion of postnatal utricular supporting cells into hair cells. Thus Math1 was sufficient for the production of hair cells in the ear, and immature postnatal mammalian inner ears retained the competence to generate new hair cells.
Behavioral and neuroendocrine responses underlying systemic osmoregulation are synergistically controlled by osmoreceptors and neuropeptides released within the hypothalamus. Although mechanisms underlying osmoreception are understood, the cellular basis for the integration of osmotic and peptidergic signals remains unknown. Here we show that the excitatory effects of angiotensin II, cholecystokinin and neurotensin on supraoptic neurosecretory neurons are due to the stimulation of the stretch-inactivated cation channels responsible for osmoreception. This molecular convergence underlies the facilitatory effects of neuropeptides on responses to osmotic stimulation and provides a basis for the gating effects of plasma osmolality on the responsiveness of osmoregulatory neurons to peptidergic stimulation.
In animal models, immature neural precursors can replace lost neurons, restore function and promote brain self-repair. Clinical trials in Parkinson's disease suggest that similar approaches may also work in the diseased human brain. But how realistic is it that cell replacement can be developed into effective clinical therapy?

Incubation of PC 12 cells with the sulfonylurea drug, glipizide (1-100 microM), increased intracellular levels of the acidic metabolites of dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA). The levels of these acids in the medium were decreased, indicating the presence of a sulfonylurea-sensitive organic anion transporter. In the present study, we demonstrate that the sulfonylurea-sensitive transport of acidic dopamine metabolites is unidirectional, ATP dependent, unaffected by ouabain or by tetrodotoxin and blocked by drugs that interact with the multidrug-resistance protein-1 (MRP1). However, over-expression of MRP1 did not affect transport of the acid metabolites. The pharmacological profile and ion dependence of the transporter also differs from that of known ATP-binding cassette (ABC) family members. Using microdialysis, we also demonstrated a sulfonylurea-sensitive transport process in the striatum of freely moving rats. These results show that acidic dopamine metabolites are actively secreted from dopaminergic cells into surrounding extracellular fluid by a previously undescribed transporter.
Neuromuscular transmission is decreased in aged subject. Since endogenous adenosine is a potent neuromodulator at motor nerve endings, either inhibiting via A(1) receptors or facilitating via A(2A) receptors acetylcholine release, we now investigated if the tonic effect of endogenous adenosine was modified at phrenic nerve endings of aged rats. The A(2A) receptor antagonist (ZM241385, 50 nM) inhibited (77 +/- 9%) and the A(1) receptor antagonist (DPCPX, 50 nM) facilitated (74 +/- 13%) acetylcholine release from young adult (6 weeks old) rat preparations, indicating a simultaneous tonic activation of A(2A) and A(1) receptors. Tonic modulation by adenosine was unaltered in aged (24 months old) rats, since ZM241385 (50 nM) inhibited (73 +/- 8%) and DPCPX (50 nM) facilitated (91 +/- 20%) acetylcholine release in aged animals similarly to young rats. This indicates that, in contrast to the central nervous system where adenosine neuromodulation is modified in aged animals, the control by adenosine of phrenic nerve function is preserved in aged animals.
Bromocriptine, a dopamine agonist, is commonly used in combination with levodopa for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). To investigate the theoretical basis of such combination therapy, we examined the effects of bromocriptine administered alone or in combination with levodopa on dopamine turnover in the striatum of hemi-parkinsonism rats. The parkinsonian striatum showed a 3.4-fold increase of dopamine turnover relative to the control striatum, as often observed in the brain of PD patients. A 7-day course of levodopa therapy markedly increased dopamine turnover in the parkinsonian striatum (53-fold of control level) than in the control striatum (5-fold of the control level). However, bromocriptine specifically and markedly suppressed the levodopa-induced abnormal activation of dopamine turnover in the parkinsonian striatum. Our findings explain the pharmacological basis for the introduction of bromocriptine during long-term levodopa therapy.
Certain dorsal horn neurones respond in a graded manner to noxious colorectal distension (CRD). Morphine inhibits these responses in the spinalized rat, but the role of excitatory amino acids in baseline visceral nociceptive transmission is less clear. This study examines the effect of the mu-opiate receptor agonist fentanyl, and the non-NMDA and NMDA antagonists DNQX and MK-801, respectively, on such responses to CRD in the sodium pentobarbitone-anaesthetized rat. Male rats were prepared for extracellular recording from the lumbosacral spinal cord. 90 neurones responsive to CRD, located throughout the dorsal horn, were classified according to their response duration and latency to 60 mmHg distension, as SL-A (short latency-abrupt; 59%), SL-S (short latency-sustained; 23%), L-L (long-latency; 10%) and Inhib (inhibited; 8%). Convergent cutaneous receptive fields were mapped for 79/90 neurones and classified as LT (low threshold), WDR (wide dynamic range) or HT (high threshold). CRD (20-100 mm Hg) elicited graded responses in most neurones. In 6/6 SL-S neurones, fentanyl (1-8 microg kg-1) dose-dependently inhibited the response to 60 mm Hg CRD, in a naloxone-sensitive manner, with an ID50 value (+/-95% confidence limits) of 2.48 (1.7-3. 7) microg kg-1. In 6/6 SL-A neurones, fentanyl had no significant effect on the response to CRD. DNQX (0.03-3 mg kg-1) produced a dose-dependent inhibition of the response to CRD in 5/5 SL-A neurones, with an ID50 value of 0.32 (0.01-41.1) mg kg-1. MK-801 (0. 03-0.3 mg kg-1) had no significant effect on responses to CRD in 6/6 SL-A neurones. The differential inhibitory effects of fentanyl on two neuronal subtypes may indicate functional differences. In SL-A neurones AMPA/kainate, but not NMDA receptors are involved in mediating baseline nociceptive neurotransmission.

Some cognitive neuroscientific hypotheses might concern neural responses occurring during particular periods of time in a behavioral trial. Here, these particular periods of time are referred to as temporal components of the trial. A difficulty in using BOLD fMRI to test hypotheses about neural responses during temporal components is that some information is irretrievably lost when neural responses are hemodynamically transformed. As a result, one cannot in general use the fMRI signal to unambiguously specify if there was a neural response during a given temporal component. However, adoption of a linear-time invariant model for the transform from neural signal to fMRI signal and constraint of the space of underlying neural waveforms might allow one to ask such questions. Here, the basic theory relevant to this issue and a corresponding method are discussed. The application of this method to fMRI time series data collected during the performance of a delayed-response trial is provided as an illustrative example.

Two patients with isolated schizencephaly, a very rare congenital anomaly of the brain, who presented with epilepsy are presented. According to imaging morphology, there are two types of schizencephaly, 'open lip' and 'minimally open lip'. These two cases emphasize that while MRI is superior to CT in the diagnosis of congenital brain anomalies, schizencephaly can be diagnosed by its characteristic CT features.
Primary angiitis of CNS(PACNS) or granulomatous angiitis of CNS is a rare inflammatory disease of small blood vessels mostly confined to the CNS. The clinical and pathological features of 3 autopsied cases are described. Clinically all the three PACNS patients were young males, age ranging from 19 to 31 years. All presented with varied neurological manifestations. There was no evidence of systemic disease in any of the cases. The ESR was normal and CSF analysis showed chronic meningitic pattern. The cerebral angiogram in one case was normal and the CT scan done in another case showed multiple intracerebral haematoma due to vasculitis. Brain biopsy was not done. Diagnosis was made at post-mortem examination. Histology showed characteristic but variable degree of granulomatous and non-granulomatous angiitis of small vessels. Venulitis with parenchymal haemorrhages was the predominant feature and in one case phlebitis with thrombosis was noted. Since the disease responds to steroids and immunosuppressive therapy, establishing antemortem diagnosis is important. In view of the association of angiitis of CNS with bacteria and viral infections, their role in the evolution of the disease needs to be investigated.
Blood flow velocities in the basal cerebral arteries were evaluated in 41 patients with supratentorial arteriovenous malformation (AVM), using a transcranial doppler 64-B instrument. The AVM was surgically excised in 20 patients and embolised in 21 patients. Blood flow velocities in feeding basal cerebral arteries were found markedly decreased in both the groups, at 24 hours after intervention. On follow up study at 3 months, blood flow velocity in feeding cerebral artery was found to be increased in 47 percent of patients who were embolised, but remained normal in all the patients who underwent surgery.
How the human brain processes the perception, discrimination, and recognition of odors has not been systematically explored. Cerebral activations were therefore studied with PET during five different olfactory tasks: monorhinal smelling of odorless air (AS), single odors (OS), discrimination of odor intensity (OD-i), discrimination of odor quality (OD-q), and odor recognition memory (OM). OS activated amygdala-piriform, orbitofrontal, insular, and cingulate cortices and right thalamus. OD-i and OD-q both engaged left insula and right cerebellum. OD-q also involved other areas, including right caudate and subiculum. OM did not activate the insula, but instead, the piriform cortex. With the exception of caudate and subiculum, it shared the remaining activations with the OD-q, and engaged, in addition, the temporal and parietal cortices. These findings indicate that olfactory functions are organized in a parallel and hierarchical manner.
TRP and TRPL are two light-sensitive cation channel subunits required for the Drosophila photoresponse; however, our understanding of the identities, subunit composition, and function of the light-responsive channels is incomplete. To explain the residual photoresponse that remains in the trp mutant, a third TRP-related subunit has previously been proposed to function with TRPL. Here, we identify such a subunit, TRPgamma. We show that TRPgamma is highly enriched in photoreceptor cells and preferentially heteromultimerizes with TRPL in vitro and in vivo. The N-terminal domain of TRPgamma dominantly suppressed the TRPL-dependent photoresponse, indicating that TRPgamma-TRPL heteromultimers contribute to the photoresponse. While TRPL and TRPgamma homomultimers are constitutively active, we demonstrate that TRPL-TRPgamma heteromultimers form a regulated phospholipase C- (PLC-) stimulated channel.
The PDZ domain-containing proteins, such as PSD-95 and GRIP, have been suggested to be involved in the targeting of glutamate receptors, a process that plays a critical role in the efficiency of synaptic transmission and plasticity. To address the molecular mechanisms underlying AMPA receptor synaptic localization, we have identified several GRIP-associated proteins (GRASPs) that bind to distinct PDZ domains within GRIP. GRASP-1 is a neuronal rasGEF associated with GRIP and AMPA receptors in vivo. Overexpression of GRASP-1 in cultured neurons specifically reduced the synaptic targeting of AMPA receptors. In addition, the subcellular distribution of both AMPA receptors and GRASP-1 was rapidly regulated by the activation of NMDA receptors. These results suggest that GRASP-1 may regulate neuronal ras signaling and contribute to the regulation of AMPA receptor distribution by NMDA receptor activity.

The vulnerability of motoneurones to glutamate has been implicated in neurological disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis but it is not known whether specific receptor subtypes mediate this effect. In order to investigate this further, the expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits was studied during the first three post-natal weeks when motoneurones are differentially vulnerable to injury following neonatal nerve crush compared to the adult. Unilateral nerve crush was carried out at day 2 after birth (P2) which causes a decrease of 66% in motoneurone number by 14 days (P14). To study receptor expression in identified motoneurones, serial section analysis was carried out on retrogradely labelled common peroneal (CP) motoneurones by combined immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization (ISH). mRNA levels were also quantified in homogenates from lumbar spinal cords in which the side ipsilateral to the crush was separated from the contralateral side. The NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor was widely distributed in the spinal cord being expressed most strongly in motoneurone somata particularly during the neonatal period (P3-P7). The NR2 subunits were also expressed at higher levels in the somata and dendrites of neonatal motoneurones compared to older animals. NR2B mRNA was expressed at low to moderate levels throughout the studied period whereas NR2A mRNA levels were low until P21. Following unilateral nerve crush, an initial decrease in NR1 mRNA occurred at one day after nerve crush (P3) in labelled CP motoneurones ipsilateral to the crush which was followed by a significant increase in NR1 subunit expression at 5 days post-injury. This increase was bilateral although reaching greater significance ipsilateral to the crush compared with sham-operated animals. A significant increase in NR1 and NR2B mRNA post injury was also detected in spinal cord homogenates. In addition, the changes in levels of NR1 and NR2B mRNA were reflected by comparable bilateral changes at P7 in receptor protein determined by quantitative immunocytochemical analysis of NR1 and NR2 subunit expression in identified CP motoneurones indicating a co-ordinated regulation of receptor subunits in response to injury.
There are age-related changes in the relative expression of the AT(1)and AT(2)receptors of angiotensin II (Ang II) in brain regions such as the superior colliculus, a midbrain visual structure where both receptor subtypes are found. We investigated the effects of Ang II on gross visual activity in the colliculus of anesthetized rats aged between 15 and 35 post-natal days. Microinjection of Ang II in the superficial layers yielded a strong reduction in the amplitude of visual evoked potentials in a dose-related manner. Injection of the peptide in more ventral collicular layers did not modify the potential confirming the discrete localization of the angiotensinergic receptors in the superficial layers. Preliminary data indicated that the co-injection of Ang II with Losartan or PD 123319 yielded a partial blockade of Ang II suppressive effects, indicating that both AT(1)and AT(2)receptors are likely to be involved in mediating these responses. Overall, this study shows that the inhibitory nature of Ang II action is similar in juvenile and adult animals (Merabet et al. 1994 and Merabet et al. 1997)
The serotonergic system is involved in the modulation of prepulse inhibition (PPI) and habituation of startle, which are deficient in schizophrenia patients. PPI is the reduction in startle amplitude that occurs when a weak &quot;prepulse&quot; precedes a startling stimulus by 30-500 msec. The roles of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) receptors in modulating PPI and habituation were examined using wild-type (WT), 5-HT(1A) knockout (1AKO), and 5-HT(1B) knockout (1BKO) mice. The 5-HT(1A/1B) agonist RU24969 reduced PPI and habituation in WT and 1AKO, but not 1BKO mice, whereas the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT increased PPI in WT and 1BKO, but not in 1AKO mice. Similarly, the selective 5-HT(1B) agonist anpirtoline reduced PPI in WT, but not in 1BKO mice. In experiments using intact 129Sv mice, the 5-HT(1A) agonist flesinoxan increased PPI while anpirtoline decreased PPI and habituation. Findings suggest that 5-HT(1B) receptor activation decreases PPI and habituation, and 5-HT(1A) receptor activation increases PPI in mice.
The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of the typical antipsychotic haloperidol and the atypical antipsychotics clozapine and olanzapine on both extracellular dopamine (DA) levels in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) as well as electrical activity of mesoprefrontal DA (mPFC-DA) neurons. Extracellular single unit recordings and microdialysis experiments were carried out in different groups of chloral hydrate anesthetised rats under identical experimental conditions. Intravenous administration of haloperidol, clozapine, and olanzapine increased the firing rate and burst activity of antidromically-identified mPFC-DA neurons; maximal increase in firing rate of approximately 140, 155, and 70 %, was produced by haloperidol, clozapine, and olanzapine at doses of 0.2, 2.5, and 1 mg/kg, i.v., respectively. Intravenous administration of the same doses increased extracellular DA levels in mPFC by 20%, 190%, and 70%, respectively. Moreover, while haloperidol and olanzapine increased extracellular levels of the deaminated DA metabolite DOPAC, by 60% and 40%, respectively, clozapine was totally ineffective. The D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 modified neither DA output nor neuronal firing. To determine whether the effect of the three antipsychotics on DA release might depend on a direct action on the mPFC, rats were perfused locally via inverse dialysis in the mPFC at concentrations ranging from 10(-6) to 10(-4)M. While clozapine and olanzapine increased extracellular DA concentrations by up to 400% of basal level, haloperidol was totally ineffective. The results obtained from this study indicate that the rank potency of the three antipsychotics in stimulating the firing rate of DA neurons projecting to mPFC, correlates with their affinity for D2 receptors and doses used clinically. On the other hand, their stimulating effect on DA release does not correlate with their effect on neuronal firing but depends on a direct action on the mPFC.
The proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) influence neuroendocrine activity, promote central neurotransmitter alterations, and induce a constellation of symptoms collectively referred to as sickness behaviors. These cytokines may also elicit anxiety and anhedonia, and have been associated with psychological disturbances in humans. In the present investigation, systemic IL-1beta and TNF-alpha dose-dependently and synergistically disrupted consumption of a highly palatable food source (chocolate milk), possibly reflecting anorexia or anhedonia engendered by the treatments. As well, these cytokines synergistically increased plasma corticosterone levels. Although IL-1beta and TNF-alpha provoked variations of amine turnover in the hypothalamus, locus coeruleus, and central amygdala, synergistic effects were not evident in this respect. Nevertheless, in view of the central amine variations induced by the cytokines, it is suggested that immune activation may come to influence complex behavioral processes, as well as affective state.
The effects of hippocampal lesions on the processing and retention of visual and spatial information in birds and mammals is reviewed. Both birds and mammals with damage to the hippocampus are severely impaired on a variety of spatial tasks, such as navigation, maze learning, and the retention of spatial information. In contrast, both birds and mammals with damage to the hippocampus are not impaired on a variety of visual tasks, such as delayed matching-to-sample, concurrent discrimination, or retention of a visual discrimination. In addition, both birds and mammals with hippocampal damage display impairments in the acquisition of an autoshaped response, as well as alterations in response suppression. These findings suggest that the avian hippocampus is a functional homologue of the mammalian hippocampus, and that in both birds and mammals the hippocampus is important for the processing and retention of spatial, rather than purely visual information.
Technological advances in neuroscience in general, and molecular biology in particular, offer tremendous experimental opportunities for researchers studying the vertebrate gustatory system. Ultimately, however, the neurobiological events must be linked to the taste-related behavior of the animal. Although there has been some promising work in this regard, progress has been hampered by an absence of a unified theoretical framework regarding function, unconfirmed assumptions inherent in many experimental designs, and a misguided predilection for researchers to interpret results from a variety of vertebrate models in the context of human psychophysics. This review article offers a heuristic for the organization of taste function and encourages greater coordination between behavioral and neurobiological approaches to the problem of understanding gustatory processes in the nervous system. The potential power of such coordinated efforts is discussed as well as the possible interpretive pitfalls associated with the neural analysis of gustation.
A novel analgesic test using neonatal rats was developed. In neonatal rats, body movement was induced by bolus, subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of algesic substances. The body movement was quantified by using a device composed of an audio speaker as a detector. Capsaicin, injected s.c., induced the body movement including scratching and struggling responses. The response peaked at 0-1 min and then decayed during the next 1-3 min. Furthermore, this method also detected that the magnitude of the response increased dose-dependently up to the maximum dose of 3000 ng. Endogenous algesic substances such as bradykinin, serotonin and histamine induced responses similar to those induced by capsaicin. Exogenous algesic substances such as formalin and acetic acid evoked more prolonged responses than those induced by capsaicin and endogenous substances. The effects of drugs on the capsaicin-induced response were examined in the following experiments. Opioid analgesics, morphine, buprenorphine and pentazocine, inhibited the response. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, indomethacin, ibuprofen and acetaminophen, did not exert any effect on the response. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, indomethacin, ibuprofen and acetaminophen, did not exert any effect on the response. Neither the sedative diazepam nor the sedative chlorpromazine inhibited the response. It is concluded that this method is useful to quantify the body movement induced by noxious stimulation and is suitable for screening centrally acting analgesics with mu-opioid receptor agonist activity.
Throughout medicine, the clinical history is the most important diagnostic tool. This is particularly true in vestibular disease, where pathologic confirmation of the disease process is rare. Many vestibular conditions are more appropriately called syndromes, rather than diseases, because the pathology is either variable or unknown. Knowledge of the anatomy and physiology provides the basis of understanding the control of balance and the symptoms that might occur should something go wrong. History taking should cover the elements of the balance system, including vestibular function, vision, hearing, somatosensation, and motor function.
We examined the role of B1 and B2 bradykinin receptors in promoting neuropathic hypersensitivity following peripheral nerve injury. Forty eight-hours following chronic constriction injury to a rat sciatic nerve there was an increased expression of B2 receptor mRNA in the lumbar dorsal root ganglia ipsilateral to the site of nerve injury. At 14 days following surgery there was also an ipsilateral increase of B1 receptor mRNA as well as a contralateral increased expression of B2 receptor mRNA. Increased expression of both receptors also coincided with analgesic effects of their antagonists. While HOE-140, a potent B2 receptor antagonist was analgesic at both time points tested, the B1 receptor antagonist des-Arg(9), [Leu(8)]-BK had an analgesic effect only at 14 days. The results support the concept that peripheral nerve injury is associated with local inflammation and that bradykinin, acting on both of its receptors promotes pain hypersensitivity.
The present study tested the hypothesis that chronic stress desensitizes serotonergic 5-HT(1A) receptors and alters behavioral changes following 5-HT(1A) agonist administration. Eating, acoustic startle response (ASR), and locomotor activity were measured in stressed and nonstressed male and female rats after 8-OH-DPAT administration. Stressed rats were paired and stressed by around-the-clock intermittent foot shock. Controllable stress (CS) rats could avoid/terminate shock for themselves and their yoked partners by pulling a ceiling chain, whereas their partners, the uncontrollable stress (UCS) rats, could not. Rats earned their entire daily ration of food by pressing a lever. In previous experiments, this paradigm was stressful, but not debilitating and rats continued to eat, groom, sleep, and avoid/escape greater than 99% of shock trials. Locomotor activity and ASR were measured in the present study after saline and 8-OH-DPAT administration (0.25 mg/kg, IP) before, 24 h, and 72 h after shock onset. 8-OH-DPAT only decreased food intake significantly in male and female rats after the first administration. Stress decreased food intake in both the CS and UCS rats, with UCS rats eating the least. However, the effects of stress and 8-OH-DPAT were not additive. 8-OH-DPAT significantly increased peak startle amplitude at 100 and 120 dB, and decreased latency to peak startle amplitude at 100 dB in male and female rats. In contrast, 8-OH-DPAT did not alter percent prepulse inhibition (%PPI) at 100 dB, but significantly decreased %PPI in males but not females at 120 dB. Stress did not have a consistent effect on ASR, but reduced %PPI in males, but not females. Neither stress nor 8-OH-DPAT significantly altered locomotor activity. Although the results do not show an increased sensitivity to 8-OH-DPAT in stressed rats, the unexpectedly weak effects of 8-OH-DPAT alone on the behavioral measures chosen limits the conclusions that can be drawn.
Earlier studies using the grid test have indicated a negative genetic correlation between sensitivity to ethanol-induced locomotor stimulation and ethanol-induced motor incoordination in FAST and SLOW mice, lines selectively bred for differential sensitivity to ethanol's stimulant effects. Because different tests of motor coordination may not measure the same behavioral competencies or physiological substrates, the present experiments tested adult ethanol- or saline-exposed FAST and SLOW mice of two replicates (FAST-1, FAST-2, SLOW-1, and SLOW-2) using three additional tests of coordination: a stationary dowel, fixed-speed rotarod, and accelerating rotarod. After ethanol treatment, FAST-1 mice fell from the stationary dowel at shorter latencies than SLOW-1 mice, suggesting that they had relatively greater sensitivity to ethanol. However, brain ethanol concentrations (BrECs) were similar at time of fall, and no differences were found between replicate-2 lines. SLOW-1 mice fell from the fixed-speed rotarod at lower BrECs than FAST-1 mice, suggesting possibly greater sensitivity of the SLOW-1 line. Again, no replicate-2 line differences were found. No significant differences were detected for the accelerating rotarod. These results provide little support for a negative genetic relationship between sensitivity to the stimulant and ataxic effects of ethanol using these measures of motor coordination.
Sun protection factor (SPF) that measures sunscreen protection against erythema and edema may not be enough to measure a sunscreen's activity against many other biologic reactions induced by ultraviolet radiation (UV). It may be better to evaluate sunscreen efficacy using various tools including immune protection factor (IPF), mutation protection factor (MPF) and protection against photocarcinogenesis. In terms of immune protection, sunscreens protected against UV-induced immune suppression significantly. But protection in some cases was partial and often the IPF of sunscreens were less than the SPF. IPF may differ with various immunological endpoints, and it may be better to use a couple of different assays to measure sunscreen protection more objectively. Sunscreen use protects against most UV-induced non-melanoma skin cancers and actinic keratoses but its activity against melanoma is not clear. More studies with broad-spectrum stable sunscreens and better models for the investigation of malignant melanoma are required.
Both testosterone (T) and its metabolite, 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), can facilitate male sexual behavior in the lizard Anolis carolinensis. The present study addresses the role of DHT synthesis in regulating male sexual behavior by inhibiting 5alpha-reductase, the enzyme that converts T into DHT. In two separate experiments (one replacement and one maintenance paradigm), breeding adult males were castrated and implanted with capsules of T, DHT, or a control capsule (blank, BL). The animals were then injected with the 5alpha-reductase inhibitor, FCE, or with steroid suspending vehicle (SSV) as a control. Both experiments produced similar results. Overall, T was most effective in eliciting courtship and copulatory behaviors above control levels. In both experiments, treatment with FCE attenuated the T-induced effects on courtship behavior, whereas the inhibition of 5alpha-reductase activity resulted in modest and inconsistent effects on the latency to intromission and the proportion of copulating males. DHT treatment did not significantly increase courtship or copulatory behaviors above control levels. These results suggest that (a) 5alpha-reductase activity is necessary but that DHT alone is not sufficient for stimulating courtship in male A. carolinensis; and (b) courtship behavior is more sensitive than copulatory behavior to the activity of the androgen metabolizing enzyme.
There is both a biological and environmental component to the neural substrates for various forms of psychopathology. Brain dysfunction itself not only constitutes a formidable liability to psychopathology, but also has an impact on environmental and social responses to the individual, compounding the risk for an adverse outcome. Environmental conditions, such as social and physical stimulus deprivation, poverty, traumatic stress, and prenatal drug exposure, can further compromise brain function in the context of existing liabilities. The relationship between genetic and environmental processes is interactive, fluid, and cumulative in their ability to influence an individual's developmental trajectory and alter subsequent behavioral outcomes. Given the codependent relationship between these processes, brain function is now believed to be malleable via manipulations of the environment in ways that may decrease liability for psychopathology. Research that explores these relationships and ways in which interventions can redirect this developmental track may substantially advance both the science and practice of prevention. Studies attempting to isolate the neurobiological effects of socioenvironmental factors are reviewed, implications for intervention strategies are discussed, and a future research agenda is proposed to provide greater insight into specific brain-environment relationships. Armed with this knowledge, prevention scientists may eventually design programs that directly target these effects to reverse or attenuate negative outcomes.
In order to investigate mutual interactions between neuronal discharges in the mesencepahlic reticular formation, relative power contributions (RPC) were estimated during sleep-wake cycles and serotonin (5HT)-depleted conditions by the administration of parachlorophenylalanine (PCPA). The RPC for most of the neurons dominated in the lower frequency range below 0.4 Hz during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and the PCPA-treated conditions, which were qualitatively reproduced by the neural network model under global disinhibition. The results supported the hypothesis that the peculiar dynamics of neuronal activities during REM sleep, 1/f fluctuations, were generated by neuronal interactions augmented by the release from the global inhibition of 5HT.






A 6-month follow-up of a single-blind, randomized, controlled trial in Southwest Stockholm was performed in order to evaluate the effect of early supported discharge and continued rehabilitation at home after stroke. Eighty-three stroke patients with moderate neurological impairments, continent, independent in feeding, and mental function within normal limits one week after onset were included in the study. The patients were allocated 1:1 to early supported discharge and continued rehabilitation at home by a specialized team, versus routine rehabilitation. Patient outcomes measured were motor capacity, dysphasia, activities of daily living, social activities, perceived dysfunction, mortality and reported falls. Data on length of stay in hospital; initial and recurrent during 6 months were compared. The 6-month follow-up of 78 patients showed no statistically significant differences in patient outcome. The results of multivariate logistic regression analysis suggest a positive effect of home rehabilitation on activities of daily living. At 3-6 months the frequency of significant improvements was higher in the intervention group. Death or dependency in activities of daily living was 24% in the intervention group compared with 44% in the control group. The mean initial hospitalization was 29 days in routine rehabilitation group versus 14 days in the home rehabilitation group. We conclude that for moderately disabled stroke patients with mental function within normal limits, early supported discharge and continued rehabilitation at home had no less a beneficial effect on patient outcome than routine rehabilitation, reduced initial hospitalization significantly and had no adverse effects on mortality and number of falls.
Epiretinal membranes (ERM) are a common finding in older patients. Although they may be associated with numerous clinical conditions, most epiretinal membranes occur in the absence of ocular pathology. Patients symptoms range from asymptotic to complaints of severe vision loss and metamorphopsia. Epiretinal membranes are commonly classified according to their density, to the severity of retinal distortion and to associated biomicroscopic changes. Pars plana vitrectomy has been found to be effective in removing ERM from the macula, improving the visual acuity and decreasing metamorphopsia. Both idiopathic and secondary ERMs do well after surgery, although secondary ERMs showed a greater amount of improvement than idiopathic ones. Complications are frequent including accelerated postoperative nuclear sclerosis, retinal breaks and RD, macular edema, RPE and, occasionally, macular hole and hypotony. However only RD involving the macula have a worsening prognosis on final outcome.
Chronic insomnia is a risk factor for the development of psychiatric disorders, including depression, as well as a prodrome of major depressive episodes, a consequence or complication of depression that often persists beyond the clinical episode, and a prognostic indicator of long-term illness course and treatment response. In addition, sleep is physiologically abnormal in persons at risk for depression; for example, shortened REM sleep latency is present not only during clinical episodes of depression, but also before the clinical episode in subjects at risk for depressive illness. Although insomnia usually disappears as depression is treated, it may persist, indicating heightened vulnerability to depressive relapse or recurrence. Physiological changes in sleep related to depression correlate with the likelihood of response to psychotherapy alone and may also identify which patients are unlikely to do well with psychosocial treatment and, therefore, to need somatic therapy in order to preserve recovery. Electroencephalographic (EEG) sleep changes also correlate with the speed of response and with the brittleness or durability of response (i.eprobability of relapse or recurrence). These observations suggest a close relationship between the regulation of sleep and the regulation of mood. The importance of this relationship is further underscored by recent brain imaging studies of sleep and sleep deprivation in patients with major depression. For example, therapeutic sleep deprivation (TSD) may serve as both a catalyst of rapid antidepressant activity and as a probe of treatment resistance. TSD's effects on brain metabolic rates, especially in limbic areas, may correlate with a therapeutic response to a night of sleep loss and to antidepressant medication. Finally, treating chronic insomnia with newer selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant medication may represent an opportunity for preventing complications of insomnia, including depressive illness.





Dopamine D(4) receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh) are thought to play a key role in mediating the locomotor and sensitizing affects of psychostimulants, as well as the therapeutic efficacy of atypical antipsychotic drugs. We used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to determine the functional sites for endogenous and exogenous D(4) receptor activation in this region. Of 1,090 D(4) receptor-labeled profiles observed in the AcbSh of rat brain, 65% were axons and axon terminals, while 22% were dendrites and dendritic spines. Within axons and terminals, D(4) receptor immunoreactivity was localized to segments of the plasma membrane and membranes of nearby vesicles. The axon terminals were morphologically heterogenous, varying in size and content of either all small synaptic vesicles (ssv), or ssv and large dense-core vesicles. The labeled terminals occasionally formed asymmetric excitatory-type axospinous synapses, but the majority were without recognizable synaptic specializations. In a separate series of tissue sections that were processed for dual-labeling of the D(4) receptor and the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), 56% of all observed associations were appositions between differentially labeled axonal profiles, and 17% were terminals that contained immunoreactivity for both antigens. Dendritic spines containing D(4) receptor-labeling also received convergent input from TH-immunoreactive terminals and unlabeled terminals forming asymmetric synapses. These results provide the first ultrastructural evidence for a major presynaptic, and a more minor postsynaptic, involvement of D(4) receptors in dopaminergic modulation of excitatory transmission in the AcbSh.
In the rat dentate gyrus, beta-adrenergic receptor (beta-AR) activation is thought to be important in mediating the effects of norepinephrine (NE). beta-AR-immunoreactivity (beta-AR-I) was localized in this study by light and electron microscopy in the rat dentate gyrus by using two previously characterized antibodies to the beta-AR. By light microscopy, dense beta-AR-I was observed in the somata of granule cells and a few hilar interneurons. Diffuse and slightly granular beta-AR-I was found in all laminae, although it was most noticeable in the molecular layer. Ultrastructurally, the cytoplasm of granule cell and interneuronal perikarya (some of which contained parvalbumin immunoreactivity) contained beta-AR-I. beta-AR-I was associated primarily with the endoplasmic reticula; however, a few patches were observed near the plasmalemma. Quantitative analysis revealed that the greatest proportion of beta-AR-labeled profiles was found in the molecular layer. The majority of beta-AR-labeled profiles were either dendritic or astrocytic. In dendritic profiles, beta-AR-I was prominent near postsynaptic densities in large dendrites, many of which originated from granule cell somata. Moreover, some beta-AR-I was found in dendritic spines, sometimes affiliated with the spine apparati. Astrocytic profiles with beta-AR-I were commonly found next to unlabeled terminals which formed asymmetric (excitatory-type) synapses with dendritic spines. Additionally, beta-AR-I was observed in a few unmyelinated axons and axon terminals, many of which formed synapses with dendritic spines. Dual-labeling studies revealed that axons and axon terminals containing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, often were near both neuronal and glial profiles containing beta-AR-I. These studies demonstrate that hippocampal beta-AR-I is localized: 1) principally in postsynaptic sites on granule cells and a few interneurons (some of which were basket cells); and 2) in glial processes. These observations add further support to the contention that beta-AR-activation modulates synaptic function through disparate pathways: directly, at either postsynaptic densities or presynaptic processes, or indirectly, through adjacent glial processes.
The effect of dietary carnosine on the behavioral and biochemical characteristics of rats under experimental ischemia was studied. Carnosine was shown to improve the animals orientation and learning in &quot;Open Field&quot; and &quot;T-Maze&quot; tests, and this effect was accompanied with an increase in glutamate binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in brain synaptosomes. Long-term brain ischemia induced by both sides' occlusion of common carotid arteries resulted in 55% mortality of experimental rats, and those who survived were characterized by partial suppression of orientation in T-maze. In the group of rats treated with carnosine, mortality after ischemic attack was decreased (from 55% to 17%) and most of the learning parameters were kept at the pre-ischemic level. Monoamine oxidase B (MAO B) activity in brain of the carnosine treated rats was not changed by ischemia significantly (compared to that of ischemic untreated rats) but NMDA binding to brain synaptosomal membranes being increased by ischemic attack was significantly suppressed and reached the level characteristic of normal brain. The suggestion was made that carnosine possesses a dual effect on NMDA receptors resulting in increase in their amount after long-term treatment but decrease the capacity to bind NMDA after ischemic attack.

The arbitrary linkage of sensory cues to actions and goals represents one of the most-flexible capabilities in the behavioral repertoire of mammals. This ability has been termed 'conditional motor learning', 'conditional discrimination' or, more recently, 'arbitrary visuomotor mapping'. Unlike other forms of visuomotor guidance, in arbitrary mapping the location of the sensory cue lacks any systematic spatial relationship with the action or its goal. Recent work has identified much of the neural network that underlies this behavior. It consists of parts of the frontal cortex, hippocampal system and basal ganglia, each of which has neurons whose activity undergoes systematic evolution during learning.
Gene targeting has proved to be one of the most powerful techniques with which one can investigate molecular mechanisms that underlie complex phenomena such as learning and memory. Despite its popularity, however, concerns have been raised about this technique and alternative approaches have been sought. One such approach is protein targeting, which is based on the application of immunoadhesins, genetically engineered fusion proteins that exhibit functionally relevant target specificity. These immunoadhesins modulate the activity of not only a single receptor but of all receptors with homologous binding sites, which thereby eliminates the possibility of compensation by sister receptors. Furthermore, immunoadhesins can be used not only to impair but also to improve receptor function in the brain. Initial studies using immunoadhesins suggest that protein targeting might be a useful approach for analyzing the molecular mechanisms of brain function and behavior.
1. Resveratrol, a polyphenolic compound present in grapes and wine, has beneficial effects against cancer and protective effects on the cardiovascular system. It is present in the diet, and the hepatic and duodenal sulphation might limit the bioavailability of this compound. The aim was to study the sulphation of resveratrol in the human liver and duodenum. 2. A simple and reproducible radiometric assay for resveratrol sulphation was developed. It employed 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulphate-[35S] as the sulphate donor and the rates of resveratrol sulphation (mean +/- SD, pmol/min/mg cytosolic protein) were 90 +/- 21 (liver, n = 10) and 74 +/- 60 (duodenum, n = 10, p = 0.082). 3. Resveratrol sulphotransferase followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics and Km (mean +/- SD; microM) was 0.63 +/- 0.03 (liver, n = 5) and 0.50 +/- 0.26 (duodenum, n = 5, p = 0.39) and Vmax (mean +/- SD, pmol/min/mg cytosolic protein) were 125 +/- 31 (liver, n = 5) and 129 +/- 85 (duodenum, n = 5, p = 0.62). 4. Resveratrol sulphation was inhibited by the flavonoid quercetin, by mefenamic acid and salicylic acid, two commonly used non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. IC50 of resveratrol sulphation for quercetin was 12 +/- 2 pM (liver) and 15 +/- 2 pM (duodenum), those for mefenamic acid were 24 +/- 3 nM (liver) and 11 +/- 0.6 nM (duodenum), and those for salicylic acid were 53 +/- 9 microM (liver) and 66 +/- 4 microM (duodenum). 5. The potent inhibition of resveratrol sulphation by quercetin, a flavonoid present in wine, fruits and vegetables, suggests that compounds present in the diet may inhibit the sulphation of resveratrol, thus improving its bioavailability.
Cultured cortical neurons survived in a density-dependent manner under serum-free conditions. Low-density cultured cells died in an aurintricarboxylic acid (ATA)-sensitive manner, which was accompanied with marked chromatin condensation and nuclear fragmentation. These features, characteristic for apoptosis, were not attenuated by DEVD-CHO, a caspase-3-specific inhibitor, or zVAD-FMK, a broad range caspase inhibitor, while zVAD-FMK showed a marked inhibition of camptothecin-induced cell death. Therefore, cortical neurons died in an apoptosis-like and a caspase-independent manner under serum-free conditions.
gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid (GHB), a naturally occurring metabolite of GABA, is present in micromolar concentrations in various areas of the mammalian brain. Specific GHB binding sites, uptake system, synthetic and metabolizing enzymes have been identified in CNS. The present study shows the anatomical distribution of GHB binding sites in sections of primate (squirrel monkey) and human brain by radioligand quantitative autoradiography. In both species the highest densities of binding sites were found in the hippocampus, high to moderate densities in cortical areas (frontal, temporal, insular, cingulate and entorhinal) and low densities in the striatum; no binding sites were detected in the cerebellum. High density of GHB binding was found in the monkey amygdala. In addition the binding characteristics of [(3)H]GHB to membrane preparations of human brain cortex were examined. Scatchard analysis and saturation curves revealed both a high (K(d1) 92+/-4.4 nM; B(max1) 1027+/-110 fmol/mg protein) and a low-affinity binding site (K(d2) 916+/-42 nM; B(max2) 8770+/-159 fmol/mg protein). The present study is the first report on the autoradiographic distribution of specific GHB binding sites in the primate and human brain: such distribution is in both species in good agreement with the distribution found in the rat brain.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is important for the development and trophic support of neurons, and may be involved in controlling axonal sprouting and synaptic plasticity. In order to investigate the activity-dependent regulation of the BDNF gene, BDNF expression was examined within the rat somatosensory cortex (SSC) and hippocampus following vibrissae stimulation, kainic acid induced seizure, and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) induced seizure. The specific goals of this study were to determine the time course and magnitude of BDNF's activity-dependent expression, and to compare the expression patterns of three commonly used neuronal activation paradigms. Our results demonstrate three novel observations. First, the patterns of BDNF protein expression are dependent upon the neuronal stimulation model used. Both unilateral whisker stimulation (a model of experience dependent plasticity) and kainic acid induced seizure were able to increase the levels of BDNF protein within the SSC and hippocampus. In contrast, PTZ induced seizure did not increase BDNF protein levels in either tissue. Second, there is a dissociation between BDNF mRNA and protein levels following PTZ induced seizure. PTZ seizures resulted in strong increases of BDNF mRNA levels without corresponding increases of the protein. Finally, whisker stimulation resulted in an unexpected increase in BDNF mRNA and protein levels within the hippocampus. These results suggest specific types of neuronal activity can regulate gene expression differently. Furthermore, temporal and spatial differences between the expression of BDNF protein and mRNA levels suggest that the BDNF gene is regulated at the level of translation as well as transcription.
Before tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) was licensed for use in Canada, in February 1999, the Calgary Regional Stroke Program spearheaded the development and organization of local resources to use thrombolytic therapy in patients who had experienced acute ischemic stroke. In 1996 special permission was obtained from the Calgary Regional Health Authority to use intravenously administered tPA for acute ischemic stroke, and ethical and scientific review boards approved the protocols. After 3 years our efforts have resulted in improved patient outcomes, shorter times from symptom onset to treatment and acceptable adverse event rates. Areas for continued improvement include the door-to-needle time and broader education of the public about the symptoms of acute ischemic stroke.
In several species, including primates, stimulation studies indicate that the infralimbic cortex, the most caudal part of the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, functions as a visceral motor region. In addition, recent positron emission tomography studies implicate the subgenual region in depression and mania. To determine the subcortical projections of this region in primates, injections of Phaseolus vulgaris leukoagglutinin, biotinylated dextran amine, or rhodamine-labeled dextran amine were placed in area 25 in three monkeys. In contrast to the efferents from area 25 previously described in the rat, there were no projections to autonomic effector regions, such as the nucleus of the solitary tract, magnocellular neurosecretory cell groups in the hypothalamus, ventrolateral medulla, or intermediolateral column of the spinal cord. However, projections were shown to a number of structures with probable roles in autonomic function and direct connections to some of the abovementioned autonomic effector regions, including bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, perifornical and anterior hypothalamus, periaqueductal gray, and lateral parabrachial nucleus. In addition, there were projections to several forebrain structures that receive projections from other components of the medial prefrontal network including the medial part of the caudate nucleus, lateral septum, midline and mediodorsal thalamic nuclei, the lateral parvocellular part of the basal accessory amygdaloid nucleus, and the magnocellular part of the basal amygdaloid. None of the injections resulted in labeling in the medulla. These connections support the idea of a role for cortical area 25 in emotional and autonomic responses, albeit less direct than that described in rodents.
A general method is presented for the analysis of the asynchronous state in networks of identical, all-to-all coupled, limit-cycle oscillators of arbitrary dimension and with arbitrarily strong coupling. It is shown that, with strong coupling, this state can be destabilized in directions orthogonal to the limit cycle, which may change the units' behavior qualitatively. An example, involving integrate and fire neurons with spike adaptation, exhibits a bifurcation to a synchronized bursting state for strong feedback coupling. The analysis can account for transitions that cannot be studied in the commonly used phase-coupled approximation.
Histidine is a chelator of zinc, most notably in zinc-finger proteins (zinc coordinated by cysteine and histidine) and in hyperaccumulator plants. Sulfide incorporation into molecules containing metal-cysteinyl complexes has been shown to occur in vivo in certain yeasts, leading to enhanced metal tolerance. Demonstrated here for the first time is incorporation of sulfide into zinc-histidine, resulting in histidine-ZnS nanocrystals (NCs) having unique optical properties. Sulfide complexation occurred optimally at alkaline pH into zinc-(histidine)2 species, and UV/Vis absorption maxima were red-shifted as increasing sulfide addition occurred. Intermediate sulfide concentrations led to multiple, thermodynamically preferred NC species within a sample. Fluorescence of histidine-ZnS NCs was greater than ZnS prepared previously with cysteinyl peptides. Transmission electron microscopy and selected-area electron diffraction indicated hexagonal ZnS crystals having an average size of 4.2 nm. A photocatalytic application of histidine-ZnS NCs was shown by efficient degradation of p-nitrophenol and paraquat in the presence of UV irradiation.
The anti-obesity agent, racemic (RS)-sibutramine, has two active metabolites, desmethylsibutramine and didesmethylsibutramine. To the extent that sibutramine itself mediates some of its side effects, desmethylsibutramine and/or didesmethylsibutramine might be safer and just as therapeutically effective. Because both desmethylsibutramine and didesmethylsibutramine are also optically active, the present study assessed the anorexic effects (2.5-10 mg/kg, i.p., for all drugs), in rats, of the R(+)-and S(-)-enantiomers of both metabolites and compared them to the effects of racemic sibutramine. Locomotor activity (2.5-10 mg/kg, i. p., for all drugs), a dopamine dependent behavior, was also measured in view of some uncertainty regarding dopaminergic effects of sibutramine. In view of sibutramine's antidepressant profile in animal models, the same drugs were also tested in the Porsolt swim test (0.1-2.5 mg/kg, i.p., for all drugs). Lastly, the IC(50)s of all drugs to inhibit uptake in vitro of norepinephrine, serotonin and dopamine were determined. Both (R)-enantiomers had significantly greater anorexic effects than those of their respective (S)-enantiomers as well as of sibutramine. All of the agents increased locomotor activity and reduced immobilized time (&quot;behavioral despair&quot;) in the swim test; again, the (R)-enantiomers were more potent than the (S)-enantiomers and sibutramine. However, the anorexic and locomotor effects could be dissociated from each other as well as from effects in the swim test. Both (R)-desmethylsibutramine and (R)-didesmethylsibutramine as well as sibutramine decreased food intake at a time (24-42 h post-treatment) when locomotor activity was unaffected. All of the drugs appeared to be more potent in the swim test than in the other tests and all of the drugs were more potent at inhibiting uptake of norepinephrine and dopamine than of serotonin. The results suggest that these enantioselective metabolites of sibutramine could be safe and effective treatments for obesity as well as possibly for depression.
Tetraethylammonium (TEA) induces a form of long-term potentiation (LTP) that is independent on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation (LTP(K)). LTP(K) may be a suitable chemical model to study molecular mechanisms underlying LTP. We monitored the phosphorylation state of two identified neural-specific protein kinase C (PKC) substrates (the presynaptic protein GAP-43/B-50 and postsynaptic protein RC3) after different chemical depolarisations. TEA induced a long-lasting increase in synaptic efficacy in the CA1 field of the hippocampus and increased the phosphorylation of both GAP-43/B-50 and RC3 (51 and 56.1%, respectively). These effects were blocked by the voltage-dependent calcium channel antagonist nifedipine, but not by the NMDA receptor antagonist AP5. These data show that in LTP(K) the in situ phosphorylation of pre-and postsynaptic PKC substrates is increased, indicating that NMDA receptor-dependent and NMDA receptor-independent LTP share common Ca(2+)-dependent expression mechanisms, including activation of pre- and postsynaptic PKC.
The reactivity of different narrow electroencephalographic (EEG) frequencies (4-6, 6-8, 8-10 and 10-12 Hz) to three types of emotionally laden film clips (aggressive, sad, neutral) were examined. We observed that different EEG frequency bands responded differently to the three types of film content. In the 4-6 Hz frequency band, the viewing of aggressive film content elicited greater relative synchronization as compared the responses elicited by the viewing of sad and neutral film content. The 6-8 Hz and 8-10 Hz frequency bands exhibited reactivity to the chronological succession of film viewing whereas the responses of the 10-12 Hz frequency band evolved within minutes during film viewing. Our results propose dissociations between the responses of different frequencies within the EEG to different emotion-related stimuli. Narrow frequency band EEG analysis offers an adequate tool for studying cortical activation patterns during emotion-related information processing.
In patch clamp experiments the beta-amino acid uptake inhibitor guanidinoethyl sulphonate (GES) activated currents in intact cultured murine cerebellar granule neurones. These responses could be attenuated by the gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) receptor antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxin. With intracellular chloride concentrations of either 20 or 130 mM, GES-induced current responses reversed polarity near the chloride equilibrium potential. When fast applications of agonist were made to excised granule cell macropatches GES responses were dose-dependent and exhibited significant outward rectification. Like taurine (but unlike GABA and beta-alanine) responses, macroscopic desensitisation of GES-induced currents was slow. Our data indicate that care should be exercised when using GES as a taurine uptake inhibitor in systems that also contain GABA(A) receptors.
Studies were carried out to characterize changes in MAP kinase activation during contraction of collagen matrices by fibroblasts under isometric tension. We found that both ERK and p38 MAP kinases were activated during contraction, as determined by immunoblotting and in vitro kinase assays. ERK activation was biphasic, with peaks at 10 min and 2 h; whereas p38 activation was monophasic, with a single peak at 10 min. Activation of ERK, but not p38, appeared to depend at least in part on the Gi class of heterotrimeric G proteins. The results show that ERK and p38 cooperate in contraction-stimulated activation of c-fos transcription.
Neurotrophins (NTs) and their receptors play an essential role in the differentiation and survival of defined neuronal populations of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Their actions, however, do not appear to be limited to the nervous system, as both NTs and their receptors have been found in non neuronal cells, including cells of the endocrine system. At least four of the five known neurotrophins, including nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4), and their receptors (p75 NTR, trkA, trkB and trkC) are present in the developing ovary. Using mice carrying null mutations of the genes encoding neurotrophins (NGF, NT-4, BDNF) or the receptor that mediates the actions of NT-4 and BDNF (trkB), we have obtained initial results consistent with the notion that neurotrophins are required for the growth of primordial follicles. NGF-deficient mice show a decreased formation of both primary and secondary preantral follicles. Null mutation of the NT-4 gene failed to affect either folliculogenesis or follicular development. However, formation of primary and secondary follicles was compromised in mice carrying a null mutation of both the NT-4 and BDNF genes, suggesting compensation of function by BDNF in NT-4 knockouts. Support for this concept is provided by the similar deficiency in follicular growth observed in animals carrying a null mutation of the gene encoding trkB, the receptors mediating NT-4 and BDNF actions. Initial experiments, using differential display, to isolate genes that may be involved in the process of folliculogenesis and/or early follicular development, resulted in the isolation of a recently identified cell adhesion molecule and a novel transcription factor originally shown to induce cell transformation. It thus appears that formation and development of mammalian follicles requires the concerted action of genes originally thought to be only involved in cell differentiation/survival of neuronal cells, and genes that may control the growth, differentiation, and cell-cell interactions of somatic and germ cells in the ovary.
Despite significant progress in the elucidation of the genetic basis of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (AD), the etiology of sporadic cases remains elusive. Although certain genetic loci play a role in conferring susceptibility in some sporadic AD cases, it is likely that the etiology is multifactorial; hence, the majority of cases cannot be attributed to genetic factors alone, indicating that environmental factors may modulate the onset and/or progression of the disease. Head injury and infectious agents are environmental factors that have been periodically implicated, but no plausible mechanisms have been clearly identified. With regard to infectious agents, speculation has often centered on the neurotropic herpes viruses, with herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV1) considered a likely candidate. We report that an internal sequence of HSV1 glycoprotein B (gB) is homologous to the carboxyl-terminal region of the A beta peptide that accumulates in diffuse and neuritic plaques in AD. Synthetic peptides were generated and the biophysical and biological properties of the viral peptide compared to those of A beta. Here we show that this gB fragment forms beta-pleated sheets, self-assembles into fibrils that are thioflavin-positive and ultrastructurally indistinguishable from A beta, accelerates the formation of A beta fibrils in vitro, and is toxic to primary cortical neurons at doses comparable to those of A beta. These findings suggest a possible role for this infectious agent in the pathophysiology of sporadic cases of AD.
A patient with a postoperative fistula of the left posterior semicircular canal is presented. Negative pressure in the external ear canal produced upbeat-torsional nystagmus, which was recorded in three dimensions using binocular scleral search coils. The nystagmus was conjugate, without skew deviation, and its trajectory corresponded to the anatomic axis of the left posterior canal. The current study helps validate Ewald's first law in humans: the axis of nystagmus should match the anatomic axis of the semicircular canal that generated it. This law is clinically useful in diagnosing pathology of the vestibular end-organ, such as benign paroxysmal positional vertigo or the superior semicircular canal dehiscence syndrome.


The R1-R6 subclass of photoreceptor neurons (R cells) in the Drosophila compound eye form specific connections with targets in the optic ganglia. In this paper, we report the identification of a gene, brakeless (bks), that is essential for R1-R6 growth cone targeting. In brakeless mutants, R1-R6 growth cones frequently fail to terminate migration in their normal target, the lamina, and instead project through it and terminate in the second optic ganglion, the medulla. Genetic mosaic analysis and transgene rescue experiments indicate that bks functions in R cells and not within the lamina target region. bks encodes a nuclear protein. We propose that it participates in a gene expression pathway regulating one or more growth cone components controlling R1-R6 targeting.
In cultured cerebrocortical neurons, mild excitotoxic insults or staurosporine result in apoptosis. We show here that N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated, but not staurosporine-mediated, apoptosis is preceded by depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi(m)) and ATP loss. Both insults, however, release cytochrome c (Cyt c) into the cytoplasm. What prompts mitochondria to release Cyt c and the mechanism of release are as yet unknown. We examined the effect of inhibition of the adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT), a putative component of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. Inhibition of the mitochondrial ANT with bongkrekic acid (BA) prevented NMDA receptor-mediated apoptosis of cerebrocortical neurons. Concomitantly, BA prevented Deltapsi(m) depolarization, promoted recovery of cellular ATP content, and blocked caspase-3 activation. However, in the presence of BA, Cyt c was still released. Because BA prevented NMDA-induced caspase-3 activation and apoptosis, the presence of Cyt c in the neuronal cytoplasm is not sufficient for the induction of caspase activity or apoptosis. In contrast to these findings, BA was ineffective in preventing staurosporine-induced activation of caspases or apoptosis. Additionally, staurosporine-induced, but not NMDA-induced, apoptosis was associated with activation of caspase-8. These results indicate that, in cerebrocortical cultures, excessive NMDA receptor activation precipitates neuronal apoptosis by means of mitochondrial dysfunction, whereas staurosporine utilizes a distinct pathway.
Cannabinoids have immunomodulatory as well as psychoactive effects. Because the central cannabinoid receptor (cannabinoid CB(1) receptor) is highly expressed in many neuronal tissues and the peripheral cannabinoid receptor (cannabinoid CB(2) receptor) is highly expressed in immune cells, it has been suggested that the central nervous system effects of cannabinoids are mediated by cannabinoid CB(1) receptors and that the immune effects are mediated by cannabinoid CB(2) receptors. To test this hypothesis, we have generated the first mouse strain with a targeted mutation in the cannabinoid CB(2) receptor gene. Binding studies using the highly specific synthetic cannabinoid receptor agonist (-)-cis-3-2-Hydroxy-4-(1, 1-dimethylheptyl)phenyl-trans-4-(3-hydroxypropyl)cyclohexanol (3HCP 55,940) revealed no residual cannabinoid binding sites in the spleen of the cannabinoid CB(2) receptor knockout mice, while binding in the central nervous system was unchanged. Cannabinoid CB(2) receptor knockout mice, which appear healthy, are fertile and care for their offspring. Fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis showed no differences in immune cell populations between cannabinoid CB(2) receptor knockout and wildtype mice. We investigated the immunomodulatory effects of cannabinoids in cannabinoid CB(2) receptor deficient mice using a T cell co-stimulation assay. Delta(9)Tetrahydrocannabinol inhibits helper T cell activation through macrophages derived from wild type, but not from knockout mice, thus indicating that this effect is mediated by the cannabinoid CB(2) receptor. In contrast, central nervous system effects of cannabinoids were not altered in these mice. Our results suggest that cannabinoid CB(2) receptor-specific ligands may be clinically useful in the modulation of macrophage immune function while exhibiting no central nervous system activity. Furthermore, we conclude that the cannabinoid CB(2) receptor knockout mouse is a useful animal model in which to study the role of the cannabinoid system in immunoregulation.
We report the isolation and characterisation of a novel opsin cDNA from the retina and pineal of the common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.). When a comparison of the amino acid sequences of salmon vertebrate ancient opsin (sVA) and the novel carp opsin are made, and the carboxyl terminus is omitted, the level of identity between these two opsins is 81% and represents the second example of the VA opsin family. We have therefore termed this C. carpio opsin as carp VA opsin (cVA opsin). We show that members of the VA opsin family may exist in two variants or isoforms based upon the length of the carboxyl terminus and propose that the mechanism of production of the short VA opsin isoform is alternative splicing of intron 4 of the VA opsin gene. The VA opsin gene consists of five exons, with intron 2 significantly shifted in a 3' direction relative to the corresponding intron in rod and cone opsins. The position (or lack) of intron 2 appears to be a diagnostic feature which separates the image forming rod and cone opsin families from the more recently discovered non-visual opsin families (pin-opsins (P), vertebrate ancient (VA), parapinopsin (PP)). Finally, we suggest that lamprey P opsin should be reassigned to the VA opsin family based upon its level of amino acid identity, genomic structure with respect to the position of intron 2 and nucleotide phylogeny.
While molecular mechanisms for iron entry and storage within cells have been elucidated, no system to mediate iron efflux has been heretofore identified. We now describe an ATP requiring iron transporter in mammalian cells. (55)Fe is transported into microsomal vesicles in a Mg-ATP-dependent fashion. The transporter is specific for ferrous iron, is temperature- and time-dependent, and detected only with hydrolyzable nucleotides. It differs from all known ATPases and appears to be a P-type ATPase. The Fe-ATPase is localized together with heme oxygenase-1 to microsomal membranes with both proteins greatly enriched in the spleen. Iron treatment markedly induces ATP-dependent iron transport in RAW 264.7 macrophage cells with an initial phase that is resistant to cycloheximide and actinomycin D and a later phase that is inhibited by these agents. Iron release, elicited in intact rats by glycerol-induced rhabdomyolysis, induces ATP-dependent iron transport in the kidney. Mice with genomic deletion of heme oxygenase-1 have selective tissue iron accumulation and display augmented ATP-dependent iron transport in those tissues that accumulate iron.
In the present study, we examined whether the vagus nerve is involved in mediating lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced appearance of IL-1beta immunoreactive cells in the brain and pituitary gland. Rats were either sham-operated or subjected to subdiaphragmatic vagotomy. Four weeks later, pyrogen free saline or 400 microg/kg LPS was administered to the rats intraperitoneally. Four and 8 h later, the animals were intracardially perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde and tissues were prepared for IL-1beta immunocytochemistry. IL-1beta positive cells were observed at both time-intervals after LPS administration in the choroid plexus, meninges, circumventricular organs and pituitary gland of both sham-operated and vagotomized rats. We conclude that under the conditions studied, the vagus nerve does not mediate LPS-induced appearance of IL-1beta in the rat brain and pituitary gland.
A hippocampal pyramidal neuron receives more than 10(4) excitatory glutamatergic synapses. Many of these synapses contain the molecular machinery for messenger RNA translation, suggesting that the protein complement (and thus function) of each synapse can be regulated on the basis of activity. Here, local postsynaptic protein synthesis, triggered by synaptic activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors, was found to modify synaptic transmission within minutes.
We examined the effects of systemic administration of monosodium glutamate (MSG) or aspartate (ASP) on the memory retention and neuronal damage in the brains of adult mice. Compared with the control mice, a single intraperitoneal injection of either 4.0 mg/g MSG or 0.5 mg/g ASP after acquisition trial significantly shortened the response latency in the passive avoidance test, accompanying by the transient weight loss. Histopathological analysis of the brains of these mice revealed that neurons in the arcuate nucleus of hypothalamus were damaged markedly by MSG (4.0 mg/g) or ASP (0.5 mg/g). Other brain areas including cerebral cortex and hippocampus did not show any pathological changes. These findings suggest that systemic administration of MSG or ASP could impair memory retention and damage hypothalamic neurons in adult mice.
Speech is thought to be perceived and processed in a unique way by the auditory system of the brain. A recent study has provided evidence that a part of the brain's temporal lobe is specifically responsive to speech and other vocal stimuli.

The beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide, a major component of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease brain, has been shown previously to undergo a process of polymerization to produce neurotoxic forms of amyloid. Recent literature has attempted to define precisely the form of Abeta responsible for its neurodegenerative properties. In the present study we describe a novel density-gradient centrifugation method for the isolation and characterization of structurally distinct polymerized forms of Abeta peptide. Fractions containing protofibrils, fibrils, sheet structures and low molecular mass oligomers were prepared. The fractionated forms of Abeta were characterized structurally by transmission electron microscopy. The effects on cell viability of these fractions was determined in the B12 neuronal cell line and hippocampal neurons. Marked effects on cell viability in the cells were found to correspond to the presence of protofibrillar and fibrillar structures, but not to monomeric peptide or sheet-like structures of polymerized Abeta. Biological activity correlated with a positive reaction in an immunoassay that specifically detects protofibrillar and fibrillar Abeta; those fractions that were immunoassay negative had no effect on cell viability. These data suggest that the effect of Abeta on cell viability is not confined to a single conformational form but that both fibrillar and protofibrillar species have the potential to be active in this assay.
Three distinct classes of epitopes on human CD164 have been identified. Two of these, recognized by the monoclonal antibodies 105A5 and 103B2/9E10, are the CD164 class I and class II functionally defined epitopes, which cooperate to regulate adhesion and proliferation of CD34(+) cell subsets. In this article, we demonstrate that these 2 CD164 epitopes are expressed on CD34(+) cells throughout ontogeny, in particular on CD34(+ )cell clusters associated with the ventral floor of the dorsal aorta in the developing embryo and on CD34(+) hematopoietic precursor cells in fetal liver, cord blood, and adult bone marrow. While higher levels of expression of these CD164 epitopes occur on the more primitive AC133(hi)CD34(hi)CD38(lo/-) cell population, they also occur on most cord blood Lin(-)CD34(lo/-)CD38(lo/- )cells, which are potential precursors for the AC133(hi)CD34(hi)CD38(lo/-) subset. In direct contrast to these common patterns of expression on hematopoietic precursor cells, notable differences in expression of the CD164 epitopes were observed in postnatal lymphoid and nonhematopoietic tissues, with the class I and class II CD164 epitopes generally exhibiting differential and often reciprocal cellular distribution patterns. This is particularly striking in the colon, where infiltrating lymphoid cells are CD164 class I-positive but class II-negative, while epithelia are weakly CD164 class II-positive. Similarly, in certain lymphoid tissues, high endothelial venules and basal and subcapsular epithelia are CD164 class II-positive, while lymphoid cells are CD164 class I-positive. It therefore seems highly likely that these CD164 class I and II epitopes will mediate reciprocal homing functions in these tissue types.
The sequence-specific DNA-binding activity of the AP-1 transcription factor complex was measured in cultured rat cerebellar granule cells by electrophoretic mobility shift assay. A low concentration of kainate (KA; 10 microM), but not alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA; 10 microM), enhanced DNA-binding of the AP-1 transcription factor in cultures pretreated with Concanavalin A (Con A), to prevent KA receptor desensitization. In the presence of cyclothiazide (an inhibitor of AMPA receptor desensitization), KA (10 microM) caused only a slight increase of AP-1 DNA-binding, in contrast to the threefold enhancement produced by AMPA (10 or 30 microM) or by a higher concentration of KA (30 microM), suggesting that the effect of KA, in the presence of Con A, is mediated by activation of putative KA receptors. To confirm this, the effects of the AMPA receptor-selective, non-competitive antagonist, 1-(4-aminophenyl)-3-methylcarbamoyl-4-methyl-3,4-dihydro-7, 8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine (GYKI 53655; 50 microM), the mixed AMPA/KA receptor competitive antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX; 50 microM), and the AMPA and GluR5 KA receptor competitive antagonist, (-)(3S,4aR,6R, 8aR)-6-[2-(1(2)H-tetrazole-5-yl)ethyl]-1,2,3,4,4a,5,6,7,8, 8a-decahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid monohydrate (LY 326325; 100 microM), were examined on AMPA- and KA-induced AP-1 activation, respectively. Our results suggest that stimulation of native KA receptors is responsible for the observed KA-specific activation of the AP-1 transcription factor complex.
The presence of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is described within specific regions of the adult rat pituitary gland. Immune staining methods revealed a small number of GDNF-immunopositive cells in the anterior lobe, and in areas of the neural lobe, while no immunoreactive endocrine cells were observed in the intermediate lobe. In the neural lobe, immunofluorescence methods were also used to demonstrate that GDNF and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) are co-localized in the glial cells (pituicytes) of the neural lobe. GDNF was not co-localized with neurofilament (NF) in nerve fibers of the neural lobe, suggesting that it is not present in axonal fibers. Measurements of GDNF content in separated anterior and neurointermediate lobes were also performed, using an enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA). Values for GDNF were slightly higher in the neurointermediate lobe than those obtained for the anterior lobe. The presence of GDNF in areas of the pituitary is discussed in the context of its possible function to support and maintain hypothalamic innervation, as well as a potential autocrine factor within endocrine cells.
Systemic administration of kainic acid (KA), an excitatory amino acid agonist, provides a model of epilepsy due to increased neural excitation. We examined discharges using multi-channel EEG recording and spectral analysis in rats implanted with neocortical and hippocampal electrodes after intravenous infusion of KA (10 mg/kg), until and including the first convulsive seizure. Gamma activity (30-80 Hz) increased in hippocampus from 3-9 min after KA administration. Two types of preconvulsive bilateral rhythmic discharges were observed, both consisting of generalised high voltage sharp waves at low frequencies (&lt;10 Hz) mixed with fast oscillations (&lt;20 Hz): (1) generalised non-convulsive discharges (GNCD) occurred in all animals and (2) spike-wave discharges (SW), predominantly localised in neocortex, occurred in 45% of animals. Convulsive seizure evolved out of a GNCD. Spectral profiles of epileptiform discharges were characterised by an increase in power of low (&lt;10 Hz) and high (beta and gamma range, 20-80 Hz) frequencies which were differently expressed in neocortex and hippocampus. Thus, in this model of convulsive epilepsy caused by increased excitation, there is an early increase in gamma activity, a process that might contribute to synchronisation, and two distinct types of bilateral discharges, hippocampal-neocortical (GNCD) and preferentially neocortical (SW). Neocortical, not hippocampal, changes in EEG power correlated with development of convulsive behaviours.
There are two types of intracellular superoxide dismutases: the mitochondrial manganese SOD (MnSOD) and the cytoplasmic copper/zinc SOD (CuZnSOD). Mutant mice that lack MnSOD die shortly after birth because of cardiomyopathy and mitochondrial injury. In order to verify if CuZnSOD could compensate for MnSOD deficiency, a new mutant mouse that overexpresses CuZnSOD but is deficient in MnSOD was generated by crossing MnSOD knockout mice with CuZnSOD transgenic mice. CuZnSOD activity was significantly increased in the blood, brain, liver, and heart of MnSOD knockout, CuZnSOD transgenic mice when compared with nontransgenic mice. However, overexpression of CuZnSOD did not prevent neonatal lethality in mice that lack MnSOD, nor did it prevent oxidative aconitase inactivation, nor did it rescue MnSOD-deficient astrocytes in culture. Based on our findings, which emphasize the strong enzymatic compartmentalization of CuZnSOD and MnSOD, therapeutic antioxidant strategies should consider the final intracellular localization of the antioxidant used, especially when those strategies are directed against mitochondrial diseases.
A large number of gene products appear after an ischemic insult making it difficult to decipher which genes are involved in tissue injury. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) can influence gene expression and have a role in the events that lead to neuronal death. In global cerebral ischemia the oxidative responsive transcription factor, NF-kappa B, is persistently activated in neurons that are destined to die. There are several potential routes through which NF-kappa B can act to induce neuronal death, including production of death proteins and an aborted attempt to reenter the cell cycle. NF-kappa B is only transiently activated in neurons that survive. Persistent NF-kappa B activation can be blocked by antioxidants, which suggests that the neuroprotective effect of antioxidants may be due to inhibiting activation of NF-kappa B.
Radiation hybrid (RH) mapping of the mouse genome provides a useful tool in the integration of existing genetic and physical maps, as well as in the ongoing effort to generate a dense map of expressed sequence tags. To facilitate functional analysis of mouse Chromosome 5, we have constructed a high-resolution RH map spanning 75 cM of the chromosome. During the course of these studies, we have developed RHBase, an RH data management program that provides data storage and an interface to several RH mapping programs and databases. We have typed 95 markers on the T31 RH panel and generated an integrated map, pooling data from several sources. The integrated RH map ranges from the most proximal marker, D5Mit331 (Chromosome Committee offset, 3 cM), to D5Mit326, 74.5 cM distal on our genetic map (Chromosome Committee offset, 80 cM), and consists of 138 markers, including 89 simple sequence length polymorphic markers, 11 sequence-tagged sites generated from BAC end sequence, and 38 gene loci, and represents average coverage of approximately one locus per 0.5 cM with some regions more densely mapped. In addition to the RH mapping of markers and genes previously localized on mouse Chromosome 5, this RH map places the alpha-4 GABA(A) receptor subunit gene (Gabra4) in the central portion of the chromosome, in the vicinity of the cluster of three other GABA(A) receptor subunit genes (Gabrg1-Gabra2-Gabrb1). Our mapping effort has also defined a new cluster of four genes in the semaphorin gene family (Sema3a, Sema3c, Sema3d, and Sema3e) and the Wolfram syndrome gene (Wfs1) in this region of the chromosome.
Body patterning behavior, the expression of highly intricate patterns, is ubiquitous among all unshelled cephalopods. These body patterns are in part generated by the coordinated activity of millions of skin chromatophore organs, each of which is regulated by a set of chromatophore muscles directly innervated by centrally located chromatophore motoneurons. This study addresses the question of the identity and function of the transmitter(s) at the chromatophore neuromuscular junction (NMJ) in the European cuttlefish Sepia officinalis. Glutamate application causes a rapid contraction of the chromatophore muscles, resulting in chromatophore expansion. Pharmacological studies demonstrate that the chromatophore muscles contain receptors blocked by glutamate-specific antagonists. Glutamate-like immunoreactivity is also present in the somata of putative chromatophore motoneurons. These findings suggest that glutamate likely acts as a neurotransmitter at the chromatophore NMJ. Evidence is also presented suggesting that FMRFamide-related peptides (FaRPs) also function as neurotransmitters at the Sepia chromatophore NMJ. FMRFamide application causes contraction of chromatophore muscles; however, the FMRFamide effect is slower and longer lasting than that of glutamate. Pharmacological data show that FMRFamide acts directly on the chromatophore muscles. FMRFamide-immunopositive cells are present in the posterior chromatophore lobe, the putative location of the chromatophore motoneuron somata. A combination of immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization shows that some putative chromatophore motoneurons express FaRP-like immunoreactivity and an FaRP-coding mRNA transcript. Many FMRFamide-immunopositive cells in the posterior chromatophore lobes also express glutamate-like immunoreactivity. We conclude that glutamate and FaRPs likely function as fast and slow transmitters, respectively, at the Sepia chromatophore NMJ.
Evidence is presented here for a cellular network that courses through all layers of meninges, the vasculature of both the brain and meninges, and extends into the brain parenchyma. Confocal mapping of calcium-binding protein S100beta immunoreactivity (S100beta-ir) and of the intermediate filament vimentin-ir through serial sections of the meningeal-intact adult rat brain revealed this network. In all tissues examined, S100beta-ir and vimentin-ir were primarily colocalized, and were found in cells with elongated processes through which these cells contacted one another to form a network. The location of labeling and the morphology of the cells labeled were consistent with the possibility that this network consists of fibroblasts in the meninges and the walls of large blood vessels, of pericytes at the level of capillaries, and of ependymocytes and a population of astrocytes in the brain parenchyma. At many sites along the borders of the brain parenchyma itself and of the brain blood vessels, it was possible to detect S100beta-ir and vimentin-ir cell processes that cross the basal laminae. This suggested the probable means by which the S100beta-ir cells of the extraparenchymal tissues anatomically contact the cells that express the same markers in the brain. Privileged anatomical relationships of the S100beta/vimentin network with the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) astrocytes further suggested that, together, they form the structural basis for a general meningeo-glial network. This organization challenges the current model of brain architecture, calls for a reconsideration of the role of meninges and vascular tissues, and appears to reflect the existence of hitherto unsuspected systems of communication.

This study deals with a potential brainstem and thalamic substrate for the extensive reorganization of somatosensory cortical maps that occurs after chronic, large-scale loss of peripheral input. Transneuronal atrophy occurred in neurons of the dorsal column (DCN) and ventral posterior lateral thalamic (VPL) nuclei in monkeys subjected to cervical and upper thoracic dorsal rhizotomies for 13-21 years and that had shown extensive representational plasticity in somatosensory cortex and thalamus in other experiments. Volumes of DCN and VPL, number and sizes of neurons, and neuronal packing density were measured by unbiased stereological techniques. When compared with the opposite, unaffected, side, the ipsilateral cuneate nucleus (CN), external cuneate nucleus (ECN), and contralateral VPL showed reductions in volume: 44-51% in CN, 37-48% in ECN, and 32-38% in VPL. In the affected nuclei, neurons were progressively shrunken with increasing survival time, and their packing density increased, but there was relatively little loss of neurons (10-16%). There was evidence for loss of axons of atrophic CN cells in the medial lemniscus and in the thalamus, with accompanying severe disorganization of the parts of the ventral posterior nuclei representing the normally innervated face and the deafferented upper limb. Secondary transneuronal atrophy in VPL, associated with retraction of axons of CN neurons undergoing primary transneuronal atrophy, is likely to be associated with similar withdrawal of axons from the cerebral cortex and should be a powerful influence on reorganization of somatotopic maps in the somatosensory cortex.
Excitatory projections from the prefrontal cortex (PFC) to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) play an important role in regulating the activity of VTA neurons and the extracellular levels of dopamine (DA) within forebrain regions. Previous investigations have demonstrated that PFC terminals synapse on the dendrites of DA and non-DA neurons in the VTA. However, the projection targets of these cells are not known. To address whether PFC afferents innervate different populations of VTA neurons that project to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) or to the PFC, a triple labeling method was used that combined peroxidase markers for anterograde and retrograde tract-tracing with pre-embedding immunogold-silver labeling for either tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or GABA. Within the VTA, PFC terminals formed asymmetric synapses onto dendritic shafts that were immunoreactive for either TH or GABA. PFC terminals also synapsed on VTA dendrites that were retrogradely labeled from the NAc or the PFC. Dendrites retrogradely labeled from the NAc and postsynaptic to PFC afferents were sometimes immunoreactive for GABA but were never TH-labeled. Conversely, dendrites retrogradely labeled from the PFC and postsynaptic to PFC afferents were sometimes immunoreactive for TH but were never GABA-labeled. These results provide the first demonstration of PFC afferents synapsing on identified cell populations in the VTA and indicate a considerable degree of specificity in the targets of the PFC projection. The unexpected finding of selective PFC synaptic input to GABA-containing mesoaccumbens neurons and DA-containing mesocortical neurons suggests novel mechanisms through which the PFC can influence the activity of ascending DA and GABA projections.
Eighteen monkeys with lesions of the hippocampal region (the hippocampus proper, the dentate gyrus, and the subiculum) made by an ischemic procedure, radio frequency, or ibotenic acid were tested on a simple, two-choice object discrimination learning task that has been shown to be sensitive to large lesions of the medial temporal lobe. The monkeys were also tested on two other discrimination tasks (pattern discrimination and eight-pair concurrent discrimination) that can be learned normally by monkeys with large medial temporal lobe lesions. All of the lesion groups were impaired at learning the simple object discrimination task. Seven of the monkeys who had sustained damage to the hippocampal region also sustained damage to the tail of the caudate nucleus. These seven monkeys, but not the other 11 monkeys with hippocampal lesions, were impaired on pattern discrimination and concurrent discrimination learning. The results suggest that the hippocampal region is important for learning easy, two-choice discriminations, whereas the caudate nucleus is necessary for the normal learning of more difficult, gradually acquired discrimination tasks. The findings support the distinction between declarative memory, which depends on the hippocampus and related medial temporal lobe structures, and habit learning, which depends on the caudate nucleus.
Neurons in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO) in rats show c-fos activation after sleep and provide GABAergic innervation of the major monoamine arousal systems, suggesting that they may be a necessary part of the brain circuitry that produces sleep. We examined the effects on sleep behavior in rats of cell-specific damage to the VLPO by microinjection of ibotenic acid. Severe lesions of the central cell cluster of the VLPO ( approximately 80-90% cell loss bilaterally) caused a 60-70% decrease in delta power and a 50-60% decrease in nonrapid-eye-movement (NREM) sleep time (p &lt; 0.001). The number of remaining Fos-immunoreactive neurons in the VLPO cell cluster was linearly related to NREM sleep time (r = 0.77; p &lt; 0.001) and total electroencephalogram delta power (r = 0. 79; p &lt; 0.001) but not to rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep (r = 0.35; p &gt; 0.10). Lesions in the region containing scattered VLPO neurons medial or dorsal to the cell cluster caused smaller changes in NREM sleep time (24.5 or 15%, respectively) but were more closely associated with loss of REM sleep (r = 0.74; p &lt; 0.01). The insomnia caused by bilateral VLPO lesions persisted for at least 3 weeks. Lesions of the VLPO caused no change in mean body temperature or its circadian variation; after small lesions of the ventromedial preoptic nucleus, body temperature showed normal circadian variation but a wider temperature range, and sleep behavior was not affected. These experiments delineate distinct preoptic sites with primary effects on the regulation of NREM sleep, REM sleep, and body temperature.
We have investigated the developmental expression and subcellular localization of synapsin III, the newest member of the synapsin family, in cultured mouse hippocampal neurons. Our results indicate that synapsin III is expressed early during development, with levels peaking 7 d after plating and declining thereafter. Synapsin III is highly concentrated in growth cones. Using specific antisense oligonucleotides, we have also examined the effect of depleting synapsin III on neurite elongation and synaptogenesis. When synapsin III was suppressed immediately after plating, hippocampal neurons extended minor processes but failed to differentiate one of them as the axon. The suppression of synapsin III after axonal elongation did not affect the time course of synapse formation. The results indicate that synapsin III has a developmental time course, a subcellular localization, and a developmental function very different from those of synapsin I and synapsin II.
Two major challenges exist in our understanding of the olfactory system. One concerns the enormous combinatorial code underlying odorant discrimination by odorant receptors. The other relates to neurogenesis and neuronal development in the olfactory epithelium. To address these issues, continuous cell cultures containing olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) were obtained from olfactory epithelia of H-2K(b)-tsA58 transgenic mice. ORNs were detected and characterized by immunocytochemistry, RT-PCR, and Western blot for the markers Galpha(olf), adenylyl cyclase III, the olfactory cyclic nucleotide-gated channel subunits, and olfactory marker protein. In culture, epidermal growth factor and nerve growth factor stimulated proliferation, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 induced cellular maturation. Clonal cell lines were isolated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting with anti-neural cell adhesion molecule antibodies, and of 144 single cells plated, 39 clones were expanded, propagated, and stored in liquid nitrogen. All attempts at recovery of clonal lines from frozen stocks have been successful. The most thoroughly characterized clone, 3NA12, expressed ORN markers and responded to stimulation by single odorants. Each odorant activated approximately 1% of cells in a clonal line, and this suggests that many different odorant receptors may be expressed by these clonal cells. Therefore, these cell lines and the method by which they have been obtained represent a significant advance in the generation of olfactory cell cultures and provide a system to investigate odorant coding and olfactory neurogenesis.
Many neurodegenerative diseases are associated with the abnormal sequestration of disease-specific proteins in the brain, but the events that initiate this process remain unclear. To determine whether the deposition of the beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta), a key pathological feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD), can be induced in vivo, we infused dilute supernatants of autopsy-derived neocortical homogenates from Alzheimer's patients unilaterally into the hippocampus and neocortex of 3-month-old beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP)-transgenic mice. Up to 4 weeks after the infusion there was no Abeta-deposition in the brain; however, after 5 months, the AD-tissue-injected hemisphere of the transgenic mice had developed profuse Abeta-immunoreactive senile plaques and vascular deposits, some of which were birefringent with Congo Red. There was limited deposition of diffuse Abeta also in the brains of betaAPP-transgenic mice infused with tissue from an age-matched, non-AD brain with mild beta-amyloidosis, but none in mice receiving extract from a young control case. Abeta deposits also were not found in either vehicle-injected or uninjected transgenic mice or in any nontransgenic mice. The results show that cerebral beta-amyloid can be seeded in vivo by a single inoculation of dilute AD brain extract, demonstrating a key pathogenic commonality between beta-amyloidosis and other neurodegenerative diseases involving abnormal protein polymerization. The paradigm can be used to clarify the conditions that initiate in vivo beta-amyloidogenesis in the brain and may yield a more authentic animal model of Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders.
Protein phosphatase inhibitor-1 (I-1) has been proposed as a regulatory element in the signal transduction cascade that couples postsynaptic calcium influx to long-term changes in synaptic strength. We have evaluated this model using mice lacking I-1. Recordings made in slices prepared from mutant animals and also in anesthetized mutant animals indicated that long-term potentiation (LTP) is deficient at perforant path-dentate granule cell synapses. In vitro, this deficit was restricted to synapses of the lateral perforant path. LTP at Schaffer collateral-CA1 pyramidal cell synapses remained normal. Thus, protein phosphatase-1-mediated regulation of NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity involves heterogeneous molecular mechanisms, in both different dendritic subregions and different neuronal subtypes. Examination of the performance of I-1 mutants in spatial learning tests indicated that intact LTP at lateral perforant path-granule cell synapses is either redundant or is not involved in this form of learning.
Stimulation artifacts can greatly complicate the evaluation of short-latency responses in experiments in which anterograde stimulation techniques are used to investigate connections between different brain regions. For an experiment involving recording of the responses in the primate substantia nigra pars reticulata to stimulation at various sites in the striatum, a digital averaging technique was developed for removing stimulation artifacts from traces of neuronal signals. In the first of two stages of this procedure, an estimate of the average stimulus artifact is calculated from traces of multiple stimulations at the same site. In the second step, the resulting average stimulation artifact (after time- and amplitude-optimization) is subtracted from individual data segments that contain the artifact. The data presented here demonstrate that this technique, applied off-line, is highly effective in removing artifacts, and uncovering neuronal potentials superimposed on the artifact. Faster computers and optimized software may make on-line application of this technique feasible.
As exquisite probes for gene sequences, oligonucleotides are one of the most powerful tools of recombinant molecular biology. In studying the GABA receptor subunits in the neonatal hippocampus we have used oligonucleotide probes in in situ hybridization and cloning techniques. The oligonucleotides used and assumed to be specific for the target gene, actually recognized more than one gene, leading to surprising and contradictory results. In particular, we found that a GABA(A)-rho specific oligonucleotide recognized an abundant, previously unknown, transcription factor in both in situ and library screening, while oligos 'specific' for GABA(A) subunits were able to recognize 30 additional unrelated genes in library screening. This suggests that positive results obtained with oligonucleotides should be interpreted with caution unless confirmed by identical results with oligonucleotides from different parts of the same gene, or cDNA library screening excludes the presence of other hybridizing species.
TaqMan reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is a recently developed technique which allows the measurement of an accumulating PCR product in real time. In the present study we have validated the use of TaqMan RT-PCR for mRNA localisation studies in human and rat tissues, and for the investigation of gene expression changes in CNS animal models. In human brain, D(2) receptor mRNA was enriched in caudate nucleus and putamen, whilst in rat brain, highest levels of D(2) receptor mRNA expression were observed in striatum and nucleus accumbens, consistent with the known distribution of this receptor in basal ganglia. In a rat model of permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO), endogenous interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) mRNA was upregulated over 30-fold at 24 h post-lesion in both striatum and cortex ipsilateral to artery occlusion. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA was transiently upregulated 3.7-fold at 3 h, but not at 24 h or 3 days after induction of cortical spreading depression (CSD) in rats. Our observations in these two animal models using TaqMan RT-PCR were consistent with previous reports using other techniques. In conclusion, TaqMan RT-PCR assays provide a rapid and reliable method for semi-quantitative analysis of gene expression in the nervous system.
Mutations in the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene cause familial Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) is the principal constituent of senile plaques in AD, other cleavage products of APP are also implicated in playing a role in the pathogenesis of AD. C-terminal fragments of APP (APP-CTs), that contain complete Abeta sequence, are found in neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and the cytosol of lymphoblastoid cells obtained from AD patients. Our previous report demonstrated that APP-CT105 causes death of differentiated PC12 cells and cultured rat cortical neurons (Kim and Suh [1996] J. Neurochem. 67:1172-1182) and induces strong inward currents in Xenopus oocyte (Fraser et al., [1996] J. Neurochem. 66:2034-2040). In the present study, to investigate which domain of APP-CT105 is responsible for the neurotoxicity, we have made deletion mutants of APP-CT105 without Abeta and transmembrane domain (TM) or without NPTY domain, a putative endocytosis signaling sequence, using the PCR-amplified strategy and the recombinant GST-fusion protein strategy. The effect on cell survival of the deletion mutants of APP-CT105 (8 microM) was then determined by the LDH and MTT assay. We found that C-terminal fragment without NPTY significantly causes cell death in NGF-differentiated PC12 cells and cultured rat cortical neurons. This finding suggests that NPTY may not play an important role in APP-CT105 mediated neurotoxicity. We found, however, that C-terminal fragment without Abeta and TM significantly induces neuronal cell death. Our results suggest that in addition to Abeta, C-terminal fragment of APP without Abeta and TM domain itself may also participate in the neuronal degeneration in AD.
We have studied the cellular distribution of gangliosides GD1b, GD3 and GM1 in rat cerebellum by immunostaining, using monoclonal antibodies and confocal microscopy. Antibodies against astroglial, neuronal and synaptic vesicle associated molecules were used for colocalization analyses. In the gray matter, the anti-GD1b antibody stained thin strands in the molecular layer (ML), interpreted as Bergman glia fibers based on colocalized staining with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). The neuropil in the granule (GL) and Purkinje (PL) cell layers was also anti-GD1b positive. The anti-GD3 antibody stained the ML, the neuropil in the GL and PL and also the granule and Purkinje cell bodies, appearing intracytoplasmically and vesicle associated. Anti-GD1b and anti-GD3 staining in the GL glomeruli were colocalized with anti-synaptophysin staining. The anti-GM1 antibody stained cell bodies in the ML but they could not be characterized in colocalization experiments. The GL and PL were not stained with the anti-GM1 antibody. In the white matter, different staining patterns were seen for the gangliosides, the anti-GM1 staining being the most intense. This study shows cellular layer and cell type specific associations of the investigated gangliosides and localization of GD1b and GD3 at synaptic sites, warranting further studies on their role in synaptic mechanisms.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has been shown to protect cranial and spinal motoneurons, that suggests potential uses of GDNF in the treatment of spinal cord injury and motor neuron diseases. We examined neuroprotective effect of human GDNF encoded by an adenovirus vector (AxCAhGDNF) on the death of lesioned adult rat spinal motoneurons. The seventh cervical segment (C7) ventral and dorsal roots and dorsal root ganglia of adult Fisher 344 rats were avulsed, and AxCAhGDNF, AxCALacZ (adenovirus encoding beta-galactosidase gene) or PBS was inoculated in C7 vertebral foramen. One week after the avulsion and treatment with AxCALacZ, the animals showed expression of beta-galactosidase activity in lesioned spinal motoneurons. Animals avulsed and treated with AxCAhGDNF showed intense immunolabeling for GDNF in lesioned spinal motoneurons and expression of virus-induced human GDNF mRNA transcripts in the lesioned spinal cord tissue. Nissl-stained cell counts revealed that the treatment with AxCAhGDNF significantly prevented the loss of lesioned ventral horn motoneurons 2 to 8 weeks after avulsion, as compared to AxCALacZ or PBS treatment. Furthermore, the AxCAhGDNF treatment ameliorated choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity in the lesioned motoneurons after avulsion. These results indicate that the adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of GDNF may prevent the degeneration of motoneurons in adult humans with spinal cord injury and motor neuron diseases.
This study tested predictions from a network model of ventrolateral medullary respiratory neurone interactions for the generation of the cough motor pattern observed in inspiratory and expiratory pump muscles. Data were from 34 mid-collicularly decerebrated, paralysed, artificially ventilated cats. Cough-like patterns (fictive cough) in efferent phrenic and lumbar nerve activities were elicited by mechanical stimulation of the intrathoracic trachea. Neurones in the ventral respiratory group, including the Botzinger and pre-Botzinger complexes, were monitored simultaneously with microelectrode arrays. Spike trains were analysed for evidence of functional connectivity and responses during fictive cough with cycle-triggered histograms, autocorrelograms, cross-correlograms, and spike-triggered averages of phrenic and recurrent laryngeal nerve activities. Significant cross-correlogram features were detected in 151 of 1988 pairs of respiratory modulated neurones. There were 59 central peaks, 5 central troughs, 11 offset peaks and 2 offset troughs among inspiratory neurone pairs. Among expiratory neurones there were 23 central peaks, 8 offset peaks and 4 offset troughs. Correlations between inspiratory and expiratory neurones included 20 central peaks, 10 central troughs and 9 offset troughs. Spike-triggered averages of phrenic motoneurone activity had 51 offset peaks and 5 offset troughs. The concurrent responses and multiple short time scale correlations support parallel and serial network interactions proposed in our model for the generation of the cough motor pattern in the respiratory pump muscles. Inferred associations included the following. (a) Excitation of augmenting inspiratory (I-Aug) neurones and phrenic motoneurones by I-Aug neurones. (b) Inhibition of augmenting expiratory (E-Aug) neurones by decrementing inspiratory (I-Dec) neurones. (c) Inhibition of I-Aug, I-Dec and E-Aug neurones by E-Dec neurones. (d) Inhibition of I-Aug and I-Dec neurones and phrenic motoneurones by E-Aug neurones. The data also confirm previous results and support hypotheses in current network models for the generation of the eupnoeic pattern.
Sarcolemma Ca2+ influx, necessary for store refilling, was well maintained, over a wide range (-70 to + 40 mV) of membrane voltages, in guinea-pig single circular colonic smooth muscle cells, as indicated by the magnitude of InsP3-evoked Ca2+ transients. This apparent voltage independence of store refilling was achieved by the activity of sarcolemma Ca2+ channels some of which were voltage gated while others were not. At negative membrane potentials (e.g. -70 mV), Ca2+ influx through channels which lacked voltage gating provided for store refilling while at positive membrane potentials (e.g. +40 mV) voltage-gated Ca2+ channels were largely responsible. Sarcolemma voltage-gated Ca2+ currents were not activated following store depletion. Removal of external Ca2+ or the addition of the Ca2+ channel blocker nimodipine (1 microM) inhibited store refilling, as assessed by the magnitude of InsP3-evoked Ca2+ transients, with little or no change in bulk average cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration. One hypothesis for these results is that the store may refill from a high subsarcolemma Ca2+ gradient. Influx via channels, some of which are voltage gated and others which lack voltage gating, may permit the establishment of a subsarcolemma Ca2+ gradient. Store access to the gradient allows InsP3-evoked Ca2+ signalling to be maintained over a wide voltage range in colonic smooth muscle.
Potassium channels located in the dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons control the shape and amplitude of back-propagating action potentials, the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials and dendritic excitability. Non-uniform gradients in the distribution of potassium channels in the dendrites make the dendritic electrical properties markedly different from those found in the soma. For example, the influence of a fast, calcium-dependent potassium current on action potential repolarization is progressively reduced in the first 150 micrometer of the apical dendrites, so that action potentials recorded farther than 200 micrometer from the soma have no fast after-hyperpolarization and are wider than those in the soma. The peak amplitude of back-propagating action potentials is also progressively reduced in the dendrites because of the increasing density of a transient potassium channel with distance from the soma. The activation of this channel can be reduced by the activity of a number of protein kinases as well as by prior depolarization. The depolarization from excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) can inactivate these A-type K+ channels and thus lead to an increase in the amplitude of dendritic action potentials, provided the EPSP and the action potentials occur within the appropriate time window. This time window could be in the order of 15 ms and may play a role in long-term potentiation induced by pairing EPSPs and back-propagating action potentials.
Within a single neuron the correct targeting of the diverse neurotransmitter receptor types to discrete synaptic regions is crucial for proper function. However, the molecular mechanisms that underlie neuronal receptor clustering and targeting are still largely undefined. Here we report advances in defining the mechanisms that mediate nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) targeting to interneuronal synapses. Recent in vivo studies have demonstrated that one subunit plays a critical role in the differentiation of nicotinic cholinergic synapses on vertebrate autonomic neurons. The major cytoplasmic loop of the alpha3 subunit targets specific nAChR subtypes to the synapse. In contrast, nAChR complexes that lack the alpha3 targeting domain are excluded and are perisynaptic. Additional studies have demonstrated a greater complexity to alpha3-nAChR targeting due to a unique postsynaptic receptor microheterogeneity - under one presynaptic terminal, alpha3-nAChR clusters are separate, but proximal to, glycine receptor (GlyR) clusters in discrete postsynaptic membrane microregions. The surprising coexistence under one nerve ending of separate clusters of receptors that respond to different fast-acting transmitters with opposing functions may represent a novel mechanism for modulating synaptic activity. Overall, the receptor targeting and clustering studies reviewed in this issue suggest that a common mechanism underlies the formation of the diverse types of interneuronal synapses but differs from that responsible for neuromuscular junction assembly in vertebrates.
Synaptic glycoproteins are synthesized and glycosylated in the neuronal cell body, and conveyed to terminals by fast axonal transport. We used the alpha-mannosidase inhibitor, 2-deoxymannojirimycin (dMan), to investigate the effects of disrupting N-glycan processing on the axonal trafficking of proteins in vivo. dMan significantly reduced rapid axonal transport in retinal ganglion cells to about 34% of control values 4h after metabolic labeling; at 8 h post-labeling the inhibition was reversed. 2-D gel analysis showed that dMan completely inhibited the arrival of radiolabeled L1 and NCAM at axon terminals, and resulted in the appearance of two novel proteins of 230 kDa and 155 kDa. Our results show that disruption of the N-glycosylation pathway has an immediate inhibitory effect on total axonal transport and longer lasting effects on the trafficking of specific glycoproteins to axon terminals in vivo.
Neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1) and its putative substrate phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase beta (PtdIns 4-kinase beta) both indirectly regulate synaptic vesicle exocytosis and are located in DRG neurites. In this study we have tested whether NCS-1 and PtdIns 4-kinase beta are transported in axons using the analysis of double ligation approach in the adult rat sciatic nerve. We show that NCS-1 accumulates on both the distal and proximal side of the nerve ligation indicating that this protein undergoes bidirectional transport in axons. In contrast, PtdIns 4-kinase beta accumulated on the distal side which suggests that it undergoes retrograde axonal transport and unlike NCS-1 was also present in non-neuronal cells.

In previous studies, we found that a 2-week in vivo intracerebroventricular infusion of nerve growth factor (NGF) elicited a sprouting response by sympathetic perivascular axons associated with the intradural segment of the internal carotid artery. We hypothesized that NGF infused into the ventricular system would be internalized by responsive sympathetic cerebrovascular axons, retrogradely transported to parent cell bodies in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG), and subsequently released into the local ganglionic environment. Because fibers exhibiting immunoreactivity for calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) have been localized in the SCG, we used immunohistochemical methods to investigate whether a response by CGRP-immunoreactive axons in the SCG occurred following the proposed transport to and release of exogenous NGF in the ganglion. In consecutive tissue sections of the SCG stained for either CGRP or NGF, we found CGRP pericellular 'baskets' surrounding identified NGF-immunoreactive cell bodies. Nerve growth factor infusion resulted in a significant increase both in the number of CGRP pericellular baskets and in NGF-immunoreactive cell bodies. A significant positive correlation (r=0.95, P&lt;0.05) between the pericellular baskets and NGF-immunoreactive cell bodies was observed, suggesting that intracranial projection neurons in the SCG released infused NGF (or possibly a converted signal) into the local ganglionic environment to elicit remodeling of CGRP fibers to form pericellular baskets. These findings were confirmed in sections double labeled for NGF and CGRP immunoreactivity. This remodeling suggests that exogenous NGF may mediate retrograde transneuronal plasticity, allowing for future in vivo examinations of the mechanisms involved in neurotrophin transport and release.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) 2A receptor antagonists are clinically effective antipsychotics that may differentially target mesocortical and mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons having partially segregated distribution in the parabrachial (PB) and paranigral (PN) ventral tegmental area (VTA). We examined the ultrastructural immunocytochemical localization of the 5-HT2A receptor in these subdivisions of rat VTA, to determine (1) the functional sites for receptor activation, and (2) cellular associations between the receptor and dopaminergic neurons identified by their content of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). The mean area density of neuronal profiles containing 5-HT2A receptor labeling was not significantly different in the PB and PN VTA. In each region approximately 44% of the 5-HT2A labeled profiles were dendrites while the remainder were mainly axons. Dendritic 5-HT2A-immunoreactivity was often localized to membranous cytoplasmic organelles resembling smooth endoplasmic reticulum, and to more rarely to segments of the plasma membrane beneath contacts from unlabeled axon terminals. 5-HT2A labeling was also seen within the cytoplasm of a few axon initial segments and many small unmyelinated axons. Approximately 40% of the 5-HT2A-labeled dendritic profiles contained TH in either PB or PN VTA. Our results suggest that 5-HT2A receptors in VTA are largely cytoplasmic and play an equally important role in modulating dopaminergic neurons in PB and PN VTA. These results also implicate 5-HT2A receptors in the postsynaptic activation of non-dopaminergic neurons and possibly the presynaptic release from terminals of axons originating in, or passing through, these regions.
This study compared the use of adapter G-proteins to link G(s) coupled G-protein receptors to a Ca(2+) signal, enabling high throughput functional studies using a fluorescent imaging plate reader (FLIPR, Molecular Devices). The pharmacological profile of the human 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT(7)) receptor was studied using the adapter G-proteins G(alpha16) and G(qs5) and compared to previously published adenylyl cyclase and receptor binding data. Human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells stably expressing the human 5-HT(7(a)) receptor were transiently transfected with the adapter G-proteins. Changes in intracellular Ca(2+) were monitored using the fluorescent Ca(2+)-indicator Fluo-4.5-Carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT) induced an increase in fluorescence in transfected cells only, which was attenuated by N-ethylmalaeimide and abolished by thapsigargin, consistent with a G-protein mediated mobilisation of intracellular Ca(2+). The pharmacological profile of agonists at the 5-HT(7) receptor was similar using either adapter G-protein. Agonist potency estimates were similar to that reported in binding studies but were greater than that seen in adenylyl cyclase studies. 8-Hydroxy-N, N-dipropylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and tryptamine acted as partial agonists using the adapter G-proteins, but were full agonists in recombinant systems using adenylyl cyclase. meta-Chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP) and trifluoro-methylphenyl piperazine (TFMPP) were antagonists on intracellular Ca(2+). Antagonist pharmacological profiles were similar between adapter G-proteins, receptor binding, and adenylyl cyclase studies. These results show that adapter G-proteins can be used to study G(s)-linked receptors using the high throughput FLIPR system measuring changes in intracellular Ca(2+) and provide novel information on mCPP and 8-OH-DPAT.
We have cloned a new P2X ligand-gated ion channel receptor from embryonic chick skeletal muscle, which is tentatively named as chick P2X(8) (cP2X(8)) receptor. The cloned cDNA encodes a protein with 402 amino acids. Electrophysiological study of the recombinant cP2X(8) receptor expressed in Xenopus oocytes showed that 10 microm ATP induced a fast inward current followed by rapid and long lasting desensitization in medium containing 1.8 mm Ca(2+). In medium with 0. 3 mm Ca(2+) ATP induced a bi-phasic response as follows: a slower inward current succeeded the initial fast one. 2-Methylthio-ATP, alpha,beta-methylene-ATP, and adenosine 5'-O-(thio)triphosphate were potent agonists, whereas ADP was a very weak agonist. ATP-induced currents were blocked by 100 microm suramin and pyridoxal phosphate 6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid. Northern blot analysis and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction showed that cP2X(8) RNA transcripts were mainly expressed in skeletal muscle, brain, and heart of Day 10 chick embryos. A moderate level of expression was also detected in gizzard and retina. Whole mount in situ hybridization showed that cP2X(8) RNA transcripts were expressed mainly in neurotube, notochord, and stomach in Day 3 embryos. In Day 4 and Day 6 embryos, the cP2X(8) RNA transcripts were highly expressed in the myotome and premuscle mass. The physiological role of this receptor in the establishment of the skeletal muscle innervation will be studied.
Caspase-1 (interleukin-1beta converting enzyme) is produced in the form of a latent precursor, which is cleaved to yield a prodomain in addition to the p20 and p10 subunits. It has been established that the (p20/p10)(2) heterotetramer processes the latent precursor of interleukin-1beta into an active form during apoptosis, but the function of the residual prodomain of caspase-1 (Pro-C1) has not been established. To evaluate the involvement of Pro-C1 in apoptosis, a Pro-C1 expression vector was transfected into the HeLa cell line, which is susceptible to Fas-mediated apoptosis. Expression of recombinant Pro-C1 in HeLa cells enhanced apoptosis mediated by Fas, but not etoposide-induced apoptosis. This enhancement of Fas-mediated apoptosis was abolished by inhibitors of caspase-8 (Ile-Glu-Thr-Asp-fluoromethyl ketone) and caspase-3 (Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-aldehyde) but was only slightly diminished by an inhibitor of caspase-1 (acetyl-Tyr-Val-Ala-Asp-chloromethyl ketone). During apoptosis induced by an agonistic anti-Fas antibody, the activation of caspase-8 and caspase-3 was more pronounced and occurred more rapidly in HeLa/Pro-C1 cells than in the empty vector transfectant (HeLa/vec) cells; in contrast, caspase-1 was not activated in either HeLa/Pro-C1 or HeLa/vec cells. These results demonstrate an additional and novel function for caspase-1 in which Pro-C1 acts to enhance Fas-mediated apoptosis, most probably through facilitation of the activation of caspase-8.
The gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor (GABA(A)R) carries both high (K(D) = 10-30 nm) and low (K(D) = 0.1-1.0 microm) affinity binding sites for agonists. We have used site-directed mutagenesis to identify a specific residue in the rat beta2 subunit that is involved in high affinity agonist binding. Tyrosine residues at positions 62 and 74 were mutated to either phenylalanine or serine and the effects on ligand binding and ion channel activation were investigated after the expression of mutant subunits with wild-type alpha1 and gamma2 subunits in tsA201 cells or in Xenopus oocytes. None of the mutations affected [(3)H]Ro15-4513 binding or impaired allosteric interactions between the low affinity GABA and benzodiazepine sites. Although mutations at position 74 had little effect on [(3)H]muscimol binding, the Y62F mutation decreased the affinity of the high affinity [(3)H]muscimol binding sites by approximately 6-fold, and the Y62S mutation led to a loss of detectable high affinity binding sites. After expression in oocytes, the EC(50) values for both muscimol and GABA-induced activation of Y62F and Y62S receptors were increased by 2- and 6-fold compared with the wild-type. We conclude that Tyr-62 of the beta subunit is an important determinant for high affinity agonist binding to the GABA(A) receptor.
Transforming growth factor-beta superfamily members play important roles in the early development of animals. Activin and the Xenopus nodal related proteins 1, 2, and 4 induce muscle actin from Xenopus ectodermal explants, whereas the bone morphogenetic proteins 4 and 7 induce ectoderm to differentiate as epidermis. Bone morphogenetic proteins are antagonized by soluble binding proteins such as noggin and chordin, which leads to expression of neural cell adhesion molecule in animal caps. The transforming growth factor-beta superfamily member Xenopus nodal-related 3 also induces the neural cell adhesion molecule through inhibition of bone morphogenetic proteins. Therefore, whereas Xenopus nodal-related 2 and 3 share a high amount of sequence homology, they lead to very different cell fates. This study investigates the functional domains that distinguish the activities of these two factors. It was found that mutually exclusive regions of nodal-related 2 and 3 were required for activity. The central region of the mature domain is required for nodal-related 2 to induce muscle actin, whereas the N- and C-terminal ends of the mature domain are required for nodal-related 3 to induce neural cell adhesion molecule. These results help to define the minimal domains required for the unique activities of these factors.
A growing number of reports suggest that elevated levels of extracellular Alzheimer's beta-amyloid protein alter the homeostasis of free [Ca(2+)](i) in different cell types of the mammalian brain. In line with these results, we have previously shown that AbetaP[1-40] forms cation-selective channels (Ca(2+) included) across artificial planar bilayers formed from acidic phospholipids and across excised membrane patches from immortalized hypothalamic GnRH neurons (GT1-7 cells), suggesting that the nonregulated Ca(2+)-influx through these spontaneously formed &quot;amyloid channels&quot; may provide a mechanism to explain its toxicity (1). We have now found and report here that the application of AbetaP[1-40] to GT1-7 neurons consistently elevates [Ca(2+)](i) levels. We also found that human islet amylin and the prion protein fragment (PrP106-126), peptides that acquire beta-pleated sheet conformation in water solutions and have been reported to form ion channels across planar bilayer membranes, also increase cytosolic free calcium in GT1-7 neurons. Searching for protective agents, we found that soluble cholesterol, known to decrease the fluidity of the cell membrane, inhibits AbetaP[1-40]-evoked [Ca(2+)](i) rise. These results suggest that unregulated Ca(2+) entry across amyloid channels may be a common mechanism causing cell death, not only in diseases of the third age, including Alzheimer's disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus, but also in prion-induced diseases.
The expression of plasminogen and plasminogen activators (PG/PAs) in reactive astrocytes was examined following scratch injury. In response to injury, casein-degrading activity could be observed around astrocytes. The protein expression of tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) was up-regulated, while the free form of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) was not detected. Consistent with these findings, results obtained with zymograph assay also revealed that tPA activity, but not uPA activity, was up-regulated. Moreover, the addition of 6-amino-caproitic acid (EACA) to casein-covered astrocytes significantly prevented the recovery of the injured astrocytes in a dose-dependent manner. Taken together, our data demonstrate that the expression of PG/PAs in cultured astrocytes is regulated following injury, suggesting that caseinolytic activity is an essential component during the process of astrocyte recovery.
We investigated the segregation of the copper chaperone for the superoxide dismutase (CCS) gene in two Italian families with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis lacking the mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 gene. We analyzed a total of 56 individuals; six people were affected. Diagnoses were made using the El Escorial criteria. The results of our study provide no evidence of a linkage between markers flanking the CCS gene and familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) in these FALS kindreds.
Neonatal rats were exposed to ethanol throughout gestation, or during the early postnatal period (postnatal days 4-10 (P4-10)), and enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assays were subsequently conducted in order to assess nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) protein content in hippocampus, septum, cortex/striatum and cerebellum. These determinations revealed that following prenatal ethanol treatment, there were significant ethanol-induced increases in NGF in P1 cortex/striatum, but no changes in any of the three neurotrophic factors (NTFs) in the other brain regions. Cortex/striatal NGF protein returned to control levels by P10. Following early postnatal exposure, BDNF was elevated in hippocampus and cortex/striatum (assessed on P10), and NGF was also enhanced in cortex/striatum at this age. Hippocampal and cortex/striatal BDNF returned to control levels by P21, but cortex/striatal NGF levels remained enhanced at this age. This NTF did not differ in ethanol and control animals by P60, however. The possible significance of elevated levels of NTFs as a function of ethanol exposure is discussed, and it is speculated that while such alterations could play a protective role, increases in these substances during critical developmental periods could also prove to be deleterious, and could even contribute to certain of the neuropathologies which have been observed following developmental ethanol exposure.
Extracellular recording techniques were used to study the effects of the nitric oxide releasing agents diethylamine-NO (DEA-NO) and S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine (SNAP) on synaptic transmission in the intermediate and medial part of the hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV), a part of the domestic chick forebrain that is essential for some forms of early learning. The field response evoked by local electrical stimulation was recorded in the IMHV in an in vitro slice preparation. DEA-NO (100-200 mgr) significantly depressed the field response in a concentration dependent and reversible manner. However, the depression produced by perfusion with 400 mgr DEA-NO, was not reversed following washout of the drug. With 400 mgr DEA-NO, NO reaches a maximum concentration of 10 mgr at 2 min of perfusion, and then declines slowly. SNAP (400 mgr) produced an effect similar to 400 mgr DEA-NO. Neither the immediate nor the longer-term depressive effect of NO is mediated by activation of guanylyl cyclase because in the presence of both low and high doses of ODQ, a potent and selective inhibitor of NO-stimulated guanylyl cyclase, NO produced the same depression of the field response. There is evidence however that the IMHV possesses c-GMP responsive elements since direct perfusion of 8-Br-cGMP (1 mM) produced a long-term but not an immediate depression. The long-term depression produced by 400 mgr DEA-NO was eliminated in the presence of either a selective adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist or an ADP-ribosyltransferase inhibitor. It was also possible to prevent the long-term effect in the presence of tetraethyl ammonium a K(+)-channel blocker. These results suggest that the NO may be acting presynaptically in a synergistic fashion with the adenosine A(1) receptor to depress transmitter release.
Bicuculline was used to investigate seizure susceptibility in pre- and peripubertal male and female rats exposed prenatally to morphine. Morphine-exposed males showed increased seizure susceptibility at prepubertal and decreased susceptibility at peripubertal ages. There was no difference in seizure susceptibility in morphine-exposed females at either age. Therefore, the present data suggest that males are more vulnerable than females to morphine-induced insults during prenatal brain development.
The vanilloid receptor-1 (VR1) is a ligand-gated, non-selective cation channel expressed predominantly by sensory neurons. VR1 responds to noxious stimuli including capsaicin, the pungent component of chilli peppers, heat and extracellular acidification, and it is able to integrate simultaneous exposure to these stimuli. These findings and research linking capsaicin with nociceptive behaviours (that is, responses to painful stimuli in animals have led to VR1 being considered as important for pain sensation. Here we have disrupted the mouse VR1 gene using standard gene targeting techniques. Small diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons isolated from VR1-null mice lacked many of the capsaicin-, acid- and heat-gated responses that have been previously well characterized in small diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons from various species. Furthermore, although the VR1-null mice appeared normal in a wide range of behavioural tests, including responses to acute noxious thermal stimuli, their ability to develop carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia was completely absent. We conclude that VR1 is required for inflammatory sensitization to noxious thermal stimuli but also that alternative mechanisms are sufficient for normal sensation of noxious heat.


Insufficient efficacy and/or specificity of antisense oligonucleotides limit their in vivo usefulness. We demonstrate here that a high-affinity DNA analog, locked nucleic acid (LNA), confers several desired properties to antisense agents. Unlike DNA, LNA/DNA copolymers were not degraded readily in blood serum and cell extracts. However, like DNA, the LNA/DNA copolymers were capable of activating RNase H, an important antisense mechanism of action. In contrast to phosphorothioate-containing oligonucleotides, isosequential LNA analogs did not cause detectable toxic reactions in rat brain. LNA/DNA copolymers exhibited potent antisense activity on assay systems as disparate as a G-protein-coupled receptor in living rat brain and an Escherichia coli reporter gene. LNA-containing oligonucleotides will likely be useful for many antisense applications.

Apoptosis triggered by death receptors proceeds after defined signal-transduction pathways. Whether signaling at the receptor level is regulated by intracellular messengers is still unknown. We have investigated the role of two messengers, ceramide and nitric oxide (NO), on the apoptotic pathway activated in human monocytic U937 cells by tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) working at its p55 receptor. Two transduction events, the receptor recruitment of the adapter protein, TRADD, and the activation of the initiator caspase, caspase 8, were investigated. When administered alone, neither of the messengers had any effect on these events. In combination with TNF-alpha, however, ceramide potentiated, whereas NO inhibited, TNF-alpha-induced TRADD recruitment and caspase 8 activity. The effect of NO, which was cGMP-dependent, was due to inhibition of the TNF-alpha-induced generation of ceramide. Our results identify a mechanism of regulation of a signal-transduction pathway activated by death receptors.
Morphine was identified in rat adrenal extracts by reverse-phase HPLC, following liquid and solid extraction. All experiments were carefully performed to prevent exogenous morphine contamination. The morphine extracted from adrenal tissue (105.31 ng/g of wet adrenal gland) was identical to that of a morphine internal standard. The morphine corresponding HPLC fractions were further analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and found to be identical to synthetic morphine. The study conclusively proves morphine is endogenous to the rat adrenal gland.
Hydrogen peroxide, at concentrations comparable to those observed under some pathological conditions, produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of state 3 (ADP-stimulated) and uncoupled mitochondrial respiratory activity. The ADP:O ratio was also substantially reduced. In contrast, the organic peroxide, t-butylhydroperoxide at the same concentrations produced no significant changes in respiratory activity. Intramitochondrial glutathione was oxidised to a similar extent in the presence of hydrogen peroxide or t-butylhydroperoxide. Thus, changes in this endogenous antioxidant apparently did not underlie the different responses to these peroxides. The effects of hydrogen peroxide were not altered by deferoxamine indicating that the extramitochondrial generation of hydroxyl radicals was not likely to be involved. However, modifications arising from the generation of hydroxyl radicals within the mitochondria remain a likely contributor to the observed deleterious effects on respiratory function. The inhibitory effects of hydrogen peroxide were greatest when pyruvate plus malate were present as respiratory substrates. Lesser inhibition was seen with glutamate plus malate and no significant inhibitory effects were detected in the presence of succinate. The findings suggest that mitochondrial components involved in pyruvate oxidation were particularly sensitive to the hydrogen peroxide treatment. However, no significant change was seen in activity of either the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex or NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) when measured directly following treatment of the mitochondria with hydrogen peroxide.
Transient transfection has not been a successful method to express the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor such that these receptors are detected on the cell surface. This is not the case for all ligand-gated ion channels. Transient transfection with the 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 subunit cDNA results in detectable surface receptor expression. Cell lines stably expressing the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor produce detectable, albeit variable, levels of surface receptor expression. alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor surface expression is dependent, at least in part, on cell-specific factors. In addition to factors provided by the cells used for receptor expression, we hypothesize that the surface expression level in transfected cells is an intrinsic property of the receptor protein under study. Employing a set of alpha7-5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 chimeric receptor subunit cDNAs, we expressed these constructs in a transient transfection system and quantified surface receptor expression. We have identified amino acids that control receptor distribution between surface and intracellular pools; surface receptor expression can be manipulated without affecting the total number of receptors. These determinants function independently of the cell line used for expression and the transfection method employed. How these surface expression determinants in the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor might influence synaptic efficacy is discussed.
The role of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)3 and 5-HT4 receptors in the regulation of gut motility in the ferret was investigated. The selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist ramosetron (1 - 10 microg/kg s.c.) prolonged the interval of gastric antral migrating motor complex, but had only slight effect on small intestinal and colonic motility in unfed animals. The selective 5-HT4 receptor antagonist SB 204070 did not affect motility throughout gut in unfed animals. Neither ramosetron nor SB 204070 affected the motility throughout gut in fed animals. In conclusion, neither 5-HT3 nor 5-HT4 receptors tonically regulate ferret gut motility except that 5-HT3 receptors have a key role in the occurrence of migrating motor complex specifically in the stomach. The role of 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptor system in the regulation of gut motility in ferrets is similar to that in other mammalian species studied, including humans. This similarity suggests that the ferret is a suitable model animal to study gut motor functions in humans.
The ability in vivo of the muscarinic agonist, pilocarpine, to increase phosphoinositol (PI) hydrolysis in lithium pretreated rats was investigated by measuring the accumulation of [(3)H]inositol phosphates (IP). As expected, 20 mg/kg s.c. pilocarpine, a muscarinic agonist, increased PI hydrolysis in the striatum, frontal cortex and hippocampus. Somewhat surprisingly, an increase in IP was also found in the cerebellar homogenates. In all four tissues the pilocarpine-induced effect could be completely inhibited by pretreatment with the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (1.2 mg/kg i. p.). It was also found that the cerebellar but not the hippocampal pilocarpine-induced rise in PI hydrolysis could be blocked by the metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor antagonist, LY341495 (100 nmol, i.c.v.). The same dose of LY341495 was found to also block both the cerebellar and hippocampal increase in IP formed by stimulation with the group I mGlu receptor agonist 3, 5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (1 micromol, i.c.v.). Given this data and the current information on the distribution of muscarinic and mGlu receptors in the cerebellum, it is suggested that these results may be a reflection of pilocarpine acting at M(2) receptors to indirectly increase glutamate release from parallel fibers by inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid-releasing Golgi cells.
We studied the response properties of the ON-OFF direction selective (DS) ganglion cells in the rabbit retina. The activities of the ganglion cells were recorded extracellularly with tungsten-in-glass electrodes. Drifting sine-wave gratings with various spatial and temporal frequencies were used to stimulate the ON-OFF DS cells. Individual ON-OFF DS cell yielded strongest response to a particular spatial frequency irrespective of temporal frequency. The optimal spatial wavelength increased with increasing eccentricity and its half-width approximately matched the size of the receptive field. The optimal spatial frequency implies that the directional inhibition is effective over a range of about a receptive field diameter. The characteristics of the ON-OFF DS cells suggest that they might function as local motion detectors.

We examined the diversity of single receptor function by measuring receptor-G protein coupling in the baculovirus-Sf21 expression system. In comparative studies using Sf21 cell membranes expressing kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) plus Galpha(i1)beta(1)gamma(2) or KOR plus Galpha(oA)beta(1)gamma(2), there was no significant difference between both preparations in the K(i) values of various kappa-opioid ligands for the displacement of [(3)H]U69593 binding. However, a marked difference in the rank order of agonists to stimulate [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding was observed between both preparations. These findings suggest that agonist efficacy is dependent on the population of different G proteins expressed in various tissues.
Recently identified chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans in perineuronal nets include neurocan and phosphacan. However, the function and assembly of these components has yet to be resolved. In this study we show morphological alteration in Wisteria floribunda labelled nets around cortical interneurones both in tenascin-R knockout and tenascin-R/parvalbumin double knockout mice. This alteration reflects the loss of phosphacan and neurocan from cortical nets in mice deficient in tenascin-R. No effect on the membrane related cytoskeleton, as revealed by ankyrin(R), was observed in any of the mice. These results on mice lacking tenascin-R substantiate previously reported in vitro interactions between tenascin-R and phosphacan and neurocan.
Neuromodulators which influence the operation of neural networks act as a rule via several cellular and synaptic mechanisms. Activation of GABA(B)-receptors in the lamprey spinal cord reduce both calcium currents and the peak amplitude of the post-spike afterhyperpolarization (AHP). Activation of GABA(B)-receptors reduce the segmental alternation rate and modifies the intersegmental coordination when the spinal locomotor circuits are activated by NMDA. Using physiological experiments we find that a reduced AHP is not sufficient to account for the observed reduction of the burst rate. Computer simulations revealed that either a reduced AHP or calcium current could alter the phase coordination between the segments similar to earlier experiments.
18-Methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), a novel synthetic iboga congener, attenuates the reinforcing efficacy of morphine, disrupts some signs of morphine withdrawal in physically dependent rats and attenuates the dopamine response in the nucleus accumbens to acute morphine. The present study further investigated the interactions between 18-MC and morphine by examining the effects of 18-MC (40 mg/kg, i.p., 19 h earlier) on the expression of dopamine sensitization in the nucleus accumbens in response to morphine (20 mg/kg, i.p.) and on the dose-effect curves for morphine-induced locomotion (0-30 mg/kg, i.p.) in rats treated either acutely or repeatedly (five, once daily, injections of 20 mg/kg, i.p.) with morphine. Compared to vehicle pretreated controls, 18-MC increased the potency of morphine, shifting the dose-response curve to the left, in acute morphine treated rats; however, 18-MC did not alter the potency of morphine in rats treated repeatedly with morphine. Repeated morphine administration induced locomotor sensitization in approximately 50% of the rats tested; in vehicle pretreated rats, the morphine dose-response curve was shifted to the left in sensitized as compared to non-sensitized rats. In 18-MC pretreated rats, sensitized and non-sensitized rats responded similarly to morphine, revealing a blockade of sensitization by 18-MC. Consistent with this behavioural finding, 18-MC pretreatment completely abolished the sensitized dopamine response in the nucleus accumbens expressed by rats repeatedly treated with morphine. It is suggested that the potential anti-addictive efficacy of 18-MC might be related to an ability to restore normal functioning to a hypersensitive mesolimbic dopamine system produced by previous repeated morphine administration.
During head injuries and hemorrhagic stroke, blood is released into the extravascular space. The pooled erythrocytes get lysed and hemoglobin is released into the intracranial cavities. Therefore, neurons may be exposed to hemoglobin and/or its breakdown products, hemin and iron, for long periods of time. In this study, the electrophysiological actions of these agents on synaptic transmission in rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons were studied using extracellular field- and whole cell patch-recordings. Previously our laboratory reported that commercially available hemoglobin produced a dose dependent suppression of synaptic transmission in hippocampal CA1 neurons. In the present study, however, we found that this depression was caused by impurities present in the hemoglobin samples. Commercially available hemoglobin and methemoglobin did not have a significant effect on synaptic transmission. Although, reduced-hemoglobin prepared using a method described by Martin et al. [J. Pharm. Exp. Ther. 232 (1985) 708], produced a significant depression of synaptic transients, these effects were due to contamination with bisulfite that was present due to the reducing procedure. Therefore, the technique of Martin et al. was inadequate in removing the reducing agents or their breakdown products. A number of studies in literature used commercial samples of hemoglobin or reduced hemoglobin prepared using the method of Martin et al. Our observations indicate that it would be important to determine if contaminants, rather than hemoglobin, are responsible for the observed effects in these studies. Unlike hemoglobin, its breakdown products, ferrous chloride and hemin, produced an irreversible and significant depression of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials. The relevance of these effects in neurological complications that follow head injuries and hemorrhagic stroke awaits further investigation.
Among 105 patients given recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA, alteplase) intravenously for acute stroke, 2 (1.9%) had lingual angioedema, which progressed to a fatal anaphylactoid reaction in 1. The authors review the 2 cases and possible mechanisms responsible. They warn that patients who are taking an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor may be at increased risk for angioedema with concomitant alteplase therapy.
Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during photic myoclonus was studied by means of positron emission tomography in a 51-year-old male patient suffering from MERRF (myoclonic epilepsy with ragged-red fibres). Frequencies of 3 Hz and 5 Hz flash stimulation were used. Both frequencies elicited paroxysmal EEG-abnormalities but only the higher frequency induced generalized myoclonic jerks. We found a left dominated significant increase of rCBF in the thalamus during myoclonus. The thalamic asymmetry was significant when tested with an ROI approach. The myoclonic activity was accompanied by significantly increased activity in the supplementary motor cortex (SMA). Decreases in rCBF were seen in the limbic, temporal and occipital areas during photic stimulation at both flash frequencies, more expressed during myoclonus. The findings observed in this patient indicate a thalamic focus for photic myoclonus in MERRF. We suggest that photic stimulation induced an abnormal discharge in the thalamus, which was fed forwards via thalamo-cortical connections to the precentral motor cortex, to produce the muscle jerks.
To determine whether unmyelinated nerve fibers escape degeneration as one might expect in an immune response exclusively directed at myelin, we performed a morphometric examination of unmyelinated axons and myelinated nerve fibers in sural nerve biopsy specimens of 14 patients with a chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) and of 12 age-matched normal controls. The numbers of unmyelinated axons, myelinated nerve fibers, denervated Schwann cell units and collagen pockets were quantified and related to the clinical and electrophysiological data of the patients with CIDP. In 4 patients with a rapid onset of the neuropathy and a highly elevated CSF protein, the numbers of both unmyelinated axons and myelinated nerve fibers were decreased equally. In 8 patients we found that the unmyelinated axons were relatively spared compared with the loss of myelinated nerve fibers. In these patients, however, the presence of denervated Schwann cell units and of collagen pockets was increased. We conclude that unmyelinated nerve fibers are affected in patients with CIDP.
The pattern of collagenisation in peripheral nerve in diabetic polyneuropathy was examined in nerve biopsy specimens from patients with diabetic polyneuropathy in comparison with organ donor control nerves and disease controls (other neuropathies). There was increased endoneurial collagenisation both in the diabetic polyneuropathy cases and the disease controls, this predominantly involving types I and III. Type II collagen was not detected in organ donor control nerves or in the diabetic and the disease control nerves. There was a relative increase in type VI collagen in the endoneurium in the diabetic nerves immediately surrounding groups of Schwann cells. This was not a feature in the other neuropathies. The quantity of types IV, V and VI collagen was increased around the endoneurial microvessels in the diabetic patients and, to a lesser extent, in those with hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN). Increased deposition of types IV and V collagen was observed in the perineurium in the diabetic nerves, the latter being most evident in the innermost lamellae where the amount of laminin was possibly also increased. The diameter of the general endoneurial collagen fibrils was greater in the diabetic nerves, although this was not more than in a disease control (HMSN). The collagen fibrils that were present within the basal laminal tubes that had surrounded degenerated myelinated fibres in the diabetic nerves, and those within the onion bulbs of the HMSN cases, were of the normal endoneurial calibre. The expression of laminin by Bngner bands in diabetic neuropathy did not differ from that in disease control nerves, nor were any differences detected for fibronectin. Whether the changes observed are important for the impaired regenerative capacity in diabetic neuropathy requires further investigation.
The significance of glycogenosomes (glycogen bodies), frequently seen in peripheral neurites of aging rats, is unknown and their occurrence elsewhere in nervous tissue is poorly documented. During the course of another study these bodies were observed by light microscopy in the visual pathways of aging rats where they have not previously been noted, and this report documents their occurrence, localisation and changes in density with age. Using the periodic acid-Schiff stain, small brightly red-staining bodies, digested by diastase and containing beta-glycogen particles, were seen in increasing numbers in the neuropil of the superior colliculi in brain sections from animals of 5 months of age onwards. From 1 year until more than 2 years of age they steadily became more numerous in the outer one third of the superior colliculus, but remained small, rarely exceeding 4 microm. They were also found at later times in small numbers lying singly in the optic tract, the optic chiasm and optic nerves, although rarely in lateral geniculate nuclei. Similar bodies were also found to accumulate with age in the retinal photoreceptor cell layer. Changes in their densities and size with age in both regions have been documented and it is suggested that, while their occurrence in retinal photoreceptor cells may be due to sustained light damage leading to mitochondrial oxidative stress, it is difficult to implicate this mechanism for their occurrence in retino-tectal nerve fibres. The role of physical trauma, suggested for the presence of these bodies in aging peripheral axons, can be excluded and they appear not to be related to polyglucosan bodies.


The torque-velocity relationship, obtained during in situ conditions in humans, demonstrates a levelling-off of eccentric torque output at the isometric torque level, at least for knee extensor actions. In contrast, the in vitro force-velocity relationship for animal muscle preparations is characterized by a sharp rise in eccentric force from isometric maximum. A force-regulating 'protective' mechanism has been suggested during maximal voluntary high-tension eccentric muscle actions. To investigate this phenomenon, maximal voluntary and three different levels of submaximal, electrically induced torques were compared during isometric and low velocity (10, 20 and 30 degrees s-1) isokinetic eccentric and concentric knee extensor actions in 10 healthy, moderately trained subjects. Eccentric torque was higher than isometric during electrically evoked, but not during maximal voluntary muscle actions. In contrast, concentric torque was significantly lower than isometric for both maximal voluntary and submaximal, electrically evoked conditions. Comparisons of normalized torques (isometric value under each condition set to 100%) demonstrated that the maximal voluntary eccentric torque had to be increased by 20%, and the isometric by 10% in order for the maximal voluntary torque-velocity curve to coincide with the electrically stimulated submaximal ones. These results support the notion that a tension-regulating mechanism is present primarily during eccentric maximal voluntary knee extensor actions.


Alcohol deprivation effect (ADE), defined as a temporary increase in voluntary alcohol intake following a period of alcohol abstinence, was evaluated in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats. Alcohol was initially offered in free choice with water for 35 consecutive days (predeprivation phase). Subsequently, one group of rats was deprived of alcohol for 1, 3, 7, 15, 30, 90 or 180 consecutive days, while the second group had continuous access to alcohol (deprivation phase). Once alcohol was re-presented, alcohol intake in alcohol-deprived rats was recorded 1 and 24 h after alcohol re-presentation and compared to that monitored in alcohol-nondeprived rats over the same time periods (postdeprivation phase). Alcohol deprivation for 3 to 30 days resulted in a significant increase in voluntary alcohol intake only in the first hour of re-access. These results demonstrate the development of ADE in sP rats. However, the rapid return of alcohol intake to control levels is discussed as evidence in favor of a set-point mechanism capable of regulating alcohol-drinking behavior in sP rats.

We report on a family in which two males are affected with X-linked congenital ataxia (XCA). Clinical manifestations include severe hypotonia at birth, delay of early motor development, slow eye movements, and nonprogressive cerebellar ataxia. The neurological examination excluded a neuromuscular disease, mental retardation, and pyramidal tract involvement. Neuroimaging showed global cerebellar atrophy in both patients that was not evident in the first years of life. The clinical findings in this family are very similar to those in a Russian pedigree [Illarioskin et al., 1996: Ann Neurol 40:75-83] and outline a recognizable phenotype. Linkage studies in our family, using 28 highly polymorphic Gnthon microsatellite markers evenly distributed along the X chromosome, excluded a 24 cM interval between DXS990 and DXS424 located within the previous candidate region of 54 cM, reducing the critical interval.

We previously reported that MK-801 (dizocilpine), an antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors, increased meal size and duration in rats. MK-801 did not increase sham feeding or attenuate reduction of sham feeding by intraintestinal nutrient infusions. These results suggested that the MK-801-induced increase in meal size did not depend on antagonism of postgastric satiety signals. Consequently, we hypothesized that the NMDA antagonist might increase food intake by directly antagonizing gastric mechanosensory signals or by accelerating gastric emptying, thereby reducing gastric mechanoreceptive feedback. To test this hypothesis, we recorded intake of 15% sucrose in rats implanted with pyloric cuffs that could be closed to prevent gastric emptying. Sucrose intake was increased when the pyloric cuffs were open, allowing the stomach to empty. However, intake was not increased when the pyloric cuffs were inflated, causing gastric retention of all ingested sucrose. Direct measurements of gastric emptying revealed that MK-801 accelerated the emptying of 5-ml loads of 0.9% NaCl and 15% sucrose. Furthermore, MK-801 also accelerated the rate of emptying of freely ingested sucrose regardless of the volume ingested. Taken together with our previous findings, these results indicate that blockade of NMDA receptors with MK-801 does not increase food intake by antagonizing gastric mechanosensation. Rather, it accelerates gastric emptying, and thereby may indirectly reduce gastric mechanoreceptive cues, resulting in prolongation of eating. Modulation of gastric emptying rate by NMDA receptors could play an important role in the control of meal sizes.
Rats anticipate daily restricted meals with increased approaches to a feeder and an increase in core body temperature. Food anticipatory activity (FAA) is thought to be under the control of a feeding-entrained circadian oscillator. Although numerous forebrain lesions have failed to permanently abolish FAA, the hindbrain has not been investigated. The parabrachial nuclei (PBN) integrate information from visceral and gustatory afferents. This region is also innervated by neurons in the area postrema that have access to the peripheral circulation. Therefore, it is possible that this region plays a role in triggering FAA. In two experiments, a total of 19 rats were given ibotenic acid or electrolytic lesions targeted at the PBN. The PBN-lesioned animals showed a marked attenuation in anticipatory approaches to the food bin relative to sham-operated controls. Some animals did not anticipate the meal at all. In addition, the expected increase in core body temperature was severely attenuated in the PBN-lesioned animals compared with controls. The most likely interpretation of these data is that the PBN serve as a relay for information about the zeitgeber (food in the gut) or as a clock output pathway, but not as the site of the feeding-entrained circadian oscillator.
This study used whole cell patch clamp recordings in rat hypothalamic slice preparations to evaluate the effects of GABA(B) receptor activation on GABA(A)-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in paraventricular nucleus magnocellular neurons evoked by electrical stimulation in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Baclofen induced a dose-dependent (1-10 microM) and reversible reduction in SCN-evoked IPSC amplitude (11/11 cells), blockable with 2-hydroxysaclofen (300 microM; 3/3 cells). IPSCs displayed paired-pulse depression (PPD), attenuated by both baclofen and 2-hydroxysaclofen, but neither altered resting membrane conductances or IPSC time constants of decay. Baclofen induced a significant dose-dependent (1-100 microM) reduction in frequency, but not amplitude, of spontaneous IPSCs and miniature IPSCs, reversible with 2-hydroxysaclofen pretreatment. Baclofen effects and PPD persisted in slices pretreated with pertussis toxin (PTX) and N-ethylmaleimide, implying that these GABA(B) receptors are coupled to PTX-insensitive G proteins. Responses were unaltered by barium (2 mM) or nimodipine, ruling out involvement of K(+) channels and L-type Ca(2+) channels. Thus pre- and postsynaptic GABA(B) and GABA(A) receptors participate in SCN entrainment of paraventricular neurosecretory neurons.
The range of entrainment of the circadian behavioral rhythm was compared between two groups of Sprague-Dawley rats (each n = 10) exposed to daily cycles of rectangular light-dark alternation (LD) and sinusoidal fluctuations of light intensity (SINE), respectively. The maximum illuminance (20 lx), the minimum illuminance (0.01 lx), and the total amount of light exposure per cycle were the same under the two lighting conditions. The periods (Ts) of both lighting cycles were lengthened stepwise from 24 through 25, 26, 26.5, 27, 27. 5, and 28 h to 28.5 h in experiment 1 and were shortened stepwise from 24 through 23.5, 23, and 22.5 h to 22 h in experiment 2. Each T cycle lasted for 30 cycles. In experiment 1, 60% of rats under the LD condition entrained up to T = 28.5 h, whereas 50% of rats under the SINE condition entrained up to T = 28.5 h. In experiment 2, no animal under the LD condition entrained to T &lt; 23.5 h, whereas 40% of rats under the SINE condition entrained down to T = 23 h and 20% of rats remained to entrain down to T = 22 h cycles. The phase angle of entrainment was systematically changed, depending on T under both conditions. These results suggest that the lower limit of entrainment is expanded under the SINE condition compared with the LD condition.
Neurons of layer I play an important role in the development of the basic structural and functional organization of the mammalian cerebral cortex. Basic data, however, concerning the spatial and temporal distribution of the neuron populations in layer I are still limited, especially for human material. The present study investigates the distribution of Cajal-Retzius (CR) and non Cajal-Retzius (NCR) neurons in thirteen cortical areas in the newborn human in terms of their relative density and possible subtypes. Neuronal populations were identified by immunohistochemistry for parvalbumin. Three main results are reported. First, parvalbumin-immunoreactive (Parv-ir) CR cells were observed in all of the neocortical areas examined. These areas also had a Parv-ir horizontal fiber plexus in deep layer I, confirming to the horizontal plexus classically associated with CR neurons. Second, many Parv-ir CR cells showed clear signs of degeneration. Third, in addition to the large CR cells, smaller Parv-ir NCR neurons occurred in many of the neocortical areas examined. These were morphologically heterogeneous and may represent several subtypes. By sampling across several areas, we were able to establish that these NCR cells occurred at higher density in primary sensory areas 3, 1, 17, and 41. Because of this variability in density of Parv-ir NCR cells, the ratio of Parv-ir CR to Parv-ir NCR cells is selectively lower in primary sensory areas. Recent investigations in somatosensory cortex of early postnatal rat report complex spatiotemporal patterns of correlated spontaneous activity among neurons in layer I (Schwartz et al. 1998). An interesting possibility is that regional variability in this activity may play a major role in the organization of cortical circuitry in different areas.
Malaria poses a threat across several continents: Eurasia (Asia and parts of Eastern Europe), Africa, Central and South America. Bradley (1991) estimates human exposure at 2,073,000,000 with infection rates at 270,000,000, illnesses at 110,000,000, and deaths at 1,000,000. Significant mortality rates are attributed to infection by the parasite Plasmodium falciparum, with an estimated 90% among African children. A worldwide effort is ongoing to chemically and pharmacologically characterize a class of artemisinin compounds that might be promising antimalarial drugs. The U.S. Army is studying the efficacy and toxicity of several artemisinin semi-synthetic compounds: arteether, artemether, artelinic acid, and artesunate. The World Health Organization and the U.S. Army selected arteether for drug development and possible use in the emergency therapy of acute, severe malaria. Male Rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) were administered different daily doses of arteether, or the vehicle alone (sesame oil), for a period of either 14 days, or 7 days. Neuropathological lesions were found in 14-day arteether treated monkeys in the precerebellar nuclei of the medulla oblongata, namely: (1) the lateral reticular nuclei (subnuclei magnocellularis, parvicellularis, and subtrigeminalis), (2) the paramedian reticular nuclei (subnuclei accessorius, dorsalis, and ventralis), and the perihypoglossal nuclei (n. intercalatus of Staderini, n. of Roller, n. prepositus hypoglossi). The data demonstrate that the simina meduallry precerebellar nuclei have a high degree of vulnerability when arteether is given for 14 days at dose levels between 8mg/kg per day and 24 mg/kg per day. The neurological consequences of this treatment regimen could profoundly impair posture, gait, and autonomic regulation, while eye movement disorders might also be anticipated.
Missense mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene were associated with a familial Parkinson's disease, and alpha-synuclein is a major component of Lewy bodies, the intracellular inclusions that neuropathologically characterize Parkinson's disease. We investigated the neurotoxic activity of the nonamyloid component (NAC) of senile plaque, the fibrillogenic fragment (61-95) of alpha-synuclein, in vitro and in vivo. Rat primary mesencephalic neurons were exposed for 6 days to low concentrations of preaggregated NAC (0.5-10.0 microM). The number of dopaminergic neurons and dopamine content were both reduced with no effect on the general viability of the cells. At higher concentrations (25-100 microM), the neurotoxic effect of NAC was extended to all neurons. Preaggregated NAC was also toxic on a PC12 dopaminergic cell line differentiated with nerve growth factor. The intracellular localization of NAC has been identified by the exposure of neuronal cells to fluorescent peptide. In vivo application of aggregated NAC in the substantia nigra induced loss of dopaminergic neurons. Our data illustrate the selective neurotoxic effect of NAC for dopaminergic neurons and support the central role of alpha-synuclein in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
Hyperornithinemia, hyperammonemia and homocitrullinuria (HHH) syndrome presents with various neurological symptoms, including mental retardation, spastic paraparesis with pyramidal signs, cerebellar ataxia, and episodic disturbance of consciousness or coma caused by hyperammonemia. We report three novel mutations in the mitochondrial ornithine transporter gene (ORNT1) of Japanese patients with HHH syndrome: a nonsense mutation (R179X) associated with exon skipping and a frameshift, a missense mutation (G27E), and an insertion of AAC between codons 228 and 229, leading to an insertion of the amino acid Asn. The ORNT1 gene consists of at least six exons, and all exon-intron junction sequences conform to the GT/AG rule. All 3 patients were homozygous for their respective mutations. This study confirms that defects in the ORNT1 gene cause the HHH syndrome and that the genetic basis in Japanese patients is heterogeneous.
Hereditary canine spinal muscular atrophy (HCSMA) features rapidly progressive muscle weakness that affects muscles in an apparent proximal-to-distal gradient. In the medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle of homozygous HCSMA animals, motor unit tetanic failure is apparent before the appearance of muscle weakness and appears to be presynaptic in origin. We determined whether structural changes in neuromuscular junctions or muscle fibers were apparent at times when tetanic failure is prevalent. We were surprised to observe that, at ages when motor unit tetanic failure is common, the structure of neuromuscular junctions and the appearance of muscle fibers in the MG muscle were indistinguishable from those of symptom-free animals. In contrast, in more proximal muscles, many neuromuscular junctions were disassembled, with some postsynaptic specializations only partially occupied by motor nerve terminals, and muscle fiber atrophy and degeneration were also apparent. These observations suggest that the motor unit tetanic failure observed in the MG muscle in homozygous animals is not due to synaptic degeneration or to pathological processes that affect muscle fibers directly. Together with previous physiological analyses, our results suggest that motor unit failure is due to failure of neuromuscular synaptic transmission that precedes nerve or muscle degeneration.
It is agreed that 1% of the general population is afflicted with epilepsy and close to 30% of epilepsy patients are intractable to medications. In spite of a recent increase in the number of new medications that are available on the market, many patients continue to have seizures or their seizures are controlled at the expense of intolerable side effects. Resection epilepsy surgery is an alternative; however, not every intractable patient is a good candidate for this surgery. Additionally, it is only offered to a small fraction of these patients due to the lack of an adequate number of comprehensive epilepsy programs and financial support for such surgeries. Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is a novel adjunctive therapy that has recently become commercially available for intractable epilepsy. It is indicated as an add-on treatment for seizures of partial onset with or without secondary generalization in patients 12 years of age or older. The VNS system is comprised of a battery generator that delivers regular intermittent electrical stimuli programmed via menu-driven software and an interrogating wand. The generator is implanted in the left upper chest and connected to the left cervical vagus nerve via a pair of semi-circular helical electrodes wound around the vagus nerve and wires tunneled under the skin. Surgery is normally completed within 2 h under general anesthesia and the patient can go home within a few hours postoperatively. Experiments in humans began in 1988 with two single-blind pilot studies that demonstrated the feasibility and safety of this unconventional therapy. Following these studies, two multicenter, active-control, parallel, double-blind protocols showed a statistically significant reduction in partial onset seizures with reasonable and well-tolerated side effects. Adverse events related to VNS included voice alteration and a tingling sensation in the throat during stimulation only and a decrease in intensity over several weeks. Coughing during stimulation occurred normally when therapy was initiated and shortness of breath occurred mainly during exertion. Long-term follow-up suggests that reduction in seizure frequency and intensity is maintained over time. VNS is a novel adjunctive anti-epilepsy therapy that offers patients a better-tolerated option than medications in general and that is less invasive and extensive than resection surgery. Its efficacy may compare to novel potent anti-epilepsy drugs; however, VNS does not replace resection epilepsy surgery in selected patients in whom chances of seizure-free results are high (70-90%).
Chronic cerebellar stimulation (CCS) applied to the superio-medial cortex reduces generalized cerebral spasticity, athetoid movements, and seizures. Eighteen clinics have reported on 600 cerebral palsy (CP) patients who comprise 90% of those treated with CCS. CP patients have varying degrees of limited abilities interfered with by spasticity (primitive reflexes, increased muscle tone, co-contractions, and spasms) and by athetoid movements in two-thirds of the patients. With CCS, spasticity reduction occurred in 85% (marked 25%, moderate 34%, mild 27%) and resulted in improvements in patient drooling, speech, respiration, posture, motor performance, gait, joint range of motion, and mood states. Radiofrequency (RF)-linked stimulators were used initially with serious equipment and calibration problems; 68% of 422 patients improved. When totally implantable controlled-currrent stimulators were used, 86% of 178 patients improved. Our double-blind study of 20 CP patients using this implantable stimulator showed 12 (60%) improved in motor performance, joint range of motion, and profile of mood states when the stimulator was ON. When abilities are graded (1: poor to 9: best), the seven patients with the higher functioning grades (5-8) all improved (99% confidence level). Intractable seizures occurred in 27 (8%) of our CP patients. At a 17-year follow-up, 19 patients contacted were using or had used CCS with 10 (53%) seizure-free and 6 (32%) with reduced seizures. CCS should be given by a totally implanted controlled-current stimulator (1-4 microCoulombs/sq. cm. /phase, 150-200 Hz) applied intermittently to the superio-medial cerebellar cortex for safe, effective, and continuous results.
Deep brain stimulation by high frequency (HFS) has been developed starting in the thalamic target (Vim) from pragmatic observations and subsequently followed by other targets, such as the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and pallidum as an application of current knowledge from basic preclinical research in neuroscience. The mechanism involved by this neurosurgical approach is not completely solved. For Vim we have formed the hypothesis that HFS induces a jamming of sensory-motor loops but for the STN, from our experimental research in rats we have shown that HFS induces functional inhibition of cell activity in the target nuclei. In our patients the implantation of the stimulation electrodes was carried out stereotactically, under local anesthesia, using ventriculography, MRI, microrecordings and clinical evaluation of the effects of stimulation on rigidity. When the stimulation is turned ON in the STN area a significant decrease in rigidity was determined by the neurologists. Stimulation or even penetration of the electrode may be responsible for transient dyskinesias. The average location of the clinically efficient contact of the chronic stimulating electrodes is statistically located at 5.02 +/- 0.71 1/12 degrees of AC-PC in the AP direction, at -1.5 +/- 0.66 1/8 degrees of the height of the thalamus in the ventricle direction, with laterality at 11.98 +/- 1.12 mm in the lateral direction. The beneficial effects of STN stimulation are significant providing that the electrodes are correctly placed into the target. There is strong improvement of the symptoms of the triad in which akinesia, rigidity, and tremor are reduced on average to 41. 6, 48.6, and 27%, respectively, when compared with the previous preoperative level. From our experience, HFS of the STN could be considered the surgical therapy of choice at advanced stages of Parkinson's disease.

We summarize here our experience in the neurophysiological and neuroimaging assessment of spinal and brain neuromodulation for pain relief. Techniques reviewed include somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs), nociceptive spinal (RIII) reflexes, and positron emission tomography (PET), which have been applied both to investigate the mechanisms and to optimize the application of neurostimulation procedures. SEPs are especially useful in the preoperative assessment of patients with neuropathic pain, as they allow the establishment of the functional state of the dorsal column system. Patients with strongly abnormal SEPs due to ganglionic or preganglionic pathology are not likely to benefit from spinal (SCS) or peripheral (TENS) neurostimulation, because ascending fibers disconnected from their soma will undergo rapid degeneration and not be excitable. In the postoperative period, nociceptive spinal reflexes yield objective data concerning the effects of neurostimulation on spinal circuitry. In our experience, the best clinical results are achieved in patients with preserved preoperative SEPs, in whom neurostimulation entails profound attenuation of nociceptive reflexes.PET-scan imaging techniques have recently been used to demonstrate changes in cerebral blood flow during new neuromodulation schemes such as motor cortex stimulation for pain control (MCS). PET studies highlight the thalamus as the key structure mediating functional MCS effects. Thalamic activation would trigger a cascade of synaptic events influencing activity in other pain-related structures including the anterior cingulate gyrus, insula, and upper brainstem. The combination of clinical electrophysiology and functional neuroimaging provides insight into the mechanisms of action of neuromodulation procedures, guides clinical decision, and contributes to optimize patient selection.

Exposure of chick telencephalon neurons in serum-free primary culture to glutamate produced a concentration-dependent cell toxicity as seen by an increase in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release that was blocked by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist dizocilpine and was reduced by preincubation with the cholinergic agonist carbachol. Preincubation with a threshold concentration of NMDA did not prevent glutamate toxicity, suggesting that chick NMDA receptors do not desensitize in the manner reported for their rodent counterparts. Neither anandamide (arachidonyl ethanolamide, AEA) nor palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) was able to prevent the neurotoxicity produced by prolonged glutamate incubation, even under conditions in which the metabolism of the compounds by fatty acid amide hydrolase or AEA cellular uptake was blocked. It is concluded that treatments reported as granting neuroprotection towards glutamate toxicity in rodent primary neuronal cultures do not necessarily show the same properties in the chick.

Genetic redundancy is a problem in gene targeting studies because functionally relevant sister proteins can compensate for the lack of protein product of a targeted gene. A molecular system is chosen in which it is hoped to demonstrate both the lack and presence of compensation after disruption of particular single genes. Mammals may not be able to compensate for the lack of heregulin, a single ligand for multiple ErbB receptors, however, compensation is expected when a single ErbB receptor is knocked out. To investigate this the heregulin-1, ErbB2, or ErbB3 locus was disrupted in a targeted manner and mice heterozygous for the mutation were analyzed. Heregulin and its receptors were shown to be involved in embryonic brain development and, more recently, in plastic changes associated with adult brain function in rodents. Although they have never been shown to play roles in mammalian behavior, it was decided to characterize the mice behaviorally using a battery of simple tests. Heregulin mutant mice exhibited elevated activity levels in the open field, showed improved rotorod performance, and finished T-maze spontaneous alternation task faster compared to control wild type littermates, findings that suggest a consistent hyperactivity across tests. ErbB2 and ErbB3 mutant mice, whose strain origin was identical to that of heregulin mutants, showed no sign of the behavioral alterations. It is suggested that the abnormalities seen in heregulin mutant mice are due to mutation at that locus and the lack of alterations seen in ErbB2 and ErbB3 mutant mice is the result of compensation by unaltered sister receptors.
Catalepsy, a symptom of Parkinson's disease and related disorders can be produced in rats and other laboratory animals by the blockade of nigrostriatal dopamine using dopaminergic antagonists such as haloperidol. When haloperidol-induced cataleptic rats are placed facing downward on an inclined plane, they will brace against the resulting downward force by pushing backwards, and if they lose postural stability, or their position on the inclined plane, they will jump forward. Females, however, jump from the inclined plane at a significantly lower angle than do males. Frame-by-frame analysis of the jumping sequences revealed that females and males use a different combination of postural adjustments to maintain their position on the inclined plane prior to jumping. Furthermore, gonadal hormone manipulations at birth and in adulthood reveal that these sex differences in postural adjustments are dependent on the organizational effects of gonadal hormones in the perinatal period. These results provide evidence for sex differences in postural support mechanisms and suggest that the sex of subjects, or their hormonal state, must be considered when studying the behavioral aspects of neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease which include a postural component.
Rats with dorsal hippocampus or associative parietal cortex (APC) lesions and sham-operated controls were trained on variants of the Morris water maze navigation task. In the 'proximal landmark condition', the rats had to localize the hidden platform solely on the basis of three salient object landmarks placed directly in the swimming pool. In the 'distal landmark condition', rats could rely only on distal landmarks (room cues) to locate the platform. In the 'beacon condition', the platform location was signaled by a salient cue directly attached to it. Rats with hippocampal lesions were impaired in the distal and to a less extent in the proximal landmark condition whereas rats with parietal lesions were impaired only in the proximal landmark condition. None of the lesioned groups was impaired in the beacon condition. These results suggest that the processing of information related to proximal, distal landmarks or associated beacon are mediated by different neural systems. The hippocampus would contribute to both proximal and distal landmark processing whereas the APC would be involved in the processing of proximal landmarks only. Navigation relying on a cued-platform would not require participation of the hippocampus nor the APC. Assuming that the processing of proximal landmarks heavily depends on the integration of visuospatial and idiothetic information, these results are consistent with the hypothesis that the APC plays a role in the combination of multiple sensory information and contributes to the formation of an allocentric spatial representation.
The question of object-picture recognition has received relatively little attention in both human and comparative psychology; a paradoxical situation given the important use of image technology (e. g. slides, digitised pictures) made by neuroscientists in their experimental investigation of visual cognition. The present review examines the relevant literature pertaining to the question of the correspondence between and/or equivalence of real objects and their pictorial representations in animals and humans. Two classes of reactions towards pictures will be considered in turn: acquired responses in picture recognition experiments and spontaneous responses to pictures of biologically relevant objects (e.g. prey or conspecifics). Our survey will lead to the conclusion that humans show evidence of picture recognition from an early age; this recognition is, however, facilitated by prior exposure to pictures. This same exposure or training effect appears also to be necessary in nonhuman primates as well as in other mammals and in birds. Other factors are also identified as playing a role in the acquired responses to pictures: familiarity with and nature of the stimulus objects, presence of motion in the image, etc. Spontaneous and adapted reactions to pictures are a wide phenomenon present in different phyla including invertebrates but in most instances, this phenomenon is more likely to express confusion between objects and pictures than discrimination and active correspondence between the two. Finally, given the nature of a picture (e.g. bi-dimensionality, reduction of cues related to depth), it is suggested that object-picture recognition be envisioned in various levels, with true equivalence being a limited case, rarely observed in the behaviour of animals and even humans.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative syndrome for which at present no cure is available; therapy consists mainly of amelioration of the symptoms with L-Dopa and/or dopamine (DA) agonists. Development of an effective causal therapy should be focussed on preventing or at least retarding the neurodegenerative process underlying the disease. At the cellular level, PD is characterized by degeneration of neuromelanin-containing dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Neuromelanin formation is the outcome of a process generally known as DA autooxidation, a chain of oxidation reactions in which highly neurotoxic DA-quinones are produced. The level of these DA-quinones, as estimated by the occurrence of their cysteinyl conjugates, is reported to be increased in the Parkinsonian substantia nigra. Hence, stimulation of pathways implicated in the detoxication of DA-quinones in the brain may provide neuroprotection in PD. Besides their inactivation through non-enzymatic antioxidants such as ascorbic acid and glutathione, DA-quinones are efficiently inactivated enzymatically by NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO) and glutathione transferase(s), both of which are expressed in the human substantia nigra. The activity of these enzymes, which belong to the group of phase II biotransformation enzymes, can be up-regulated by a large variety of compounds. These compounds, including dithiolethiones, phenolic anti-oxidants, and isothiocyanates, have been shown to be active both in vitro and in vivo. Thus, considering the role of phase II biotransformation enzymes, in particular NQO and glutathione transferase(s), in the detoxication of DA-quinones, we propose that phase II enzyme inducers warrant evaluation on their neuroprotective potential in PD.

High levels of nerve growth factor (NGF) are found in sera from individuals infected with human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8). BC-1 and BCBL-1 cells are primary effusion lymphoma-derived B-cell lines; BC-1 cells are infected by HHV-8 and the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and BCBL-1 cells are infected only by HHV-8. Both cells express NGF receptors and produce NGF, whereas RAMOS cells (a B-cell line that is negative for HHV-8 and EBV) express NGF receptors but do not produce detectable NGF. Neutralization of endogenous NGF results in cell growth inhibition and apoptosis in BCBL-1 cells and, to a minor extent, in BC-1 cells. When the HHV-8 lytic cycle is induced in BCBL-1 cells by tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate (TPA), an initial reduction of endogenous NGF production is observed, and many cells undergo apoptosis. However, at 48 hours, TPA-treated cells produce significantly more NGF than untreated controls, and a subsequent recovery of cell viability is observed. Consistent with this finding, the addition of exogenous NGF or anti-NGF antibodies to TPA-treated cells reduces or increases, respectively, the rate of apoptosis in response to TPA. Finally, electron microscopy of TPA-treated BCBL-1 cells shows that the addition of exogenous NGF increases the number of cells producing and releasing complete virions as compared with the controls (25% versus 5%). On the contrary, NGF neutralization leads to the production of defective viral progeny in about 2% of cells. These data indicate that NGF is essential for both cell survival and virus maturation in HHV-8-infected cell lines. (Blood. 2000;95:2905-2912)
Previous reports have demonstrated that expression of insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2) is altered in hepatoblastoma. Using RNAase protection analysis (RPA), we examined the gene expression for IGF1, IGF2, IGF1R, M6P/IGF2R, IGFBP-1 and IGFBP-2 in a series of hepatoblastomas with corresponding normal liver from the same individuals. The results show that the expression of the IGF-axis members included in the present study are altered between tumour and normal, and indicate that the IGF-axis may be involved in hepatoblastoma development.

Binding of the 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist radioligand [(3)H]-SB-269970 to human 5-HT(7(a)) receptors expressed in HEK293 cell membranes (h5-HT(7(a))/293) and to guinea-pig cerebral cortex membranes, was characterized and compared with [(3)H]-5-CT binding. [(3)H]-SB-269970 (1 nM) showed full association with h5-HT(7(a))/293 membranes after 40 min. Specific binding at equilibrium represented &gt;90% of total binding and was fully reversible by methiothepin (10 microM), full dissociation occurring by 100 min. The association (k(+1)) and dissociation (k(-1)) rate constants were 0.05 nM(-1)min(-1) and 0.05 min(-1) respectively, giving a K(D) (k(-1)/k(+1)) of 1.0 nM. [(3)H]-SB-269970 bound saturably and apparently monophasically to both h5-HT(7(a))/293 and guinea-pig cortex membranes, with K(D) values of 1.25+/-0.05 and 1.7+/-0.3 nM respectively. The B(max) for [(3)H]-SB-269970 to both h5-HT(7(a))/293 and guinea-pig cortex membranes (5780+/-380 and 125+/-8.2 fmoles mg protein(-1) respectively) was similar to that for [(3)H]-5-CT (6190+/-940 and 143+/-19 fmoles mg protein(-1) respectively). These data suggest that, in each tissue, both radioligands labelled the same population of receptors, which appear to be present in an agonist high affinity state. The profile of compound inhibition of [(3)H]-SB-269970 binding to h5-HT(7(a))/293 and guineapig cortex membranes correlated well (corr. coeff. 0.98) with those for [(3)H]-5-CT binding and were consistent with the profiles reported previously for the human 5-HT(7(a)) and guinea-pig cortex 5-HT(7) receptors using [(3)H]-5-CT. Hill slopes for inhibition of [(3)H]-SB-269970 and [(3)H]-5-CT binding were close to 1, consistent with binding to a single receptor population in both tissues. [(3)H]-SB-269970 represents the first selective 5-HT(7) antagonist radioligand, which should aid further characterization of 5-HT(7) receptors in recombinant and native tissues and help establish their role in brain function.
Responses to human urotensin-II (hU-II) were investigated in human and rat pulmonary arteries. Rat pulmonary arteries: hU-II was a potent vasoconstrictor of main pulmonary arteries (2 - 3 mm i.d.) (pEC(50), 8.55+/-0.08, n=21) and was approximately 4 fold more potent than endothelin-1 [ET-1] (P&lt;0.01), although its E(max) was considerably less (approximately 2.5 fold, P&lt;0.001). The potency of hU-II increased 2.5 fold with endothelium removal (P&lt;0.05) and after raising vascular tone with ET-1 (P&lt;0.01). E(max) was enhanced approximately 1.5 fold in the presence of N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME, 100 microM, P&lt;0.01) and approximately 2 fold in vessels from pulmonary hypertensive rats exposed to 2 weeks chronic hypoxia (P&lt;0.05). hU-II did not constrict smaller pulmonary arteries. Human pulmonary arteries ( approximately 250 microm i.d.): in the presence of L-NAME, 3 out of 10 vessels contracted to hU-II and this contraction was highly variable. hU-II is, therefore, a potent vasoconstrictor of rat main pulmonary arteries and this response is increased by endothelial factors, vascular tone and onset of pulmonary hypertension. Inhibition of nitric oxide synthase uncovers contractile responses to hU-II in human pulmonary arteries.
Although the 5-HT(6) receptor subtype was identified some 5 years ago, very little is known about its function within the brain. Here we demonstrate, for the first time, the neurochemical effects of a selective 5-HT(6) receptor ligand. Using in vivo microdialysis in the freely moving rat, we evaluated the effects of the selective 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist SB-271046 by simultaneous measurement of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), dopamine (DA), noradrenaline (NA), glutamate and aspartate from the striatum and frontal cortex. SB-271046 did not alter basal levels of 5-HT, DA and NA in either brain region. Similarly, there was no change basal levels of either of the excitatory amino acids within the striatum. In contrast, administration of SB-271046 (10 mg kg(-1) s.c.) produced a significant (P&lt;0.05), tetrodotoxin-dependent, increase in extracellular levels of both glutamate and aspartate within the frontal cortex, reaching maximum values of 375.4+/-82.3 and 215. 3+/-62.1% of preinjection values, respectively.
Patient VP underwent complete callosotomy for the control of intractable epilepsy at the age of 27 years. Subsequent MRI, however, revealed spared callosal fibres in the rostral and splenial ends of the corpus callosum. We report a series of experiments designed to determine whether these fibres support functional transfer of information between the two cerebral hemispheres. Although we found no evidence for transfer of colour, shape or size information, there is good evidence for transfer of word information. This suggests that the spared splenial fibres in VP's corpus callosum are material-specific. The results of these experiments illustrate the remarkable degree of functional specificity within the corpus callosum
Although eutely in nematodes was known, giant neurons in several taxa and unique motor neurons to leg muscles in decapod crustaceans, the idea that many animals have many identifiable neurons with relatively consistent dynamical properties and connections was only slowly established in the late 1960s and early 1970s. This has to be one of the important quiet revolutions in neurobiology. It stimulated a vast acquisition of specific information and led to some euphoria in the degree and pace of understanding activity of nervous systems and consequent behavior in terms of neuronal connections and properties. Some implications, problems and opportunities for new discovery are developed. The distribution of identifiable neurons among taxa and parts of the nervous system is not yet satisfactorily known. Their evolution may have been a case of several independent inventions. The degree of consistency has been quantified only in a few examples and the plasticity is little known. Identified neurons imply identifiable circuits but whether this extends to discrete systems, functionally definable, seems likely to have several answers in different animals or sites. Very limited attempts have been made to extend the concept to cases of two or ten or a hundred fully equivalent neurons, on all kinds of criteria. These attempts suggest a much smaller redundancy and vaster number of types of neurons than hitherto believed. Theory as well as empirical information has not yet interpreted the range of systems from those with small sets of relatively reliable neurons to those with large numbers of parallel, partially redundant units. The now classical notion of local circuits has to be extended to take account of and find roles for the plethora of integrative variables, of evidence for neural processing independent of spikes and classical synapses, of spatial configurations of terminal arbors and dendritic geometry, of modulators and transmitters, degrees of rhythmicity (regularity varying several orders of magnitude), and of synchrony. Adequate language and models need to go beyond 'circuits' in any engineering sense. Identifiable neurons can contribute to a broad spectrum of issues in neurobiology.
Constitutive expression of the interferon-gamma receptor protein (IFN-gammaR), and the distribution of cells in which Fos, a marker of cell activation, is induced by intracerebroventricular administration of IFN-gamma, were studied in the rat brain by immunohistochemistry. IFN-gammaR immunopositivity was found in neuronal elements, which exhibited a selective distribution being concentrated in the piriform and entorhinal cortex, midline thalamus and medial hypothalamic structures, brainstem nociceptive relays (including the periaqueductal gray, the parabrachial nuclei and the caudal part of the spinal trigeminal nuclei), and circumventricular organs such as the median eminence and area postrema. IFN-gamma-induced Fos expression mostly corresponded to neuronal sites of receptor distribution. Because of its topographical distribution, it is suggested that activation of the IFN-gammaR in neurons may play a role to limit spread of infections in the brain and, in concert with other proinflammatory cytokines, to modulate adaptive responses to an antigen challenge mediated by the central nervous system.
Can we express biophysical neuronal models as integrate-and-fire (IF) models with leakage coefficients which are no longer constant, as in the conventional leaky IF model, but functions of membrane potential and other biophysical variables? We illustrate the answer to this question using the FitzHugh-Nagumo (FHN) model as an example. A novel IF type model, the IF-FHN model, which approximates to the FHN model, is obtained. The leakage coefficient derived in the IF-FHN model has nonmonotonic relationship with membrane potential, revealing at least in part the intrinsic mechanisms underlying the FHN models. The IF-FHN model correspondingly exhibits more complex behaviour than the standard IF model. For example, in some parameter regions, the IF-FHN model has a coefficient of variation of the output interspike interval which is independent of the number of inhibitory inputs, being close to unity over the whole range, comparable to the FHN model as we noted previously (Brown et al., 1999).
The triptans represent a major advance in migraine therapy but their cost per dose greatly exceeds that of many older treatments. There is evidence that for a significant proportion of migraine patients these new drugs can show a positive cost benefit and also improve quality of life. Cost benefit would be expected to be greatest in patients with more severe migraine attacks.
Acid sphingomyelinase-deficient (asmase-/-) mice generated by gene targeting abundantly store sphingomyelin in the reticuloendothelial system of liver, spleen, bone marrow, and in brain. Liver cells of asmase-/- mice accumulate sphingomyelin and glycosphingolipids in purified lipid bilayers of microsomes, Golgi, and the plasma membrane, but cholesterol is depleted in the plasma membrane. Detergent-insoluble glycolipid-enriched membrane microdomains (GEM) can be isolated from hepatocytes, embryonic fibroblasts, and splenocytes of wild-type, but not of asmase-/- mice, by sucrose gradient density centrifugation. Lck and other Src-family kinases are reduced in isopycnic fractions of asmase-/- splenocytes compared to GEM-containing fractions of wild-type cells. The proliferation of asmase-/- T lymphocytes is reduced, whereas their susceptibility to Fas-induced apoptosis is increased after T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation. TNF receptor I signaling remains unimpaired. The perturbation of GEM impairs tyrosine phosphorylation and, consequently, mitogenic signaling of the TCR. Reduced MAPK activity-dependent FLICE-like inhibitory protein (FLIP) expression in asmase-/- T lymphocytes increases their sensitivity towards Fas-mediated apoptosis.
The expression of the seven P2X receptor subtypes and of two P2Y receptors was examined immunohistochemically and by in situ hybridisation in thymi of adult male rats. P2X4, P2Y2 and 4 receptor mRNA colocalisation studies combining in situ hybridisation and immunohistochemistry were also carried out. P2X and P2Y receptors were found on thymocytes. P2X receptors were also abundant in cells of the thymic microenvironment, involved in control of T-cell maturation in vivo. We are the first to describe the expression of P2X4 receptors on thymocytes and confirm the finding of P2X1 and P2Y2 receptors on subpopulations of lymphocytes. P2X1,2,3,4 and 5 receptors were present in blood vessels of the thymus. P2X1,2 and 4 receptors were detected in vascular smooth muscle, while P2X3 receptors appeared to be associated with endothelial cells; some small arteries were positive for P2X5, possibly labelling vascular smooth muscle or fibroblasts in the adventitia. P2X2,3,6 and 7 receptors were found on thymic epithelial cells. P2X2 and 3 receptors were abundant on medullary epithelial cells, whilst P2X6 receptors were prominent in Hassall's corpuscles. P2X2 receptors were found on subcapsular and perivascular epithelial cells. P2X2,6 and 7 receptors were detected in epithelial cells along the thymic septa. Expression of P2X receptors was also investigated by Western blotting of crude thymic tissue extracts under reducing conditions. All seven P2X receptor subtypes were found to be dimers of approximately 70 kDa and 140 kDa molecular weight. ATP-mediated apoptosis and cell proliferation of thymocytes are discussed.
We have assessed the validity and reliability of a self-administered headache questionnaire used in the 'Nord-Trndelag Health Survey 1995-97 (HUNT)' in Norway, by blindly comparing questionnaire-based headache diagnoses with those made in a clinical interview of a sample of the participants. Restrictive questionnaire-based diagnostic criteria for migraine, assessed according to modified criteria of the International Headache Society, performed excellently in selecting 'definite' migraine patients (100% positive predictive value). The best agreement concerning migraine diagnoses was achieved by using a liberal set of criteria (kappa 0.59). Similar agreement was found evaluating patient status as headache sufferers, and as sufferers from frequent headaches (&gt;6 days per month) (kappa 0.57 and 0.50, respectively). The kappa values of non-migrainous headache and chronic headache (&gt; 14 days per month) were 0.43 and 0.44, respectively. The results suggest that our self-administered questionnaire may be suitable in identifying a population with 'definite' migraine, and the questionnaire is an acceptable instrument in determining the prevalence in Nord-Trndelag of headache sufferers, migraine, non-migrainous headache, and frequent or chronic headache sufferers.
The purpose of this study was to assess the sensitivity of 5-HT1D receptors in migraine using sumatriptan as a pharmacological probe. The drug stimulates the release of growth hormone (GH) and this effect may be used to explore the function of cerebral serotonergic systems in vivo. We administered sumatriptan and placebo to 15 migraineurs and to 10 controls. Blood samples were collected -15, 0, 15, 30, 45, 60 and 90 min after injection. Placebo had no effect on hormone concentrations. Sumatriptan induced a significant (P&lt;0.01) increase in GH concentrations both in migraine patients and healthy controls. The GH increase was not significantly different in the two groups. Our results suggest that cerebral serotonergic functions mediated by 5-HT1D receptors are not altered in migraine. Sumatriptan overuse could lead to adverse effects mediated by its neuroendocrine activity.
In this study we examined the thalamic connectivity developed by grafts of embryonic (E16) parietal or occipital cortex placed homo- or heterotopically into the neocortex of newborn rats. We also examined the cytoarchitectonic organization developed by the grafts. Our findings indicate that E16 parietal cortex grafted into the parietal cortex of newborn recipients develops reciprocal connections with the host thalamic ventrobasal complex (VB) but does not establish connections with the host dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (DLG). When implanted into the occipital cortex, these grafts are still able to establish connections with the VB. In contrast, E16 occipital cortex grafted into the parietal cortex establishes only a few connections with the VB. These grafts are, however, able to develop a substantial system of connections with the host DLG. At 16 days of embryonic age, graft cells are committed to establish thalamic connections appropriate to their tangential locus of origin. In addition, our results show that E16 parietal or occipital cortical cells do not possess the capacity to differentiate and maintain barrel organization even though they are grafted into the terminal field of developing VB axons.
Placebo-controlled clinical trials with nimodipine in acute ischemic stroke have not fulfilled the early optimistic expectations. Nimodipine has in some experimental studies, when administered either before or up to 90 min after induction of cerebral ischemia, resulted in a reduction of infarct size. No studies on the effects of nimodipine on infarct size in man have been published. We measured the infarct volumes in the admission and control CT examinations 3 weeks to 3 months later in 153 patients who had participated in a multicenter, randomized and placebo-controlled study. No statistically significant differences overall were found within or between the treatment groups. Subgroup analyses revealed in the placebo, but not in the nimodipine arm, an increase in the median infarct volumes if the treatment was started within 24 h of onset, and if the volume in the admission CT was less than median. A beneficial effect of nimodipine in prevention of infarct size increase in these circumstances cannot be excluded.
Surgical experience with long-term follow-up is limited in childhood intractable epilepsy, compared with adult epilepsy. To assess the role of each presurgical evaluation modality and to identify prognostic factors for favorable seizure control after epilepsy surgery, 38 children with intractable epilepsy who underwent surgery were retrospectively reviewed. Among the available preoperative evaluation modalities, PET and neuropsychological testing showed the highest rates of positive results, whereas MRI was the most concordant with EEG findings. During a follow-up period of at least 12 months, 26 of the 38 patients showed favorable seizure control (Engel classifications I and II). The best seizure control was achieved in patients with a temporal resection and discrete lesion on magnetic resonance imaging. In spite of the invasive study, the less satisfactory results followed an extratemporal resection. We conclude that epilepsy surgery benefits children with intractable epilepsy and that the role of invasive study should be reestablished according to the area of resection and presence of discrete lesion on MRI.
Patients with Parkinson's Disease (PD) have a variable response to tolcapone, a catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor. In addition, a subset of patients develop severe diarrhea as a side effect. Two codominant alleles for the COMT gene exist, coding for low and high activity, resulting in low-, medium-, and high-activity genotypes. This study investigates the relationship between this variation in genotype and clinical effects in patients with PD taking tolcapone. To investigate the relationship between COMT polymorphism and clinical response, 24 patients who completed tolcapone clinical trials provided blood samples for COMT genotype analysis. Change in levodopa dose and United Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) Part III (motor subscale) were analyzed at baseline, at 1-2 weeks, and 6 months after initiation of tolcapone. Genotype analysis was performed on seven patients who had diarrhea as a side effect. There was no significant correlation between genotype and improvement in UPDRS score (p = 0.29) according to a linear models approach that adjusted for the subject's severity of PD, tolcapone dose (either 100 or 200 mg three times daily) and initial differences in baseline scores. No significant difference was seen in change in daily levodopa intake and genotype. There was also no relation between diarrhea and COMT genotype. These results indicate that, in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, COMT genotype is not a major contributor to the clinical response to tolcapone.

Several brain regions associated with analogical mapping were identified using (15)O-positron emission tomography with 12 normal, high intelligence adults. Each trial presented during scanning consisted of a source picture of colored geometric shapes, a brief delay, and a target picture of colored geometric shapes. Analogous pictures did not share similar geometric shapes but did share the same system of abstract visuospatial relations. Participants judged whether each source-target pairing was analogous (analogy condition) or identical (literal condition). The results of the analogy-literal comparison showed activation in the dorsomedial frontal cortex and in the left hemisphere; the inferior, middle, and medial frontal cortices; the parietal cortex; and the superior occipital cortex. Based on these results as well as evidence from relevant cognitive neuroscience studies of reasoning and of executive working memory, we hypothesize that analogical mapping is mediated by the left prefrontal and inferior parietal cortices.


Osteopontin has been shown to inhibit the induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS, or NOS2) by lipopolysaccharide and interferon-gamma in the RAW264.7 mouse monocyte/macrophage line and in primary mouse proximal tubule epithelial cells. However, the RAW264.7 cells become refractory to the action of OPN after several subcultures or under dilute culture conditions, possibly because of changes in the composition of the extracellular matrix. We make this suggestion because if the cells are plated on a collagen type I or collagen type IV substrate the inhibitory action of OPN is completely suppressed; this is not the case on substrates consisting of laminin, fibronectin, poly-D-lysine, or poly-(2-hydroxyethylmethylacrylate). These observations imply that macrophages are sensitive to regulation by OPN only in certain physiological contexts. Both hyaluronate, which binds CD44, and rat IgGs are also able to inhibit the induction of NO synthesis by the inflammatory mediators. The similar actions of HA and OPN are consistent with the possibility that CD44 may be a receptor for OPN.
We examined the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) in relation to the prevalence and incidence of dementia in a representative population sample (n = 494), followed from age 85 to 88. The study included a neuropsychiatric examination (including the MMSE) and a key informant interview conducted by a psychiatrist. Dementia was defined according to the DSM-III-R. Among non-demented 85-year-olds, 75% of those who scored below the cut-off score of 23/24 and 37% of those scoring 24-25 became demented during the follow-up. Non-demented 85-year-olds who did not develop dementia during the following 3 years had a mean decline in MMSE score of 0.6 per year, while those who became demented decreased by 2.3 points per year. A decrease of 4 or more points during the 3 years had a sensitivity of 83% and a specificity of 80% for a diagnosis of dementia. High and low MMSE score at base-line was related to a smaller decrease in MMSE score between age 85 and 88. Higher education was related to higher scores on MMSE at age 85 and to a smaller decline in scores between age 85 and 88. Change in MMSE score in non-demented individuals is small especially among individuals with high education. Non-demented individuals scoring below 26 should receive close attention, as a high proportion are at risk of developing dementia.
We studied regional cerebral glucose metabolism in 15 patients with a clinical diagnosis of corticobasal degeneration (CBD), 15 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD), and 15 healthy controls for 19 brain regions. Asymmetry in regional glucose metabolism was found in the central and frontal cortices in patients with CBD as compared with either the normal controls or the patients with AD. Regional glucose metabolism in CBD patients was significantly lower in the paracentral and superior parietal areas and thalamus than in patients with AD. Relative glucose metabolism in patients with CBD was significantly higher in the posterior cingulate, medial temporal and basal frontal areas, and significantly lower in the paracentral and superior parietal areas than in those with AD. These features of regional glucose metabolic abnormality in CBD may correspond to neurological and cognitive disturbances peculiar to CBD.
During development, trunk neural crest cells give rise to three primary classes of derivatives: glial cells, melanocytes, and neurons. As part of an effort to learn how neural crest diversification is regulated, we have produced monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) that recognize antigens expressed by neural crest cells early in development. One of these, MAb 7B3 (7B3), was found to recognize an avian transitin-like protein by co-immunostaining with a series of transitin-specific monoclonal antibodies and by Western blot analysis. In neural crest cell cultures, we found that 7B3 initially recognizes the majority of neural crest cells as they emerge from the neural tube. Subsequently, 7B3-immunoreactivity (IR) is progressively restricted to a smaller subpopulation of cells. In fully differentiated trunk neural crest cell cultures, 7B3-IR is expressed only by cells that do not express neuronal markers and lack melanin granules. During development in vivo, 7B3-IR is evident in neural crest cells on the medial, but not the lateral migration pathway, suggesting that it is not expressed by melanocyte precursors. Later, the antigen is detected in non-neuronal, presumptive glial cells in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and sympathetic ganglia, as well as along ventral roots. Cultures of E5 DRG confirm that 7B3-IR is restricted to non-neuronal cells of ganglia, many of which closely associate with neuronal processes. Therefore, of the three major classes of differentiated trunk neural crest derivatives, 7B3 exclusively recognizes glial cells, including both satellite glia and Schwann cells. Since the pattern of 7B3 expression in vitro mirrors the pattern of glial cell fate-restrictions in the trunk neural crest lineage, and is expressed by neural crest-derived glia in vivo, we conclude that 7B3 is an early pan-glial marker for neural crest-derived glial cells and their precursors.
The aim of this study was to determine whether there are primary effects of prematurity on the development of explicit memory. Elicited imitation of action sequences was used to compare immediate and 15-minute delayed memory in term and preterm infants (19 months corrected age; n=48) who were at low risk: none had experienced the medical or social risk factors often associated with preterm birth. Relative to infants born at term (38 to 40 weeks' gestation), children who had been born at 27 to 34 weeks' gestation showed lower levels of ordered recall; performance of healthy infants born at 35 to 37 weeks' gestation was intermediate and did not differ significantly from that of the other groups. These results suggest that specific cognitive deficits can occur as a function of preterm birth even in low-risk infants.
Axons in the bilateral brain of Drosophila decide whether or not to cross the midline before following their specific subsequent pathways. In commissureless mutants, the RP3 and V motoneuron axons often fail to cross the midline but subsequently follow the mirror-image pathways and innervate corresponding muscle targets on the ipsilateral side. Conversely, in roundabout mutants, the RP2 and aCC motoneuron axons sometimes cross the midline abnormally but their subsequent pathways and synaptic targeting are the perfect mirror images of those seen in wild type. Furthermore, within a single segment of these mutants, bilateral pairs of motoneuron axons can make their midline decisions independently of each other. Thus, neither the growth cones' particular molecular experience nor the decision at the midline caused by these mutations affects their ability to respond normally to subsequently presented cues.
Early and late epileptic seizures are a frequent complication of severe head traumas. The administration of anticonvulsant drugs immediately after head injury is commonly implemented as a prophylactic measure; however, there is a lack of consensus on the usefulness of prophylaxis with anticonvulsants for the prevention of late post-traumatic epilepsy (PTE). The inconsistent evidence accumulated so far from clinical studies, most nonrandomised and uncontrolled in design, and the limited knowledge of the processes underlying post-traumatic epileptogenesis, do not warrant empirical pharmacological prophylaxis with long term administration of conventional anticonvulsants. Phenytoin and phenobarbital (phenobarbitone) are used to a large extent in this indication. As a general rule, a benefit/risk analysis in individual patients should drive prophylactic drug prescription in PTE as it can have potential detrimental effects on a patient's recovery. New compounds, such as free-radical scavengers and antiperoxidants, show encouraging experimental results, but their clinical use is still very limited.

In an in vitro slice preparation of the amygdala-piriform-perirhinal cortex (A-P area), it was shown previously (McIntyre, D.C., Plant, J. R., 1993. Long-lasting changes in the origin of spontaneous discharges from amygdala-kindled rats: piriform vs. perirhinal cortex in vitro, Brain Res. 624, 268-276) that the infrequent spontaneous field potentials that initially originated in or near the perirhinal (PRh) cortex of slices from control rats began instead in the piriform (Pir) cortex of amygdala-kindled rats. This change in onset was only observed in the A-P area ipsilateral to the kindled amygdala. In the present experiment, we determined whether similar changes in activity were evident following kindling from a different limbic site, the dorsal hippocampus (DH). Kindling of the DH resulted in changes in the origin of the spontaneous discharges in the A-P area similar to amygdala kindling but, importantly, the changes involved both hemispheres. In addition, the origin of spontaneous discharges in slices from partial kindled rats (those that received as many hippocampal afterdischarges as the fully kindled rats but had not developed generalized convulsive responses) initially were similar to control tissue, but, during 0 Mg(2+) perfusion, changed more quickly than control tissue to mimic the profile of generalized kindled rats. The enduring changes in A-P area excitability caused by previous generalized kindling highlights the importance of the A-P area in convulsive generalization of limbic-kindled seizures.
The objective of this study was to investigate the contribution of peripheral afferent input to the enhancement of isometric tremor during a sustained submaximal isometric contraction. It was hypothesised that during muscle fatigue, when excitatory drive is high, peripheral afferent input may augment oscillations in the stretch reflex arc and result in bursting motor-unit activity and increased tremor. Nine healthy subjects maintained isometric plantar flexions at 30% of their maximum voluntary contraction until the limit of endurance, under three test conditions. Two paradigms were used to reduce afferent input to the triceps surae alpha-motoneurone pool: (1) continued vibration of the Achilles tendon, and (2) ischaemic partial block of the tibial nerve. These were compared to a control experiment, in which there was no intervention. By recording H-reflexes from the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, it was possible to assess the effectiveness of reducing the afferent input. When H-reflex suppression had stabilised, the fatiguing contraction was commenced and tremor was computed from the continuously recorded torque signal. Superimposed maximum twitches were elicited as indirect measures of excitatory drive. The increase in tremor root mean square throughout the fatiguing contraction was significantly less for both the vibration and ischaemic conditions. Furthermore, tremor mean power frequency decreased significantly with endurance time in the control experiment, while no significant change was seen in the other two experimental conditions. It is concluded that the enhancement of isometric tremor seen during a fatiguing submaximal isometric contraction is facilitated by peripheral afferent input to the alpha-motoneurone pool.
HED is an autosomal dominant skin disorder that is particularly common in the French Canadian population of south-west Quebec. We previously mapped the HED gene to the pericentromeric region of chromosome 13q using linkage analysis in eight French Canadian families. In this study, we extend our genetic analysis to include a multiethnic group of 29 families with 10 polymorphic markers spanning 5.1 cM in the candidate region. Two-point linkage analysis strongly suggests absence of genetic heterogeneity in HED in four families of French, Spanish, African and Malaysian origins. Multipoint linkage analysis in all 29 families generated a peak lod score of 53.5 at D13S1835 with a 1 lod unit support interval spanning 1.8 cM. Recombination mapping placed the HED gene in a 2.4 cM region flanked by D13S1828 proximally and D13S1830 distally. We next show evidence for a strong founder effect in families of French Canadian origin thereby representing the first example of a founder disease in the south-west part of the province of Quebec. Significant association was found between HED in these families and all markers analysed (Fisher's exact test, P &lt; 0.001). Complete allelic association was detected at D13S1828, D13S1827, D13S1835, D13S141 and D13S175 (P(excess) = 1) spanning 1.3 cM. A major haplotype including all 10 associated alleles was present on 65% of affected chromosomes. This haplotype most likely represents the founder haplotype that introduced the HED mutation into the French Canadian population. Luria-Delbrck equations and multipoint likelihood linkage disequilibrium analysis positioned the gene at the D13S1828 locus (likely range estimate: 1.75 cM) and 0.58 cM telomeric to this marker (support interval: 3.27 cM) respectively.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) represents a T-cell-mediated autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system associated with altered immunoregulation. Interleukin (IL)-6 is a cytokine that has several effects on the neuroimmune system. Specific IL-6 receptors have been found in human lymphocytes and neuroglial cells. The aim of the present study was to assay IL-6 binding on peripheral blood T lymphocytes in MS patients. We found that T cells from MS patients had significantly more IL-6 receptors [Bmax: 279 +/- 7 vs. 246 +/- 8 (mean +/- SEM) receptors/cell, in patients and controls, respectively], whereas Kd values were similar to those of healthy subjects [26.8 +/- 0.7 vs. 25.4 +/- 0.6 (mean +/- SEM) pM, in patients and controls, respectively]. Significant (P &lt; 0.05) differences in IL-6 binding values were observed between stable patients and those relapsing (272 +/- 9 vs. 300 +/- 12 (mean +/- SEM) receptors/cell, respectively). We found significantly (P &lt; 0. 001) higher amounts of IL-6 receptors on CD4+ T cells from MS patients than on CD4+ lymphocytes from controls (434 +/- 11 vs. 363 +/- 9 (mean +/- SEM) receptors/cell, respectively); CD8+ T cells showed very few IL-6 receptors in both patients and controls. These data are discussed in terms of MS immune pathogenesis and pathophysiology, because T-cell activation seems to be linked to increased IL-6 binding. The upregulated IL-6 system might be involved in antibody-mediated demyelinating pathways, because IL-6 is well known to enhance humoral immune response.
The importance of enhanced glutamatergic neurotransmission in the basal ganglia and related structures has recently been highlighted in the development of Parkinson's disease. The pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPN) is the major origin of excitatory, glutamatergic input to dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons of which degeneration is well known to cause Parkinson's disease. Based on the concept that an excitatory mechanism mediated by glutamatergic neurotransmission underlies the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, we made an attempt to test the hypothesis that removal of the glutamatergic input to the nigrostriatal neurons by PPN lesions might prevent 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced parkinsonism in the macaque monkey. The PPN was lesioned unilaterally with microinjection of kainic acid, and, then, MPTP was administered systemically. In these monkeys, the degree of parkinsonian motor signs was behaviourally evaluated, and the histological changes in the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system were analysed by means of tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. The present results revealed that nigrostriatal cell loss and parkinsonian motor deficits were largely attenuated in the MPTP-treated monkey group whose PPN had been lesioned, compared with the control, MPTP-treated monkey group with the PPN intact. This clearly indicates that the onset of MPTP neurotoxicity is suppressed or delayed by experimental ablation of the glutamatergic input to the nigrostriatal neurons. Such a protective action of excitatory input ablation against nigrostriatal cell death defines evidence that nigral excitation driven by the PPN may be implicated in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease.
The amygdala has been shown to respond to many distinct types of affective stimuli, including reward and punishment feedback in animals. In humans, winning and losing situations can be considered as reward and punishment experiences, respectively. In this study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to measure regional brain activity when human subjects were given feedback on their performance during a simple response time task in a fictitious competitive tournament. Lexical stimuli were used to convey positive 'win' or negative 'lose' feedback. The frequency of positive and negative trials was parametrically varied by the experimenters independently from the subjects' actual performance and unbeknownst to them. The results showed that the parametric increase of winning was associated with left amygdala activation whereas the parametric increase of losing was associated with right amygdala activation. These findings provide functional evidence that the human amygdala differentially responds to changes in magnitude of positive or negative reinforcement conveyed by lexical stimuli.
Intermittent footshock stress has been shown to reinstate extinguished drug-taking behaviour in rats, but the brain areas involved in this effect are to a large degree unknown. Here we studied the role of the septum in stress-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. Rats were trained to self-administer heroin for 9-10 days (three 3-h sessions per day, 0.1 mg/kg per infusion). Following training, extinction sessions were given for 8-13 days by substituting saline for heroin, and then tests for reinstatement of heroin seeking were carried out. Reversible inactivation of the medial septum with tetrodotoxin (TTX; 1-5 ng, infused 25-40 min before the test sessions) reliably reinstated heroin seeking, mimicking the effect of 15 min of intermittent footshock. This effect of TTX was not observed after infusions made 1.5 mm dorsally into the lateral septum. In other experiments, it was found that infusions of a low, subthreshold dose of TTX (0.5 ng) into the medial septum, when combined with 2 min of footshock that in itself was ineffective, reinstated heroin seeking. Furthermore, electrical stimulation (400 microA pulses, 100 micros duration, 100 Hz frequency) of the medial septum during exposure to 10 min of intermittent footshock attenuated footshock-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. These data suggest a role for the medial septum in stress-induced relapse to drug seeking. The septum is thought to be involved in neuronal processes underlying behavioural inhibition, thus we speculate that stressors provoke relapse by interfering with these processes.
The nucleus accumbens of the rat consists of several subregions that can be distinguished on the basis of histochemical markers. For example, the calcium-binding protein calbindin D28k is a useful marker of the core compartment of the nucleus accumbens. Calretinin, another calcium-binding protein, is found in a dense fibre plexus in the accumbal shell and septal pole regions. The source of the accumbal calretinin innervation is not known. We examined the distribution of calretinin in the nucleus accumbens and used tract-tracing and lesion methods to determine the source of this calretinin innervation. Intense calretinin immunoreactivity was present in the medial shell, but the density of calretinin axons diminished sharply in the ventrolateral shell. Regions of dense calretinin immunostaining and those areas with calbindin-like immunoreactive cell bodies were generally segregated in the nucleus accumbens, although some overlap in the transition region between the core and shell was seen. Small clusters of calretinin-immunoreactive fibres were seen in the core, where they were restricted to calbindin-negative patches. Injections of the anterograde tracer biotinylated dextran amine into the paraventricular thalamic nucleus labelled fibres in calretinin-rich regions of the accumbens. Conversely, injections of Fluoro-gold into the accumbal shell retrogradely labelled numerous cells in the paraventricular thalamic nucleus that were calretinin-immunoreactive. Electrolytic lesions of the paraventricular thalamic nucleus reduced calretinin levels in the shell by approximately 80%. These data indicate that the calretinin innervation of the nucleus accumbens is derived primarily from the thalamic paraventricular nucleus, and marks accumbal territories that are largely complementary to those defined by calbindin.
The AMPA glutamate receptor subunit GluR2, which plays a critical role in regulation of AMPA channel function, shows altered levels of expression in vivo after several chronic perturbations. To evaluate the possibility that transcriptional mechanisms are involved, we studied a 1254-nucleotide fragment of the 5'-promoter region of the mouse GluR2 gene in neural-derived cell lines. We focused on regulation of GluR2 promoter activity by two neurotrophic factors, which are known to be altered in vivo in some of the same systems that show GluR2 regulation. Glial-cell line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) both induced GluR2 promoter activity. This was associated with increased expression of endogenous GluR2 immunoreactivity in the cells as measured by Western blotting. The effect of GDNF and BDNF appeared to be mediated via a NRSE (neuron-restrictive silencer element) present within the GluR2 promoter. The response to these neurotrophic factors was lost upon mutating or deleting this site, but not several other putative response elements present within the promoter. Moreover, overexpression of REST (restrictive element silencer transcription factor; also referred to as NRSF or neuron restrictive silencer factor), which is known to act on NRSEs in other genes to repress gene expression, blocked the ability of GDNF to induce GluR2 promoter activity. However, GDNF did not alter endogenous levels of REST in the cells. Together, these findings suggest that GluR2 expression can be regulated by neurotrophic factors via an apparently novel mechanism involving the NRSE present within the GluR2 gene promoter.
The administration of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) to a drug-nave patient with schizophrenia, untreated with conventional antipsychotic medication, led to a dramatic and sustained clinical improvement in both positive and negative symptoms. This was accompanied by a correction in erythrocyte membranes of abnormalities in both n-3 and n-6 highly unsaturated fatty acids (HUFAs). Therefore EPA is able to reverse the phospholipid abnormalities previously described in schizophrenia. This reversal is associated with, and is likely to be the cause of, the clinical improvement. In particular, EPA appears to have reversed the depletion of not only n-3 HUFAs, but also of membrane arachidonic acid, possibly via inhibition of HUFA-specific phospholipase A(2), an enzyme which removes HUFAs from the S(N)2 position of membrane phospholipids, or by activation of a fatty acid coenzyme A ligase. Correction by EPA of abnormalities in both enzyme systems is not ruled out.
This study targeted poly-drug (cocaine plus heroin) abstinence among buprenorphine-maintained participants with a 12-week voucher-based reinforcement therapy (VBRT) phase versus a yoked control condition. Baseline levels of cocaine and heroin use were significant predictors of treatment outcome, regardless of treatment assignment. Overall, there were no significant group differences on treatment outcome. However, among the subsample that produced one or more poly-drug-free urine results, VBRT participants had significantly increased cocaine-but not heroin and poly-drug-abstinence, although all results were in the predicted direction. Results suggest that for those who achieve poly-drug abstinence, VBRT may enhance treatment outcome. However, improved interventions, perhaps targeting single-drug abstinence, increasing reinforcement magnitude, or both, may be necessary to promote initial poly-drug abstinence in this population.
The role of endogenous extracellular adenosine as a tonic modulator of the extracellular accumulation of excitatory amino acids (glutamate and aspartate) caused by metabolic inhibition was investigated in cultured retinal cells. The selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, 4-[2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl)(1,2,4)-triazin-5-ylamino]-ethyl]ph enol (ZM241385) (50 nM), increased the release of glutamate (three- to four-fold) and of aspartate (nearly two-fold) upon iodoacetic acid-induced glycolysis inhibition, in the presence or in the absence of Ca2+. Blockade of tonic activation of A2A receptors by ZM241385 also increased (nearly two-fold) the ischemia-induced release of glutamate and aspartate. Furthermore, another selective A2A receptor antagonist, 5-amino-7-(2-phenylethyl)-2-(2-furyl)pyrazolo[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5- c] pyrimidine (SCH58261), also increased the release of aspartate and glutamate by about two-fold in cells submitted to glycolysis inhibition. In contrast, the selective adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX) (100 nM), did not significantly modify the extracellular accumulation of either glutamate or aspartate caused by inducers of chemical ischemia or glycolytic inhibitors. Inhibition of glycolysis also increased (about three-fold) the extracellular accumulation of GABA, which was virtually unchanged by ZM241385. Furthermore, the GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline (10 microM), only increased (nearly two-fold) the iodoacetic acid-induced Ca(2+)-dependent release of glutamate, whereas the GABAB receptor antagonist, 3-aminopropyl(diethoxymethyl) phosphinic acid, CGP35348 (100 microM), was devoid of effects on the extracellular accumulation of glutamate and aspartate. These results show that endogenous extracellular adenosine, which rises under conditions of inhibited glycolysis, tonically inhibits the extracellular accumulation of excitatory amino acid through the activation of A2A, but not A1, adenosine receptors, and this effect is independent of GABAA and GABAB functions in the cultured retinal cells.
We examined the time course of NMDAR1 (NR1) immunoreactivity (IR) in the rat inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus following unilateral intrahippocampal (hilar) kainic acid (KA) lesions and compared them to progressive aberrant mossy fiber (MF) sprouting into the inner molecular layer (IML). The results demonstrated that NR1 receptors in the IML of the KA side were decreased as early as 3 days after KA-induced denervation, then significantly increased at postinjection day (PID) 7. The densities of NR1 IR in the IML continued to increase up to 5 months. By comparison, MF sprouting did not occur significantly in the IML until PID 17, 10 days after NR1 IR was significantly increased. Recurrent MF-IML neoinnervation significantly increased on days 17, 60, and 150. This progressive MF innervation was significantly correlated with NR1 increases. These results suggest that NR1 receptors were decreased soon after KA-induced deafferentation of granule cell dendrites in the IML; however, they were replaced by new NR1 receptors at increased densities in the granule cell dendrites, which may have released neurotrophic factors to stimulate growth cones of MFs to reinnervate the IML. The progressive increases of NR1 and MFs in the IML suggest that such neosynaptogenesis would contribute monosynaptic recurrent excitatory mechanisms for focal hippocampal hyperexcitability and seizure onsets.
In the setting of nigrostriatal dopamine depletion, glutamatergic pathways to the striatum and basal ganglia output nuclei become overactive. Systemically administered glutamate receptor antagonists may have direct antiparkinsonian actions in rodents, but there is little evidence for this in primates. Glutamate antagonists may also potentiate conventional dopaminergic therapies; however, there is concern that broad spectrum, nonselective antagonists may have unwanted side-effects. Because subunit-selective antagonists may avoid these liabilities, we have examined the antiparkinsonian effects of a selective antagonist of the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor. In rats, CP-101,606 decreased haloperidol-induced catalepsy with an ED(50) of about 0.5 mg/kg. In MPTP-treated monkeys, CP-101,606 (1 mg/kg) reduced parkinsonian motor symptoms by 20%. At a dose of 0.05 mg/kg, CP-101,606 markedly potentiated the effect of a submaximal dose of levodopa, reducing motor symptoms by about 50% compared to vehicle and by about 30% compared to levodopa alone. No side-effects were apparent at any dose of CP-101,606. We conclude that CP-101,606 has direct antiparkinsonian actions in both rodents and monkeys and it synergistically potentiates levodopa in MPTP-treated monkeys. Clinical evaluation of selective NR2B antagonists may be warranted in Parkinson's disease.
The organic solvent toluene is widely used in industry. The threshold limit value for extended occupational exposure to toluene is presently set to 200 ppm in the United States. We have investigated the effect of an inhalation exposure of 80 ppm for 4 weeks (6 h/day, 5 days/week), followed by a postexposure period of at least 4 weeks, on behavior and brain features in the rat. Toluene exposure appeared to affect spatial memory, since toluene-exposed rats showed a longer time in the correct quadrant in a Morris swim maze. This effect may indicate that the exposed rats used their praxis strategy longer before they started to look for the platform elsewhere. Toluene-exposed rats showed trends for increases in both locomotion and rearing behaviors and a significantly reduced beam-walk performance. The area of the cerebral cortex, especially the parietal cortex, was decreased by 6-10% in toluene-exposed rats, as shown by magnetic resonance imaging of living rats and autoradiograms of frozen brain sections. The K(D) and B(max) values of the dopamine D(3) agonist [(3)H]PD 128907 were not affected by toluene, as measured in caudate-putamen and subcortical limbic area using biochemical receptor binding assays and in caudate-putamen and islands of Calleja using quantitative receptor autoradiography. Hence, previously demonstrated persistent effects by toluene on the binding characteristics of radioligands binding to both D(2) and D(3) receptors seem to indicate a persistent effect of toluene selectively on dopamine D(2) receptors. Taken together, the present results indicate that exposure to low concentrations of toluene leads to persistent effects on cognitive, neurological, and brain-structural properties in the rat.
Astroglial cells contribute to neuronal maintenance and function in the normal and diseased brain. Gap junctions formed predominantly by connexin43 (cx43) provide important pathways to coordinate astroglial responses. We have previously shown that fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-2, which occurs ubiquitously in the CNS, downregulates gap junction communication in cortical and striatal, but not in mesencephalic astroglial cells in vitro (Reuss et al. Glia 22:19-30, 1998). Other members of the FGF family expressed in the CNS include FGF-5 and FGF-9. We show that both FGF-5 and FGF-9, like FGF-2, downregulate astroglial gap junctions and functional coupling. However, their effects are strikingly different from different brain regions, with regard to astroglial cells. FGF-5 specifically affects mesencephalic astroglial cells without changing coupling of cortical and striatal astroglia, while FGF-9 reduces gap junctional coupling in astroglia from all three brain regions. Both cx43 mRNA and protein levels as well as functional coupling assessed by dye spreading are affected. To clarify whether brain region-specific effects of FGFs on astroglial coupling are due to differential expression of FGF receptors (FGFR), we monitored expression of the four known FGFR mRNAs in astroglial cultures by RT-PCR. Irrespective of their regional origin, astroglial cells express mRNAs for FGFR-2 and FGFR-3. In summary, our results provide evidence for an important role of FGF-2, -5, and -9 in a distinct, CNS region-specific regulation mechanism of astroglial gap junction communication. The molecular basis underlying the regionally distinct responsiveness of astrocytes to different FGFs may be sought beyond distinct FGFR expression.
There is recent evidence that cryoanesthesia, commonly used during neonatal hormone manipulations (e.g., gonadectomy), has deleterious effects on the morphology of the splenium of the corpus callosum and primary visual cortex in adult rats of both sexes. (Nuez and Juraska, 1998; Nuez, Kim, and Juraska, 1998). In the present study, the effect of neonatal cryoanesthesia on the morphology of the hippocampus and dentate gyrus and on performance in the Morris water maze was investigated. Cold exposure for as brief as 30 min (5 degrees C) on Postnatal Day 1 resulted in a significant decrease in the volume of the hippocampus and in brain weight of adults. Performance on the water maze was also impaired in cold-exposed animals. This study indicates that not only morphology but also behavioral performance in adulthood are affected by neonatal cryoanesthesia.
This meeting presented a large array of high quality neuroscience research, some of which held possible relevance for therapeutic development. The potential use of multipotent neural stem cells harvested from adult brain for transplantation and regeneration therapy was highlighted, as was the increasingly central role of the p75 neurotrophin receptor in regulating neuronal cell death. Of particular interest were strategies for the prevention of neuronal death by systemic administration of p75 receptor antisense oligonucleotides. Other significant data included a possible synergy between prostaglandin receptors and opioid receptors in cellular responses, thought to underlie pain perception and opioid analgesia. Groups in Melbourne, Brisbane and Bath, UK, have isolated novel alpha-conotoxins from Conus marine snails, and characterized their effects on neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), highlighting their subunit specificity and effects on synaptic transmission. While none of these findings are close to effective clinical use as yet, they hold great promise for the future, underlining the necessity for basic research as a starting point for novel therapies.
Using clonal insulin-secreting BRIN-BD11 cells, we have assessed whether the graded response of the whole cell population to glucose can be accounted for by a dose-dependent recruitment of individual cells, an amplification of the response of the recruited cells or both. Cytosolic free Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) is an established index of beta-cell function. We used fura-2 microfluorescence techniques to assess the [Ca(2+)](i) responsiveness of single BRIN-BD11 cells to glucose and other secretagogues. Glucose (1-16.7 mM) evoked oscillatory [Ca(2+)](i) rises in these cells resembling those found in parental rat pancreatic beta-cells. The percentage of glucose-responsive cells was 11% at 1 mM and increased to 40-70% at 3-16.7 mM glucose, as assessed by a single-stimulation protocol. This profile was unrelated to possible differences in the cell cycle, as inferred from experiments where the cultured cells were synchronized by a double thymidine block protocol. Individual cells exhibited variable sensitivities to glucose (threshold range: 1-5 mM) and a variable dose-dependent amplification of the [Ca(2+)](i) responses (EC(50) range: 2-10 mM), as assessed by a multiple-stimulation protocol. Glyceraldehyde and alpha-ketoisocaproic acid had glucose-like effects on [Ca(2+)](i). The data support a mixed model for the activation of insulin-secreting cells. Specifically, the graded secretory response of the whole cell population is likely to reflect both a recruitment of individual cells with different sensitivities to glucose and a dose-dependent amplification of the response of the recruited cells.
The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) is a brief global instrument used to assess cognitive abilities in the elderly, requiring literacy as a prerequisite. Such a precondition is impractical for populations with widespread illiteracy. The present study aimed to adapt the MMSE for the cultural context of Bangladesh and for use in populations irrespective of literacy skills. In the Bangla Adaptation of Mini-mental State Examination (BAMSE), the MMSE items were changed in such a way that they would be applicable for illiterate individuals, as well as being culturally relevant in Bangladesh. Altogether 672 elderly, 262 literate and 410 illiterate individuals were tested with the BAMSE. To enable comparison between the BAMSE and MMSE, the literate elderly were tested with both instruments. Test-retest reliability of the BAMSE was assessed in 54 randomly selected individuals. The results showed that, in comparison to the MMSE, the BAMSE demonstrated satisfactory test properties, although reliable differences were found on some of the individual items when the two instruments were compared. The association between the two instruments was good (r=0.57) and the test-retest reliability was satisfactory (r=0.70). More importantly, the BAMSE was found to be less sensitive to age and education than the MMSE. Finally, our results suggest that in the socio-cultural context of Bangladesh, irrespective of literacy skills, the BAMSE is an instrument that can be used to assess cognitive function of the normal elderly.


In an attempt to develop a more ecologically valid measure of speech understanding in a background of competing speech, we constructed a quasidichotic procedure based on the monitoring of continuous speech from loudspeakers placed directly to the listener's right and left sides. The listener responded to the presence of incongruous or anomalous words imbedded within the context of two children's fairy tales. Attention was directed either to the right or to the left side in blocks of 25 utterances. Within each block, there were target (anomalous) and nontarget (nonanomalous) words. Responses to target words were analyzed separately for attend-right and attend-left conditions. Our purpose was twofold: (1) to evaluate the feasibility of such an approach for obtaining electrophysiologic performance measures in the sound field and (2) to gather normative interaural symmetry data for the new technique in young adults with normal hearing. Event-related potentials to target and nontarget words at 30 electrode sites were obtained in 20 right-handed young adults with normal hearing. Waveforms and associated topographic maps were characterized by a slight negativity in the region of 400 msec (N400) and robust positivity in the region of 900 msec (P900). Norms for interaural symmetry of the P900 event-related potential in young adults were derived.
Functional imaging based on magnetic resonance methods is a new research frontier for exploring a wide range of central nervous system (CNS) functions, including information processing in sensory, motor, cognitive, and linguistic systems. Being able to localize and study human brain function in vivo, in relatively high resolution and in a noninvasive manner, makes this a technique of unparalleled importance. In order to appreciate and fully understand this area of investigation, a tutorial covering basic aspects of this methodology is presented. We introduce functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) by providing an overview of the studies of different sensory systems in response to modality-specific stimuli, followed by an outline of other areas that have potential clinical relevance to the medical, cognitive, and communicative sciences. The discussion then focuses on the basic principles of magnetic resonance methods including magnetic resonance imaging, MR spectroscopy, fMRI, and the potential role that MR technology may play in understanding a wide range of auditory functions within the CNS, including tinnitus-related activity. Because the content of the material found herein might be unfamiliar to some, we provide a broad range of background and review articles to serve as a technical resource.

The basal ganglia occupy a commanding place in neuroscience research, in clinical neurology and in biomedical education. The paucity of our understanding of the role of the basal ganglia in normal everyday life combined with our more extensive knowledge of their deficiencies in a variety of clinical syndromes is a potent spur to continuing investigation. That some of these neurodegenerative syndromes-such as Parkinson's disease-are already common only heightens the need for insight in the face of a population with increasing expectations of longevity. About a decade ago an explosion of information on the connectivity and immunocytochemistry of forebrain structures gave rise to concepts which have shaped the fabric of basal ganglia theory-'patch and matrix', 'disinhibition', 'parallel circuits'. Some of these ideas seemed to facilitate an understanding of the basal ganglia, others to render them more complex and impenetrable. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the work of the last decade has tended towards consolidation and refinement. However, several new developments are receiving attention, many of them related to disorders of the basal ganglia. The realisation that some forms of Parkinson's disease have a genetic determinant is gaining strength. The molecular biology of the dopaminergic synapse on the one hand and of the production of insoluble proteins on the other will clearly influence future research into therapeutic options and neuroprotection. The importance of apoptosis, neural plasticity and free radical formation remains unresolved but these are potential areas of promise. Meanwhile, scanning techniques for brain imaging are allowing real time investigation of the working striatum in normal and disordered humans and animals.We believe that the time is opportune for a broad review of current thinking on the basal ganglia in health and disease. The following articles are based on presentations given at a Symposium on the Neurobiology of the Basal Ganglia held at Glasgow University in July 1999 as part of the Summer Meeting of the Anatomical Society of Great Britain and Ireland. The invited speakers were chosen to be wide ranging and contributions encompassed evolution, circuitry and receptors of the basal ganglia, striatal remodelling after dopamine loss, striatal functioning in humans with Huntington's disease and in primate models after midbrain fetal transplants, and the genetics of basal ganglia disorders. Short presentations and posters of current results supplemented the main presentations and some are also included amongst these reviews.
Recent advances in the manipulation of mouse embryos provide opportunities for the disciplines of neuroscience and molecular genetics to join forces and tackle some previously intractable questions in this area of research. Even Huntington's disease has started to yield clues to its complex pathophysiology as a result of the recent application of transgenic technologies. This short review, while necessarily providing some background clinical information on Huntington's disease, will focus on how modifications of the mouse genome have contributed, and are continuing to contribute, to our understanding of the complex disease process. Such new insights may well turn the hope of developing the first effective treatment for this devastating disease into reality.
After the unilateral destruction of the dopamine input to the neostriatum there are enduring changes in rat behaviour. These have been ascribed to the loss of dopamine and the animals are often referred to as 'hemiparkinsonian'. In the denervated neostriatum, we have shown that not only are the tyrosine hydroxylase positive boutons missing, but also the medium sized densely spiny output cells have fewer spines. Spines usually have asymmetric synapses on their heads. In a recent stereological study we were able to show that there is a loss of approximately 20% of asymmetric synapses in the lesioned neostriatum by 1 mo after the lesion. Current experiments are trying to establish the specificity of this loss. So far we have evidence suggesting that there is no obvious preferential loss of synapses from either D1 or D2 receptor immunostained dendrites in the neostriatum with damaged dopamine innervation. These experiments suggest that dopamine is somehow necessary for the maintenance of corticostriatal synapses in the neostriatum. In a different series of experiments slices of cortex and neostriatum were maintained in vitro in such a way as to preserve at least some of the corticostriatal connections. In this preparation we have been able to show that cortical stimulation results in robust excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) recorded from inside striatal neurons. Using stimulation protocols derived from the experiments on hippocampal synaptic plasticity we have shown that the usual consequence of trains of high frequency stimulation of the cortex is the depression of the size of EPSPs in the striatal cell. In agreement with similar experiments by others, the effect seems to be influenced by NMDA receptors since the unblocking of these receptors with low Mg++ concentrations in the perfusate uncovers a potentiation of the EPSPs after trains of stimulation. Dopamine applied in the perfusion fluid round the slices has no effect but pulsatile application of dopamine, close to the striatal cell being recorded from, and in temporal association with the cortical trains, leads to a similar LTP like effect. The reduction of K+ channel conductance in the bath with TEA also has the effect of making cortical trains induce potentiation of corticostriatal transmission. TEA applied only to the cell being recorded from has no similar effect; the cortical stimulation again depresses the EPSP amplitude, so the site of action of TEA may well be presynaptic to the striatal cell. The morphological and physiological experiments may not necessarily be related but it is tempting to suggest that dopamine protects some corticostriatal synapses by potentiating them but that in the absence of dopamine others simply disconnect and are no longer detectable on electron microscopy.
Glutamate and GABA neurotransmission is mediated through various types of ionotropic and metabotropic receptors. In this review, we summarise some of our recent findings on the subcellular and subsynaptic localisation of GABA(B) and group I metabotropic glutamate receptors in the striatopallidal complex of monkeys. Polyclonal antibodies that specifically recognise GABA(B)R1, mGluR1a and mGluR5 receptor subtypes were used for immunoperoxidase and pre-embedding immunogold techniques at the light and electron microscope levels. Both subtypes of group I mGluRs were expressed postsynaptically in striatal projection neurons and interneurons where they aggregate perisynaptically at asymmetric glutamatergic synapses and symmetric dopaminergic synaptic junctions. Moreover, they are also strongly expressed in the main body of symmetric synapses established by putative intrastriatal GABAergic terminals. In the globus pallidus, both receptor subtypes are found postsynaptically in the core of striatopallidal GABAergic synapses and perisynaptically at subthalamopallidal glutamatergic synapses. Finally, extrasynaptic labelling was commonly seen in the globus pallidus and the striatum. Moderate to intense GABA(B)R1 immunoreactivity was observed in the striatopallidal complex. At the electron microscope level, GABA(B)R1 immunostaining was commonly found in neuronal cell bodies and dendrites. Many striatal dendritic spines also displayed GABA(B)R1 immunoreactivity. Moreover, GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive axons and axon terminals were frequently encountered. In the striatum, GABA(B)R1-immunoreactive boutons resembled terminals of cortical origin, while in the globus pallidus, subthalamic-like terminals were labelled. Pre-embedding immunogold data showed that postsynaptic GABA(B)R1 receptors are concentrated at extrasynaptic sites on dendrites, spines and somata in the striatopallidal complex, perisynaptically at asymmetric synapses and in the main body of symmetric striatopallidal synapses in the GPe and GPi. Consistent with the immunoperoxidase data, immunoparticles were found in the presynaptic grid of asymmetric synapses established by cortical- and subthalamic-like glutamatergic terminals. These findings indicate that both GABA and glutamate metabotropic receptors are located to subserve various modulatory functions of the synaptic transmission in the primate striatopallidal complex. Furthermore, their pattern of localisation raises issues about their roles and mechanisms of activation in normal and pathological conditions. Because of their 'modulatory' functions, these receptors are ideal targets for chronic drug therapies in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease.
The basal ganglia (BG) have received much attention during the last 3 decades mainly because of their clinical relevance. Our understanding of their structure, organisation and function in terms of chemoarchitecture, compartmentalisation, connections and receptor localisation has increased equally. Most of the research has been focused on the mammalian BG, but a considerable number of studies have been carried out in nonmammalian vertebrates, in particular reptiles and birds. The BG of the latter 2 classes of vertebrates, which together with mammals constitute the amniotic vertebrates, have been thoroughly studied by means of tract-tracing and immunohistochemical techniques. The terminology used for amniotic BG structures has frequently been adopted to indicate putative corresponding structures in the brain of anamniotes, i.e. amphibians and fishes, but data for such a comparison were, until recently, almost totally lacking. It has been proposed several times that the occurrence of well developed BG structures probably constitutes a landmark in the anamniote-amniote transition. However, our recent studies of connections, chemoarchitecture and development of the basal forebrain of amphibians have revealed that tetrapod vertebrates share a common pattern of BG organisation. This pattern includes the existence of dorsal and ventral striatopallidal systems, reciprocal connections between the striatopallidal complex and the diencephalic and mesencephalic basal plate (striatonigral and nigrostriatal projections), and descending pathways from the striatopallidal system to the midbrain tectum and reticular formation. The connectional similarities are paralleled by similarities in the distribution of chemical markers of striatal and pallidal structures such as dopamine, substance P and enkephalin, as well as by similarities in development and expression of homeobox genes. On the other hand, a major evolutionary trend is the progressive involvement of the cortex in the processing of the thalamic sensory information relayed to the BG of tetrapods. By using the comparative approach, new insights have been gained with respect to certain features of the BG of vertebrates in general, such as the segmental organisation of the midbrain dopaminergic cell groups, the occurrence of large numbers of dopaminergic cell bodies within the telencephalon itself and the variability in, among others, connectivity and chemoarchitecture. However, the intriguing question whether the basal forebrain organisation of nontetrapods differs essentially from that observed in tetrapods still needs to be answered.
Review of published clinical and neuropsychologic outcome studies reveals limited information about intellectual functioning after childhood stroke. The extant data are supplemented here by analysis of intelligence quotient (IQ) results obtained from 38 children in an ongoing study of unilateral middle cerebral artery ischemic stroke. Evidence so far indicates that, after stroke, mean IQ falls significantly below the population mean but remains within the average range. There is no significant difference between hemispheric side of injury; the Verbal and Performance IQ lateralization profile widely recognized in adults with unilateral injury is not apparent in younger children, and there is only a trend toward this profile in older children. The effects of a number of other variables, including sex, site of stroke, and longitudinal assessment, are also considered. Although the generally minor effect of stroke on IQ is encouraging, a number of children do require extra help on return to school. Some suggestions for future research are highlighted in order to encourage further consideration of the issues raised here.
Since early recurrence occurs in at least 10% of patients presenting with their first stroke in childhood in the reported series, the search for modifiable risk factors should be a priority. Risk factors for stroke in adults include hypertension, diabetes, and smoking, as well as cardiac disease and sickle cell anemia; asymptomatic cerebrovascular disease and transient ischemic events may predict stroke in this age group. The investigation of a child with a stroke has traditionally focused on finding a single cause rather than looking for risk factors to which the patient may be exposed life long. Approximately half of children presenting with stroke have a known predisposing condition, but some have unexpected pathologies such as primary cerebrovascular disease associated with congenital heart anomalies, or may have modifiable risk factors such as hypertension associated with sickle cell disease. The literature on children presenting with initially unexplained (cryptogenic) stroke suggests that there is a daunting list of possible causes, but since the series have mainly been small, it has been difficult to evaluate the relative importance of the reported associations. This paper reviews the literature on congenital, genetic, and acquired risk factors for stroke in childhood, and includes data from the large series of patients seen at Great Ormond Street Hospital over the past 10 years. The majority have arteriographic abnormalities and there is little evidence for asymptomatic cardiac disease. Genetic predisposition, trauma, infection, and nutritional deficiencies appear to be important, although case-control studies will be required to prove causation. Appropriate screening for modifiable risk factors may lead to prevention of recurrence in some patients. In the long term, an understanding of the multiple etiologies of childhood cerebrovascular disease and ischemic stroke may lead to primary prevention in this age group, and perhaps in adults.
Transsexuals experience themselves as being of the opposite sex, despite having the biological characteristics of one sex. A crucial question resulting from a previous brain study in male-to-female transsexuals was whether the reported difference according to gender identity in the central part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTc) was based on a neuronal difference in the BSTc itself or just a reflection of a difference in vasoactive intestinal polypeptide innervation from the amygdala, which was used as a marker. Therefore, we determined in 42 subjects the number of somatostatin-expressing neurons in the BSTc in relation to sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, and past or present hormonal status. Regardless of sexual orientation, men had almost twice as many somatostatin neurons as women (P &lt; 0.006). The number of neurons in the BSTc of male-to-female transsexuals was similar to that of the females (P = 0.83). In contrast, the neuron number of a female-to-male transsexual was found to be in the male range. Hormone treatment or sex hormone level variations in adulthood did not seem to have influenced BSTc neuron numbers. The present findings of somatostatin neuronal sex differences in the BSTc and its sex reversal in the transsexual brain clearly support the paradigm that in transsexuals sexual differentiation of the brain and genitals may go into opposite directions and point to a neurobiological basis of gender identity disorder.


Only little systematic research has examined event-related brain potentials (ERPs) elicited by the cognitive processing of music. The present study investigated how music processing is influenced by a preceding musical context, affected by the task relevance of unexpected chords, and influenced by the degree and the probability of violation. Four experiments were conducted in which &quot;nonmusicians&quot; listened to chord sequences, which infrequently contained a chord violating the sound expectancy of listeners. Integration of in-key chords into the musical context was reflected as a late negative-frontal deflection in the ERPs. This negative deflection declined towards the end of a chord sequence, reflecting normal buildup of musical context. Brain waves elicited by chords with unexpected notes revealed two ERP effects: an early right-hemispheric preponderant-anterior negativity, which was taken to reflect the violation of sound expectancy; and a late bilateral-frontal negativity. The late negativity was larger compared to in-key chords and taken to reflect the higher degree of integration needed for unexpected chords. The early right-anterior negativity (ERAN) was unaffected by the task relevance of unexpected chords. The amplitudes of both early and late negativities were found to be sensitive to the degree of musical expectancy induced by the preceding harmonic context, and to the probability for deviant acoustic events. The employed experimental design opens a new field for the investigation of music processing. Results strengthen the hypothesis of an implicit musical ability of the human brain.
Objects characterized by a unique visual feature may pop out of their environment. When participants have to search for such &quot;odd-one-out&quot; targets, detection is facilitated when targets are consistently defined within the same feature dimension (e.g., color) compared with when the target dimension is uncertain (e.g., color or motion). Further, with dimensional uncertainty, there is a cost when a given target is defined in a different dimension to the preceding target, relative to when the critical dimension remains the same. Behavioral evidence suggests that a target dimension change involves a shift of attention to the new dimension. The present fMRI study revealed increased activation in the left frontopolar cortex, as well as in posterior visual areas of the dorsal and ventral streams, specific to changes in the target dimension. In contrast, activation in the striate cortex was decreased. This pattern suggests control of cross-dimensional attention shifts by the frontopolar cortex, modulating visual cortical processing by increased activation in higher-tier visual areas and suppression of activation in lower-tier areas.
Inhibition of return (IOR) refers to a reflexive mechanism mediated by phylogenetically primitive extrageniculate visuomotor pathways, which apparently serves to favor novel spatial locations by inhibiting those recently sampled. We demonstrate an asymmetry between temporal and nasal hemifields in the strategic modulation of IOR by endogenously controlled attention. Exogenous and endogenous precues were manipulated independently on each trial such that precues to initiate endogenous spatial orienting were presented after IOR had been activated by exogenous visual signals. Both types of precues manifested their characteristic effects on reaction time (RT) to detect subsequent targets: facilitation by endogenous precues, and IOR by exogenous precues. Under monocular viewing, an asymmetric interaction between these two mechanisms was observed. While endogenous allocation of attention to the nasal hemifield reduced IOR, no endogenous modulation of IOR was present in the temporal hemifield where the effects of the two types of precues were independent. These observations suggest a framework for understanding the neurobiology of automaticity and control - from an evolutionary perspective.
alpha-Dystroglycan (alpha -DG) is a laminin/agrin receptor expressed in skeletal muscle as well as in nervous system and other tissues. Glycosylation of the core protein of alpha-DG is extensive, variable from tissue to tissue, and functionally relevant. To address differential glycosylation of alpha-DG in the retina, we have investigated the distribution of this protein using two different antibodies: 1B7 directed against the core protein of alpha-dystroglycan, and IIH6 directed against a carbohydrate moiety (Ervasti and Campbell [1993] J Cell Biol 122:809-823). Monoclonal antibody 1B7 recognizes a broader band than IIH6, which seems to recognize only a subset of alpha-DG forms in retina. These data reflect the existence of differentially glycosylated isoforms of alpha-DG. Monoclonal antibody 1B7 shows an extensive staining for alpha-DG in the inner limiting membrane as well as in the ganglion cell and inner plexiform layers labeling Mller cell processes, whereas monoclonal antibody IIH6 staining is restricted to the inner limiting membrane and blood vessels. Our data indicate that there are distinct isoforms of alpha-DG that are localized in apposition to basal lamina in the inner limiting membrane and blood vessels or within the parenchyma of the retina along Mller glia. Both isoforms are expressed in a Mller cell line in culture and coimmunoprecipitate with beta-dystroglycan. These data suggest that DGs may participate in organizing synapses and basement membrane assembly in the retina.
The pupil of an awake, untrained, head-restrained barn owl was found to dilate in response to sounds with a latency of about 25 ms. The magnitude of the dilation scaled with signal-to-noise ratio. The dilation response habituated when a sound was repeated, but recovered when stimulus frequency or location was changed. The magnitude of the recovered response was related to the degree to which habituating and novel stimuli differed and was therefore exploited to measure frequency and spatial discrimination. Frequency discrimination was examined by habituating the response to a reference tone at 3 kHz or 6 kHz and determining the minimum change in frequency required to induce recovery. We observed frequency discrimination of 125 Hz at 3 kHz and 250 Hz at 6 kHz--values comparable to those reported by others using an operant task. Spatial discrimination was assessed by habituating the response to a stimulus from one location and determining the minimum horizontal speaker separation required for recovery. This yielded the first measure of the minimum audible angle in the barn owl: 3 degrees for broadband noise and 4.5 degrees for narrowband noise. The acoustically evoked pupillary dilation is thus a promising indicator of auditory discrimination requiring neither training nor aversive stimuli.
Various improvements are described for the simulation of biophysically and anatomically detailed compartmental models of single neurons and networks of neurons. These include adaptive time-step integration and a reordering of the circuit matrix to allow ideal voltage clamp of arbitrary nodes. We demonstrate how the adaptive time-step method can give equivalent accuracy as a fixed time-step method for typical current clamp simulation protocols, with about a 2.5 reduction in runtime. The ideal voltage clamp method is shown to be more stable than the nonideal case, in particular when used with the adaptive time-step method. Simulation results are presented using the Surf-Hippo Neuron Simulation System, a public domain object-oriented simulator written in Lisp.
Instruction encouraging imagery improves logical reasoning with counterfactual premises by normal preschool children. In contrast, children with autism have been reported to reason accurately with counterfactual premises in the absence of such instruction (F. J. Scott, S. Baron-Cohen, &amp; A. M. Leslie, 1999). To investigate this pattern of findings, we compared the performance of children with autism, children with learning disabilities, and normally developing 4-year-olds, who were given reasoning problems both with and without instruction in two separate testing sessions 2 to 3 weeks apart. Overall, instruction to use imagery led to persistent logical performance. However, children with autism displayed a distinctive pattern of responding, performing around chance levels, showing a simple response bias, and rarely justifying their responses by elaborating on the premises. We propose that instruction boosts logical performance by clarifying the experimenter's intention that a false proposition be accepted as a basis for reasoning and that children with autism have difficulty grasping this intention.
A paper by McCalley, Bouwhuis, and Juola (1995) suggested differences between younger and older adults in the use of visual cues. Furthermore, they reported these differences could largely be attributed to diminished (peripheral) visual processing capacities of elderly adults. Here, we reanalyze the data of McCalley and colleagues emphasizing relative rather than absolute differences. We find that when doing so, the data do not reveal differences in the way older and younger adults transiently allocate attention during visual search. Contrary to the conclusions of McCalley and colleagues, the similarity between the younger and older observers is therefore independent of the characteristics of the visual information. Furthermore, in our view the data suggest that older adults have foveal rather than peripheral visual processing difficulties. The results reemphasize the importance of the analytical approach taken in aging research. We discuss the difficulties and relevance of controlling and separating visual and attentional factors in age-related studies.
Depression is a common psychiatric disorder prevalent in 10-15% in general population. To know the biology of the disease many hypotheses have been proposed. Genetic basis for depression is provided by family studies which show higher risk of depression among first degree relatives. Abnormalities in serotonergic activity in depression can occur in one or more levels. Other neurotransmitters like gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) and dopamine are also considered to have some role in depression. Hormonal abnormalities like hypercortisolaemia are found in patients with depression. Structural and functional neuro-imaging studies in depression suggest the involvement of brain in depressive disorders.
Normal emotions like sadness need to be differentiated from depressive illnesses. A number of psychological and social theories have been proposed to explain depression in the psychosocial context in which it occurs. A multifactorial bio-psychosocial approach to causation of depression provides a holistic understanding of the patient and also helps to plan appropriate pharmacological and psychosocial therapies to treat the patient.
We recorded bursts of motor neuron activity from closer and opener mandibular nerves of isolated subesophageal ganglia (SOG) and compared them with the feeding motor pattern of intact Manduca larvae. Closer bursts recorded from isolated SOG lasted from 1 to 4s, interburst interval durations lasted from 2 to 49s, and within- and between-animal variability was great. In contrast, motor activity bursts (EMGs) measured from mandibular closer muscles of intact, feeding animals lasted 0.08 to 0.24s with interburst intervals of 0.26 to 0.57s. Variability both within and between animals was small. Bath application of 10(-4)M octopamine to the isolated SOG tended to increase frequency and reduce the duration of bursts, so that they became more like those recorded during feeding.
A novel in vitro motility assay has been developed to study the actomyosin interaction, in which the molecular motor protein myosin has been extracted and immobilized directly from 2-4 mm single rat skeletal muscle fiber segments. This method study was carried out to investigate: (1) the amount of myofibrillar proteins extracted from the fiber segment; (2) the effects of temperature on the speed at which actin is propelled by fast and slow myosin; and (3) the effects of myosin isoform expression on motility speed. Approximately 80% of the myosin and myosin-associated proteins were extracted from the fiber segments. while no significant extraction was shown of the thin filament proteins. Fluorescently labeled actin filaments moved with constant speed in a bi-directional motion over the high-density myosin region in the experimental chamber, and motility speed was highly dependent on the myosin heavy chain (MyHC) isoform extracted. At 25 degrees C, significant (P &lt; 0.001) differences in motility speed were obtained between type I (1.31 +/- 0.23 microm/s, n = 11) and IIxb (5.81 +/- 0.35 microm/s, n = 6), or llb (6.07 +/- 0.33 microm/s, n = 8) MyHC isoforms. The motility speed and maximum velocity of unloaded shortening (V0) in single fibers were well correlated, indicating that filament speed is a good molecular analogue to contractile speed at the fiber level. The effects of temperature on filament motility speed were analyzed from 10 to 35 degrees C. The Q10 values, calculated in the 10-25 degrees C temperature range, differed between slow (4.20) and fast (2.38) myosin. In conclusion, this in vitro motility assay offers a unique possibility to compare the regulatory and modulatory influence of myosin isoforms and thin filament proteins on shortening velocity, at the cellular and molecular level in the same muscle fiber.
In Drosophila, the type I motor terminals innervating the larval ventral longitudinal muscle fibers 6 and 7 have been the most popular preparation for combining synaptic studies with genetics. We have further characterized the normal morphological and physiological properties of these motor terminals and the influence of muscle size on terminal morphology. Using dye-injection and physiological techniques, we show that the two axons supplying these terminals have different innervation patterns: axon 1 innervates only muscle fibers 6 and 7, whereas axon 2 innervates all of the ventral longitudinal muscle fibers. This difference in innervation pattern allows the two axons to be reliably identified. The terminals formed by axons 1 and 2 on muscle fibers 6 and 7 have the same number of branches; however, axon 2 terminals are approximately 30% longer than axon 1 terminals, resulting in a corresponding greater number of boutons for axon 2. The axon 1 boutons are approximately 30% wider than the axon 2 boutons. The excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) produced by axon 1 is generally smaller than that produced by axon 2, although the size distributions show considerable overlap. Consistent with vertebrate studies, there is a correlation between muscle fiber size and terminal size. For a single axon, terminal area and length, the number of terminal branches, and the number of boutons are all correlated with muscle fiber size, but bouton size is not. During prolonged repetitive stimulation, axon 2 motor terminals show synaptic depression, whereas axon 1 EPSPs facilitate. The response to repetitive stimulation appears to be similar at all motor terminals of an axon.
In central neurons, dendritic differentiation begins well after axonal elongation and is accompanied by the compartmentation of the microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) in the somatodendritic domain. Whether MAP2 plays a role in the morphological and functional maturation of dendrites remains an open question and is the focus of this study. Cultured hippocampal neurons depleted of MAP2 by means of antisense oligonucleotides failed to elongate their dendrites. On the other hand, MAP2-depleted neurons were capable of receiving synapses within the same time course as their control counterparts. However, both the number of synapses per cell and the synaptic density were markedly reduced in neurons in which dendritic elongation has been impaired. Taken collectively, these results suggest that the expression of MAP2 is required for the morphological differentiation of dendrites. Dendritic elongation, however, is not a prerequisite for synapse formation in cultured hippocampal neurons.
We compared the properties of mammalian arginine decarboxylase (ADC) and ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) in rat liver and brain. Mammalian ADC is thermally unstable and associated with mitochondrial membranes. ADC decarboxylates both arginine (Km = 0.75 mM) and ornithine (Km = 0.25 mM), a reaction not inhibited by the specific ODC inhibitor, difluoromethylomithine. ADC activity is inhibited by Ca2+, Co2+, and polyamines, is present in many organs being highest in aorta and lowest in testis, and is not recognized by a specific monoclonal antibody to ODC. In contrast, ODC is thermally stable, cytosolic, and mitochondrial and is expressed at low levels in most organs except testis. Although ADC and ODC are expressed in cultured rat C6 glioma cells, the patterns of expression during growth and confluence are very different. We conclude that mammalian ADC differs from ADC isoforms expressed in plants, bacteria, or Caenorhabditis elegans and is distinct from ODC. ADC serves to synthesize agmatine in proximity to mitochondria, an organelle also harboring agmatine's degradative enzyme, agmatinase, and a class of imidazoline receptor (I2) to which agmatine binds with high affinity.
The alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) has been implicated in modulating neurotransmitter release and may play a role in the regulation of neuronal growth and differentiation. A threonine for leucine 247 substitution in the channel domain of the chick alpha7 nAChR increases agonist affinity and decreases the rate of desensitization, creating a &quot;gain of function&quot; model for this receptor. We have generated mice that express the analogous mutation (L250T) in the alpha7 nAChR using the techniques of homologous recombination and here report their characteristics. Mice heterozygous (+/T) for the L250T mutation are viable, fertile, and anatomically normal compared with wild-type littermates. In contrast, homozygous (T/T) L250T mice die within 2-24 h of birth. Brains of T/T mouse pups exhibit a marked reduction in alpha7 nAChR protein levels and show extensive apoptotic cell death throughout the somatosensory cortex. Furthermore, alpha7 L250T nAChRs are functionally expressed on neurons within the brains of T/T neonatal mice and have properties that are consistent with those observed for the rat alpha7 L250T and the chick alpha7 L247T mutant nAChRs expressed in oocytes. These findings indicate that neurons in the developing brain expressing only alpha7 L250T mutant nAChRs are susceptible to abnormal apoptosis, possibly due to increased Ca2+ influx.
Calpains are ubiquitous Ca(2+)-activated neutral proteases that have been implicated in ischemic and traumatic CNS injury. Ischemia and trauma of central white matter are dependent on Ca2+ accumulation, and calpain overactivation likely plays a significant role in the pathogenesis. Adult rat optic nerves, representative central white matter tracts, were studied in an in vitro anoxic model. Functional recovery following 60 min of anoxia and reoxygenation was measured electrophysiologically. Calpain activation was assessed using western blots with antibodies against calpain-cleaved spectrin breakdown products. Sixty minutes of in vitro anoxia increased the amount of spectrin breakdown approximately 20-fold over control, with a further increase after reoxygenation to &gt;70 times control, almost as much as 2 h of continuous anoxia. Blocking voltage-gated Na+ channels with tetrodotoxin or removing bath Ca2+ was highly neuroprotective electrophysiologically and resulted in a marked reduction of spectrin degradation. The membrane-permeable calpain inhibitors MDL 28,170 and calpain inhibitor-I (10-100 microM) were effective at reducing spectrin breakdown in anoxic and reoxygenated optic nerves, but no electrophysiological improvement was observed. We conclude that calpain activation is an important step in anoxic white matter injury, but inhibition of this Ca(2+)-dependent process in isolation does not improve functional outcome, probably because other deleterious Ca(2+)-activated pathways proceed unchecked.
The human melanoma cell line A2058 expresses the Gq-coupled M5 subtype of muscarinic receptor. Stimulation with the cholinergic agonist, carbachol, induces a dose-dependent increase in arachidonic acid release. The carbachol-induced arachidonate release is potentiated two- to threefold by pretreatment of A2058 cells with either of the inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-alpha or interleukin-1beta . Cytokine-induced enhancement of muscarinic-mediated arachidonic acid release peaks near 1 h. Western analysis suggests that both cytokines are capable of activating the nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways. Anisomycin (1 microM) treatment mimics the cytokine-induced enhancement of arachidonic acid production and activates the p38 MAPK pathway, but does not activate the NF-kappaB pathway. Furthermore, pre-treatment of A2058 cells with the putative p38 MAPK inhibitor, SB202190, ablates the cytokine-dependent augmentation without interfering with the muscarinic-mediated arachidonic acid release in untreated cells. Moreover, cytokine treatment does not affect other M5-coupled pathways (e.g., phospholipase C activity or intracellular Ca2+ mobilization), suggesting that p38 MAPK activation principally modulates muscarinic-mediated phospholipase A2 activity. Finally, in primary cultures of cells taken from rat cerebellum, key aspects of this finding are repeated in cultures enriched for glia, but not in cultures enriched for granule neurons.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of catecholamines, which takes place in different types of neuronal systems and nonneuronal tissues. The transcriptional regulation of the TH gene, which is complex and highly variable among different tissues, reflects this heterogeneity. We recently isolated a homeodomain transcription factor, named Ptx3, that is uniquely expressed in the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area, which together form the mesencephalic dopaminergic system. This strict localization and its coinciding induction of expression with the TH gene during development suggested a possible role for this transcription factor in the control of the TH gene. We report here the presence of a responsive element for Ptx3 located at position -50 to -45 of the rat TH promoter. Transient transfections using TH promoter constructs and electrophoretic mobility shift assays using Ptx3-containing nuclear extracts demonstrated that this region binds Ptx3 protein and confers a transcriptional effect on the TH gene. Depending on the cell type, the effect of Ptx3 was an eight- to 12-fold enhancement of TH promoter activity in Neuro2A neuroblastoma cells, or a 60-80% repression in nonneuronal human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Despite the close association of the Ptx3-binding site and the major cyclic AMP-response element in the TH gene, no interplay was found between Ptx3 and cyclic AMP-modulating agents. In combination with the orphan nuclear receptor Nurr1, which is required for the induction of the TH gene in mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, the TH promoter activity to Ptx3 was enhanced in Neuro2A cells. Nurr1 alone displayed only very weak activity on the TH promoter in this cell type. The results demonstrate that the homeodomain protein Ptx3 has the potential to act on the promoter of the TH gene in a markedly cell type-dependent fashion. This suggests that Ptx3 contributes to the regulation of TH expression in mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons.
Profound changes in brain morphology and behavior coincide with the spontaneous development of systemic autoimmune/inflammatory disease in Fas-deficient MRL-lpr mice. The dendrites atrophy, the density of hippocampal and cortical neurons decreases, and an anxious/depressive-like behavior emerges while lymphoid cells infiltrate into the choroid plexus of MRL-lpr mice. We hypothesized that the inherited lack of the Fas-dependent anti-inflammatory mechanism would lead to unsuppressed immune activity, characterized by reduced apoptosis in the MRL-lpr brain. Using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeled (TUNEL) method as an indicator of apoptosis, a surprisingly high incidence of TUNEL-positive cells was observed in the hippocampus, choroid plexus and periventricular regions of MRL-lpr mice, 5-10-fold higher than that found in the MRL +/+ control brain. Immunostaining with anti-CD3, CD4 and CD8 monoclonal antibodies showed limited overlap between CD-positive and TUNEL-positive cells, suggesting that the dying cells are for the most part (approximately 70%) not T-lymphocytes. Although further characterization of the phenotype of the dying cells and the mechanism of cell death are required, the present results suggest the involvement of a Fas-independent apoptotic process in neurodegeneration induced by systemic autoimmune disease.
An experimental model of inflammatory radiculoneuropathy is induced by immunising rats with peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22). We have investigated whether PMP22 may be important in inducing human inflammatory neuropathy. We examined sera of patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS), chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP), other neuropathies (ONP) and normal controls for IgM and IgG antibodies against PMP22 by ELISA (against synthetic PMP22 extracellular peptide fragments) and Western blot (against cauda equina). Antibodies were detected by both methods in 52% of patients with GBS, 35% with CIDP, 3% with ONP and no normal controls. We conclude that an immune response against PMP22 may play a role in the pathogenesis of the inflammatory neuropathies.
Two patients with a progressive ataxia are presented with clinical features consistent with classic Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA), but also with features unusual for FRDA. Analysis of DNA showed that each patient is heterozygous for the expanded GAA repeat of FRDA, but carries a base change on his other frataxin allele. For one patient a non-conservative arginine to cysteine amino acid change is predicted at amino acid 165 whereas the other mutation is found at the junction of exon one and intron one. Muscle biopsy showed an absence of frataxin immunoreactivity in the patient harbouring the intronic mutation, confirming the pathological nature of the base change. These mutations extend the range of point mutations seen in FRDA, and agree with recent reports suggesting phenotypic variation in patients with FRDA harbouring point mutations in conjunction with an expanded GAA repeat.
Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) is a common autosomal disorder with a wide range of neurological manifestations. The case histories of five patients, including two siblings, are reported who have both neurofibromatosis 1 and primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS). A further patient with both NF1 and PPMS has since been identified. More recently, a systematic clinical review of 138 unselected adult patients with NF1 identified one patient with a slowly progressive spastic paraparesis and multiple high signal hyperintensities on T2 weighted MRI. Molecular genetic studies suggest a mechanism by which the clinical association of progressive white matter disease and NF1 might arise. The gene for NF1 is located on chromosome 17q, spans 350 kb of genomic DNA, and contains 60 exons. The gene for oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein (OMgp) is embedded within intron 27b of the NF1 gene. OMgp is a membrane glycoprotein that appears in the human CNS at the time of myelination. It can be detected immunohistochemically on CNS myelin and on the surface of cultured oligodendrocytes. Structurally, OMgp has the potential to function as an adhesion molecule and could contribute to the interactions between the plasma membranes of oligodendrocytes and axons required for myelination and/or axon survival. This study considers the specific hypothesis that PPMS in patients with NF1 results from concurrent mutation of the OMgp gene. The OMgp genes of four unrelated patients with NF1 and PPMS were examined using a combination of Southern blot, dosage polymerase chain reaction, and chemical cleavage of mismatch. The entire OMgp coding sequence, all intronic sequence, the intron-exon boundaries, and 1 kb of flanking sequence were screened. The DNA from two patients was found to contain an alteration in the OMgp gene resulting in an amino acid change of glycine to aspartic acid at codon 21. It is concluded that PPMS in patients with NF1 can occur without concurrent mutation of the OMgp gene. The glycine to aspartic acid polymorphic alteration at codon 21 is neither sufficient nor necessary for the development of PPMS.
Using a piezoelectric transducer, the frequency and pattern of ocular microtremor (OMT) between 50 normal subjects and 50 patients with multiple sclerosis were compared. Controls were age matched. All records were analysed blindly. The frequency of OMT in the normal group was 86 (SD 6) Hz, which was significantly different from that of the multiple sclerosis group (71 (SD) 10 Hz, p&lt;0.001). Those in the multiple sclerosis group with clinical evidence of brain stem or cerebellar disease (n=36) had an average OMT frequency of 67 (SD 9) Hz (p&lt;0.001) compared with normal (n=86), whereas those with no evidence of brain stem or cerebellar involvement (n=14) had a frequency of 81.2 (SD 6) Hz (p&lt;0.05, n=64). The differences between the two multiple sclerosis groups were also significant (p&lt;0. 001, n=50). At least one abnormality (frequency and pattern) of OMT activity was seen in 78% of patients with multiple sclerosis. In the presence of brain stem or cerebellar disease 89% had abnormal records whereas in the absence of such disease 50% had abnormal records. This is the first report of the application of this technique to patients with multiple sclerosis. The results suggest that OMT activity may be of value in the assessment of multiple sclerosis.


We compared the changes of the volumes of T(1)-hypointense lesions seen on the magnetic resonance imaging scans of the brain from 159 progressive multiple sclerosis (MS) patients who were enrolled in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial assessing the efficacy of two doses of cladribine. Although in patients treated with cladribine there was a tendency to have a lower increase of T(1)-hypointense lesion volumes than those treated with placebo, no statistically significant effect of cladribine on T(1)-hypointense lesion accumulation was found over the one-year double-blind phase. Furthermore, no significant treatment effect was also detected in a subset of 22 patients who received placebo during the double-blind phase of the study and cladribine during the subsequent one-year open-label phase. We conclude that cladribine does not have a major impact on the mechanisms leading to severe tissue destruction in progressive MS.
Neocortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons possess long apical dendrites that receive a significant portion of the neurons excitatory synaptic input. Passive neuronal models indicate that the time course of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) generated in the apical dendrite will be prolonged as they propagate toward the soma. EPSP propagation may, however, be influenced by the recruitment of dendritic voltage-activated channels. Here we investigate the properties and distribution of I(h) channels in the axon, soma, and apical dendrites of neocortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons, and their effect on EPSP time course. We find a linear increase (9 pA/100 microm) in the density of dendritic I(h) channels with distance from soma. This nonuniform distribution of I(h) channels generates site independence of EPSP time course, such that the half-width at the soma of distally generated EPSPs (up to 435 microm from soma) was similar to somatically generated EPSPs. As a corollary, a normalization of temporal summation of EPSPs was observed. The site independence of somatic EPSP time course was found to collapse after pharmacological blockade of I(h) channels, revealing pronounced temporal summation of distally generated EPSPs, which could be further enhanced by TTX-sensitive sodium channels. These data indicate that an increasing density of apical dendritic I(h) channels mitigates the influence of cable filtering on somatic EPSP time course and temporal summation in neocortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons.
Previous studies have identified an afterdepolarization (ADP) in thalamocortical neurons that is mediated by an upregulation of the hyperpolarization-activated current I(h). This ADP has been suggested to play a key role in the generation of spindle oscillations. In the lateral geniculate nucleus, upregulation of I(h) has been shown to be signaled by a rise in intracellular calcium leading to the activation of adenylate cyclase and formation of cAMP. However, it is unclear how generalizable this mechanism is to other thalamic nuclei. We have used whole cell recording to examine the electrophysiological properties of neurons of the anterodorsal thalamic nucleus, a nucleus thought not to undergo spindle oscillations. We now report that cells in this nucleus also display an ADP mediated by I(h). Surprisingly, the ADP and the underlying upregulation of I(h) persisted even after buffering intracellular calcium and blocking calcium influx. These results indicate that, in neurons of the anterodorsal thalamic nucleus, an I(h)-mediated ADP can occur through a mechanism that does not involve a rise in intracellular calcium. We next examined the possibility that this calcium-independent ADP might be modulated by serotonin. Serotonin produced a robust enhancement in the amplitude of the ADP even after strong buffering of intracellular calcium and blockade of calcium channels. These results indicate that neurons of the anterodorsal thalamic nucleus display a calcium-independent, I(h)-mediated ADP and that this ADP is a target for regulation by serotonin. These findings identify a novel mechanism by which serotonin can regulate neuronal excitability.
Calcium imaging using fura-2 and whole cell recording revealed the effective location of the oscillator mechanism on dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra, pars compacta, in slices from rats aged 15-20 days. As previously reported, dopaminergic neurons fired in a slow rhythmic single spiking pattern. The underlying membrane potential oscillation survived blockade of sodium currents with TTX and was enhanced by blockade of voltage-sensitive potassium currents with TEA. Calcium levels increased during the subthreshold depolarizing phase of the membrane potential oscillation and peaked at the onset of the hyperpolarizing phase as expected if the pacemaker potential were due to a low-threshold calcium current and the hyperpolarizing phase to calcium-dependent potassium current. Calcium oscillations were synchronous in the dendrites and soma and were greater in the dendrites than in the soma. Average calcium levels in the dendrites overshot steady-state levels and decayed over the course of seconds after the oscillation was resumed after having been halted by hyperpolarizing currents. Average calcium levels in the soma increased slowly, taking many cycles to achieve steady state. Voltage clamp with calcium imaging revealed the voltage dependence of the somatic calcium current without the artifacts of incomplete spatial voltage control. This showed that the calcium current had little or no inactivation and was half-maximal at -40 to -30 mV. The time constant of calcium removal was measured by the return of calcium to resting levels and depended on diameter. The calcium sensitivity of the calcium-dependent potassium current was estimated by plotting the slow tail current against calcium concentration during the decay of calcium to resting levels at -60 mV. A single compartment model of the dopaminergic neuron consisting of a noninactivating low-threshold calcium current, a calcium-dependent potassium current, and a small leak current reproduced most features of the membrane potential oscillations. The same currents much more accurately reproduced the calcium transients when distributed uniformly along a tapering cable in a multicompartment model. This model represented the dopaminergic neuron as a set of electrically coupled oscillators with different natural frequencies. Each frequency was determined by the surface area to volume ratio of the compartment. This model could account for additional features of the dopaminergic neurons seen in slices, such as slow adaptation of oscillation frequency and may produce irregular firing under different coupling conditions.
The effects of unilateral labyrinthectomy on the properties of the translational vestibuloocular reflexes (trVORs) were investigated in rhesus monkeys trained to fixate near targets. Translational motion stimuli consisted of either steady-state lateral and fore-aft sinusoidal oscillations or short-lasting transient displacements. During small-amplitude, steady-state sinusoidal lateral oscillations, a small decrease in the horizontal trVOR sensitivity and its dependence on viewing distance was observed during the first week after labyrinthectomy. These deficits gradually recovered over time. In addition, the vertical response component increased, causing a tilt of the eye velocity vector toward the lesioned side. During large, transient lateral displacements, the deficits were larger and longer lasting. Responses after labyrinthectomy were asymmetric, with eye velocity during movements toward the side of the lesion being more compromised. The most profound effect of the lesions was observed during fore-aft motion. Whereas responses were kinematically appropriate for fixation away from the side of the lesion (e.g., to the left after right labyrinthectomy), horizontal responses were anticompensatory during fixation at targets located ipsilateral to the side of the lesion (e.g., for targets to the right after right labyrinthectomy). This deficit showed little recovery during the 3-mo post-labyrinthectomy testing period. These results suggest that inputs from both labyrinths are important for the proper function of the trVORs, although the details of how bilateral signals are processed and integrated remain unknown.
Dopamine is a critical determinant of neostriatal function, but its impact on intrastriatal GABAergic signaling is poorly understood. The role of D(1) dopamine receptors in the regulation of postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors was characterized using whole cell voltage-clamp recordings in acutely isolated, rat neostriatal medium spiny neurons. Exogenous application of GABA evoked a rapidly desensitizing current that was blocked by bicuculline. Application of the D(1) dopamine receptor agonist SKF 81297 reduced GABA-evoked currents in most medium spiny neurons. The D(1) dopamine receptor antagonist SCH 23390 blocked the effect of SKF 81297. Membrane-permeant cAMP analogues mimicked the effect of D(1) dopamine receptor stimulation, whereas an inhibitor of protein kinase A (PKA; Rp-8-chloroadenosine 3',5' cyclic monophosphothioate) attenuated the response to D(1) dopamine receptor stimulation or cAMP analogues. Inhibitors of protein phosphatase 1/2A potentiated the modulation by cAMP analogues. Single-cell RT-PCR profiling revealed consistent expression of mRNA for the beta1 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor-a known substrate of PKA-in medium spiny neurons. Immunoprecipitation assays of radiolabeled proteins revealed that D(1) dopamine receptor stimulation increased phosphorylation of GABA(A) receptor beta1/beta3 subunits. The D(1) dopamine receptor-induced phosphorylation of beta1/beta3 subunits was attenuated significantly in neostriata from DARPP-32 mutants. Voltage-clamp recordings corroborated these results, revealing that the efficacy of the D(1) dopamine receptor modulation of GABA(A) currents was reduced in DARPP-32-deficient medium spiny neurons. These results argue that D(1) dopamine receptor stimulation in neostriatal medium spiny neurons reduces postsynaptic GABA(A) receptor currents by activating a PKA/DARPP-32/protein phosphatase 1 signaling cascade targeting GABA(A) receptor beta1 subunits.
To determine the rate and statistics of light-evoked transmitter release from bipolar synapses, intracellular recordings were made from ON-alpha ganglion cells in the periphery of the intact, superfused, cat retina. Sodium channels were blocked with tetrodotoxin to prevent action potentials. A light bar covering the receptive field center excited the bipolar cells that contact the alpha cell and evoked a transient then a sustained depolarization. The sustained depolarization was quantified as change in mean voltage (Deltav), and the increase in voltage noise that accompanied it was quantified as change in voltage variance (Deltasigma(2)). As light intensity increased, Deltav and Deltasigma(2) both increased, but their ratio held constant. This behavior is consistent with Poisson arrival of transmitter quanta at the ganglion cell. The response component attributable to glutamate quanta from bipolar synapses was isolated by application of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline (CNQX). As CNQX concentration increased, the signal/noise ratio of this response component (Deltav(CNQX)/Deltasigma(CNQX)) held constant. This is also consistent with Poisson arrival and justified the application of fluctuation analysis. Two different methods of fluctuation analysis applied to Deltav(CNQX) and Deltasigma(CNQX) produced similar results, leading to an estimate that a just-maximal sustained response was caused by approximately 3,700 quanta s(-1). The transient response was caused by a rate that was no more than 10-fold greater. Because the ON-alpha cell at this retinal locus has approximately 2,200 bipolar synapses, one synapse released approximately 1.7 quanta s(-1) for the sustained response and no more than 17 quanta s(-1) for the transient. Consequently, within the ganglion cell's integration interval, here calculated to be approximately 16 ms, a bipolar synapse rarely releases more than one quantum. Thus for just-maximal sustained and transient depolarizations, the conductance modulated by a single bipolar cell synapse is limited to the quantal conductance ( approximately 100 pS at its peak). This helps preserve linear summation of quanta. The Deltav/Deltasigma(2) ratio remained constant even as the ganglion cell's response saturated, which suggested that even at the peak of sensory input, summation remains linear, and that saturation occurs before the bipolar synapse.
This second paper of the series deals with another issue regarding sensorimotor representations in the CNS that has received much attention, namely the relative weighting of kinematic and kinetic representations. The question we address here is the contribution of muscle tension afferent information in dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT) sensory representations of foot position. In five anesthetized cats, we activated major hindlimb muscle groups using electrical stimulation of ventral root filaments while passively positioning of the left hind foot throughout its workspace. In general, as the parameters of the joint angle covariance planes indicated, muscle stimulation did not significantly change hindlimb geometry. We analyzed the effects of the muscle stimulation on DSCT neuronal activity within the framework of a kinematic-based representation of foot position. We used a multivariate regression model described in the companion paper, wherein indicators of the experimental condition were added as firing rate predictors along with the limb axis length and orientation to account for possible effects of muscle stimulation. The results indicated that the response gain of 35/59 neurons studied (59%) was not changed by the muscle activations, although most neurons showed some change in their overall firing level with stimulation of one or more muscles. Most of the neurons responded to pseudorandom stimulation of the same muscle groups with complex temporal patterns of activity. For a subpopulation of 42 neurons, we investigated the extent to which their representation of foot position was affected by a rigid constraint of the knee joint and at least one type of muscle stimulation. Although they could be divided into four subgroups based on significance level cutoffs for the constraint or stimulation effect, these effects were in fact quite distributed. However, when we examined the preferred directions of spatial tuning relative to the limb axis position, we found it was unchanged by muscle stimulation for most cells. Even in those cases in which response gain was altered by muscle stimulation, the cell's preferred direction generally was unaltered. The invariance of preferred direction with muscle stimulation lead us to the conclusion that the reference frame for DSCT coding may be based primarily on limb kinematics.
Many sensorimotor neurons in the CNS encode global parameters of limb movement and posture rather than specific muscle or joint parameters. Our investigations of spinocerebellar activity have demonstrated that these second-order spinal neurons also may encode proprioceptive information in a limb-based rather than joint-based reference frame. However, our finding that each foot position was determined by a unique combination of joint angles in the passive limb made it difficult to distinguish unequivocally between a limb-based and a joint-based representation. In this study, we decoupled foot position from limb geometry by applying mechanical constraints to individual hindlimb joints in anesthetized cats. We quantified the effect of the joint constraints on limb geometry by analyzing joint-angle covariance in the free and constrained conditions. One type of constraint, a rigid constraint of the knee angle, both changed the covariance pattern and significantly reduced the strength of joint-angle covariance. The other type, an elastic constraint of the ankle angle, changed only the covariance pattern and not its overall strength. We studied the effect of these constraints on the activity in 70 dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT) neurons using a multivariate regression model, with limb axis length and orientation as predictors of neuronal activity. This model also included an experimental condition indicator variable that allowed significant intercept or slope changes in the relationships between foot position parameters and neuronal activity to be determined across conditions. The result of this analysis was that the spatial tuning of 37/70 neurons (53%) was unaffected by the constraints, suggesting that they were somehow able to signal foot position independently from the specific joint angles. We also investigated the extent to which cell activity represented individual joint angles by means of a regression model based on a linear combination of joint angles. A backward elimination of the insignificant predictors determined the set of independent joint angles that best described the neuronal activity for each experimental condition. Finally, by comparing the results of these two approaches, we could determine whether a DSCT neuron represented foot position, specific joint angles, or none of these variables consistently. We found that 10/70 neurons (14%) represented one or more specific joint-angles. The activity of another 27 neurons (39%) was significantly affected by limb geometry changes, but 33 neurons (47%) consistently elaborated a foot position representation in the coordinates of the limb axis.
The spinothalamic tract (STT) is the primary pathway carrying nociceptive information from the spinal cord to the brain in humans. The aim of this study was to understand better the organization of STT axons within the spinal cord white matter of monkeys. The location of STT axons was determined using method of antidromic activation. Twenty-six lumbar STT cells were isolated. Nineteen were classified as wide dynamic range neurons and seven as high-threshold cells. Fifteen STT neurons were recorded in the deep dorsal horn (DDH) and 11 in superficial dorsal horn (SDH). The axons of 26 STT neurons were located at 73 low-threshold points (&lt;30 microA) within the lateral funiculus from T(9) to C(6). STT neurons in the SDH were activated from 33 low-threshold points, neurons in the DDH from 40 low-threshold points. In lower thoracic segments, SDH neurons were antidromically activated from low-threshold points at the dorsal-ventral level of the denticulate ligament. Neurons in the DDH were activated from points located slightly ventral, within the ventral lateral funiculus. At higher segmental levels, axons from SDH neurons continued in a position dorsal to those of neurons in the DDH. However, axons from neurons in both areas of the gray matter were activated from points located in more ventral positions within the lateral funiculus. Unlike the suggestions in several previous reports, the present findings indicate that STT axons originating in the lumbar cord shift into increasingly ventral positions as they ascend the length of the spinal cord.
This study examined the idea of whether the same central pattern generator (CPG) for locomotion can control different directions of walking in humans. Fifty-two infants, aged 2-11 mo, were tested. Infants were supported to walk on a treadmill at a variety of speeds. If forward stepping was elicited, stepping in the other directions (primarily sideways and backward) was attempted. The orientation of the infant on the treadmill belt determined the direction of stepping. In some infants, we also attempted to obtain a smooth transition from one direction to another by gradually changing the orientation of the infant during a stepping sequence. Limb segment motion and surface electromyography from the muscles of the lower limb were recorded. Most infants who showed sustained forward walking also could walk in all other directions. Thirty-three of 34 infants tested could step sideways. The success of eliciting backward stepping was 69%. Most of the infants who did not meet our backward stepping criteria did, however, make stepping movements. The different directions of stepping had similar responses to changes in treadmill speed. The relationship between stance and swing phase durations and cycle duration were the same regardless of the direction of stepping across a range of speeds. Some differences were noted in the muscle activation patterns during different directions of walking. For example, the hamstrings were much more active during the swing phase of backward walking compared with forward walking. The quadriceps was more active in the trailing leg during sideways walking. In some infants, we were able to elicit stepping along a continuum of directions. We found no discrete differences in either the electromyographic patterns or the temporal parameters of stepping as the direction of stepping was gradually changed. The results support the idea that the same locomotor CPG controls different directions of stepping in human infants. The fact that most infants were able to step in all directions, the similarity in the response to speed changes, and the absence of any discrete changes as the direction of stepping was changed gradually are all consistent with this hypothesis.
Lesion studies have indicated that the auditory cortex is crucial for the perception of acoustic space, yet it remains unclear how these neurons participate in this perception. To investigate this, we studied the responses of single neurons in the primary auditory cortex (AI) and the caudomedial field (CM) of two monkeys while they performed a sound-localization task. Regression analysis indicated that the responses of approximately 80% of neurons in both cortical areas were significantly correlated with the azimuth or elevation of the stimulus, or both, which we term &quot;spatially sensitive.&quot; The proportion of spatially sensitive neurons was greater for stimulus azimuth compared with stimulus elevation, and elevation sensitivity was primarily restricted to neurons that were tested using stimuli that the monkeys also could localize in elevation. Most neurons responded best to contralateral speaker locations, but we also encountered neurons that responded best to ipsilateral locations and neurons that had their greatest responses restricted to a circumscribed region within the central 60 degrees of frontal space. Comparing the spatially sensitive neurons with those that were not spatially sensitive indicated that these two populations could not be distinguished based on either the firing rate, the rate/level functions, or on their topographic location within AI. Direct comparisons between the responses of individual neurons and the behaviorally measured sound-localization ability indicated that proportionally more neurons in CM had spatial sensitivity that was consistent with the behavioral performance compared with AI neurons. Pooling the responses across neurons strengthened the relationship between the neuronal and psychophysical data and indicated that the responses pooled across relatively few CM neurons contain enough information to account for sound-localization ability. These data support the hypothesis that auditory space is processed in a serial manner from AI to CM in the primate cerebral cortex.
Neural synchrony within and between auditory cortical fields is evaluated with respect to its potential role in feature binding and in the coding of tone and noise sound pressure level. Simultaneous recordings were made in 24 cats with either two electrodes in primary auditory cortex (AI) and one in anterior auditory field (AAF) or one electrode each in AI, AAF, and secondary auditory cortex. Cross-correlograms (CCHs) for 1-ms binwidth were calculated for tone pips, noise bursts, and silence (i.e., poststimulus) as a function of intensity level. Across stimuli and intensity levels the total percentage of significant stimulus onset CCHs was 62% and that of significant poststimulus CCHs was 58% of 1,868 pairs calculated for each condition. The cross-correlation coefficient to stimulus onsets was higher for single-electrode pairs than for dual-electrode pairs and higher for noise bursts compared with tone pips. The onset correlation for single-electrode pairs was only marginally larger than the poststimulus correlation. For pairs from electrodes across area boundaries, the onset correlations were a factor 3-4 higher than the poststimulus correlations. The within-AI dual-electrode peak correlation was higher than that across areas, especially for spontaneous conditions. Correlation strengths for between area pairs were independent of the difference in characteristic frequency (CF), thereby providing a mechanism of feature binding for broadband sounds. For noise-burst stimulation, the onset correlation for between area pairs was independent of stimulus intensity regardless the difference in CF. In contrast, for tone-pip stimulation a significant dependence on intensity level of the peak correlation strength was found for pairs involving AI and/or AAF with CF difference less than one octave. Across all areas, driven rate, between-area peak correlation strength, or a combination of the two did not predict stimulus intensity. However, between-area peak correlation strength performs better than firing rate to decide if a stimulus is present or absent.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are expressed in the hippocampus, and their functional roles are beginning to be delineated. The effect of nAChR activation on the activity of both interneurons and pyramidal neurons in the CA1 region was studied in rat hippocampal slices. In CA1 stratum radiatum with muscarinic receptors inhibited, local pressure application of acetylcholine (ACh) elicited a nicotinic current in 82% of the neurons. The majority of the ACh-induced currents were sensitive to methyllycaconitine, which is a specific inhibitor of alpha7-containing nAChRs. Methyllycaconitine-insensitive nicotinic currents also were present as detected by a nonspecific nAChR inhibitor. The ACh-sensitive neurons in the s. radiatum were identified as GABAergic interneurons by their electrophysiological properties. Pressure application of ACh induced firing of action potentials in approximately 70% of the interneurons. The ACh-induced excitation of interneurons could induce either inhibition or disinhibition of pyramidal neurons. The inhibition was recorded from the pyramidal neuron as a burst of GABAergic synaptic activity. That synaptic activity was sensitive to bicuculline, indicating that GABA(A) receptors mediated the ACh-induced synaptic currents. The disinhibition was recorded from the pyramidal neuron as a reduction of spontaneous GABAergic synaptic activity when ACh was delivered onto an interneuron. Both the inhibition and disinhibition were sensitive to either methyllycaconitine or mecamylamine, indicating that activation of nicotinic receptors on interneurons was necessary for the effects. These results show that nAChRs are capable of regulating hippocampal circuits by exciting interneurons and, subsequently, inhibiting or disinhibiting pyramidal neurons.
The varied extracortical targets of layer V make it an important site for cortical processing and output, which may be regulated by differences in the pyramidal neurons found there. Two populations of projection neurons, regular spiking (RS) and intrinsic bursting (IB), have been identified in layer V of some sensory cortices, and differences in their inhibitory inputs have been indirectly demonstrated. In this report, IB and RS cells were identified in rat auditory cortical slices, and differences in thalamocortical inhibition reaching RS and IB cells were demonstrated directly using intracellular GABA(A) blockers. Thalamocortical synaptic input to RS cells was always a combination of excitation and both GABA(A) and GABA(B) inhibition. Stimulation seldom triggered a suprathreshold response. IB cell synaptic responses were mostly excitatory, and stimulation usually triggered action potentials. This apparent difference was confirmed directly using intracellular chloride channel blockers. Before intracellular diffusion, synaptic responses were stable and similar to control conditions. Subsequently, GABA(A) was blocked, revealing a cell's total excitatory input. On GABA(A) blockade, RS cells responded to synaptic stimulation with large, suprathreshold excitatory events, indicating that excitation, while always present in these cells, is masked by GABA(A). In IB cells that had visible GABA(A) input, it often masked an excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) that could lead to additional suprathreshold events. These findings indicate that IB cells receive less GABA(A)-mediated inhibitory input and are able to spike or burst in response to thalamocortical synaptic stimulation far more readily than RS cells. Such differences may have implications for the influence each cell type exerts on its postsynaptic targets.
Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from supraoptic neurons to investigate the effects of histamine on excitatory postsynaptic currents evoked by electrical stimulation of areas around the posterior supraoptic nucleus. When cells were voltage-clamped at -70 mV, evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents had amplitudes of 88.4 +/- 9.6 pA and durations of 41.1 +/- 3.0 ms (mean +/- SE; n = 43). With twin stimulus pulses (20 Hz) used, paired-pulse facilitation ratios were 1.93 +/- 0.12. Bath application of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxalene-2,3-dione (CNQX) abolished synaptic currents. Histamine at concentrations approximately 0.1-10 microM reversibly suppressed excitatory postsynaptic currents in all supraoptic neurons tested. Within 2 min after application of (10 microM) histamine, current amplitudes and durations decreased by 61. 5 and 31.0%, respectively, with little change in the paired-pulse facilitation ratio. Dimaprit or imetit (H(2) or H(3) receptor agonists) did not reduce synaptic currents, whereas pyrilamine (H(1) receptor antagonist) blocked histamine-induced suppression of synaptic currents. When patch electrodes containing guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (GDP-beta-S) were used to record cells, histamine still suppressed current amplitudes by 49.1% and durations by 41.9%. Similarly, intracellular diffusion of bis-(o-aminophenoxy)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA) and H(7) did not abolish histamine-induced suppression of synaptic currents, either. Bath perifusion of 8-bromo-quanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate reduced current amplitudes by 32.3% and durations by 27.9%. After bath perfusion of slices with N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), histamine injection decreased current amplitudes only by 31.9%, much less than the inhibition rate in control (P &lt; 0.01). In addition, histamine induced little change in current durations and paired-pulse facilitation ratios, representing a partial blockade of histamine effects on synaptic currents by L-NAME. In supraoptic neurons recorded using electrodes containing BAPTA and perifused with L-NAME, the effects of histamine on synaptic currents were completely abolished. Norepinephrine injection reversibly decreased current amplitudes by 39.1% and duration by 64.5%, with a drop in the paired-pulse facilitation ratio of 47.9%. Bath perifusion of L-NAME, as well as intracellular diffusion of GDP-beta-S, 1-(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)-2-methyl-piperazine, or BAPTA, failed to block norepinephrine-induced suppression of evoked synaptic currents. The present results suggest that histamine suppresses non-N-methyl-D-aspartate synaptic currents in supraoptic neurons through activation of H(1) receptors. It is possible that histamine first acts at supraoptic cells (perhaps both neuronal and nonneuronal) and induces the production of nitric oxide, which then diffuses to nearby neurons and modulates synaptic transmission by a postsynaptic mechanism.
The modulatory effects of neuropeptides on descending inputs to the spinal cord have been examined by making paired recordings from reticulospinal axons and spinal neurons in the lamprey. Four peptides were examined; peptide YY (PYY) and cholecystokinin (CCK), which are contained in brain stem reticulospinal neurons, and calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY), which are contained in primary afferents and sensory interneurons, respectively. Each of the peptides reduced the amplitude of monosynaptic reticulospinal-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). The modulation appeared to be presynaptic, because postsynaptic input resistance and membrane potential, the amplitude of the electrical component of the EPSP, postsynaptic responses to glutamate, and spontaneous miniature EPSP amplitudes were unaffected. In addition, none of the peptides affected the pattern of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-evoked locomotor activity in the isolated spinal cord. Potential interactions between the peptides were also examined. The &quot;brain stem peptides&quot; CCK and PYY had additive inhibitory effects on reticulospinal inputs, as did the &quot;sensory peptides&quot; CGRP and NPY. Brain stem peptides also had additive inhibitory effects when applied with sensory peptides. However, sensory peptides increased or failed to affect the amplitude of reticulospinal inputs in the presence of the brain stem peptides. These interactive effects also appear to be mediated presynaptically. The functional consequence of the peptidergic modulation was investigated by examining spinal ventral root responses elicited by brain stem stimulation. CCK and CGRP both reduced ventral root responses, although in interaction both increased the response. These results thus suggest that neuropeptides presynaptically influence the descending activation of spinal locomotor networks, and that they can have additive or novel interactive effects depending on the peptides examined and the order of their application.
The horizontal angular vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) evoked by high-frequency, high-acceleration rotations was studied in four squirrel monkeys after unilateral labyrinthectomy. Spontaneous nystagmus was measured at the beginning and end of each testing session. During the period that animals were kept in darkness (4 days), the nystagmus at each of these times measured approximately 20 degrees /s. Within 18-24 h after return to the light, the nystagmus (measured in darkness) decreased to 2.8 +/- 1.5 degrees /s (mean +/- SD) when recorded at the beginning but was 20.3 +/- 3.9 degrees /s at the end of the testing session. The latency of the VOR measured from responses to steps of acceleration (3,000 degrees /s(2) reaching a velocity of 150 degrees /s) was 8.4 +/- 0.3 ms for responses to ipsilesional rotations and 7.7 +/- 0.4 ms for contralesional rotations. During the period that animals were kept in darkness after the labyrinthectomy, the gain of the VOR measured during the steps of acceleration was 0.67 +/- 0.12 for contralesional rotations and 0.39 +/- 0.04 for ipsilesional rotations. Within 18-24 h after return to light, the VOR gain for contralesional rotations increased to 0.87 +/- 0.08, whereas there was only a slight increase for ipsilesional rotations to 0.41 +/- 0. 06. A symmetrical increase in the gain measured at the plateau of head velocity was noted after the animals were returned to light. The VOR evoked by sinusoidal rotations of 2-15 Hz, +/-20 degrees /s, showed a better recovery of gain at lower (2-4 Hz) than at higher (6-15 Hz) frequencies. At 0.5 Hz, gain decreased symmetrically when the peak amplitude was increased from 20 to 100 degrees /s. At 10 Hz, gain was decreased for ipsilesional half-cycles and increased for contralesional half-cycles when velocity was raised from 20 to 50 degrees /s. A model incorporating linear and nonlinear pathways was used to simulate the data. Selective increases in the gain for the linear pathway accounted for the recovery in VOR gain for responses at the velocity plateau of the steps of acceleration and for the sinusoidal rotations at lower peak velocities. The increase in gain for contralesional responses to steps of acceleration and sinusoidal rotations at higher frequencies and velocities was due to an increase in the contribution of the nonlinear pathway. This pathway was driven into cutoff and therefore did not affect responses for rotations toward the lesioned side.
Given the complex interactions between dopamine D1 and glutamate NMDA receptors in the striatum, we investigated the role of these receptors in transporter-mediated GABA release from cultured medium spiny neurons of rat striatum. Like NMDA receptor-mediated [(3)H]-GABA release, that induced by prolonged (20 min) dopamine D1 receptor activation was enhanced on omission of external calcium, was action potential-independent (tetrodotoxin-insensitive), and was diminished by the GABA transporter blocker nipecotic acid, indicating the involvement of transporter-mediated release. Interestingly, lowering the external sodium concentration only reduced the stimulatory effect of NMDA. Blockade of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase by ouabain enhanced NMDA-induced but abolished dopamine-induced release. Moreover, dopamine appeared to potentiate the effect of NMDA on [(3)H]-GABA release. These effects of dopamine were mimicked by forskolin. mu-Opioid receptor-mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase by morphine reduced dopamine- and NMDA-induced release. These results confirm previous studies indicating that NMDA receptor activation causes a slow action potential-independent efflux of GABA by reversal of the sodium-dependent GABA transporter on sodium entry through the NMDA receptor channel. Moreover, our data indicate that activation of G-protein-coupled dopamine D1 receptors also induces a transporter-mediated increase in spontaneous GABA release, but through a different mechanism of action, i.e., through cAMP-dependent inhibition of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, inducing accumulation of intracellular sodium, reversal of the GABA carrier, and potentiation of NMDA-induced release. These receptor interactions may play a crucial role in the behavioral activating effects of psychostimulant drugs.
The electric organ cells of Sternopygus generate action potentials whose durations vary over a fourfold range. This variation in action potential duration is the basis for individual variation in a communication signal. Thus, action potential duration must be precisely regulated in these cells. We had observed previously that the inactivation kinetics of the electrocyte Na(+) current show systematic individual variation. In this study, using a two-electrode voltage clamp, we found that the voltage-dependent activation and deactivation kinetics of the delayed rectifying K(+) current in these cells covary in a graded and predictable manner across fish. Furthermore, when Na(+) and K(+) currents were recorded in the same cell, their voltage-dependent kinetics were highly correlated. This finding illustrates an unprecedented degree of coregulation of voltage-dependent properties in two molecularly distinct ionic channels. Such a coregulation of ionic channels is uniquely observable in a cell specialized to generate individual differences in electrical activity and in which the results of biophysical control mechanisms are evident in behaving animals. We propose that the precise coregulation of the voltage-dependent kinetics of multiple ionic currents may be a general mechanism for regulation of membrane excitability.
We characterized the pharmacological properties of the anandamide transport inhibitor N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-arachidonamide (AM404) in rats and investigated the effects of this drug on behavioral responses associated with activation of dopamine D(2) family receptors. Rat brain slices accumulated [(3)H]anandamide via a high-affinity transport mechanism that was blocked by AM404. When administered alone in vivo, AM404 caused a mild and slow-developing hypokinesia that was significant 60 min after intracerebroventricular injection of the drug and was reversed by the CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR141716A. AM404 produced no significant catalepsy or analgesia, two typical effects of direct-acting cannabinoid agonists. However, AM404 prevented the stereotypic yawning produced by systemic administration of a low dose of apomorphine, an effect that was dose-dependent and blocked by SR141716A. Furthermore, AM404 reduced the stimulation of motor behaviors elicited by the selective D(2) family receptor agonist quinpirole. Finally, AM404 reduced hyperactivity in juvenile spontaneously hypertensive rats, a putative model of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. The results support a primary role of the endocannabinoid system in the regulation of psychomotor activity and point to anandamide transport as a potential target for neuropsychiatric medicines.
We have isolated a novel retina-specific gene in a screen for genes of which expression is not apparent neonatally in rat retina but is abundant postnatally on day 14 (P14). This gene, named Pal, encodes a putative type I transmembrane protein containing five leucine-rich repeats (LRRs), a single C2-type Ig-like domain, and a single fibronectin type III domain and is considered to be a new member of the LRR and Ig superfamily. No expression of Pal was found in rat retina at P1, but it was detected at P7 and markedly increased with subsequent development. These expression patterns of Pal appeared to be correlated with the development of the photoreceptor outer segments, because in the adult rat retina it was specifically localized in these segments. Ultrastructually, Pal immunoreactivity was distributed diffusely on the disk membrane in the lamellar regions. On the basis of its structural features and localization pattern, Pal may act as a receptor for a certain trophic factor or for an adhesion molecule participating in morphogenesis. The human homolog of Pal was mapped to chromosome 10q23.2-23.3 using fluorescence in situ hybridization.
This study aims to understand the mechanisms of dendritic targeting of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) mRNAs. We show that brief depolarizations are sufficient to induce accumulation of BDNF and TrkB mRNAs in dendrites of hippocampal neurons. Endogenous BDNF, secreted during the KCl stimulation, contributes significantly to the dendritic accumulation of BDNF-TrkB mRNAs. In the absence of depolarization, 1 min pulses of exogenous BDNF are sufficient to induce dendritic accumulation of BDNF-TrkB mRNAs. After binding to TrkB, BDNF exerts this action by activating a PI-3 kinase-dependent pathway. The accumulation of dendritic mRNA by BDNF is not mediated by BDNF-induced neurotransmitter release. Because most hippocampal neurons coexpress BDNF and TrkB receptors, these results show that the subcellular distribution of BDNF-TrkB mRNAs is under the control of an autocrine-paracrine BDNF-TrkB-dependent loop.
Neuronal death evoked by DNA damage requires cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (Cdk4) and 6 activity and is accompanied by elevation of cyclin D1-associated kinase activity. Because Cdk4/6 phosphorylates retinoblastoma protein (pRb) family members that then modulate the transcriptional activity of E2F/DP1 complexes, we examined the involvement of these components in DNA damage-evoked neuronal death. Camptothecin induced rapid pRb and p107 phosphorylation at a Cdk4/6 phosphorylation site followed by selective loss of Rb and p107. The CDK inhibitor flavopiridol suppressed pRb and p107 phosphorylation and loss, implicating CDK activity in these events. Moreover, the loss of pRb and p107 appeared to be mediated by caspases because it was blocked by general caspase inhibitors. The role of phosphorylation and pRb and p107 loss in the death pathway was indicated by observations that virally mediated expression of pRb mutated at sites of phosphorylation, including the Cdk4/6 site, inhibited death. Finally, expression of dominant-negative versions of DP1, known to compromise E2F transcriptional activity, protects cortical neurons from death induced by camptothecin and sympathetic neurons from death evoked by UV treatment. Taken together, these results implicate the CDK-pRb/E2F/DP pathway as a required element in the neuronal death evoked by DNA damage.
Activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) has been shown to be necessary for NMDA receptor-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP). We studied the role of ERK in three forms of NMDA receptor-independent LTP: LTP induced by very high-frequency stimulation (200 Hz-LTP), LTP induced by the K(+) channel blocker tetraethylammonium (TEA) (TEA-LTP), and mossy fiber (MF) LTP (MF-LTP). We found that ERK was activated in area CA1 after the induction of both 200 Hz-LTP and TEA-LTP and that this activation required the influx of Ca(2+) through voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. Inhibition of the ERK signaling cascade with either PD 098059 or U0126 prevented the induction of both 200 Hz-LTP and TEA-LTP in area CA1. In contrast, neither PD 098059 nor U0126 prevented MF-LTP in area CA3 induced by either brief or long trains of high-frequency stimulation. U0126 also did not prevent forskolin-induced potentiation in area CA3. However, incubation of slices with forskolin, an activator of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) cascade, did result in increases in active ERK and cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation in area CA3. The forskolin-induced increase in active ERK was inhibited by U0126, whereas the increase in CREB phosphorylation was not, which suggests that in area CA3 the PKA cascade is not coupled to CREB phosphorylation via ERK. Overall, our observations indicate that activation of the ERK signaling cascade is necessary for NMDA receptor-independent LTP in area CA1 but not in area CA3 and suggest a divergence in the signaling cascades underlying NMDA receptor-independent LTP in these hippocampal subregions.
Missense and splicing point mutations have been found in the tau gene in families with frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17). Of these mutations, we examined four exonic missense point mutations (G272V, P301L, V337M and R406W) in 3-repeat or 4-repeat tau isoform on the transfection experiment. The effects of two mutations (G272V or P301L) on microtubules were subtle whereas those of two other mutations (V337M or R406W) were dramatically significant when these two mutations were constructed into 3-repeat tau but not into 4-repeat tau. The R406W mutation induced an alternation of microtubules to form dotted or fragmented forms retaining colocalization of tau with tubulin whereas the V337M mutation predominantly disrupted microtubule networks and diminished colocalization of tau and tubulin. The effect of the mutations on microtubules were thus site-dependent and isoform-dependent. Tau with R406W mutation was found to be colocalized with tubulin without filamentous structures on confocal views, suggesting that the carboxyl region of tau played a different role from tubulin-binding domain on microtubule assemble. Another abnormal property was identified in tau with R406W mutation that failed to suffer phosphorylation. Thus, diverse effects of tau mutations on microtubules may explain the various clinicopathologies of FTDP-17 and related tauopathies.
Phagocytosis of tips of rod outer segments (ROS) by retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells is vitally important for maintaining structural and functional integrity of the retina. We previously reported that receptor-mediated specific phagocytosis of ROS induces expression of early response genes coding for transcription factors. Here we study the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) -alpha, -delta (beta) and -gamma during ROS phagocytosis of rat RPE cells in primary cell culture, using competitive quantitative RT-PCR. During phagocytosis of ROS (but not of latex particles) by RPE cells, RT-PCR revealed a transient increase in PPARgamma mRNA expression, that peaked at 4-6 hr. We sequenced and described two alternatively spliced variants of rat PPARgamma: rPPARgamma1a and rPPARgamma1b. Both of these, along with the recently described rPPARgamma2 were induced by ROS phagocytosis. PPARalpha and PPARdelta mRNA expression was also detected in RPE cells, but the level of expression did not change during ROS phagocytosis. All-trans-retinoic acid and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) selectively potentiated both basal and ROS-phagocytosis-induced PPARgamma expression. All-trans-retinoic acid had the opposite inhibitory effect on PPARalpha and PPARdelta expression. Cycloheximide had a dual action on PPARgamma expression in RPE cells: it enhanced expression under basal conditions but repressed expression induced by ROS phagocytosis. It also stimulated expression of PPARalpha but had no effect on PPARdelta. Selective activation of PPARgamma may play an important role in regulating the expression of target genes that are involved in lipid and fatty acid metabolism in the photoreceptor renewal process.

Increasing evidence has demonstrated striking sex differences in the pathophysiology of and outcome after acute neurological injury. Lesser susceptibility to postischemic and posttraumatic brain injury in females has been observed in experimental models. Additional evidence suggests this sex difference extends to humans as well. The greater neuroprotection afforded to females is likely due to the effects of circulating estrogens and progestins. In fact, exogenous administration of both hormones has been shown to improve outcome after cerebral ischemia and traumatic brain injury in experimental models. The neuroprotection provided by periinjury administration of these hormones extends to males as well. The mechanisms by which estrogen and progesterone provide such neuroprotection are likely multifactorial, and probably depend on the type and severity of injury as well as the type and concentration of hormone present. Both genomic and nongenomic mechanisms may be involved. Estrogen's putative effects include preservation of autoregulatory function, an antioxidant effect, reduction of A beta production and neurotoxicity, reduced excitotoxicity, increased expression of the antiapoptotic factor bcl-2, and activation of mitogen activated protein kinase pathways. It is hypothesized that several of these neuroprotective mechanisms can be linked back to estrogen's ability to act as a potent chemical (i.e., electron-donating) antioxidant. Progesterone, on the other hand, has a membrane stabilizing effect that also serves to reduce the damage caused by lipid peroxidation. In addition, it may also provide neuroprotection by suppressing neuronal hyperexcitability. The following review will discuss experimental and clinical evidence for sex differences in outcome after acute brain trauma and stroke, review the evidence implicating estrogens and progestins as mediators of this neuroprotection following acute neurological injury, and finally, address the specific mechanisms by which these hormones may protect the brain following acute neurological injury.
Studies with conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) support the hypothesis that cognitive impairment in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients is related with the lesion burden. Patterns of frontal lobe cognitive decline were also found to be related with the corresponding regional lesion load, although the total lesion load on T2-weighted MRI scans of the brain seems to be more relevant in determining frontal lobe deficits. Other non-conventional MRI techniques with a higher specificity to the heterogeneous substrates of MS pathology, such as the assessment of hypointense lesion load on T1-weighted scans and the histogram analysis of magnetisation transfer ratio (MTR) maps, have recently been applied to MS cognitive studies. Results from these studies suggest that three factors play a role in the pathogenesis of MS dementia: the burden of MS lesions, the severity of the pathological damage within individual lesions and that of the normal-appearing white matter.
Magnetisation transfer imaging (MTI) is a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique that has a higher specificity than conventional T2-weighted scans to the heterogeneous pathological substrates of multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions. This review outlines the contribution of MTI in the study of lesion evolution and in the assessment of disease burden in MS. MTI studies of individual MS lesions confirm the pathological heterogeneity of T2-weighted MRI abnormalities and the potential role of unenhanced T1-weighted hypointensities as specific markers of localised severe white matter disruption. Correlative cross-sectional and longitudinal studies using MTI and gadolinium (Gd)-enhanced MRI reveal that MTI findings may vary in lesions with different patterns of enhancement, and that MTI abnormalities are closely related to the onset and recovery of blood-brain barrier disruption in new MS plaques. Measures obtained from MTI scans using whole-brain histogram analysis are highly correlated with the extent of MS abnormalities on conventional MRI scans and predict patients' clinical disability well, since they are sensitive to the amounts of both macro- and microscopic MS disease burden in the whole brain and in specific regions.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a fatal demyelinating disease of the central nervous system that predominantly affects immunocompromised individuals. The etiologic agent, JCV, is a widespread polyomavirus with a very specific target, the myelin-producing oligodendrocytes of the brain. During periods of immune suppression, the virus can be reactivated from lymphoid tissues and kidney, causing targeted myelin destruction and corresponding neurological deficits. The incidence of PML has increased in recent years, due in large part to the advent of AIDS and the growing number of immunodeficient individuals. Furthermore, previous serological studies have shown that greater than 80% of the human population has antibodies to JCV in circulation. When combined, these statistics highlight an increasing need to establish effective treatment regimens for infected individuals as well as strategies to identify those at risk for developing PML.
The predominant cell types infected by HIV-1 in AIDS associated encephalopathy are cells of the macrophage/microglial lineage. There has been consistent evidence, however, that astrocytes also become infected although not at the same frequency or level of multiplication as microglial cells. HIV-1 antigens and/or nucleic acid have been identified in astrocytes in brain autopsy tissue from both adult and pediatric AIDS cases. In cell cultures, HIV-1 infection of astrocytes results in an initial productive but non-cytopathogenic infection that diminishes to a viral persistence or latent state. Understanding the nature of HIV-1 infection of astrocytes, which represents the largest population of cells in the brain, will contribute to the understanding of AIDS encephalopathy and the dementia that occurs in nearly one-quarter of all AIDS patients.
It is difficult to recruit RNs to positions in various areas of elder care. The aim of this study is to understand the meaning of Swedish nursing students' reasoning during education about where in the health care system they would like to work as RNs after graduation. The students were interviewed using the same guide at the end of each of their three academic years. In the second and the third year the students kept diaries about their clinical education. A phenomenological-hermeneutic method of analysis was used, and eight themes appeared vital for the students' choice of work area after graduation. The deeper interpretations of the results imply that the students received contradictory messages during the education in elder care. Students found that nurses working in this field were often isolated with no apparent support system, which in turn reinforced their own ambivalence and reluctance towards future work in elder care.
Studies of the routes of entry and exit for zinc in different tissues and cell types have shown that zinc can use several pathways of exit or entry. In neurons, known pathways include (1) presynaptic release along with glutamate when synaptic vesicles empty their contents into the synaptic cleft, (2) voltage-gated L-type Ca(2+) channels and glutamate-gated channels that provide an entry route when cells are depolarized and that mediate extracellular zinc toxicity and (3) a plasma membrane transporter potentially present in all neurons important for cellular zinc homeostasis. The least understood of these pathways, in terms of mechanism, is the transporter pathway. The kinetics of zinc uptake in cultured neurons under resting conditions are consistent with and suggest the existence of a saturable transporter in the plasma membrane. The proteins responsible for plasma membrane zinc transport have not yet been definitely identified. Likely candidates include two proteins identified by molecular cloning termed zinc transporter 1 and divalent cation transporter DCT1. Both proteins have been shown to be expressed in the brain, but only DCT1 is clearly demonstrated to be a transport protein, whereas zinc transporter 1 may only modulate zinc transport in association with as-yet-unidentified proteins. Understanding the mechanism and neuromodulation of plasma membrane zinc transport will be an important first step toward a complete understanding of neuronal zinc homeostasis.
We studied the acute tolerance liability of peripheral opioid analgesia in mice. The analgesia was assessed by the inhibition of bradykinin (BK)-induced nociceptive action by using a newly developed flexor reflex paradigm. Morphine [intraplantarly (i.pl.)] given ipsilaterally to BK showed a dose-dependent reduction of the BK (2 pmol) responses, whereas the administration of 10 nmol of morphine into the contralateral side failed to show any significant analgesic effects. Furthermore, DAMGO ([D-Ala(2),MePhe(4), Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin), a mu-opioid receptor (MOR) agonist, and U-69593, a kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) agonist, but not DSLET ([D-Ser(2)]Leu-enkephalin-Thr(6)), a delta-opioid receptor agonist, showed similar analgesia on the BK responses. The morphine- or U-69593 [(5alpha,7alpha, 8beta)-(+)-N-methyl-N-[7-(1-pyrrolidinyl)-1-oxaspiro[4,5]dec -8yl] benzeneacetamide]-induced analgesia was markedly attenuated by the intrathecal injection of each antisense oligodeoxynucleotide for the MOR or KOR, respectively, suggesting that these peripheral analgesia are mediated through MORs and KORs located on nociceptor endings, respectively. As BK response was completely recovered to the control level 4 h after morphine (3 nmol i.pl.) or U-69593 (10 nmol i.pl.) administration, these compounds were challenged again to see the inhibition of BK responses. Although morphine analgesia by the second challenge was markedly attenuated, U-69593 analgesia was not. The attenuated morphine analgesia was completely reversed by the pretreatment of calphostin C, Go6976, or HBDDE, a protein kinase C inhibitor, but not by KT-5720, a protein kinase A inhibitor. These results suggest that selective acute tolerance of peripheral morphine analgesia, but not U-69593 analgesia, through MORs and KORs located on polymodal nociceptors, respectively, in the bradykinin-nociception test in mice was mediated through protein kinase C activation.
Several physiological effects induced by activation of neurokinin(3) (NK(3)) receptors are mediated by the production of nitric oxide (NO). We investigated the intracellular coupling of NK(3) receptors to NO synthase (NOS) using a Chinese hamster ovary cell line that was stably transfected with both the NK(3) receptor and type I (neuronal) NOS. NOS activity in the transfected cell line was assayed directly, by measuring the formation of L-citrulline, another product of NOS, as well as indirectly, by measuring the production of cGMP in cultured rat fetal lung fibroblasts (RFL-6 cells). MePhe(7)-neurokinin B (NKB) stimulation of L-[(3)H]citrulline production was concentration-dependent and yielded a two-site model for the concentration-response relationship. The production of L-citrulline in response to two other tachykinins, substance P or neurokinin A, revealed only a one-site nature of the response. The production of cGMP in response to MePhe(7)-NKB had an EC(50) value that corresponded to the high-potency component of MePhe(7)-NKB-induced production of L-[(3)H]citrulline. Agonist-induced calcium signaling was also concentration-dependent, and the acute increase in the production of cGMP by MePhe(7)-NKB (0.1 nM) was dependent on the release of calcium from intracellular stores. Results of this study provide the first direct evidence that NK(3) receptors couple to the generation of NO within the same cell.
Cyclooxygenase isozymes (COX-1 and COX-2) are found to be constitutively expressed in brain, with neuronal expression of COX-2 being rapidly induced after numerous insults, including cerebral ischemia. Because overactivation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors has been implicated in the cell loss associated with ischemia, we characterized the expression of the COX isozymes in murine mixed cortical cell cultures and used isozyme-selective inhibitors to determine their relative contribution to NMDA receptor-stimulated prostaglandin (PG) production and excitotoxic neuronal cell death. Immunocytochemical analysis of mixed cortical cell cultures revealed that COX-2 expression was restricted to neurons, whereas COX-1 was expressed in both neurons and astrocytes. Brief exposure to NMDA (5 min; 100 microM) elicited a time-dependent accumulation of PGs in the culture medium that preceded neuronal cell death and correlated with the induction of COX-2 mRNA. COX-1 expression remained unchanged. Flurbiprofen, a nonselective COX-1/COX-2 inhibitor, blocked NMDA-stimulated PG production and attenuated neuronal death in a concentration-dependent manner. Similar results were obtained with the specific COX-2 inhibitor NS-398 (10-30 microM) but not with the selective COX-1 inhibitor valeryl salicylate (10-300 microM). Inhibition of total constitutive COX activity with aspirin (100 microM, 1.5 h) before NMDA exposure did not prevent subsequent NMDA-mediated neuronal cell death. However, neuronal injury in aspirin-pretreated cultures was attenuated by flurbiprofen administration after NMDA exposure. Finally, the protection afforded by COX-2 inhibition was specific for NMDA because neither flurbiprofen nor NS-398 protected neurons against kainate-mediated neurotoxicity. Together, these results support the conclusion that newly synthesized COX-2 protein contributes to NMDA-induced neuronal injury.
Prosaposin-derived peptides have been proposed as potential therapeutics for neurodegenerative diseases. Previously, we reported that the minimal length for bioactivity was 12 amino acids, and key amino acids were described based on interspecies conservation. In this article, we have further investigated the sequence requirements for bioactive Prosaptide (Myelos Corporation) peptides in terms of length and amino acid identity. The use of Prosaptide peptides for treatment of central nervous system (CNS) disorders requires that they are stable in vivo. Although robust effects of our prototypical peptide Prosaptide TX14(A) have been shown in the peripheral nervous system, minimal success has been achieved when treating the CNS in rats and this may be due to instability of Prosaptide TX14(A) in brain. Herein, we demonstrate that, indeed, Prosaptide TX14(A) is rapidly degraded in the brain and we have attempted to design prosaptides with increased CNS stability. One peptide, Prosaptide TX15-2, shows increased stability in brain and may be of use in the treatment of CNS disorders. With the aim of designing Prosaptide peptides that may be systemically administered for CNS treatment, we have investigated the blood-brain barrier permeability of Prosaptide TX14(A) and TX15-2. Both of these peptides cross the blood-brain barrier via a nonspecific mechanism.
A novel in vitro intra-arterially perfused adult rat tongue-nerve preparation was used to explore the possible actions of P2X purinoceptor agonists (ATP and alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha, beta-meATP)) on sensory nerve terminals innervating the rat tongue. We made whole-nerve recordings of the trigeminal branch of the lingual nerve (LN), which conducts general sensory information (pain, temperature, touch, etc.), and the chorda tympani (CT), which conducts taste information. Changes in LN and CT activity following intra-arterial application of P2X agonists were compared. In seven preparations, bolus close-arterial injection of ATP (30-3000 microM, 0.1 ml) or alpha,beta-meATP (10-300 microM, 0.1 ml) induced a rapid (&lt; 1 s after injection), dose-related increase in LN activity that decayed within a few seconds. The minimal concentration of ATP (100 microM) required to elicit a response was about 10-fold higher than that of alpha,beta-meATP (10 microM). Bolus injection of ATP or alpha,beta-meATP induced a moderate decrease in firing frequency in three of seven CT preparations. LN responses to P2X agonists showed signs of rapid desensitisation with the peak frequency of discharge being smaller when the agonists were applied at short intervals. Suramin (200 microM) or PPADS (200 microM) applied by intra-arterial perfusion each antagonised the rapid increase in LN activity following application of alpha,beta-meATP (100 microM). Capsaicin (10 microM, 0.1 ml, n = 5 preparations) was injected intra-arterially to desensitise nociceptive fibres. This was found to block (n = 2) or greatly reduce (n = 3) the excitatory effects of alpha,beta-meATP (100 microM, 0.1 ml) on LN activity, implying that only capsaicin-sensitive nociceptive fibres in LN were responsive to P2X agonists. In contrast to the consistent excitatory responses in LN activity following fast application of P2X agonists as bolus, a variable and moderate change in discharge rate of LN and no change in CT activity (n = 5) was observed after applying ATP (100-300 microM, n = 21) or alpha,beta-meATP (100-300 microM, n = 14) by intra-arterial perfusion. The variable responses in LN activity to slow perfusion in contrast to close-arterial bolus injection are consistent with activation of the rapidly desensitising P2X3 receptors. In summary, ATP and alpha,beta-meATP preferentially activate general sensory afferent fibres (LN) but not taste fibres (CT). We suggest that the increase in whole-nerve activity of LN following application of P2X agonists represents activation of nociceptive fibres which possess P2X3 receptors. Our data indicate that ATP and P2X3 receptors may play a role in nociception, rather than taste sensation in the tongue.
Voltage-clamp and current-clamp recordings were made from bipolar cells in dark-adapted mouse retinal slices. Light-evoked responses fell into three groups corresponding to the rod bipolar cells, on-cone bipolar cells and off-cone bipolar cells. The morphology of the recorded cells confirmed this classification. Intensity-response relations were well fitted by a Michaelis saturation function with Hill coefficients of 1.15 +/- 0.11 (n = 6) for rod bipolar cells and 2.33 +/- 0.06 (n = 4) for cone inputs onto on-cone bipolar cells. In the absence of antagonists for GABA or glycine receptors, light-evoked synaptic currents for all cells displayed linear current-voltage relations that reversed near 0 mV, indicating that very little inhibition was activated under dark-adapted recording conditions. Saturating light stimuli evoked conductances of 0.81 +/- 0.56 nS (n = 4) in rod bipolar cells and 1.1 +/- 0.8 nS (n = 4) in on-cone bipolar cells. Receptive field widths were estimated by flashing a vertical light bar at various locations along the slice. Rod and on-cone bipolar cells had receptive field widths of 67 +/- 16 micrometer (n = 6) and 43 +/- 7 microm (n = 5), respectively. The maximum spatial resolution of an array of such cone bipolar cells was estimated to be 0.3 cycles deg-1, compared with a maximum resolution of 0.5 cycles deg-1 obtained from behavioural studies in mice. Our results suggest that this limit to spatial resolution could be imposed early in the visual system by the size of the bipolar cell receptive fields.
The effect of serotonin on membrane potential oscillations of inferior olivary neurones was studied in brainstem slices from 10- to 19-day-old rats. Serotonin at 50 and 5 microM induced a mean depolarization of 9.4 and 7.7 mV, respectively, that was preceded by a reversible suppression of subthreshold membrane potential oscillations. These effects were not changed by 1 microM tetrodotoxin and the suppression of subthreshold oscillations persisted after current-mediated restoration of resting potential. In spontaneously active neurones, serotonin abolished the rhythmicity of action potential firing without affecting spike frequency. Serotonin reduced the slope of the calcium-mediated rebound spike and both the duration and amplitude of the subsequent afterhyperpolarization. Serotonin also shifted the voltage dependence of the rebound spike to more negative values. Hyperpolarizing current pulses (200 ms) revealed that serotonin increased the pre-rectification and steady-state components of membrane resistance by 37 and 38 %, respectively, in 66 % of neurones, but decreased these parameters by 14 and 20% in the remaining cells. The serotonin effects were antagonized by 5 microM methysergide or 1-5 microM ketanserin and were mimicked by 10-20 microM dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine but not 10 microM 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)-tetralin. The data indicate that serotonin suppresses the rhythmic activity of olivary neurones via 5-HT2 receptors by inhibition of the T-type calcium current in combination with membrane depolarization due to activation of a cation current (Ih) and block of a resting K+ current (fast IK(ir)). This modulatory action of serotonin may account for the differential propensity of olivary neurones to fire rhythmically during different behavioural states in vivo.
The mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinase cascade represents one of the major regulator of cell growth by hormones and growth factors. However, although the activation of this intracellular pathway has been often regarded as mediator of cell proliferation, in many cell types the increase in MAP kinase (also called extra-cellular signal regulated kinase: ERK) activity may result in cell growth arrest, depending on the length or the intensity of the stimulation. In this review we examine recent data concerning the effects of somatostatin on the MAP kinase cascade through one of its major receptor subtype, the somatostatin receptor 1 (SSTR1), stably expressed in CHO-K1 cells. Somatostatin inhibits the proliferative effects of basic FGF (bFGF) in CHO-SSTR1 cell line. However, in these cells, somatostatin robustly activates the MAP kinase and augments bFGF-induced stimulation of ERK. We show that the activation of ERK via SSTR1 is mediated by the betagamma subunit of a pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein and requires both the small G protein Ras and the serine/threonine kinase Raf-1. Moreover the phosphatidyl inositol-3kinase and the cytosolic tyrosine kinase c-src participate in the signal transduction regulated by SSTRI to activate ERK, as well as it is involved the protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) SHP-2. Previous studies have suggested that somatostatin-stimulated PTP activity mediates the growth inhibitory actions of somatostatin, in CHO-SSTR1 cells. Thus, the activation of SHP-2 by SSTR1 may mediate the antiproliferative activity of somatostatin. SHP-2 may. in turn, regulate the activity of kinases upstream of ERK that require tyrosine dephosphorylation to be activated, such as c-src. Finally, the synergism between somatostatin and bFGF in the activation of ERK results in an increased expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21cip/WAF1 as molecular effector of the antiproliferative activity of somatostatin.
Concentrations of monoamine metabolites (MM) in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) have been used extensively as indirect estimates of monoamine turnover in the brain. We investigated possible relationships between a putative functional promoter polymorphism in the monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) gene and CSF concentrations of homovanillic acid (HVA), 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) in healthy volunteers (n=88). Among women (n=37), those carrying at least one copy of the alleles associated with more efficient transcription displayed higher concentrations of HVA (p=0.01) and 5-HIAA (p=0.01). In men (n=51), however, there was a tendency in the opposite direction. The results suggest that MAOA genotypes may participate differentially in the regulation of dopamine and serotonin turnover rates under presumed steady state in the central nervous system. The results should be interpreted with caution until replicated because of the limited sample size.

The present study describes the solubilisation of the novel anticonvulsant, SB-204269, binding site from pig cortical membranes. Throughout the study the binding of a close analogue of this compound, [125I]-SB-217644 (trans 6- Acetyl-4S-(3-iodobenzoylamino)-3,4-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-2H-benzo[b ]pyran-3R-ol) was used to monitor the success of the solubilisation procedure. [125I]-SB-217644 was an ideal mechanistic tool for quantifying the binding to this novel anticonvulsant site, with a high specific activity and affinity (K(D) of 3 nmol/l). Optimum conditions for the solubilisation of this anticonvulsant binding site were investigated using a multifactorial experimental design to assess a large number of variables. Detergent type, detergent-protein ratio, absence of Mg2+ and temperature were deemed to be important factors. However, the increases observed in binding site specific activity were minimal compared with those achieved for yields. Maximum percentage yields of binding activity (25%) were achieved with a low concentration of the zwitterionic detergent, CHAPS, in the presence of a low protein concentration. This yield was further enhanced on combining mixtures of detergents. The highest recovery (37%) was achieved with a 50:50 (v:v; 1.5 x critical micelle concentration) mixture of the ionic detergent, sodium cholate, and the non-ionic detergent, MEGA-10. In summary, we report the successful solubilisation of a novel anticonvulsant binding site, identified by its selective affinity for SB-204269 and its analogues. The recovery of nearly 40% of the target binding sites from the starting material should provide a good starting point for the purification of this protein.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of elevated ureteral pressure on renal arterial distention, and thereby on the Doppler resistive index. Seven isolated rabbit kidneys were subjected to a pulsatile perfusion while the renal pelvis was pressurized via the ureter. Renal vascular pressure, flow, resistance (pressure/flow) and conductance (flow/pressure) were compared to simultaneous resistive index measurements using linear regression analysis. Changes in the Conductance Index (systolic conductance - diastolic conductance/systolic conductance) were likewise compared to the resistive index. Elevations in ureteral pressure were significantly correlated with (1) increased resistive index values, (2) increased mean renal vascular resistance, (3) decreased mean conductance, and (4) increased conductance index values (for all correlations P &lt; 0.05). The increases in the resistive index correlated significantly with increases in the conductance index. This study shows that elevated ureteral pressure, likely acting via interstitial pressure, diminishes the conductance of the renal vascular bed. Because this effect is more dramatic at diastole, the cyclic patterns of flow are altered, resulting in elevated resistive index values. The results indicate the importance of the interaction between vascular distensibility and pulsatile flow, rather than overall mean renal vascular resistance, in determining resistive index values.
Case studies of patients with bilateral amygdala damage and functional imaging studies of normal individuals have demonstrated that the amygdala plays a critical role in encoding emotionally arousing stimuli into long-term declarative memory. However, several issues remain poorly understood: the separate roles of left and right amygdala, the time course over which the amygdala participates in memory consolidation, and the type of knowledge structures it helps consolidate. We investigated these questions in eight subjects with unilateral amygdala damage, using several different measures. For comparison, our main task used stimuli identical to those used previously to investigate emotional declarative memory in patients with bilateral amygdala damage. Contrasts with both brain-damaged and normal control groups showed that subjects with left amygdala damage were impaired in their memory for emotional stimuli, despite entirely normal memory for neutral stimuli (because of a number of caveats, the findings from subjects with right amygdala damage were less clear). Follow-up experiments suggested that the normal facilitation of memory for emotional stimuli may develop over an extended time course (&gt;30 min), consistent with prior findings, and that the specific impairment we report may depend in part on the lexical nature of the task used (written questionnaire). We stress the complex and temporally extended nature of memory consolidation and suggest that the amygdala may influence specific components of this process.
Many studies have used &quot;reverse&quot; genetics to produce &quot;knock-out&quot; and transgenic mice to explore the roles of various molecules in long-term potentiation (LTP) and spatial memory. The existence of a variety of inbred strains of mice provides an additional way of exploring the genetic bases of learning and memory. We examined behavioral memory and LTP expression in area CA1 of hippocampal slices prepared from four different inbred strains of mice: C57BL/6J, CBA/J, DBA/2J, and 129/SvEms-+(Ter?)/J. We found that LTP induced by four 100-Hz trains of stimulation was robust and long-lasting in C57BL/6J and DBA/2J mice but decayed in CBA/J and 129/SvEms-+(Ter?)/J mice. LTP induced by one 100-Hz train was significantly smaller after 1 hr in the 129/SvEms-+(Ter?)/J mice than in the other three strains. Theta-burst LTP was shorter lasting in CBA/J, DBA/2J, and 129/SvEms-+(Ter?)/J mice than in C57BL/6J mice. We also observed specific memory deficits, among particular mouse strains, in spatial and nonspatial tests of hippocampus-dependent memory. CBA/J mice showed defective learning in the Morris water maze, and both DBA/2J and CBA/J strains displayed deficient long-term memory in contextual and cued fear conditioning tests. Our findings provide strong support for a genetic basis for some forms of synaptic plasticity that are linked to behavioral long-term memory and suggest that genetic background can influence the electrophysiological and behavioral phenotypes observed in genetically modified mice generated for elucidating the molecular bases of learning, memory, and LTP.
It has been demonstrated previously on the radial maze that the emergence of an age-related mnemonic impairment is critically dependent on the form which the discrimination problems took. Hence, when the arms were presented one by one (i.e., successive go-no-go discrimination), both adult and aged mice learned to distinguish between positive (baited) and negative (unbaited) arms readily, as evidenced by their increased readiness to enter positive relative to negative arms (i.e., by a differential in arm-entry latencies). A selective impairment in the aged mice was seen when these arms were presented subsequently as pairs, such that the mice were confronted with an explicit choice (i.e., simultaneous 2-choice discrimination). When discriminative performance was measured by the differential run speed between positive and negative arms, aged mice were also impaired. This was particularly pronounced in the 2-choice discrimination condition. We examined the effects of tacrine (3mg/kg, subcutaneously) or S 17092 (10mg/kg, orally) in aged mice on the three behavioral indices of this 2-stage spatial discrimination paradigm. The results indicated that: (1) Tacrine, but not S 17092, enhanced the acquisition of go-no-go discrimination as reflected in arm-entry latencies; (2) both drugs improved choice accuracy in simultaneous discrimination, although the effect of tacrine was less striking and, in particular, far from statistical significance in the very first 2-choice responses; and (3) neither drugs significantly affected run-speed performance. We conclude further that the specific patterns of drug effects on the three indices of discriminative performance might suggest that each index is associated with a distinct form of mnemonic expression relying on separate neural systems.
Aerial respiration of the pond snail, Lymnaea stagnalis, can be operantly conditioned; however, the parameters necessary to produce long-term (LTM) or intermediate term memory (ITM) have not previously been investigated. We conducted training using procedures that varied in the duration of the training session, the number of training sessions per day or the amount of time between subsequent training sessions (SI). We found that by varying the duration and frequency of the training session learning could be differentially produced. Furthermore, the ability to form LTM was dependent not only on the duration of the training session was also the interval between training sessions, the SI. Thus it was possible to produce ITM, which persists for up to 3 hr, and not form LTM, which persists at least 18 hr. Learning, ITM, and LTM can be differentially produced by altering the SI, the duration of the training session, or the number of training sessions per day. These findings may allow us to begin to elucidate the underlying neural mechanisms of learning, ITM, and LTM.
We show that appetitive and aversive conditioning can be analyzed at the cellular level in the well-described neural circuitries underlying rhythmic feeding and respiration in the pond snail, Lymnaea stagnalis. To relate electrical changes directly to behavior, the snails were first trained and the neural changes recorded at multiple sites in reduced preparations made from the same animals. Changes in neural activity following conditioning could be recorded at the level of motoneurons, central pattern generator interneurons and modulatory neurons. Of significant interest was recent work showing that neural correlates of long-term memory could be recorded in the feeding network following single-trial appetitive chemical conditioning. Available information on the synaptic connectivity and transmitter content of identified neurons within the Lymnaea circuits will allow further work on the synaptic and molecular mechanisms of learning and memory.
The schizophrenia phenotype is heterogeneous with respect to clinical presentation, long-term response to medication, and outcome, possibly reflecting genetic heterogeneity and/or the presence of modifier genes. Compared to non-responders, schizophrenic patients who are responders to neuroleptic medications are characterized by a high female/male ratio, a better long-term outcome and more frequently disturbed dopamine neurotransmission. In this study, we compared two groups of schizophrenic patients selected on the basis of their long-term response to neuroleptics (excellent responders and non-responders) and a group of healthy volunteers, with regard to a missense mutation (677C--&gt;T) in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene. This polymorphism was chosen because it is functional and was previously associated with schizophrenia. The present study revealed a significant association between schizophrenia and allele T of this gene. This association was entirely due to an over-representation of allele T in responder patients compared to controls; nonresponder patients did not differ from controls. Genotype TT was more frequent in responder patients compared to controls, thus replicating the findings of Arinami et al. These results strongly suggest that the MTHFR gene is involved in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia characterized by a rapid and sustained therapeutic response to typical neuroleptics and/or a good long-term prognosis/favorable therapeutic outcome.
Neurogenesis (the birth of new neurons) continues postnatally and into adulthood in the brains of many animal species, including humans. This is particularly prominent in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation. One of the factors that potently suppresses adult neurogenesis is stress, probably due to increased glucocorticoid release. Complementing this, we have recently found that increasing brain levels of serotonin enhance the basal rate of dentate gyrus neurogenesis. These and other data have led us to propose the following theory regarding clinical depression. Stress-induced decreases in dentate gyrus neurogenesis are an important causal factor in precipitating episodes of depression. Reciprocally, therapeutic interventions for depression that increase serotonergic neurotransmission act at least in part by augmenting dentate gyrus neurogenesis and thereby promoting recovery from depression. Thus, we hypothesize that the waning and waxing of neurogenesis in the hippocampal formation are important causal factors, respectively, in the precipitation of, and recovery from, episodes of clinical depression.


Myosin heavy chain (MHC) profile and size of fibers in deep and superficial regions of the adult rat medial gastrocnemius (MG) were determined after 4, 15, 30, and 60 days of inactivity induced by spinal cord isolation (SI). After 4 days, fiber size decreased by 33 to 50% and 36 to 46% in deep and superficial regions, whereas MHC composition was unaffected. By 15 days, these values were 45 to 78% and 51 to 69%, and MHC composition was shifting toward faster isoforms. By 60 days, there were no pure type I MHC fibers and increases from 1 to 18% and 78 to 93% in pure type IIb fibers in deep and superficial regions. The percentage of type I MHC (gel electrophoresis) was approximately 10 and approximately 3%, and of type IIb approximately 40 and approximately 60% in control and 60-day SI rats. Thus, adaptations in the MHC molecule occurred at a slower rate and for a longer duration than the atrophic response.
Bone cancer pain is common among cancer patients and can have a devastating effect on their quality of life. A chief problem in designing new therapies for bone cancer pain is that it is unclear what mechanisms drive this distinct pain condition. Here we show that osteoprotegerin, a secreted 'decoy' receptor that inhibits osteoclast activity, also blocks behaviors indicative of pain in mice with bone cancer. A substantial part of the actions of osteoprotegerin seems to result from inhibition of tumor-induced bone destruction that in turn inhibits the neurochemical changes in the spinal cord that are thought to be involved in the generation and maintenance of cancer pain. These results demonstrate that excessive tumor-induced bone destruction is involved in the generation of bone cancer pain and that osteoprotegerin may provide an effective treatment for this common human condition.


Working memory (WM), the process by which information is coded into memory, actively maintained and subsequently retrieved, declines with age. To test the hypothesis that age-related changes in prefrontal cortex (PFC) may mediate this WM decline, we used functional MRI to investigate age differences in PFC activity during separate WM task components (encoding, maintenance, retrieval). We found greater PFC activity in younger than older adults only in dorsolateral PFC during memory retrieval. Fast younger subjects showed less dorsolateral PFC activation during retrieval than slow younger subjects, whereas older adults showed the opposite pattern. Thus age-related changes in dorsolateral PFC and not ventrolateral PFC account for WM decline with normal aging.


The T1 domain, a highly conserved cytoplasmic portion at the N-terminus of the voltage-dependent K+ channel (Kv) alpha-subunit, is responsible for driving and regulating the tetramerization of the alpha-subunits. Here we report the identification of a set of mutations in the T1 domain that alter the gating properties of the Kv channel. Two mutants produce a leftward shift in the activation curve and slow the channel closing rate while a third mutation produces a rightward shift in the activation curve and speeds the channel closing rate. We have determined the crystal structures of T1 domains containing these mutations. Both of the leftward shifting mutants produce similar conformational changes in the putative membrane facing surface of the T1 domain. These results suggest that the structure of the T1 domain in this region is tightly coupled to the channel's gating states.
The development and structure of orientation (OR) and ocular dominance (OD) maps in the primary visual cortex of cats and monkeys can be modelled using the elastic net algorithm, which attempts to find an 'optimal' cortical representation of the input features. Here we analyse this behaviour in terms of parameters of the feature space. We derive expressions for the OR periodicity, and the first bifurcation point as a function of the annealing parameter using the methods of Durbin et al (Durbin R, Szeliski R and Yuille A 1989 Neural Computation 1 348-58). We also investigate the effect of the relative order of OR and OD development on overall map structure. This analysis suggests that developmental order can be predicted from the final OR and OD periodicities. In conjunction with experimentally measured values for these periodicities, the model predicts that (i) in normal macaques OD develops first, (ii) in normal cats OR develops first and (iii) in strabismic cats OD develops first.
The prevalence of coherent oscillations in various frequency ranges in the central nervous system raises the question of the mechanisms that synchronize large populations of neurons. We study synchronization in models of large networks of spiking neurons with random sparse connectivity. Synchrony occurs only when the average number of synapses, M, that a cell receives is larger than a critical value, Mc. Below Mc, the system is in an asynchronous state. In the limit of weak coupling, assuming identical neurons, we reduce the model to a system of phase oscillators that are coupled via an effective interaction, gamma. In this framework, we develop an approximate theory for sparse networks of identical neurons to estimate Mc analytically from the Fourier coefficients of gamma. Our approach relies on the assumption that the dynamics of a neuron depend mainly on the number of cells that are presynaptic to it. We apply this theory to compute Mc for a model of inhibitory networks of integrate-and-fire (I&amp;F) neurons as a function of the intrinsic neuronal properties (e.g., the refractory period Tr), the synaptic time constants, and the strength of the external stimulus, Iext. The number Mc is found to be nonmonotonous with the strength of Iext. For Tr = 0, we estimate the minimum value of Mc over all the parameters of the model to be 363.8. Above Mc, the neurons tend to fire in smeared one-cluster states at high firing rates and smeared two-or-more-cluster states at low firing rates. Refractoriness decreases Mc at intermediate and high firing rates. These results are compared to numerical simulations. We show numerically that systems with different sizes, N, behave in the same way provided the connectivity, M, is such that 1/Meff = 1/M - 1/N remains constant when N varies. This allows extrapolating the large N behavior of a network from numerical simulations of networks of relatively small sizes (N = 800 in our case). We find that our theory predicts with remarkable accuracy the value of Mc and the patterns of synchrony above Mc, provided the synaptic coupling is not too large. We also study the strong coupling regime of inhibitory sparse networks. All of our simulations demonstrate that increasing the coupling strength reduces the level of synchrony of the neuronal activity. Above a critical coupling strength, the network activity is asynchronous. We point out a fundamental limitation for the mechanisms of synchrony relying on inhibition alone, if heterogeneities in the intrinsic properties of the neurons and spatial fluctuations in the external input are also taken into account.
The current study investigated the neurotrophic and neuroprotective action of the complex formulation of conjugated equine estrogens (CEEs), the most frequently prescribed estrogen replacement therapy in the United States and the estrogen replacement therapy of the Women's Health Initiative. Morphologic analyses demonstrated that CEEs significantly increased neuronal outgrowth in hippocampal, basal forebrain, occipital, parietal and frontal cortex neurons. Dose-response analyses indicated that the lowest effective concentration of CEEs exerted the maximal neurotrophic effect with greatest potency occurring in hippocampal and occipital cortex neurons. CEES induced highly significant neuroprotection against beta amyloid(25-35), hydrogen peroxide and glutamate-induced toxicity. Rank order of potency and magnitude of CEE-induced neuroprotection in the brain regions investigated was hippocampal neurons &gt; basal forebrain neurons &gt; cortical neurons. In hippocampal neurons pre-exposed to beta amyloid(25-35), CEEs halted Abeta(25-35)-induced cell death and protected surviving neurons from further cell death induced by Abeta(25-35). Because CEEs are the estrogen replacement therapy of the Women's Health Initiative, results of the current study could provide cellular mechanisms for understanding effects of CEEs on cognitive function and risk of Alzheimer's disease derived from this prospective clinical trial.

Feeding can be conditioned in the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis to two different visual stimuli (a black panel or a 5-mm black and white check surround) by pairing the potential conditioned stimulus (CS) with sucrose. Exclusion of chemical cues (associated with differences between the water in home tank and that in training apparatus) that could serve as CS is important for successful visual conditioning. A featureless gray surround, used as an alternative to the check (to which it was matched in luminance) in counterbalanced training designs, was discriminated from the check, showing that resolution (for which the eyes would be necessary) was occurring. The gray surround was largely ineffective as a CS. Single-trial learning was possible with the black panel, but not with the check; it is argued that this may be due to lack of prior experience of stimuli like the check. Conditioning of feeding has now been obtained in Lymnaea to chemical, tactile, and visual cues, opening the way to comparative studies of the neural circuitry underlying appetitive conditioning in different senses, so far explored in Lymnaea only for tactile CS. Such comparative studies are as yet largely lacking in invertebrates.
Incubation of bovine brain membranes with [gamma-33P]ATP phosphorylated mainly a 51-kDa band. Electrophoretic co-migration was observed for 33P- and [3H]flunitrazepam-labeled bands in both membrane fractions and in affinity-purified GABA(A) receptor (GABAA-R) preparations. An alpha-subunit monoclonal antibody adsorbed most of the radiolabeled-band, suggesting that the labeled-membrane polypeptide corresponds to the GABA(A)-R alpha1-subunit, which is the only GABA(A)-R subunit with a molecular weight of 51 kDa. The phosphorylation rate was much faster in membranes than in purified receptor. Dephosphorylation was detected in membranes only. The membrane-bound phosphatase was potently inhibited by vanadate and Zn2+&gt;Mn2+ , but was insensitive to okadaic acid (a phosphatase 1, 2 and 2B inhibitor), cyclosporin (specific calcineurin inhibitor) and phosphatase-1 inhibitor. Endogenous kinase was activated by divalent cations including calcium (Mg2- &gt; Mn2+ &gt; Ca2+), whilst dephosphorylation did not require the presence of Ca2+ ions. This suggests that at least one membrane-bound phosphatase counteracts the endogenous phosphorylation of the GABA(A)-R: the lack of dephosphorylation in the purified receptor preparation indicates that, in contrast to the endogenous kinase, no phosphatase is closely associated with the receptor protein complex.
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) accumulates in nerve endings of the brain during development. It is released from the membrane during ischemia and electroconvulsive shock. DHA optimizes neurologic development, it is neuroprotective, and rat adrenopheochromocytoma (PC12) cells have decreased PLA2 activity when DHA is present. To characterize DHA metabolism in PC12 cells, media were supplemented with [3H]DHA or [3H]glycerol. Fractions of nerve growth cone particles (NGC) and cell bodies were prepared and the metabolism of the radiolabeled substrates was determined by thin-layer chromatography. [3H]glycerol incorporation into phospholipids indicated de novo lipid synthesis. [3H]DHA uptake was more rapid in the cell bodies than in the NGC. [3H]DHA first esterified in neutral lipids and later in phospholipids (phosphatidylethanolamine). [3H]glycerol primarily labeled phosphatidylcholine. DHA uptake was compartmentalized between the cell body and the NGC. With metabolism similar to that seen in vivo, PC12 cells are an appropriate model to study DHA in neurons.
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3), the most prevalent fatty acid in phospholipids of rod outer segments (ROS), is essential for visual transduction and daily renewal of ROS membranes. We investigated the association of [3H]DHA-lipids to rhodopsin in ROS from frogs (Rana pipiens) after in vitro (4 hrs) and in vivo (1 day and 32 days) labeling. Lipids from lyophilized ROS were sequentially extracted with hexane (neutral lipids), chloroform:methanol (phospholipids) and acidified chloroform:methanol (acidic phospholipids). After in vitro labeling, free [3H]DHA was easily extracted with hexane (66% of total ROS free DHA), implying a weak association with proteins (rhodopsin). In contrast, after in vivo labeling free [3H]DHA was mainly recovered in the acidic solvent extract (89-99%). Of all phospholipids, [3H-DHA]phosphatidic acid (PA) displayed the highest binding to rhodopsin after both in vitro (43% in acidic extract) and in vivo (&gt;70%) labeling suggesting a possible modulatory role of free DHA and DHA-PA in visual transduction.
We have investigated the possible role of second messengers on inositol homeostasis in NT2-N cells, human central nervous system neurons obtained by terminal differentiation of teratocarcinoma precursors. Uptake of inositol into NT2-N neurons was inhibited approximately 10% by protein kinase C (PKC) activation but was unaffected by either the presence of cyclic nucleotide analogs or changes in the intracellular concentration of Ca2+. Efflux of inositol from NT2-N neurons was enhanced in hypotonic buffer but virtually eliminated by inclusion of the Cl- channel blocker 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid, a result which indicates the involvement of a volume-sensitive organic osmolyte-anion channel. Volume-sensitive inositol efflux was stimulated approximately 30% following activation of PKC or elevation of the cytosolic Ca2+ concentration but was unaffected by protein kinase A activation. These results suggest that whereas inositol uptake into NT2-N neurons is relatively refractory to regulation, volume-sensitive inositol efflux may be significantly affected by intracellular signaling events.
Of the twenty amino acids in the mammalian body, only serine and aspartate occur in D-configuration as well as L-configuration in significant amount. D-serine is selectively concentrated in the brain, localized to protoplasmic astrocytes that ensheath synapses and distributed similarly to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors. D-serine has been found to function as an endogenous ligand for the &quot;glycine&quot; site of the NMDA receptor. Evidences for this include the greater potency of D-serine to activate this site than glycine, and D-amino acid oxidase, which degrades D-serine as well as other neutral D-amino acids, markedly attenuates NMDA neurotransmission. D-serine is also formed by serine racemase, a recently cloned enzyme that converts L-serine to D-serine. Thus, in many ways D-serine fulfills criteria for defining its functionality as a neurotransmitter and challenges the dogma relating to neurotransmission, for it is the &quot;unnatural&quot; isomeric form of an amino acid derived from glia rather than neurons.
Brain chemistry was compared between 19 male and female normal volunteers in the age group 19-31 years, across six brain regions and nine metabolites using in vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The relative concentrations of N-acetyl aspartate, choline, glutamate, glutamine, GABA, inositol, glucose, and lactate were measured relative to creatine within 8-cm(3) brain voxels. These measurements were performed in six brain regions: thalamus and cingulate, insula, sensorimotor, dorsolateral prefrontal, and orbital frontal cortices in the left hemisphere. Total metabolite concentration was highest in prefrontal regions (28% higher in orbital frontal cortex and 18.7% higher in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex compared with insula and thalamus, P &lt; 10(-7)). Subjects 25-31 years of age demonstrated a significant increase in total metabolite concentration in the orbital frontal cortex (35%, P &lt; 10(-7)) and sensorimotor cortex (16.7%, P &lt; 10(-5)) compared to those 19-20 years of age. These two brain regions also showed gender dependence, with women demonstrating increased metabolite concentrations compared to men (9% increase in sensorimotor cortex, P &lt; 0.002, and 2.1% in orbital frontal cortex). Most other brain regions showed no gender- or age-dependent differences. The results indicate that the living human brain is chemically heterogeneous. The chemical heterogeneity is sex and age dependent and specific for brain region.
The concept of the therapeutic window of opportunity in ischemic neuronal injury and understanding the necessity of well organized stroke services revolutionized the management of acute ischemic stroke during the last years of the second millennium. Thrombolysis with IV rt-PA within 3 hours from the onset of symptoms is an established therapy for selected patients. The challenge of stroke therapy at the outset of this millennium is how to translate basic pathophysiologic evidence of ischemic neuronal injury into novel neuroprotective therapies either independently or combined with thrombolysis. Great hopes are placed in identification of pivotal molecular events in ischemic brain tissue and design of effective pharmacological interventions to target them. Aggressive, invasive procedures are also being developed and therapies such as intra-arterial clot lysis, hemicraniectomy and mild hypothermia may improve the bleakest outcomes associated with the most severe forms of ischemic stroke, but their role must be rigorously evaluated. There is, however, no need to wait for future breakthroughs. The existing evidence strongly implies that good care of patients with stroke starts with organization of the entire stroke chain; from the prehospital scene, through the emergency room, to the stroke unit. Without structured stroke services no pharmacological or intervening therapy is likely to improve the outcome of the patient with a stroke.
Recent literature has identified many of the important factors helpful in predicting outcome even at the very acute stage of stroke. Demographic factors, risk factors, clinical exam findings, clinical scales laboratory tests, and neuroimaging all provide important information that can assist the clinician in predicting outcome. Specific factors seem to influence the effect of stroke treatments such as thrombolysis. Consideration of these factors is important when treatment decisions such as thrombolysis are being contemplated. New techniques such as eco-planar MR Imaging are now being developed that seem extremely accurate in predicting outcome. These techniques represent the &quot;crystal ball&quot; of predicting stroke outcome.
Prolonged or high-intensity exposure to visible light leads to photoreceptor cell death. In this study, we demonstrate a novel pathway of light-induced photoreceptor apoptosis involving the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor p75 (p75NTR). Retinal degeneration upregulated both p75NTR and the high-affinity neurotrophin receptor TrkC in different parts of Mller glial cells. Exogenous neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) increased, but nerve growth factor (NGF) decreased basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) production in Mller cells, which can directly rescue photoreceptor apoptosis. Blockade of p75NTR prevented bFGF reduction and resulted in both structural and functional photoreceptor survival in vivo. Furthermore, the absence of p75NTR significantly prevented light-induced photoreceptor apoptosis. These observations implicate glial cells in the determination of neural cell survival, and suggest functional glial-neuronal cell interactions as new therapeutic targets for neurodegeneration.
Orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N) and its receptor share substantial structural features and cellular actions with classic opioid peptides and receptors, but have distinct pharmacological profiles and behavioral effects. Currently there is an active debate about whether OFQ/N produces hyperalgesia or analgesia. Using a well-defined brainstem pain-modulating circuit, we show that OFQ/N can cause either an apparent hyperalgesia by antagonizing mu opioid-induced analgesia or a net analgesic effect by reducing the hyperalgesia during opioid abstinence. It presumably produces these two opposite actions by inhibiting two distinct groups of neurons whose activation mediates the two effects of opioid administration. OFQ/N antagonism of the hyperalgesia may have significance for the treatment of opioid withdrawal and sensitized pain.
In classic Marr-Albus-Ito models of cerebellar function, coactivation of the climbing fiber (CF) synapse, which provides massive, invariant excitation of Purkinje neurons (coding the unconditioned stimulus), together with a graded parallel fiber synaptic array (coding the conditioned stimulus) leads to long-term depression (LTD) of parallel fiber-Purkinje neuron synapses, underlying production of a conditioned response. Here, we show that the supposedly invariant CF synapse can also express LTD. Brief 5 Hz stimulation of the CF resulted in a sustained depression of CF EPSCs that did not spread to neighboring parallel fiber synapses. Like parallel fiber LTD, CF LTD required postsynaptic Ca2+ elevation, activation of group 1 mGluRs, and activation of PKC. CF LTD is potentially relevant for models of cerebellar motor control and learning and the developmental conversion from multiple to single CF innervation of Purkinje neurons.
Locomotor activity in many species undergoes pronounced alterations in early postnatal life, and environmental cues may be responsible for modifying this process. To determine how these events are reflected in the nervous system, we studied rats reared under two different conditions-the presence or absence of gravity-in which the performance of motor operations differed. We found a significant effect of rearing environment on the size and complexity of dendritic architecture of spinal motor neurons, particularly those that are likely to participate in postural control. These results provide evidence that neurons subserving motor function undergo activity-dependent maturation in early postnatal life in a manner analogous to sensory systems.

It has been appreciated for some time that the sexes can differ in their sensitivity to pain and its inhibition. Both the human and rodent literatures remain quite contentious, with many investigators failing to observe sex differences that others document clearly. Recent data from our laboratory have pointed to an interaction between sex and genotype in rodents, such that sex differences are observed in some strains but not others. However, these studies employed inbred mouse strains and are thus not directly relevant to existing data. We presently examined whether the observation of statistically significant sex differences in nociception and morphine antinociception might depend on the particular outbred rodent population chosen for study. Rats of both sexes and three common outbred strains were obtained from three suppliers (Long Evans, Simonsen; Sprague Dawley, Harlan; Wistar Kyoto, Taconic) and tested for nociceptive sensitivity on the 49 degrees C tail-withdrawal assay, and antinociception following morphine (1-10mg/kg, i.p.). In further studies, three outbred populations of mice (CD-1, Harlan; Swiss Webster, Harlan; Swiss Webster, Simonsen) were bred in our vivarium for several generations and tested for tail-withdrawal sensitivity and morphine antinociception (1-20male, and no significant difference. In a separate study in which the estrous cycle was tracked in female mice, we found evidence for an interaction between genotype and estrous phase relevant to morphine antinociception. However, estrous cyclicity did not explain the observed sex differences. These data are discussed with respect to the existing sex difference and pain literature, and also as they pertain to future investigations of these phenomena.
Brothers (Brothers L. Concepts in Neuroscience 1990;1:27-51) proposed a network of neural regions that comprise the &quot;social brain&quot;, which includes the amygdala. Since the childhood psychiatric condition of autism involves deficits in &quot;social intelligence&quot;, it is plausible that autism may be caused by an amygdala abnormality. In this paper we review the evidence for a social function of the amygdala. This includes reference to the Kluver-Bucy syndrome (which Hetzler and Griffin suggested may serve as an animal model of autism). We then review evidence for an amygdala deficit in people with autism, who are well known to have deficits in social behaviour. This includes a detailed summary of our recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study involving judging from the expressions of another person's eyes what that other person might be thinking or feeling. In this study, patients with autism or AS did not activate the amygdala when making mentalistic inferences from the eyes, whilst people without autism did show amygdala activity. The amygdala is therefore proposed to be one of several neural regions that are abnormal in autism. We conclude that the amygdala theory of autism contains promise and suggest some new lines of research.
L-glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system and has also been implicated as a potent neurotoxin. To ensure a high signal-to-noise ratio during synaptic transmission and to prevent neuronal damage that might occur as a result of excessive activation of glutamate receptors, the extracellular glutamate concentration is tightly controlled by glutamate transporters in the plasma membrane of neurons and the surrounding glial cells. Five subtypes of glutamate transporters have been identified and characterized by molecular cloning. Recent studies of glutamate transporters using the genetic knockout strategy indicate that glial, but not neuronal, glutamate transporters play critical roles in maintaining the extracellular glutamate concentrations and are thereby essential for both normal synaptic transmission at the photoreceptor synapses and protection of neurons against glutamate excitotoxicity. This review summarizes the current knowledge on the properties and functional roles of glutamate transporters, focusing on the properties of the anion channel in the transporters, the unexpected localization of these transporters, their role in synaptic transmission and plasticity, and their involvement in the protection of neurons against excitotoxicity.


In 1996 HM Queen Silvia of Sweden started a non-governmental education programme with an integrated day-care unit devoted to elderly persons with dementia. A total of 18 Licensed Practical Nurses (LPN) from various parts of Sweden took part in the year theoretical and practical education in dementia care. The purpose was to develop specialized skills in the particular field and more generally to develop mentor capabilities. The aim of the study was to examine the experiences of the trainees, gained from following a single patient during their entire practical training period in the school's integrated day-care unit. The study was based on a combination of participant observations, interviews, diaries and recorded data and used an ethnographic approach. The results showed that themes such as 'personal guide', 'creating a relationship', 'reducing the working pace' and 'investigative mealtimes' were of major importance for the trainees' learning. In their role as 'personal guides', the trainees fell into six categories with different educational focuses. In their relationships with the patients, the trainees were able to form their own impressions of the patients' present and former lives. By training their ability to adapt the pace at which they worked, they had time to observe symptoms and be aware of the patients' needs, as well as the patients' signs of appreciation. The results also indicated that 'investigative mealtimes' can be an important element in the trainee's education in dementia care.

CGRP(8-37) is a truncated version of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) that binds to the CGRP receptor with similar affinity but does not activate the receptor and is a highly selective CGRP receptor antagonist. CGRP and activation of its receptor appear to play a role in peripheral inflammatory and neuropathic models of pain although there is considerable controversy. The aim of this study was to examine possible anti-nociceptive effects of CGRP(8-37) on a model of chronic central neuropathic pain known to develop weeks after spinal hemisection. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were given a spinal hemisection (N=34) or a sham surgery (N=10) at the T13 spinal segment. An externally accessible PE-10 intrathecal catheter that terminated at T13 was used for drug delivery. Animals were allowed to recover for 4 weeks at which time the hemisected animals displayed mechanical and thermal allodynia bilaterally, in both forelimbs and hindlimbs. CGRP(8-37) was delivered just prior to a testing session in 1, 5, 10, or 50 nM doses in artificial cerebral spinal fluid in 10 microl volumes. CGRP(8-37) was effective in alleviating mechanical and thermal allodynia in a dose-dependent manner (P&lt;0.05). The 50 nM dose was most efficacious for both forelimb and hindlimb responses (P&lt;0.05). The period of efficacy was 10 min to onset for a duration of 20 min. Post-drug washout responses were not statistically significant compared to pre-drug responses. The sham control groups demonstrated no statistically significant difference at any dose of CGRP(8-37) when compared to pre-surgical baseline values. In conclusion, CGRP(8-37) is effective in abolishing mechanical and thermal allodynia produced by spinal hemisection. Consequently, the CGRP receptor may play a role in chronic central neuropathic pain and offers a novel therapeutic approach to managing chronic central pain.
A single injection of nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS) inhibitors prevents the development of persistent hyperalgesia induced by various manipulations, suggesting that NO precipitates long-term changes in nociception. We examined the possibility that inhibition of NOS may also be sufficient to produce long-term decreases in nociceptive assays, such as writhing, that are known to be sensitive to the short-term effects of NOS inhibitors. We characterized short- and long-term effects of NOS inhibitors, N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NAME) or 7-nitro indazole (7-NI) injected intrathecally (i.t.) in mice on acetic acid-induced writhing. Doses of L-NAME that had no effect on hot plate or tail flick latencies inhibited writhing (0. 01-30 nmol) as well as spinal nNOS activity (5 and 100 nmol) when injected i.t. 60-90 min before testing. Anti-nociception was not mimicked by D-NAME but was prevented by co-administration with the NO precursor, L-arginine. Injection i.t. of 7-NI (30 min), a selective inhibitor of neuronal NOS (nNOS), inhibited NOS activity in the spinal cord and produced anti-nociception, confirming that writhing is sensitive to inhibition of nNOS. Although the acute action of both NOS inhibitors dissipated completely by 3-6 h, a delayed and prolonged inhibition of writhing was again observed 24 h after L-NAME (5-100 nmol), a time when spinal NOS activity was no longer inhibited by L-NAME (5 and 100 nmol) or 7-NI (25 nmol). This novel effect appears to be initiated by the transient inhibition of nNOS as delayed anti-nociception was mimicked by 7-NI at doses (10-100 nmol) that no longer inhibited spinal nNOS (25 nmol) at 24 h. Co-administration with L-arginine prevented the delayed (24 h) anti-nociceptive effects of L-NAME (30 nmol). L-Arginine (30 and 100 nmol) was without effect on nociception when administered alone 60 min or 24 h prior to testing. Together these data indicate that brief changes in the activity of nNOS induce both long- as well as short-term changes in nociception.
This study examined the release of several amino acids after induction of knee joint inflammation in rats using kaolin and carrageenan. During the initial 10-min collection after knee joint injection with the irritants, the concentration of glutamate and the nitric oxide metabolites, arginine and citrulline, doubled. This increase persisted for at least two hours. During the same time period aspartate concentrations remained unchanged. Direct knee joint administration of lidocaine prevented the increases in amino acid concentration measurable by microdialysis probe inserted into the joint. These data suggest the possibility that glutamate may be released by neuronal endings in the joint.

Chemotherapy is an increasing component of the management of diencephalic gliomas. It can result in tumor shrinkage and significant disease control in some patients. However, decisions concerning the institution of treatment should be based on the goals of treatment. Factors include: (1) age of the patient; (2) whether the child has neurofibromatosis type 1; (3) tumor size and location; (4) the potential sequelae of radiotherapy, and (5) the acute and long-term toxicity of the chemotherapeutic approach utilized. The erratic natural history of diencephalic tumors confounds evaluation of efficacy of the regimen chosen.
Intraplantar injection of the enzymatically stable, N-methylated kyotorphin analog Tyr(NMe)-Arg-OH produced marked and sharp nociceptive flexor responses in a dose-dependent manner. A significant response was observed with this compound at a dose of 0. 01 amol (6000 molecules). Tyr(NMe)-Arg-OH-nociception was completely blocked by the kyotorphin antagonist leucyl-arginine and its enzymatically stable, N-methylated analog, as well as by CP-99994, a specific neurokinin 1 antagonist. These findings suggest that the nociceptive effect produced by Tyr(NMe)-Arg-OH in subattomol doses occurs via specific interaction with the kyotorphin receptor and that the extraordinary potency observed may result from amplification through local substance P release.
In two experiments, visually perceived eye level (VPEL) was measured while subjects viewed two-dimensional displays that were either upright or pitched 20 degrees top-toward or 20 degrees top-away from them. In Experiment 1, it was demonstrated that binocular exposure to a pair of pitched vertical lines or to a pitched random dot pattern caused a substantial upward VPEL shift for the top-toward pitched array and a similarly large downward shift for the top-away array. On the other hand, the same pitches of a pair of horizontal lines (viewed binocularly or monocularly) produced much smaller VPEL shifts. Because the perceived pitch of the pitched horizontal line display was nearly the same as the perceived pitch of the pitched vertical line and dot array, the relatively small influence of pitched horizontal lines on VPEL cannot be attributed simply to an underestimation of their pitch. In Experiment 2, the effects of pitched vertical lines, dots, and horizontal lines on VPEL were again measured, together with their effects on resting gaze direction (in the vertical dimension). As in Experiment 1, vertical lines and dots caused much larger VPEL shifts than did horizontal lines. The effects of the displays on resting gaze direction were highly similar to their effects on VPEL. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that VPEL shifts caused by pitched visual arrays are due to the direct influence of these arrays on the oculomotor system and are not mediated by perceived pitch.
Cannabinoids produce analgesia, hypomotility, catalepsy, cognitive deficits and positive reinforcement. Moreover, Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (9-THC) and synthetic cannabinoids stimulate dopaminergic neurons and increase dopamine release in different brain areas. In order to clarify the role of endogenously released dopamine in the hypothermic response to cannabinoids, the effect of D(1) and D(2) dopamine receptor agonists and antagonists on Delta(9)-THC-induced hypothermia was studied in rats. Delta(9)-THC (2.5 and 5 mg/kg intraperitoneally [IP]) decreased body temperature in a dose-related manner. This effect was antagonized not only as expected by the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR 141716A (0.5 mg/kg, IP) but also, unexpectedly, by the dopaminergic D(2) receptor antagonists S(-)-sulpiride (5 and 10 mg/kg, IP) and S(-)-raclopride (1 and 3 mg/kg, IP). Conversely, the hypothermic effect of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol was potentiated by the D(2) dopamine receptor agonists (-)-quinpirole (0.025 and 0.500 mg/kg, SC) and (+)-bromocriptine (0.5 and 1 mg/kg, IP). In contrast, the Delta(9)-THC-induced hypothermic effect was not modified by either by the D(1) dopamine agonist SKF 38393 (10 mg/kg SC) or by the D(1) dopamine antagonist SCH 23390 (0.5 mg/kg SC). These results suggest that the D(2) dopamine receptors have a permissive role in the hypothermic action of cannabinoids.
The prevalence of tobacco smoking varies considerably between different groups within the community, tobacco smoking being particularly prevalent in patients with depressive disorder. This review will focus on results, derived from animal studies, which suggest that, in addition to its primary reinforcing properties, nicotine also exerts effects in stressful environments, which may account for its enhanced addictive potential in depressed patients. It focuses on the evidence that depression sensitises patients to the adverse effects of stressful stimuli, and that this can be relieved by drugs that stimulate dopamine release in the forebrain. This mechanism, it is proposed, contributes to the increased craving to smoke in abstinent smokers exposed to such stimuli, because they become conditioned to use this property of nicotine to produce rapid alleviation of the adverse effects of the stress. The review also explores the possibility that chronic exposure to nicotine elicits changes in 5-HT formation and release in the hippocampus which are depressogenic. It is postulated that smokers are protected from the consequences of these changes, while they continue to smoke, by the antidepressant properties of nicotine. However, they contribute to the symptoms of depression experienced by many smokers when they first quit the habit.
A review of the literature suggests that the dorsal hippocampal serotonergic system, and, in particular, the postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptor, mediates an anxiogenic response, whereas endogenous dorsal hippocampal cholinergic tone mediates an anxiolytic response. Accordingly, it has been shown that direct dorsal hippocampal administration of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT, the nicotinic receptor antagonist, mecamylamine, and the M(1) muscarinic receptor antagonist, pirenzepine, all have anxiogenic effects in rats tested in the social interaction test. It is therefore surprising that nicotine also has an anxiogenic effect in this test following dorsal hippocampal administration. However, the anxiogenic effects of mecamylamine and nicotine in the dorsal hippocampus are blocked by coadministration of the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, WAY 100635, suggesting that both of these compounds act by enhancing hippocampal serotonergic transmission, thereby stimulating postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors. This conclusion is supported by the observation that both nicotine and mecamylamine stimulate basal [3H]-5-HT release from dorsal hippocampal slices. A possible mechanism by which nicotinic receptor ligands modulate hippocampal 5-HT release is discussed, and it is proposed that the dorsal hippocampal serotonergic and cholinergic systems are tightly coupled and function antagonistically in the modulation of anxiety, as measured in the social interaction test. These systems are relatively unimportant in controlling behaviour on trial 1 in the plus-maze. On trial 2 in the elevated plus-maze, a model of specific phobia, the endogenous cholinergic system, nicotine, and the M(1) receptor agonist, McN-A-343, all mediate an anxiolytic effect, whereas stimulation of 5-HT(1A) receptors mediates an anxiogenic effect. It is proposed that the hippocampus may predominantly control the avoidance components of phobic anxiety, with other regions, such as the dorsomedial hypothalamus, controlling the escape components.
Taking its roots both in neuropharmacology and in cognitive science, cognitive neuropharmacology is an emerging approach in the field of psychopharmacology. It attempts to use theoretical knowledge to understand the biochemical bases of cognition and the mode of action of the commonly used drugs and to find new brain-targeted therapeutics. The aim of the present article is to throw up the main characteristics of this way of research. It is defined in comparison with its neighbouring approaches and by presenting its own rationale. Its particular methods mainly concern the animal modelling of the highest human cognitive functions and the original means of intra-cerebral drug administration. Finally, we present an illustrative example of a study in cognitive neuropharmacology and propose further perspectives.
Analog electrical stimulation of the cochlear nerve (the nerve of hearing) by a cochlear implant is an effective method of providing functional hearing to profoundly deaf people. Recent physiological and computational experiments have shown that analog cochlear implants are unlikely to convey certain speech cues by the temporal pattern of evoked nerve discharges. However, these experiments have also shown that the optimal addition of noise to cochlear implant signals can enhance the temporal representation of speech cues [R. P. Morse and E. F. Evans, Nature Medicine 2, 928 (1996)]. We present a simple model to explain this enhancement of temporal representation. Our model derives from a rate equation for the mean threshold-crossing rate of an infinite set of parallel discriminators (level-crossing detectors); a system that well describes the time coding of information by a set of nerve fibers. Our results show that the optimal transfer of information occurs when the threshold level of each discriminator is equal to the root-mean-square noise level. The optimal transfer of information by a cochlear implant is therefore expected to occur when the internal root-mean-square noise level of each stimulated fiber is approximately equal to the nerve threshold. When interpreted within the framework of aperiodic stochastic resonance, our results indicate therefore that for an infinite array of discriminators, a tuning of the noise is still necessary for optimal performance. This is in contrast to previous results [Collins, Chow, and Imhoff, Nature 376, 236 (1995); Chialvo, Longtin, and Mller-Gerking, Phys. Rev. E 55, 1798 (1997)] on arrays of FitzHugh-Nagumo neurons.
We present a method to determine fixed points in spatiotemporal signals. The method combines a clustering algorithm and a nonlinear analysis method fitting temporal dynamics. A 144-dimensional simulated signal, similar to a Kueppers-Lortz instability, is analyzed and its fixed points are reconstructed.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are a family of ligand gated ion channels which are widely distributed in the human brain. Multiple subtypes of these receptors exist, each with individual pharmacological and functional profiles. They mediate the effects of nicotine, a widely used drug of abuse, are involved in a number of physiological and behavioural processes and are additionally implicated in a number of pathological conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. The nAChRs have a pentameric structure composed of five membrane spanning subunits, of which nine different types have thus far been identified and cloned. The multiple subunits identified provide the basis for the heterogeneity of structure and function observed in the nAChR subtypes and are responsible for the individual characteristics of each. A substantial amount of information on human nAChR structure and function has come from studies on neuroblastoma cell lines which naturally express nAChRs and from recombinant nAChRs expressed in Xenopus oocytes. In vitro brain nAChR distribution can be mapped with a number of appropriate agonist and antagonist radioligands and subunit distribution may be mapped by in situ hybridization using subunit specific mRNA probes. Receptor distribution in the living human brain can be studied with noninvasive imaging techniques such as PET and SPECT, with a significant reduction in nAChRs in the brains of Alzheimer's patients having been identified with [11C] nicotine in PET studies. Despite the significant body of knowledge now accumulated about nAChRs, much remains to be elucidated. This review will attempt to describe the current knowledge on the nAChR subtypes in the human brain, their functional roles and neuropathological involvement.
It has been proposed that gender identity and sexual orientation are influenced by the prenatal sex steroid milieu. Human dermatoglyphics and brain asymmetry have also been ascribed to prenatal hormone levels. This study investigated dermatoglyphics (total ridge count and finger ridge asymmetry) in 184 male-to-female transsexuals and 110 female-to-male transsexuals. In a subgroup, the relationship between dermatoglyphic asymmetry and spatial ability was tested. All investigations included controls. For all subjects hand preference and sexual orientation were noted. We hypothesized that the dermatoglyphics of male-to-female transsexuals would show similarities with control women and those of female-to-male transsexuals with control men. Our results showed a trend for a sex difference in total ridge count (P&lt;.1) between genetic males and females, but no difference in directional asymmetry was found. Contrary to our expectations, the total ridge count and finger ridge asymmetry of transsexuals were similar to their genetic sex controls. Additionally, directional asymmetry was neither related to sexual orientation, nor to different aspects of spatial ability. In conclusion, we were unable to demonstrate that our chosen dermatoglyphic variables, total ridge count and finger ridge asymmetry are related to gender identity and sexual orientation in adult transsexuals. Hence, we found no support for a prenatal hormonal influence on these characteristics, at least insofar as dermatoglyphics may be regarded as a biological marker of organizing hormonal effects.
Stressful experiences may influence neuroendocrine, immune and cytokine functioning, as well as physical and psychological well being. The present prospective investigation assessed physiological and behavioral variations in anticipation of a critical oral academic examination among graduate students (i.e. related to a dissertation or comprehensive defense). Relative to matched control subjects, plasma cortisol levels were elevated among graduate students, especially females, 1 h prior to the oral examination, but not 6-8 weeks earlier (at about the time of the submission of the written document). In contrast, mitogen-stimulated (Con-A) lymphocyte proliferation was only reduced 6-8 weeks before the examination. Neither adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), prolactin, serum interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) nor mitogen stimulated IL-1beta production was influenced at any time. Although, graduate students did not differ from controls with respect to perceived stress and feelings of mastery, they reported more frequent malaise (e.g. headaches, sore throat, fatigue) than did controls. The present findings suggest that during the course of lengthy anticipatory periods preceding a scheduled stressor, different stress-sensitive, situation-dependent biological processes may be engendered. It is further suggested that cortisol release is most closely aligned with immediate threats, while the immune alterations are sensitive to more distal events, or are subject to adaptation in response to a protracted stressor.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the modulations in amplitude of H reflexes elicited in a hand muscle, the flexor pollicis brevis, during the performance of a choice reaction time (RT) task in which this muscle was directly involved. Ten subjects were to choose between a left- or a right-thumb key-press according to the lateral location of a flash of light. The stimulus-response mapping was either compatible or incompatible. Hoffman reflexes were elicited at different times during the RT by stimulation of the median nerve. Twenty-five milliseconds before the voluntary response, the amplitude of the H reflex suddenly increased when the muscle was involved in the response and decreased symmetrically when the muscle was not involved in the response. Mapping compatibility exerted no detectable influence on the changes in spinal excitability. The latter result supports the assumptions that are at the core of Sternberg's additive factor method.








Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a multifaceted organelle that regulates protein synthesis and trafficking, cellular responses to stress, and intracellular Ca2+ levels. In neurons, it is distributed between the cellular compartments that regulate plasticity and survival, which include axons, dendrites, growth cones and synaptic terminals. Intriguing communication networks between ER, mitochondria and plasma membrane are being revealed that provide mechanisms for the precise regulation of temporal and spatial aspects of Ca2+ signaling. Alterations in Ca2+ homeostasis in ER contribute to neuronal apoptosis and excitotoxicity, and are being linked to the pathogenesis of several different neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease and stroke.
Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) occurs physiologically as the ascorbate anion: a water-soluble antioxidant that is found throughout the body. However, despite the high, homeostatically regulated levels of brain ascorbate, its specific functions in the CNS are only beginning to be elucidated. Certainly, it acts as part of the intracellular antioxidant network, and as such is normally neuroprotective. There is also evidence that it acts as a neuromodulator. A possibly unique role it might have is as an antioxidant in the brain extracellular microenvironment, where its concentration is modulated by glutamate-ascorbate heteroexchange at glutamate uptake sites. Ongoing studies of ascorbate and glutamate transporters should lead to rapid progress in understanding ascorbate regulation and function.
The use of viral vectors to transfect genes into specific brain-cell populations is a novel approach that can be used to investigate the molecular and cellular basis of brain function. Ideal vectors should be targetable and capable of regulated transgene expression. From the viral vectors developed so far, this article focuses on herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1)-based vectors. HSV-1 vectors can be engineered for gene transfer to the brain, which makes them suitable for neuroscience research applications. In particular, genetic manipulations of the virus can almost eliminate toxicity and allow expression of multiple transgenes simultaneously. In some instances, transfection of selected neuronal populations is also possible. Specific alterations in behaviour and in disease models have been described after the viral-vector-mediated expression of specific genes within highly localized brain regions.

Recent evidence suggests that agmatine, which is an intermediate in polyamine biosynthesis, might be an important neurotransmitter in mammals. Agmatine is synthesized in the brain, stored in synaptic vesicles in regionally selective neurons, accumulated by uptake, released by depolarization, and inactivated by agmatinase. Agmatine binds to alpha2-adrenoceptors and imidazoline binding sites, and blocks NMDA receptor channels and other ligand-gated cationic channels. Furthermore, agmatine inhibits nitric oxide synthase, and induces the release of some peptide hormones. As a result of its ability to inhibit both hyperalgesia and tolerance to, and withdrawal from, morphine, and its neuroprotective activity, agmatine has potential as a treatment of chronic pain, addictive states and brain injury.


The classical reflex theory of the higher nervous activity has been developed in the works of E.A. Asratyan, the first director of the Institute, and his scientific school. The novel aspects of the theory have been developed: the principle of system organization; the concept of the nervous center as a set of structures located in different areas of the central nervous system; conditioned switchover, the mechanism of conditioned connection closure; the origin and localization of conditioned inhibition; the two-way, forward and backward conditioned connections. The elaboration of physiological mechanisms of the active goal-directed motivated behavior was begun. V.S. Rusinov and his collaborates have developed the concept of the dominanta and role of the stationary excitation foci in the integrative brain activity. M.N. Livanov has created the concept of the spatio-temporal organization of bioelectric potential and systemic organization of brain activity. P.V. Simonov, beginning from 1964, has developed the need-informational theory of the human and animal higher nervous activity (behavior). As distinct from the theories that originate from a single viewpoint and reject all the others, Simonov's theory is integrative and follows the logic of development of brain science.

Immunohistochemical expression of the doublecortin (DCX) gene product was investigated in cerebral cortices from 33 normal developing human, aged 9 gestational weeks (GW) to 29 years, and from 26 patients with various neuronal migration disorders, aged 19 GW to 34 years. DCX immunoreactivity was detected predominantly in the fetal cerebral cortex. The neurons in the cortical plate (CP) exhibited positive labeling at 9 GW. Staining was the most marked intense at 12-20 GW, and gradually decreased thereafter, only relatively weak immunoreactivity remaining in pyramidal cells. Comparison of the immunohistochemical characteristics of DCX and those of nestin and vimentin indicated the early expression of DCX in neuroepithelial stem cells of the subventricular germinal layer, as well as in neurons of the CP. The most marked intense expression in the period of neuronal migration strongly indicated its role in neuronal migration. The abnormal distribution of DCX immunolabeling in the cerebral cortex was associated with a neuronal disarrangement in some migration disorders, such as Miller-Dieker syndrome and Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy. Decreased DCX immunolabeling was demonstrated in fetuses and infants with Zellweger syndrome, implicating DCX in the neuronal migration abnormality in this syndrome.
Previous studies have indicated that calpain activation results in the truncation of the C-terminal domains of AMPA and NMDA receptor subunits. The present study determined the distribution of the truncated species of the subunits between Triton-soluble and -insoluble fractions. Western blots were performed with various antibodies to quantify the amounts of the various species of GluR1, GluR2, GluR3 and NR2B subunits. The results indicate that calpain activation decreased the amount of all the intact subunits in Triton-insoluble fractions. Calpain-generated truncated forms of GluR1 and GluR2, but not NR2B, were absent in these fractions, and were recovered in Triton-soluble fractions. These findings suggest that calpain-mediated truncation of AMPA but not NMDA receptor C-terminal domains results in modifications of the interactions between the receptors and postsynaptic densities, and that this mechanism could be involved in activity-dependent changes in the subcellular distribution of AMPA receptors.
Disturbances of retinoid activated transcription mechanisms have recently been implicated as risk factors for schizophrenia. In this study we have compared the regulation of mRNAs for the nuclear orphan receptor NGFI-B, which forms a functional heterodimer with the retinoid x receptor and the related orphan nuclear receptor Nor1 with c-fos mRNA after acute and chronic treatments with haloperidol and clozapine. The antipsychotic drugs haloperidol and clozapine have different clinical profiles. Haloperidol is a typical neuroleptic giving extrapyramidal side effects (EPS), whereas the atypical compound clozapine does not. Acute haloperidol treatment increased NGFI-B, Nor1 and c-fos mRNAs in nucleus accumbens shell and core as well as medial and lateral caudate putamen. In contrast, clozapine lead to an increase of NGFI-B, Nor1 and c-fos only in the accumbens shell. No haloperidol or clozapine effect on these mRNAs was detected in cingulate, sensory or motor cortex. Chronic haloperidol lead to an increase of NGFI-B mRNA in the accumbens core. Acutely, it is possible that the increased levels of NGFI-B, Nor1 and c-fos mRNA levels in striatum and accumbens might indicate a neural activation which possibly can be used when screening for drugs that do not produce EPS. Also, the increased levels of NGFI-B, which is an important component in retinoid signaling, both after acute and chronic treatments of haloperidol suggests altered sensitivity to retinoids which could be an important component for the beneficial antipsychotic effect.

Schizophrenia is a complex disorder, and there is substantial evidence supporting a genetic etiology. Despite this, prior attempts to localize susceptibility loci have produced predominantly suggestive findings. A genome-wide scan for schizophrenia susceptibility loci in 22 extended families with high rates of schizophrenia provided highly significant evidence of linkage to chromosome 1 (1q21-q22), with a maximum heterogeneity logarithm of the likelihood of linkage (lod) score of 6.50. This linkage result should provide sufficient power to allow the positional cloning of the underlying susceptibility gene.
T-type Ca(2+) currents were recorded in 2 mM Ca(2+) from HEK 293 cells stably expressing recombinant low-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel subunits. Current-voltage relationships revealed that these currents were low-voltage activated in nature and could be reversibly antagonised by mibefradil, a known T-type channel blocker. At a test potential of -25 mV alpha(1I)-mediated Ca(2+) currents were rapidly and reversibly inhibited by 1-100 microM BW619C89 (IC(50)=14 microM, Hill coefficient 1.3). In contrast to its actions on N-type Ca(2+) channels, a near IC(50) dose (10 microM) of BW619C89 produced no alterations in either the kinetics or voltage-dependence of T-type currents. In additional single dose experiments, currents mediated by rat alpha(1G), human alpha(1H) or human alpha(1I) channel subunits were also inhibited by BW619C89. Overall our data indicate that T-type Ca(2+) channels are more potently blocked by BW619C89 than either type-II Na(+) channels or N-type Ca(2+) channels. It seems, therefore, that inhibition of low-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels is likely to contribute to the anticonvulsant and neuroprotective actions of this and related compounds.
Both pre-clinical and clinical studies suggest that additional treatment with 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists may accelerate the antidepressant efficacy/onset of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Given that chronic SSRI treatment has been shown to desensitise 5-HT(2C) receptor mediated responses, we have used the rat social interaction test to determine if combined treatment with WAY 100,635, a selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, will accelerate this effect. In pairs of unfamiliar rats, acute administration of the 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP) or fluoxetine decreased the time spent in social interaction, responses which were reversed by the 5-HT(2C/2B) receptor antagonists SB 200646A and SB 221284. Similar reductions in social interaction were observed in rats treated with fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, i.p. daily) for 4, 7 and 14 days but was no longer apparent after 28 days of treatment. In contrast, only 7 days of combined treatment with WAY 100,635 (1 mg/kg/s.c./day) and fluoxetine were needed to reverse this response. The decrease in social interaction induced by an acute challenge of mCPP (1 mg/kg, i. p.) was also reduced after 6 days co-treatment with WAY 100,635 and fluoxetine. Thus, WAY 100,635 accelerates SSRI-induced desensitisation of 5-HT(2C) receptors, suggesting that this response might contribute towards the therapeutic effects of SSRIs in man.
PD 158771 has been described in receptor binding and biochemical tests as a partial agonist at dopamine (DA) D2 and D3 receptors as well as an agonist at serotonin (5-HT)(1A) receptors. The present studies describe the profile of PD 158771 in rodent and primate behavioral tests. PD 158771 reduced spontaneous locomotor activity in mice (ED(50)=0.38 mg/kg, i.p.) and rats (ED(50) = 1.2 mg/kg, i.p. and 0.16 mg/kg, s.c.), and reduced amphetamine-stimulated locomotion in mice (ED(50) = 0.13 mg/kg, i.p.). At relatively higher doses up to 3 mg/kg, s.c. in rats, PD 158771 did not produce locomotor stimulation or induce stereotypy, indicating a lack of postsynaptic DA agonist activity. PD 158771 reduced apomorphine stimulated locomotion in rats at a dose 4.6-fold greater than those that reduced spontaneous locomotor activity, indicating weak postsynaptic DA antagonist actions; results consistent with a partial agonist profile. PD 158771 produced anxiolytic-like effects in the water-lick (Vogel) conflict test, effects possibly due to the 5-HT(1A) activity. However, PD 158771 was inactive in the water wheel behavioral despair model in rats, indicating lack of antidepressant properties. Similar to known antipsychotics, PD 158771 produced a potent and long-lasting inhibition of conditioned avoidance responding in squirrel monkeys. In contrast to standard antipsychotics, and similar to clozapine, PD 158771 did not cause catalepsy in rats at a dose 20-fold higher than the ED(50) dose for locomotor inhibition. PD 158771 also had a somewhat lower liability than haloperidol to produce extrapyramidal dysfunction in squirrel and cebus monkeys sensitized to the dystonic effects of haloperidol. The data indicate that PD 158771 is a DA partial agonist with weak intrinsic activity that selectively activates brain DA autoreceptors. PD 158771 produced behavioral effects consistent with potential antipsychotic and anxiolytic efficacy, and has an improved profile in the extrapyramidal side effect model when compared to certain currently available antipsychotic agents.
The neurochemical effects of a novel dopamine (DA) D(2)-like and serotonin (5-HT) 5-HT(1A) agonist, PD 158771, are described. PD 158771 exhibited affinities for human D(2L), D(3) and D(4.2) receptors expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)-K1 cells with K(i) (nM) values of 5.2, 13.7 and 34.8 respectively. PD 158771 showed high affinity for cloned human 5-HT(1A) (K(i) = 2.6 nM) and rat hippocampal 5-HT(1A) receptors (K(i) = 3.5 nM). Weaker affinities were observed at alpha 1-adrenergic (K(i) = 43 nM), histamine H(1) (IC(50) = 30 nM), 5-HT(2A) (K(i) = 24.5 nM) and sigma (sigma) -1 binding sites (K(i) = 24.5 nM). In measures of in vitro functional activity, PD 158771 stimulated [(3)H]thymidine uptake in CHO p-5 cells transfected with hD(3) receptors with a maximal effect of 23% relative to quinpirole. In hD(2)L, the corresponding value was 60% with an EC(50) of 29 nM, again indicating partial DA agonist action of PD 158771. In vivo, PD 158771 produced a dose-related decrease in DA synthesis in the striatum and mesolimbic regions of rat brain treated with gamma-butyrolactone (GBL), indicating a DA autoreceptor agonist action. In animals not treated with GBL, PD 158771 produced a dose-related decrease in DA synthesis and extracellular DA. A decrease in 5-HT synthesis in several brain areas was observed consistent with an agonist response. Further support for DA autoreceptor agonist action is that PD 158771 produced a partial inhibition of the firing of substantia nigra zona compacta DA neurons, an effect reversed by haloperidol. In conclusion, PD 158771 exhibited affinities for DA and 5-HT receptors, appears to possess DA and 5-HT agonist actions; and it could provide improved antipsychotic profile with minimal side effects.
A high-affinity positive modulator of the GABA(A) receptor complex, ganaxolone, is a 3beta-methylated analog of the naturally occurring neuroactive steroid allopregnanolone. In the present study, ganaxolone was tested for its ability to (1) suppress seizures (clonic and tonic) and lethality induced by pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) in PTZ-kindled mice (anticonvulsive effect) and (2) to attenuate the development of sensitization to the convulsive and lethal effects of PTZ in kindled mice (anti-epileptogenic effect) when given as a pretreatment prior to each PTZ injection during kindling acquisition. Two classical antiepileptic drugs, diazepam and valproate, were tested for comparison. All three drugs dose-dependently suppressed tonic seizures and lethality induced by PTZ in kindled mice; only ganaxolone was effective against clonic seizures. Ganaxolone showed anti-epileptogenic properties as it reduced the sensitivity of kindled mice to the convulsive (clonic and tonic seizures) and lethal effects of PTZ. Diazepam showed anti-epileptogenic effects against tonic seizures and lethality, but not clonic seizures; valproate was ineffective in preventing development of any of these effects. Sensitivity to PTZ-induced seizures and lethality was not affected in mice with a history of repeated treatment with ganaxolone, diazepam, or valproate. The drugs had effects on ambulatory activity that ranged from no effect (ganaxolone) through moderate impairment (diazepam) to marked disruption (valproate). Taken together, the results of the present study add to accumulating evidence of the unique anticonvulsive/behavioral profile of neuroactive steroids.
The hippocampal GABAergic system is assumed not to be a target for purine modulation. We have now confirmed that neither adenosine A(1) and A(3) receptor nor nucleotide P(2) or P(4) receptor activation modified the K(+)-evoked [(3)H]GABA release from hippocampal synaptosomes. However, activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors with CGS 21680 (10 nM) or HENECA (30 nM) facilitated GABA release by 32% and 21%, respectively. These effects were prevented by the A(2A) antagonist, ZM 241385 (20 nM). A(2A) receptors may activate adenylate cyclase and protein kinase A since CGS 21680 (10 nM) facilitation was partially prevented by 8-bromo-cAMP (1 mM), forskolin (10 microM) and HA-1004 (10 microM). Protein kinase C may also be recruited, since chelerythrine (6 microM) and phorbol-12, 13-didecanoate (250 nM) attenuated CGS 21680 (10 nM) facilitation of [(3)H]GABA release. Omega-agatoxin-IVA (200 nM) occluded CGS 21680 facilitation suggesting the involvement of P-type calcium channels. Thus, the adenosine A(2A) receptor system appears to be one of the first presynaptic neuromodulatory systems able to enhance the evoked release of GABA from hippocampal nerve terminals.
Antidepressant drugs as well as electroconvulsive stimuli can significantly influence brain concentrations of neurotrophic factors. However, it is not known whether the baseline brain concentrations of neurotrophic factors are altered in human subjects suffering from affective disorders or whether there are sex differences in concentrations of neurotrophins in human brain. In order to elucidate some of these questions, we measured by ELISA brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF) in an animal model of depression, the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) rats and their controls, the Flinders Resistant Line (FRL). Altered BDNF and NGF concentrations were found in frontal cortex, occipital cortex, and hypothalamus of depressed FSL compared to FRL control rats. Furthermore, different levels of these neurotrophins were also found in the male and female brain. Cumulatively these observations suggest that BDNF and NGF may play a role in depression and, hypothetically, different brain regional concentrations of BDNF and NGF in male and female animals may be relevant to gender differences in vulnerability to depression.
Magnetoencephalography was applied to subjects who imagined themselves hurdling in self-centered space. In three of six subjects all 300 trials in the motor imagery condition revealed the precuneus dipole. When we divided the 300 trials into four overlapping blocks (one block = 150 trials), all six subjects showed precuneus activity. The latency of the precuneus dipole was about 220 ms. We suggest that the precuneus activity during motor imagery involves retrieval of spatial information and/or setting up spatial attributes. Only in one subject but twice, the current dipole located in the supplementary motor area was observed 60 ms after activation of the precuneus, which suggests that the signal from the precuneus for motor imagery is transferred to the supplementary motor area.
Intermodal binding between affective information that is seen as well as heard triggers a mandatory process of audiovisual integration. In order to track the time course of this audiovisual binding, event related brain potentials were recorded while subjects saw facial expression and concurrently heard auditory fragment. The results suggest that the combination of the two inputs is early in time (110 ms post-stimulus) and translates as a specific enhancement in amplitude of the auditory NI component. These findings are compatible with previous functional neuroimaging results of audiovisual speech showing strong audiovisual interactions in auditory cortex in the form of magnetic response amplifications, as well as with electrophysiological studies demonstrating early audiovisual interactions (before 200 ms post-stimulus). Moreover, our results show that the informational content present in the two modalities plays a crucial role in triggering the intermodal binding process.
The roles in the nervous system of the receptor tyrosine kinase Kit and its ligand, Steel factor, are unclear. We have now found first, that sensory nerve populations are reduced in mutant Kit and Steel mice, implicating Steel-Kit interactions in neuronal development. Second, sensory axonal regeneration (which occurs independently of nerve growth factor, or NGF) is impaired, while collateral sprouting (NGF dependent) is normal. Therefore, there is a selective involvement of Kit signal transduction pathways in nerve growth; supporting this, in wild-type animals Kit was up-regulated in regenerating, but unchanged in sprouting, sensory neurons. The receptor tyrosine kinase Kit thus contrasts with the receptor tyrosine kinase trkA, which is activated by the sprouting stimulus (NGF) but not by the axonal regeneration signal.


Functional activity of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors requires both glutamate binding and the binding of an endogenous coagonist that has been presumed to be glycine, although D-serine is a more potent agonist. Localizations of D-serine and it biosynthetic enzyme serine racemase approximate the distribution of NMDA receptors more closely than glycine. We now show that selective degradation of d-serine with D-amino acid oxidase greatly attenuates NMDA receptor-mediated neurotransmission as assessed by using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings or indirectly by using biochemical assays of the sequelae of NMDA receptor-mediated calcium flux. The inhibitory effects of the enzyme are fully reversed by exogenously applied D-serine, which by itself did not potentiate NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic responses. Thus, D-serine is an endogenous modulator of the glycine site of NMDA receptors and fully occupies this site at some functional synapses.
Extensive biochemical characterization of cells in the inner ear has been hampered by a lack of tools with which to identify inner-ear proteins. By using a single-chain antibody fragment isolated from a bacteriophage-displayed library, we have identified a cytokeratin that is abundant in nonsensory cells of the frog inner ear. Although the progenitors of hair cells exhibit strong immunoreactivity to this cytokeratin, the signal declines in immature hair cells and vanishes as the cells mature. The correlation between diminished immunoreactivity and hair-cell differentiation indicates that the cytokeratin is down-regulated during the transition from a nonsensory to a sensory cell and suggests that the marker is an early index of hair-cell differentiation.
Notch proteins are receptors that are important in mediating several developmental processes. Notch receptors are activated upon binding transmembrane ligands, the DSL proteins. Notch is cleaved at several sites and activation of Notch leads to the cleavage of the intracellular domain, which then is translocated to the nucleus and regulates the transcription of target genes. Krmer discusses how binding of Notch to the DSL ligand, Delta, leads to cleavage and trans-endocytosis of the Notch extracellular domain into the Delta-expressing cell. This trans-endocytosis event contributes to the cleavage and release of the active Notch intracellular domain. The Perspective is accompanied by a movie illustrating the trans-endocytosis of Notch.
To examine the possible involvement of the alpha-1-antichymotrypsin gene (ACT) polymorphism in the manifestation of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we analyzed genotypes of the ACT and apolipoprotein E gene (APOE) among 110 Korean patients with probable AD and 209 nondemented controls. No significant difference was obtained in genotypic (chi(2)=1.98, df=2, P&gt;0.1) and allelic frequencies (chi(2)=1.61, df=1, P&gt;0.1) of ACT between the AD and control groups. No overexpression of the ACT A/A genotype and ACT A allele was found when we analyzed the late-onset AD patients and the early-onset AD patients, separately. Then we stratified the ACT genotypes based on the presence or absence of the APOE epsilon4 allele to evaluate the possible interaction between them. In the APOE epsilon4-negative subjects, although the ACT A allele tended to be overexpressed in the AD group, the differences in the frequencies of the ACT A allele (chi(2)=2.79, df=1, P&gt;0.1) and ACT A/A genotype (chi(2)=0.16, df=1, P&gt;0.1) were not statistically significant. No significant overrepresentations of the ACT A allele (chi(2)=0.02, df=1, P&gt;0.1) and ACT A/A genotype (chi(2)=0.17, df=1, P&gt;0.1) were found in the APOE epsilon4-positive subjects, either. In addition, the status of the ACT genotype did not influence the age-at-onset of AD (F=0.03, df=2, P&gt;0.1). Therefore, the ACT polymorphism does not contribute to the development of AD independently or interactively with the APOE epsilon4 allele in Koreans.
The marginal shell of the anteroventral cochlear nucleus is anatomically and physiologically different from its central core. Previous studies suggest that neurons in the marginal shell are well suited to encode the intensity of acoustic stimuli. To investigate the projections of the marginal shell, a focal injection (&lt;100 nl) of a mixture of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) and (3)H-leucine was made into the marginal shell of the cat combined with injection of cholera toxin subunit-B (CTB) into the cochleas. Following a 7-day survival, the cats were perfused. Axons and swellings labeled with BDA and olivocochlear neurons labeled with CTB were immunocytochemically stained black and brown, respectively. (3)H-leucine labels were visualized by autoradiography. Labeled neural structures were examined via light microscopy. We found that swellings labeled with BDA, sometimes doubly labeled with BDA and (3)H-leucine, were in close apposition with dendrites and/or somata of olivocochlear neurons identified with CTB labeling. Double labeling with BDA and (3)H-leucine signifies that the label was anterogradely transported. The results support the conclusion that the anteroventral cochlear nucleus projects to medial olivocochlear neurons bilaterally and to lateral olivocochlear neurons ipsilaterally. Furthermore, the results are consistent with the interpretation that the marginal shell provides a source of the above-mentioned projections. Together with information in the literature, the present anatomical results support a hypothesis that the marginal shell provides information about stimulus intensity as a part of a reflex (or feedback gain control) system comprising the cochlea, cochlear neurons, cochlear nucleus, medial olivocochlear neurons, and cochlear outer hair cells.
Emx1 is a mouse homologue of the Drosophila homeobox gene empty spiracles. Its expression is limited to the neurons in developing and adult cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Because of the highly restricted expression pattern of the Emx1 gene, it would be quite desirable to characterize the promoter of the Emx1 for directing foreign gene expression in the transgenic mouse. We report here that we have achieved the Emx1-specific expression in transgenic mice by inserting the lacZ reporter and cre genes directly into the exon 1 of the Emx1 gene using embryonic stem (ES) cell technology. The distribution of the beta-galactosidase activity in the transgenic mice was consistent with the published results obtained using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, we have demonstrated that Cre protein was present in the cerebral cortex of the transgenic mice and was able to mediate loxP-specific recombination in vitro. The creation of this line of cre transgenic mice, and the demonstration that the insertion site located in the exon 1 of the Emx1 gene could render foreign genes a specific expression pattern restricted to the developing and adult cerebral cortex and hippocampus, should be conducive to further studies of the effect of a gene mutation or overexpression upon the development and plasticity of cerebral cortex and hippocampus.
The relation between activation of caspase-8 and polyglutamine aggregates has been focused. We prepared an antiserum (anti-m8D387) that recognizes the active form but not the proform of mouse caspase-8. We used immunostaining with anti-m8D387 antiserum to compare the localizations of activated mcaspase-8 in L929 (clone 1422) cells induced by TNF and polyglutamine aggregates. Anti-m8D387 was positive throughout cytoplasm of the TUNEL-positive cells induced by TNF treatment, whereas the anti-m8D387 reactivity was not positive throughout cytoplasm of the cells expressing polyglutamine but was restricted to polyglutamine aggregates. In contrast with TNF-treated cells, cells expressing anti-m8D387-positive cytoplasmic polyglutamine aggregates did not undergo TUNEL-positive apoptosis. Thus activated caspase-8 associated with polyglutamine aggregates alone was not sufficient to induce TUNEL-positive apoptosis of L929 (clone 1422) cells. The distribution of activated caspase-8 associated with polyglutamine aggregates may be essential for the polyglutamine-mediated cell death or downstream of caspase-8 may be different in the TNF-treated cells and cells expressing polyglutamine.
Aggregation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) in skeletal muscle is an essential step in the formation of the mammalian neuromuscular junction. While proteins that bind to myotube receptors such as agrin and laminin can stimulate AChR aggregation in cultured myotubes, removal of cell surface sialic acids stimulates aggregation in a ligand-independent manner. Here, we show that removal of cell surface alpha-galactosides also stimulates AChR aggregation in the absence of added laminin or agrin. AChR aggregation stimulated by alpha-galactosidase was blocked by peanut agglutinin (PNA), which binds to lactosamine-containing disaccharides, but not by the GalNAc-binding lectin Vicia villosa agglutinin (VVA-B4). AChR aggregation stimulated by alpha-galactosidase potentiated AChR clustering induced by either neural agrin or laminin-1 and could be inhibited by muscle agrin. These data suggest that capping of cell surface lactosamines or N-acetyllactosamines with alpha-galactose affects AChR aggregation much as capping with sialic acids does.
Neurogenic vasodilation in cranial arteries may be an important mechanism in the pathogenesis of migraine headache. We describe a novel, in vitro assay to characterise neurogenic vasodilator responses in endothelium-denuded segments of rabbit isolated basilar artery, with particular focus on calcitonin-gene related peptide (CGRP). In arterial segments precontracted with prostaglandin F(2alpha), relaxations evoked by exogenously applied alphaCGRP (EC(50)=2.9 nM) were inhibited by alphaCGRP-(8-37) (pA(2)=6.49) or by desensitisation resulting from prior exposure to alphaCGRP. Relaxations evoked by exogenously applied vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) (EC(50)=2.5 nM) were inhibited by VIP-(7-28) 1 microM. The 5-HT(1) receptor agonists L-771,331 ((3S)-3[N-(S)-alpha-methylbenzyl]aminomethyl-(S)-1-[2-(5-(2-oxo-1, 3-oxazolidin-4-ylmethyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]pyrrolidine) and sumatriptan exerted contractile effects (EC(50)=293 and 95 nM, respectively). In neurogenic experiments, vasodilation evoked by electrical field stimulation was markedly attenuated by pre-treatment with capsaicin (10 microM) or by prior CGRP receptor desensitisation and to a lesser extent by pre-treatment with VIP-(7-28) 1 microM. L-771,331 (100 nM) exerted a weak inhibitory effect, marked only by a short reduction in the recovery time (post-electrical stimulation) and sumatriptan (30 nM) had no effect. The neurogenic response was potentiated by alphaCGRP-(8-37) 1 microM (reversible on wash-out). Short application (5-10 min) of capsaicin (10 microM) produced vasodilation that was inhibited by alphaCGRP-(8-37) 1 microM. These data suggest that electrically evoked neurogenic vasodilation in rabbit basilar artery has a large component resulting from the release of sensory neuropeptides in particular CGRP and a smaller component involving the release of VIP.
The effects of acute treatment with (S)-2-[[(7-fluoroindan-4-yl)oxy]methyl]morpholine monohydrochloride (YM992), venlafaxine, fluoxetine and citalopram on extracellular norepinephrine levels were examined in the rat frontal cortex by in vivo microdialysis. YM992 (3, 10, 30 mg/kg, i.p.) dose-dependently increased extracellular norepinephrine levels (3-fold at 10 mg/kg, 5. 5-fold at 30 mg/kg). While venlafaxine and 30 mg/kg fluoxetine also produced significant increases in norepinephrine levels, 30 mg/kg citalopram had no effect. The combined administration of MDL100,907 (a selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist) and citalopram did significantly increase norepinephrine levels compared with either saline or citalopram treatment. Therefore, a synergistic effect due to 5-HT reuptake inhibition and 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonism of YM992 may partly contribute to the increase of extracellular norepinephrine levels. YM992 enhances the neurotransmission of not only 5-HT system but also norepinephrine, and as such may have a preclinical profile different from that of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor.
(S)-2-[[(7-fluoroindan-4-yl)oxy]methyl]morpholine monohydrochloride (YM992) is a novel putative antidepressant exhibiting both selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) reuptake inhibition and 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonism. In vivo microdialysis revealed that a single treatment with YM992 (3, 10, 30 mg/kg i.p.) dose-dependently increased extracellular 5-HT levels in the rat frontal cortex. Fluoxetine, citalopram and venlafaxine also produced significant increases in 5-HT levels at doses of 10-30 mg/kg. However, the increase in 5-HT levels induced by YM992 was significantly larger than increases elicited by these three compounds at 30 mg/kg. The combined administration of R-(+)-alpha-(2, 3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(4-fluorophenyl)ethyl]-4-piperidine-methanol (MDL100,907) (a selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist) and citalopram produced no additional increase in 5-HT levels compared with citalopram treatment alone. YM992 moderately enhanced [3H]5-HT release from rat cerebral cortex synaptosomes using different mechanisms than p-chloroamphetamine. In comparison, 10-microM fluoxetine markedly induced 5-HT release in vitro, while citalopram and venlafaxine had no noticeable effect on release. YM992 produces a more robust increase of 5-HT levels acutely than other antidepressants in vivo and the effect may be due to 5-HT releasing properties of the drug.
In the Drosophila visual cascade, the transient receptor potential (TRP) calcium channel, phospholipase Cbeta (no-receptor-potential A), and an eye-specific isoform of protein kinase C (eye-PKC) comprise a multimolecular signaling complex via their interaction with the scaffold protein INAD. Previously, we showed that the interaction between INAD and eye-PKC is a prerequisite for deactivation of a light response, suggesting eye-PKC phosphorylates proteins in the complex. To identify substrates of eye-PKC, we immunoprecipitated the complex from head lysates using anti-INAD antibodies and performed in vitro kinase assays. Wild-type immunocomplexes incubated with [(32)P]ATP revealed phosphorylation of TRP and INAD. In contrast, immunocomplexes from inaC mutants missing eye-PKC, displayed no phosphorylation of TRP or INAD. We also investigated protein phosphatases that may be involved in the dephosphorylation of proteins in the complex. Dephosphorylation of TRP and INAD was partially suppressed by the protein phosphatase inhibitors okadaic acid, microcystin, and protein phosphatase inhibitor-2. These phosphatase activities were enriched in the cytosol of wild-type heads, but drastically reduced in extracts prepared from glass mutants, which lack photoreceptors. Our findings indicate that INAD functions as RACK (receptor for activated PKC), allowing eye-PKC to phosphorylate INAD and TRP. Furthermore, dephosphorylation of INAD and TRP is catalyzed by PP1/PP2A-like enzymes preferentially expressed in photoreceptor cells.
Although B-amyloid (AB) is suggested to play an important role in Alzheimer's disease, the mechanisms that control AB-evoked toxicity are unclear. We demonstrated previously that the cell cycle-related cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6/retinoblastoma protein pathway is required for AB-mediated death. However, the downstream target(s) of this pathway are unknown. We show here that neurons lacking E2F1, a transcription factor regulated by the retinoblastoma protein, are significantly protected from death evoked by AB. Moreover, p53 deficiency does not protect neurons from death, indicating that E2F1-mediated death occurs independently of p53. Neurons protected by E2F1 deficiency have reduced Bax-dependent caspase 3-like activity. However, protection afforded by E2F1, Bax, or caspase 3 deficiency is transient. In the case of E2F1, but not with Bax or caspase 3 deficiency, delayed death is accompanied by DEVD-AFC cleavage activity. Taken together, these results demonstrate the required role of E2F1, Bax, and caspase 3 in AB evoked death, but also suggest the participation of elements independent of these apoptosis regulators.

In the present study the ability of tachykinin agonists and antagonists to modulate gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release has been correlated with tachykinin receptor expression in the mouse striatum. Significant GABA release was observed when striatal slices were challenged with the NK-3 receptor agonist senktide, the selectivity of which was confirmed using the NK-3 receptor antagonist SR142801. In situ hybridisation revealed co-expression of NK-3 receptors with nitric oxide synthase (NOS)/preprosomatostatin containing GABAergic interneurones. These findings suggest that tachykinins modulate GABA release within the striatum via interaction with NK-3 receptors on somatostatin/NOS interneurones.
Long-term depression has recently been shown to occur at glutamatergic synapses in the avian hippocampus and requires activation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II in the nerve terminal. Here using whole cell and intracellular recordings from brain slices, we show that the N-type calcium channel contributes significantly to glutamate release in the avian hippocampus. Activation of the metabotrobic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(B) receptor by the specific agonist baclofen blocks synaptic transmission. The action of baclofen was associated with a change in paired pulse facilitation indicating that it resulted from a reduction in the probability of transmitter release. In contrast, no change in paired pulse facilitation was observed following the induction of long-term depression. These results show that activation of GABA(B) receptors and long-term depression reduce transmitter release by distinct mechanisms.
Knockout mice lacking the P2X(1) receptor appear normal, but fail to breed. Analysis of these mutant mice clearly shows that purinergic co-transmission has a physiological role in the was deferens. These findings also raise the possibility of developing non-hormonal ways of regulating male fertility.

This review provides a comparative analysis of the expression patterns, functions, and biochemical properties of Msx and Dlx homeobox genes. These comprise multi-gene families that are closely related with respect to sequence features as well as expression patterns during vertebrate development. Thus, members of the Msx and Dlx families are expressed in overlapping, but distinct, patterns and display complementary or antagonistic functions, depending upon the context. A common theme shared among Msx and Dlx genes is that they are required during early, middle, and late phases of development where their differential expression mediates patterning, morphogenesis, and histogenesis of tissues in which they are expressed. With respect to their biochemical properties, Msx proteins function as transcriptional repressors, while Dlx proteins are transcriptional activators. Moreover, their ability to oppose each other's transcriptional actions implies a mechanism underlying their complementary or antagonistic functions during development.
6250 neurons yielding either callosal or inter-areal ipsilateral projections extrinsic to area 17 was GABAergic. Comparing these findings with those reported for other mammals, it seems that the incidence and distribution of GABAergic neurons in the visual cortex is similar in rabbits and rats. In contrast to rats but akin to higher mammals, no GABAergic neuron was found to furnish cortico-cortical connections to area 17 other than intrinsic connections.
Vesicular transport proteins package classical neurotransmitters for regulated exocytotic release, and localize to at least two distinct types of secretory vesicles. In PC12 cells, the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) localizes preferentially to synaptic-like microvesicles (SLMVs), whereas the closely related vesicular monoamine transporters (VMATs) localize preferentially to large dense core vesicles (LDCVs). VAChT and the VMATs contain COOH-terminal, cytoplasmic dileucine motifs required for internalization from the plasma membrane. We now show that VAChT undergoes regulated phosphorylation by protein kinase C on a serine (Ser-480) five residues upstream of the dileucine motif. Replacement of Ser-480 by glutamate, to mimic the phosphorylation event, increases the localization of VAChT to LDCVs. Conversely, the VMATs contain two glutamates upstream of their dileucine-like motif, and replacement of these residues by alanine conversely reduces sorting to LDCVs. The results provide some of the first information about sequences involved in sorting to LDCVs. Since the location of the transporters determines which vesicles store classical neurotransmitters, a change in VAChT trafficking due to phosphorylation may also influence the mode of transmitter release.
Incubation of permeabilized cells with mitotic extracts results in extensive fragmentation of the pericentriolarly organized stacks of cisternae. The fragmented Golgi membranes are subsequently dispersed from the pericentriolar region. We have shown previously that this process requires the cytosolic protein mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MEK1). Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1 and ERK2, the known downstream targets of MEK1, are not required for this fragmentation (Acharya et al. 1998). We now provide evidence that MEK1 is specifically phosphorylated during mitosis. The mitotically phosphorylated MEK1, upon partial proteolysis with trypsin, generates a different peptide population compared with interphase MEK1. MEK1 cleaved with the lethal factor of the anthrax toxin can still be activated by its upstream mitotic kinases, and this form is fully active in the Golgi fragmentation process. We believe that the mitotic phosphorylation induces a change in the conformation of MEK1 and that this form of MEK1 recognizes Golgi membranes as a target compartment. Immunoelectron microscopy analysis reveals that treatment of permeabilized normal rat kidney (NRK) cells with mitotic extracts, treated with or without lethal factor, converts stacks of pericentriolar Golgi membranes into smaller fragments composed predominantly of tubuloreticular elements. These fragments are similar in distribution, morphology, and size to the fragments observed in the prometaphase/metaphase stage of the cell cycle in vivo.

The curriculum for first year medical students at the University of Cincinnati has changed. Beginning in the fall of 1998, material in the first year was presented in an Integrated Educational Program. The goal of this program was to provide students with an understanding of the normal structure, function, and development of the human body. The purpose of this report is to discuss the unique integration that occurs in a block offered during the Spring Quarter. The two components of this block are Gross Anatomy of the Head and Neck and Brain and Behavior I. Brain and Behavior I is a new offering combining neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, neurology, and a psychiatry/behavioral component. The unique combinations offered in this block are logical, educationally sound, and have been enthusiastically received by both the students and faculty.
The two pharmacological delta-opioid receptor subtypes, delta1 and delta2, have been defined on the basis of pharmacological tools but remain to be characterized at the molecular level, since only a single cDNA has been cloned. The present study aimed to investigate the pharmacological properties of delta1- and delta2-opioid subtypes expressed in the human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-BE and to characterize their putative corresponding mRNAs. Binding experiments using &quot;selective&quot; delta1- and delta2-opioid agonists and antagonists revealed the presence of two binding sites, demonstrating the presence of these delta1-opioid subtypes as they were previously described. The activation of these pharmacological subtypes by the selective agonists induced the incorporation of [alpha-(32)P]azidoanilide-GTP into Galpha(i2)/Galpha(0) subunits with the same efficiency and potency and inhibited adenosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) accumulation with similar efficiency, while their sustained activation for 15 min induced a cross-desensitization. The &quot;selective&quot; delta1 and delta2 antagonists, 7-benzylidenenaltrexone and naltrindole benzofuran, respectively, were found to be as potent in blocking the inhibition of cAMP accumulation induced by both [D-Pen(2,5)]enkephalin and Tyr-D-Ala-Phe-Asp-Val-Val-Gly-NH(2). The possibility that delta-opioid subtypes could arise from alternative splicing was ruled out by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) experiments and the sequencing of PCR products, which revealed the presence of a single transcript encoding for the delta-opioid receptor. Different possibilities which could account for the delta-opioid receptor heterogeneity observed in the SN-N-BE cell line are discussed.

The Brachyury, or T, gene is required for notochord development in animals occupying all three chordate subphyla and probably also had this role in the last common ancestor of the chordate lineages. In two chordate subphyla (vertebrates and cephalochordates), T is also expressed during gastrulation in involuting endodermal and mesodermal cells, and in vertebrates at least, this expression domain is required for proper development. In the basally diverging chordate subphylum Urochordata, animals in the class Ascidiacea do not employ T during gastrulation in endodermal or nonaxial mesodermal cells, and it has been suggested that nonnotochordal roles for T were acquired in the cephalochordate-vertebrate lineage after it split with Urochordata. To test this hypothesis, we cloned T from Oikopleura dioica, a member of the urochordate class Appendicularia (or Larvacea), which diverged basally in the subphylum. Investigation of the expression pattern in developing Oikopleura embryos showed early expression in presumptive notochord precursor cells, in the notochord, and in parts of the developing gut and cells of the endodermal strand. We conclude that the ancestral role of T likely included expression in the developing gut and became necessary in chordates for construction of the notochord.
Sema3A (Sema III, SemD, collapsin-1) can induce neuronal growth cone collapse and axon repulsion of distinct neuronal populations. To study Sema3A function in patterning afferent projections into the developing spinal cord, we employed the recombinant adenoviral vector technique in embryonic rat spinal cord slices. Virus solution was injected in the dorsal aspect of organotypic spinal cord cultures with segmentally attached dorsal root ganglia (sc-DRG). In cultures grown in the presence of nerve growth factor (NGF), injected either with the control virus AdCMVLacZ or with vehicle only, afferent innervation patterns were similar to those of control. However, unilateral injection of AdCMVSema3A/AdCMVLacZ in sc-DRG slices revealed a strong inhibitory effect on NGF-dependent sensory afferent growth. Ectopic Sema3A in the dorsal spinal cord, the target area of NGF-responsive DRG fibers in vivo, created an exclusion zone for these fibers and as a result they failed to reach and innervate their appropriate target zones. Taken together, gain of Sema3A function in the dorsal aspect of sc-DRG cultures revealed a dominant inhibitory effect on NGF-dependent, nociceptive sensory DRG afferents, an observation in line with the model proposed by E. K. Messersmith et al. (1995, Neuron 14, 949-959), suggesting that Sema3A secreted by spinal cord cells can act to repel central sensory fibers during the formation of lamina-specific connections in the spinal cord.

The mechanisms of H(2)O(2)-induced elevated calcium baselines in PC12 cells were investigated in the present study by using fura-2-fluorescent image analysis. The results showed that the calcium comes from both intracellular and extracellular sources. Although the major intracellular source was mitochondria, only the extracellular calcium influx was responsible for the sustained post-H(2)O(2)-exposure increases. This calcium influx was partially blocked by calcium channel antagonists [verapamil (L-type) or mibefradil (nonselective)] and was more effectively blocked by the sodium channel antagonist, tetrodotoxin (TTX). Membrane depolarization following H(2)O(2) exposure contributed to the opening of the ion channels. The H(2)O(2)-induced calcium influx was blocked by TTX even in a sodium-free buffer, indicating that calcium directly fluxed through sodium channels. Sodium-calcium exchangers (NCX) on the plasma membrane did not play a role, because use of a specific reverse mode NCX inhibitor, No. 7943, was ineffective in blocking the influx. The H(2)O(2)-induced calcium influx was mimicked by using a thiol-selective oxidizing reagent, 2', 2'-dithiodipyridine, and in both situations, the calcium levels were completely reversed by a thiol-selective reducing reagent, dithiothreitol. Our results indicated that mechanisms of oxidant-induced elevated calcium baselines in PC12 cells involved calcium influx through sodium and calcium channels that may be directly or indirectly attributed to thiol oxidation.
Query of GenBank with the amino acid sequence of human metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 2 (mGluR2) identified a predicted gene product of unknown function on BAC clone CIT987SK-A-69G12 (located on chromosome band 16p12) as a homologous protein. The transcript, entitled GPRC5B, was cloned from an expressed sequence tag clone that contained the entire open reading frame of the transcript encoding a protein of 395 amino acids. Analysis of the protein sequence reveal that GPRC5B contains a signal peptide and seven transmembrane alpha-helices, which is a hallmark of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). GPRC5B displays homology to retinoic acid-inducible gene 1 (RAIG1, 33% sequence identity) and to several family C (mGluR-like) GPCRs (20-25% sequence identity). Both RAIG1 and GPRC5B have short extracellular amino-terminal domains (ATDs) that contrast the very long ATDs characterizing the receptors currently assigned to family C. However, our results strongly indicate that RAIG1 and GPRC5B form a new subgroup of family C characterized by short ATDs. GPRC5B mRNA is widely expressed in peripheral and central tissues with highest abundance in kidney, pancreas, and testis. This mRNA expression pattern is markedly different from that of RAIG1, which shows a slightly more restricted expression pattern with highest abundance in lung tissue.
Human V alpha 24+ NK T cells are a unique subset of lymphocytes expressing the V alpha 24J alpha Q invariant TCR chain. Because they can rapidly produce large amounts of regulatory cytokines, a reduction of NK T cells may lead to the development of certain autoimmune diseases. Using a single-strand conformation polymorphism method, we demonstrate that a great reduction of V alpha 24J alpha Q NK T cells in the peripheral blood is an immunological hallmark of multiple sclerosis, whereas it is not appreciable in other autoimmune/inflammatory diseases such as chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. The chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy lesions were often found to be infiltrated with V alpha 24J alpha Q NK T cells, but multiple sclerosis lesions only rarely expressed the V alpha 24J alpha Q TCR. It is therefore possible that the extent of NK T cell alteration may be a critical factor which would define the clinical and pathological features of autoimmune disease. Although the mechanism underlying the NK T cell deletion remains largely unclear, a remarkable contrast between the CNS and peripheral nervous system diseases allows us to speculate a role of tissue-specific elements such as the level of CD1d expression or differences in the CD1d-bound glycolipid.
Approximately one-quarter of individuals with AIDS develop neuropathological symptoms that are attributable to infection of the brain with HIV. The cognitive manifestations have been termed HIV-associated dementia. The mechanisms underlying HIV-associated neuronal injury are incompletely understood, but various studies have confirmed the release of neurotoxins by macrophages/microglia infected with HIV-1 or stimulated by viral proteins, including the envelope glycoprotein gp120. In the present study, we investigated the possibility that l -cysteine, a neurotoxin acting at the N-methyl-d -aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor, could contribute to HIV-associated neuronal injury. Picomolar concentrations of gp120 were found to stimulate cysteine release from human monocyte-derived macrophages (hMDM) in amounts sufficient to injure cultured rat cerebrocortical neurons. TNF-alpha and IL-1beta, known to be increased in HIV-encephalitic brains, as well as a cellular product of cytokine stimulation, ceramide, were also shown to induce release of cysteine from hMDM in a dose-dependent manner. A TNF-alpha-neutralizing Ab and an IL-1betaR antagonist partially blocked gp120-induced cysteine release, suggesting that these cytokines may mediate the actions of gp120. Interestingly, hMDM infected with HIV-1 produced significantly less cysteine than uninfected cells following stimulation with TNF-alpha. Our findings imply that cysteine may play a role in the pathogenesis of neuronal injury in HIV-associated dementia due to its release from immune-activated macrophages but not virus-infected macrophages. Such uninfected cells comprise the vast majority of mononuclear phagocytes (macrophages and microglia) found in HIV-encephalitic brains.
A 46-year-old woman presented progressive proximal weakness and dysphagia. Her serum creatine kinase and myoglobin levels were markedly elevated. Chest X-rays revealed bilateral swelling of the hilar lymph nodes. Needle electromyography demonstrated active denervation and early recruitment. MRI of her skeletal muscle showed focal high intensities on T1-weighted images that were associated with diffusely increased signal intensities on T2-weighted images. Muscle biopsy revealed infiltration of inflammatory cells associated with non-caseating granulomas, and there was widespread segmental fiber necrosis, where necrotic fibers appeared regardless of these granulomas. Immunohistochemical analysis of the surface markers of the infiltrating cells showed CD68- and CD4-positive cells infiltrating into the central area of the granuloma, while CD8-positive cells infiltrating into the endomysium and the periphery of the granulomas. The characteristic histology of the granuloma confirmed the diagnosis of sarcoidosis. The diffuse muscle pathology was consistent with the patient's severe clinical course.
In several species, including humans, the dentate granule cell layer (GCL) of the hippocampus exhibits neurogenesis throughout adult life. The ability to regulate adult neurogenesis pharmacologically may be of therapeutic value as a mechanism for replacing lost neurons. Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) is a growth-promoting peptide hormone that has been shown to have neurotrophic properties. The relationship between IGF-I and adult hippocampal neurogenesis is to date unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of the peripheral administration of IGF-I on cellular proliferation in the dentate subgranular proliferative zone, which contains neuronal progenitor cells, and on the subsequent migration and differentiation of progenitor cells within the GCL. Using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling, we found a significant increase of BrdU-immunoreactive progenitors in the GCL after 6 d of peripheral IGF-I administration. To determine the cell fate in progenitor progeny, we characterized the colocalization of BrdU-immunolabeled cells with cell-specific markers. In animals treated with IGF-I for 20 d, BrdU-positive cells increased significantly. Furthermore, the fraction of newly generated neurons in the GCL increased, as evaluated by the neuronal markers Calbindin D(28K), microtubule-associated protein-2, and NeuN. There was no difference in the fraction of newly generated astrocytes. Thus, our results show that peripheral infusion of IGF-I increases progenitor cell proliferation and selectively induces neurogenesis in the progeny of adult neural progenitor cells. This corresponds to a 78 +/- 17% (p &lt; 0.001) increase in the number of new neurons in IGF-I-treated animals compared with controls.
Release of mitochondrial cytochrome c into the cytosol is a critical step in apoptosis. We have reported that early release of cytochrome c in vivo occurs after permanent focal cerebral ischemia (FCI) and is mediated by the mitochondrial antioxidant manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD). However, the role of reactive oxygen species produced after ischemia-reperfusion in the mitochondrial apoptosis process is still unknown, although overexpression of copper/zinc-SOD (SOD1), a cytosolic isoenzyme, protects against ischemia-reperfusion. We now hypothesize that the overexpression of SOD1 also prevents apoptosis after FCI. To address this issue, we examined the subcellular distribution of the cytochrome c protein in both wild-type mice and in SOD1 transgenic (Tg) mice after transient FCI. Cytosolic cytochrome c was detected as early as 2 hr after reperfusion, and correspondingly, mitochondrial cytochrome c was significantly reduced after FCI. Cytosolic cytochrome c was significantly lower in the SOD1 Tg mice compared with wild types 2 (p &lt; 0.0001) and 4 (p &lt; 0.05) hr after FCI. Apaf-1, which interacts with cytochrome c and activates caspases, was constitutively expressed in both groups of animals, with no alteration after FCI. Double staining with cytochrome c immunohistochemistry and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated uridine 5'-triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling showed a spatial relationship between cytosolic cytochrome c expression and DNA fragmentation. A significant amount of DNA laddering was detected 24 hr after ischemia and was reduced in SOD1 Tg mice. These data suggest that SOD1 blocks cytosolic release of cytochrome c and could thereby reduce apoptosis after transient FCI.
Intrinsic signal imaging (ISI) measures changes in light reflectance from the illuminated cortex (intrinsic signals or IS) attributed to various vascular and metabolic sources that, when using illumination in the 600 nm range, appear to co-localize with neuronal activity. Given the multiple sources contributing to the collected IS, the common practice of averaging across an extended post-stimulus time epoch before dividing by baseline data typically visualizes evoked IS overlying both the cortical tissue and the large surface blood vessels. In rat PMBSF, the contribution from these vessels are problematic as they do not co-localize with known PMBSF function. Determining a means for quantifying the evoked IS area poses an additional challenge. Here, we describe how exploiting IS collected shortly after stimulus onset (within 1.5 s), which coincides with fast oxygen consumption of active neurons, visualizes evoked IS overlying the cortical tissue without the large surface vessels. We also describe how the use of absolute thresholds combined with a baseline determined from data collected immediately prior to stimulus onset (within 1 s) targets most precisely a specific evoked IS amplitude, a method that should be especially useful when evoked areas are expected to occupy a substantial portion of the total imaged area and/or when peak activity is expected to differ between subjects.
Despite a critical role for calcium in endothelial regulation of cerebrovascular tone, endothelial intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) has never been measured in the context of an intact pressurized cerebral vessel. The purpose of the present study was to selectively measure endothelial or smooth muscle [Ca(2+)](i) and diameter in a pressurized/perfused cerebral vessel. In a pressurized rat middle cerebral artery, fura-2 AM was administered selectively to either the luminal (endothelium) or abluminal (smooth muscle) side of the vessel. Selectivity of loading was determined by measuring fura-2 fluorescence before and after removal of the endothelium. Removal of the endothelium virtually eliminated fura-2 fluorescence. In addition, 2-methylthioadenosine triphosphate (2MeS-ATP, a selective endothelial P2 receptor agonist) was used to infer the selectivity of fura-2 loading. It was reasoned that 2MeS-ATP should produce a decrease in smooth muscle [Ca(2+)](i) and an increase in endothelial [Ca(2+)](i) in selectively loaded vessels, consistent with its role as an NO-dependent dilator. In smooth muscle loaded vessels, [Ca(2+)](i) went from 252+/-8 to 82+/-9 nM following luminal administration of 2MeS-ATP, whereas in endothelial loaded vessels, [Ca(2+)](i) went from 137+/-11 to 271+/-20 nM. Thus, a method is provided which allows for selective measurement of endothelial or smooth muscle [Ca(2+)](i) with simultaneous measurement of diameter in a pressurized cerebral vessel.
The contrast-sensitivity function (CSF) provides a concise and thorough description of an organism's spatial vision; it is widely used to describe vision in animals and humans, to track developmental changes in vision, and to compare vision among different species. Despite the predominance of rats in neuroscience research, their vision is not thoroughly studied due to the complexity of psychophysical measurement and a generally held notion that rat vision is poor. We therefore designed an economical and rapid method to assess the hooded rat's CSF, using a computer monitor to display stimuli and an infrared touch screen to record responses. A six-alternative forced-choice task presented trials in which a sine-wave grating (S+), varying in spatial frequency and contrast, was displayed at different locations along with five gray stimuli (S-). Nose pokes to the S+ but not the S- produced water reinforcers. Contrasts were tested at each spatial frequency with a simple adaptive procedure until stimulus detection fell below chance. Psychometric functions were obtained by maximum-likelihood fitting of a logistic function to the raw data, obtaining the threshold as the function's point of inflection. As in previous studies with rats, CSFs showed an inverse-U shape with peak sensitivity at 0.12 cyc/deg and acuity just under 1 cyc/deg. The results indicate the present computer-controlled behavioral testing device is a precise and efficient instrument to assess spatial visual function in rats.
Minimizing relative movements between neural tissues and arrays of microelectrodes chronically implanted into them is expected to greatly enhance the capacity of the microelectrodes to record from single cortical neurons on a long-term basis. We describe a new surgical technique to minimize the formation of adhesions between the dura and an implanted electrode array using a 12 microm (0.5 mil) thick sheet of Teflon film positioned between the array and the dura. A total of 15 cats were implanted using this technique. Gross examination of 12 implant sites at the time of sacrifice failed to find evidence of adhesions between the arrays and the dura when the Teflon(R) film remained in its initial position. In six implants from which recordings were made, an average of nine of the 11 (81%) connected electrodes in each array recorded evoked neural activity after 180 days post implantation. Further, on average, two separable units were identified on each of the implanted electrodes in these arrays. No significant change was found in the density of cell bodies around implanted electrodes of four of the implanted electrode arrays. However, histological evaluation of the implant sites revealed evidence of meningeal proliferation beneath the arrays. The technique described is shown to be effective at preventing adhesions between implanted electrode arrays and improve the characteristics of chronic recordings obtained with these structures.
In many patients treated with cisplatin a peripheral sensory neuropathy develops. This side-effect is considered dose-limiting, and therefore restricts the total dose of cisplatin that can be administered. Recent in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that recombinant human Glial Growth Factor 2 (rhGGF2) has neuroprotective effects. This prompted us to investigate in a rat model whether rhGGF2 ameliorates cisplatin neuropathy. A total of 48 rats were randomly divided into four groups of 12 rats each. Three groups received cisplatin and were treated with either 0.1 mg/kg rhGGF2, 0.3 mg/kg rhGGF2 or placebo. The fourth group (saline/placebo) served as age-matched controls. In the cisplatin/placebo treated rats a neuropathy developed, as determined by measurements of the nerve conduction velocity (NCV). Treatment with rhGGF2 dose-dependently protected against the neuropathy. Histological examination and morphometric analysis revealed that rhGGF2 also protects against cisplatin-induced changes in the morphology and size of DRG satellite cell nuclei. In a control study rhGGF2 did not affect normal NCV development. We conclude that rhGGF2 treatment is of benefit in the treatment of cisplatin neuropathy in the rat.
1. Modulation of release probability is a major factor underlying short-term synaptic plasticity in the central nervous system. We have investigated the relationship between release probability ((Pr) and paired-pulse modulation at a large auditory calyceal synapse containing many transmitter release sites. Whole-cell patch electrode recordings were made of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs), evoked by stimulation of auditory nerve fibres giving rise to the endbulbs of Held. 2. Quantitative estimates of Pr and quantal amplitude were obtained using the recently developed variance-mean analysis technique. Release probability conditions were modulated by bath application of cadmium, elevated calcium and protein kinase C activation by phorbol esters. 3. Our results show that, under physiological conditions, most sites released neurotransmitter following a single presynaptic nerve impulse, with a mean Pr of 0.6. The mean quantal amplitude was 44 pA, which was consistent with the mean amplitude of miniature EPSCs (47 pA). 4. Under high release probability conditions with elevated calcium or phorbol esters, Pr at all sites approached 1.0. At these high Pr values, variance-mean analysis indicated a significant postsynaptic contribution to paired-pulse depression. The miniature EPSC amplitudes were decreased following stimulation in elevated calcium, confirming a postsynaptic component of paired-pulse depression at this glutamatergic connection. 5. A notable feature was the large variability between neurons in the relationship between paired-pulse ratio and Pr. Based on current models of vesicle release and ultrastructural evidence, we suggest that this variability may be partly due to morphological differences between endbulb specializations, particularly in the ratio of fusion-ready to reserve populations of vesicles at endbulb release sites.
The goal of the present study is to identify genes that respond to iron availability. Suppression subtraction hybridization (SSH) was used to generate cDNA libraries from iron loaded and control human astrocytoma cells (SW1088). The cDNA libraries were screened with antisense cDNA probes obtained from mRNA isolated from astrocytoma cells exposed to three conditions: (i) normal media (control), (ii) deferox-amine treated (iron deficient) or (iii) iron loaded. The screening of the cDNA libraries with antisense probes from the three conditions enhanced the screening efficiency and decreased the number of false positives. Positive clones were identified and sequenced. The genes of interest were further analyzed by determining changes in hybridization signal on northern blots from astrocytoma cells exposed to iron or deferoxamine over different time intervals. Our analysis identified cDNAs corresponding to known iron responsive genes such as L-chain ferritin, but also revealed a number of mRNAs with novel sequences and mRNAs previously not known to be responsive to iron such as one of the ABC transporters and Thy-1 glycoprotein. Thus our results suggest that the expression of a number of genes may be influenced by changes in iron availability.
Retinal pigment epithelial cells (RPE) secrete a factor(s) in vitro which promotes Mller cell proliferation. To begin the isolation of the active factor, medium conditioned by cultured RPE (RPE-CM) was fractionated by fast protein liquid chromatography. The fractions were tested in an assay for Mller cell proliferation and it was found that one fraction contained biological activity comparable to that of complete RPE-CM. Gel electrophoresis demonstrated that this fraction consisted of proteins with approximate molecular masses of 35-88 kDa. An affinity assay revealed that only an 88-kDa protein in the RPE-CM binds to Mller cells. This protein was also present in the active fraction; therefore, it is the most likely source of the mitogenic activity of RPE-CM.
A transient increase in brain polyamine (PA) metabolism, termed the PA-stress-response (PSR), is a common response to stressful stimuli. Previous studies have implicated the PSR as a component of the adaptive and/or maladaptive brain response to stressful events. Ample evidence indicates that stressful experiences during early life can alter normal developmental processes and may result in pathophysiological and behavioral changes in the adult. The aim of the present study, therefore, was to determine whether strong acute neonatal stressors (3 mg/kg dexamethasone, or 2 h restraint stress at day 7), as compared to mild long-term intermittent maternal separation and handling (15 min, twice a day between postnatal days 2 and 25), would lead in adult Wistar rats to different PSR and behavioral reactivity to novelty stress. Changes in ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and in tissue PA concentrations served as markers of the PSR, and behavioral alterations in an open-field arena indicated the reactivity to novelty stress. Animals subjected to acute neonatal stressors, showed reduced behavioral reactivity in the open-field test, indicative of increased emotional reactivity to novelty. In these animals, the increase in ODC activity after dexamethasone challenge was attenuated in the brain, but exaggerated in the liver. In the thymus and adrenal gland of these animals, the basal enzyme activity was significantly increased, but a similar reduction was observed after dexamethasone challenge. In contrast, long-term postnatal handling led in adults to novelty-induced changes indicative of reduced emotional behavior, yet the alterations in ODC activity after dexamethasone challenge in these animals were similar to those in animals after acute stressors. The concentrations of tissue polyamines in adults were not affected by any of the postnatal stressors. The results justify the following conclusions: (1) Strong acute neonatal stressors can lead to increased emotional behavior in adults, while mild long-term intermittent handling, may result in adaptation and reduced emotionality. (2) Attenuated stress-induced increase of ODC activity in the brain, but exaggerated increased activity in the liver, may be implicated in altered emotional behavior reactivity to stressors.
Evidence suggests that some neuropathologic manifestations of Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS) result from the disruption of neuromorphogenesis and synapse formation in the hippocampus. Prior research in this laboratory has shown that ethanol in the medium during the first 24 h in culture increases the number of minor processes (the precursors of axons and dendrites) and accelerates the rate at which axons are formed in low-density cultures of embryonic rat hippocampal neurons. The current study examined the effects of ethanol on the subsequent development of dendrites and synapses in these cultures. Quantitative morphometric analysis utilized double-immunofluorescent staining for MAP2 and synapsin I to visualize dendrites and synaptic specializations, respectively. Six days of ethanol (200, 400 or 600 mg/dl) in the medium, beginning at the time of plating, resulted in decreases in total dendritic length per cell, dendrite number per cell, length of individual dendrites and synapse number per innervated dendrite but had no effect on cell survival. The decrease in synapse number was correlated with dendrite length, suggesting that ethanol's effects on synapse number are secondary to its effects on dendritogenesis. Taken together with our previous findings, these results are the first to demonstrate that ethanol has differential effects on axonal and dendritic growth in a culture model of neurons that are vulnerable to ethanol-induced cytoarchitectural abnormalities during development in vivo.
The orphan receptor TR4, member of the nuclear hormone receptor family, is related to the orphan receptors TR2, COUP-TFI and ARP-1, and was originally cloned from the adult rat brain. The latter two orphan receptors have been implicated in central nervous system (CNS) development. To investigate a possible role for TR4 in brain development, expression of TR4 was studied in rat embryos. At embryonic days 14.5 and 19.5, high expression of TR4 was found in the CNS, while low expression was detected throughout the embryo. In postnatal rats, TR4 was mainly expressed in the hippocampus and cerebellum, resembling the expression pattern found in adult brain. These data show that like COUP-TFI and ARP-1, expression of TR4 becomes restricted to distinct areas. In adult brain, TR4 is predominantly expressed in granule cells of both hippocampus and cerebellum. The data suggest a possible role for TR4 during proliferation and maturation of brain structures.
Two relatively well characterised kinase signalling pathways are those involving MAPK/ERK and p38/SAPK2, that are known to be activated in vitro by various factors known to increase following stroke, such as glutamate, IL-1 and TNF. The present study was designed to investigate the activation and cellular distribution of phosphorylated-ERK1/2, -p38 and the transcription factor CREB following focal cerebral ischaemia using phosphospecific antibodies. Up to 24 h following transient MCAO (90 min) and 6 h following permanent MCAO, phospho-ERK1/2 staining was markedly increased within the cytoplasm of neuronal perikarya in 'penumbral-like' regions. In contrast, phospho-p38 immunostaining was markedly increased in cells with astrocyte-like morphology in both 'core' and 'penumbral-like' regions. Phospho-p38 staining was also detected in some neurones within 'penumbral-like' regions up to 24 h following transient MCAO. CREB activation was confined to neurones in 'penumbral-like' regions. Increased phospho-p38 immunoreactivity was detected in astrocyte-like cells present in the subcortical white matter ipsilateral to the occluded MCAO, while phospho-CREB and -ERK1/2 staining was localised to cells with the morphological appearance of oligodendrocytes. This study demonstrates phosphorylation, indicative of activation, of both the MAPK and p38 pathways following transient and permanent MCAO. However, each pathway shows a distinct cellular and spatial distribution within ischaemic tissue. Together these data indicate that neuroprotection offered by agents directed towards the ERK1/2 pathway may act directly through protection of neurones and oligodendrocytes, while those directed towards the p38 pathway kinase signalling pathways may be indirectly via inhibition of cytokines and other mediators involved in the brains response to injury.
6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) is usually thought to cross cell membrane through dopamine uptake transporters, to inhibit mitochondrial respiration and to generate intracellular reactive oxygen species. In this study, we show that the anti-oxidants catalase, glutathione and N-acetyl-cysteine are able to reverse the toxic effects of 6-OHDA. These two latter compounds considerably slow down 6-OHDA oxidation in a cell free system suggesting a direct chemical interaction with the neurotoxin. Moreover, desipramine does not protect PC12 cells and 6-OHDA is also strongly toxic towards non-catecholaminergic C6 and NIH3T3 cells. These results thus suggest that 6-OHDA toxicity on PC12 cells mainly involves an extracellular process.
The distribution of tachykinin NK(1) and NK(3) receptors in the prefrontal (Brodmann area 9) and visual cortex (Brodmann area 17) of formalin-fixed postmortem human brain tissue was studied by immunohistochemistry. NK(1)-like immunoreactivity (NK(1)-LI) was observed as a thin band at the cortical surface and dots of NK(1)-LI localised on small non-pyramidal cells and in the neuropil (layers I-III). NK(3)-LI was found in beaded fibres and cells with astrocyte-like morphology in the superficial cortical layers and white matter. Dots of NK(3)-LI were prominent in the neuropil and on pyramidal (layers III/V) and non-pyramidal (layers V/VI) cells. The NK(3)-LI was more abundant and widespread than the NK(1)-LI. This is the first report of the distribution of the NK(1) receptor in the prefrontal and visual cortex of the human brain by immunohistochemistry.
K(+) channel blockers, such as tetraethylammonium (TEA) and 4-aminopyridine, increase force of normal skeletal muscle. To determine whether they also increase force of diseased muscle, effects of TEA were examined on limb muscles of dy/dy dystrophic mice in vitro. TEA significantly increased isometric twitch force of normal and dystrophic soleus muscle by 29.9+/-5.8 and 30.0+/-5.0%, respectively, and significantly increased force of normal and dystrophic extensor digitorum longus muscle by 18.3+/-1.9 and 34. 9+/-10.4%, respectively. Force increases could be attributed only partially to a prolongation of contraction time. These data indicate that TEA augments force of overtly diseased (dystrophic) limb muscle to an extent comparable with that of normal limb muscle.
Birdsong, like speech, is a learned vocal behaviour that relies greatly on hearing; in both songbirds and humans the removal of auditory feedback by deafening leads to a gradual deterioration of adult vocal production. Here we investigate the neural mechanisms that contribute to the processing of auditory feedback during the maintenance of song in adult zebra finches. We show that the deleterious effects on song production that normally follow deafening can be prevented by a second insult to the nervous system--the lesion of a basal ganglia-forebrain circuit. The results suggest that the removal of auditory feedback leads to the generation of an instructive signal that actively drives non-adaptive changes in song; they also suggest that this instructive signal is generated within (or conveyed through) the basal ganglia-forebrain pathway. Our findings provide evidence that cortical-basal ganglia circuits may participate in the evaluation of sensory feedback during calibration of motor performance, and demonstrate that damage to such circuits can have little effect on previously learned behaviour while conspicuously disrupting the capacity to adaptively modify that behaviour.
The sarcoglycan complex is composed of four membrane-spanning dystrophin-associated proteins (DAPs) and is essential for skeletal muscle survival, since the absence or markedly reduced expression of this complex due to mutation of any one of the sarcoglycan genes causes a group of muscular dystrophies, collectively termed sarcoglycanopathy. Although one of the putative functions of the sarcoglycan complex is its participation in signaling processes, detailed studies have been scarce. Very recently, it was shown that gene knockout mice for a DAP, alpha-dystrobrevin, exhibit a dystrophic phenotype, possibly due to defects in muscle cell signaling. To clarify the putative function of the sarcoglycan complex, it is essential to determine whether or not there is a link between it and the intracellular signaling molecules. To elucidate this, we developed new methods for preparing various DAP complexes containing the sarcoglycan complex from the purified dystrophin-DAP complex. It was suggested from one of the complexes prepared that the sarco-glycan-sarcospan complex (the sarcoglycan complex associated with sarcospan) is associated with syntrophin and/or dystrobrevin. Further analysis of this complex revealed that the N-terminal half of dystrobrevin participates in this association. It is thus considered that the sarcoglycan-sarcospan complex is linked to the signaling protein neuronal nitric oxide synthase via alpha-syntrophin associated with dystrobrevin.
There is a dearth of good mouse models for central nervous system (CNS) disorders. However, the development of gene-targeted technology and the recognition of the importance of the mouse as a model organism have led to the development of a range of behavioural tests for mice. Spontaneous mutations in mice have already provided important information about the role of novel gene products in disorders such as epilepsy and deafness. This has provided the impetus to the establishment of large-scale mutagenesis programmes to generate new mutations. Tests of sensory and motor function have previously been most frequently used as these are simple to perform and the phenotypes are relatively obvious. Subtle phenotypes, of relevance to pyschiatric disorders such as anxiety and schizophrenia, can be detected using more complex tests. Screens such as prepulse inhibition and startle have been adapted for mice and these can be run with relatively high throughput using fully automated equipment. Other behaviours such as sleep and circadian rhythms, learning and memory and nociception can also be assessed. New technological advances in non-invasive imaging and neurochemical analyses have meant that these techniques can be readily applied to mouse phenotyping. The use of these screens together with mutagenesis is already beginning to increase the numbers of mouse models of potential relevance to CNS diseases.
Six-degree head-down tilt (HDT) is well accepted as an effective weightlessness model in humans. However, some researchers utilized lower body positive pressure (LBPP) to simulate the cardiovascular and renal effects of a decreased gravitational stress. In order to determine whether LBPP was a suitable model for simulated weightlessness, we compared the differences between these two methods. Ten healthy males, aged 21-41 years, were subjected to graded LBPP at 10, 20 and 30 mmHg, as well as 6 degrees HDT. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was microneurographically recorded from the tibial nerve along with cardiovascular variables. We found that MSNA decreased by 27% to a similar extent both at low levels of LBPP (10 and 20 mmHg) and HDT. However, at a high level of LBPP (30 mmHg), MSNA tended to increase. Mean arterial pressure was elevated significantly by 11% (10 mmHg) at 30 mmHg LBPP, but remained unchanged at low levels of LBPP and HDT. Heart rate did not change during the entire LBPP and HDT procedures. Total peripheral resistance markedly increased by 36% at 30 mmHg LBPP, but decreased by 9% at HDT. Both stroke volume and cardiac output tended to decrease at 30 mmHg LBPP, but increased at HDT. These results suggest that although both LBPP and HDT induce fluid shifts from the lower body toward the thoracic compartment, autonomic responses are different, especially at LBPP greater than 20 mmHg. We note that high levels of LBPP (&gt;20 mmHg) activate not only cardiopulmonary and arterial baroreflexes, but also intramuscular mechanoreflexes, while 6 degrees HDT only activates cardiopulmonary baroreflexes. We conclude that LBPP is not a suitable model for simulated weightlessness in humans.
In this study, we identified the neurons within nucleus tractus solitarius (nTS) activated by stimulation of airway sensory systems and examined the expression of AMPA receptor subtype(s) by these cells. We also investigated the possible involvement of endogenously released glutamate and AMPA receptors in the transmission of excitatory inputs from the sensory system of the respiratory tract to the neurons of the nTS. In these experiments we used: (1) immunodetection of c-fos encoded protein (cFos) expression to identify the nTS neurons activated by the stimulation of the airway sensory system; (2) receptor immunochemistry and confocal microscopy to determine the receptor(s) expressed by activated nTS neurons; (3) microdialysis to measure glutamate release, and (4) physiological measurements to examine the effects of selective receptor blockers, and thereby define the role of the glutamate and AMPA glutamatergic receptor subtype(s) in reflexly induced airway constriction. The results showed that activation of airway sensory receptors, by inhalation of aerosolized histamine or capsaicin, induced cFos expression in a subset of nTS neurons that also expressed the AMPA subtype of glutamate receptors. Furthermore, activation of sensory bronchoconstrictive receptors induced glutamate release within nTS, and blockade of the AMPA receptor subtype within nTS inhibited reflexly increased cholinergic outflow to the airways. These data indicate for the first time that glutamate and AMPA receptor signaling pathways are involved in the transmission of afferent inputs from the airways to the nTS, and in mediating reflex airway constriction.
Nine patients with multifocal motor neuropathy who had previously responded favorably to IV immunoglobulins (IVIg) were treated with interferon-beta1a. Muscle strength and disability were evaluated. In six patients there was no effect of treatment. Four patients deteriorated in such a way that IVIg had to be restarted during the study. Three patients showed an improvement that was more pronounced than on IVIg. These patients had a shorter disease duration and were less affected clinically and electrophysiologically than those who did not respond.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and cholecystokinin (CCK) have been shown to have anorectic properties in a variety of species. The present study examined the effects of LPS and CCK, both alone and in combination, on two different aspects of water ingestion, water intake and palatability. On test days, animals were first injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) with either LPS (200 microg/kg) or NaCl vehicle, and 2 h later received a second injection of either CCK (8 microg/kg) or NaCl vehicle. In Experiment 1, water intake was monitored for 1 h on 3 separate test days 72 h apart; while in Experiment 2, water palatability was assessed using the taste reactivity test (TRT), on two separate test days 72 h apart. Both LPS and CCK significantly (p&lt;0.05) reduced water intake, with the effects of combined LPS with CCK being more pronounced than either agent injected alone. Rats developed a rapid tolerance to the effects of LPS on water intake on subsequent exposures to LPS. Results from the TRT indicated that LPS enhanced water palatability (p&lt;0.05), as evidenced by a high level of ingestive responding, whereas CCK produced a pattern of responding indicative of satiety. LPS plus CCK reduced ingestive responding on the first test day, but these responses were significantly increased on the second test day (p&lt;0.05). These results demonstrate that although LPS reduces water intake, it enhances water palatability. The results further underscore the necessity for examining palatability changes in addition to intake measures when studying the regulation of feeding and drinking.
Behavioral evidence reveals that the laboratory rat and other rodent species display skilled paw and digit use in handling food during eating and skilled limb use in reaching for food in formal laboratory skilled reaching tests that is comparable to that described in carnivores and primates. Because less is known about the central control of skilled movements in rodents than in carnivores or primates, the purpose of the current study was to examine the relation between the rat's spinal motoneurons and the individual forelimb muscles that they innervate. In two experiments, 14 forelimb muscles (in the shoulder and the upper and lower arm segments) were injected with carbocyanine dye tracers. The topography of spinal motoneurons was reconstructed by using fluorescence microscopy. Motor neurons were found to be organized in columns throughout the length of the cervical and upper thoracic area, with 1) extensor motoneurons located more laterally than flexor motoneurons, 2) rostral motoneurons innervating more proximal muscles than caudal motoneurons, and 3) more dorsally located motoneurons innervating more distal muscles. These results reveal that the topography of rodent cervical spinal cord motoneurons is very similar to that of carnivores and of primates, which also are characterized by well-developed, skilled movements. In addition, the proximal-distal organization of motoneuron columns parallels the proximal-to-distal pattern of forelimb movement used by the rat when reaching. The data from this study enable the development of predictions about the specific movements that would be compromised by experimental transections or other injuries at different levels of the spinal cord in rat models of spinal injury.
The extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase-1 and -2 (ERK1 and ERK2), also referred to as the p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p44/42 MAP kinase), plays an essential role in neuronal signal transduction, but its function involved in nociceptive response has not been deeply studied yet. Here we report immunohistochemical evidence that p44/42 MAPK might be critical in nociceptive response. We found that after formalin was injected into the perioral skin of the upper lip of mice, the number of activated p44/42 MAPK-like immunoreactive neurons was significantly increased in the laminae I and II of the caudal subnucleus of the trigeminal spinal nucleus (Sp5C). The positive neurons and fibers were mostly concentrated in the middle portion of Sp5C dorsoventrally, where the afferent fibers innervating the skin of the upper lip are terminated. The reactive products were localized in perikarya, dendrites, nuclei, and diffusely in the neuropil. The present result suggests that p44/42 MAPK may be important in the transmission and modulation of noxious information in Sp5C.
Kappa opioid receptors (KORs) were immunocytochemically localized in the lumbosacral spinal cord of female rats in different stages of the estrous cycle to examine the influence of hormonal status on receptor density. KOR labeling was primarily in fine processes and a few neuronal cell bodies in the superficial dorsal horn and the dorsolateral funiculus. Quantitative light microscopic densitometry of the superficial dorsal horn revealed that rats in diestrus had significantly lower KOR densities than those in proestrus or estrus. This suggests that female reproductive hormones regulate spinal KOR levels, which may contribute to variations in analgesic effectiveness of KOR agonists across the estrous cycle.
Pheochromocytoma (PC12) cell cultures exhibited a concentration-dependent loss of cells and increase in intracellular oxidative stress when exposed to ethanol for 24 h. Selective activation of alpha7 nicotinic receptors with the agonist DMXB (3 microM) attenuated both of these actions of ethanol in a manner that was in turn blocked with the nicotinic antagonist methyllyconitine (1 microM). These results suggest that the cytoprotection conferred by alpha7 nicotinic receptor agonists may be mediated at least in part by reducing the formation or accumulation of reactive oxygen species.
These studies examined the functional interactions between adrenergic G-protein coupled receptors and protein tyrosine kinases in the preoptic area and hypothalamus, brain regions that regulate reproductive function in female rats, and evaluated whether in vivo treatment with estradiol for 2 days modulates the cross-talk between these two signaling pathways. In hypothalamic slices genistein, a general tyrosine kinase inhibitor, enhances norepinephrine-stimulated cAMP synthesis independent of estradiol treatment. Genistein appears to act by increasing beta-adrenoceptor signaling. At high norepinephrine concentrations, estradiol potentiates genistein enhancement of the cAMP response in hypothalamic slices. This interaction between estradiol and genistein appears to involve modification of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor signaling mechanisms. In preoptic area slices, genistein enhancement of norepinephrine-stimulated cAMP synthesis is only observed in estradiol-treated rats. In this brain region, genistein enhances cAMP accumulation by modifying alpha(1)- and/or alpha(2)-adrenoceptor rather than beta-adrenoceptor signaling. Genistein amplification of norepinephrine-stimulated cAMP synthesis is not mediated by interactions with estrogen receptors, or by regulation of adenylyl cyclase or phosphodiesterase activities. At the concentration used, genistein inhibits tyrosine phosphorylation in slices from both brain regions. Daidzein, an inactive analogue of genistein, fails to enhance the norepinephrine-stimulated cAMP response in either brain region independent of hormone treatment. These results suggest that protein tyrosine kinases regulate adrenergic responses in the hypothalamus and preoptic area. Moreover, the functional interaction between adrenergic G-protein coupled receptor signaling and protein tyrosine kinases is modified in a brain region and receptor subtype specific manner by estradiol.
Caspases, a family of cysteine proteases, have been recognized as the central executors of programmed cell death. Nonetheless, the information on the caspase family has been limited to mammals, Drosophila, and nematodes. To examine the structure and characterization of the Xenopus caspase family, we have cloned the cDNAs encoding caspase-2 and -6-10 in addition to caspase-1 and -3, which we characterized previously (Yaoita, Y., and Nakajima, K. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 5122-5127). First, the existence of these caspases in frog suggests that the caspase cascades clarified in mammals are conserved at least from Amphibia. Interestingly, Xenopus caspase-1, -8, and -10 (especially caspase-8) showed a lower degree of identity to human equivalents than the other caspases. Second, mRNAs of many caspases increased during the climax of metamorphosis in regressing organs, tail, and intestine, where programmed cell death occurs, but not in apoptotic tail-derived cultured cells (XLT-15-11) treated with thyroid hormone, showing that new RNA synthesis of caspases is dispensable to programmed cell death. Third, comparison of human and Xenopus caspase sequences implies that some proposed regulations of human caspases are not conserved in frog.
HER4 is a member of the epidermal growth factor receptor family and has an essential function in heart and neural development. Identification of two HER4 isoforms, HER4 JM-a and JM-b, which differ in their extracellular juxtamembrane region and in their susceptibility to cleavage after phorbol ester stimulation, showed that the juxtamembrane region of the receptor is critical for proteolysis. We now demonstrate that phorbol ester and pervanadate are effective stimuli for HER4 JM-a processing and that the HER4 JM-b isoform does not undergo cleavage in response to any of the stimuli studied. We also show that HER4 JM-a is not cleaved in cells lacking the metalloprotease tumor necrosis factor-alpha-converting enzyme (TACE) and that reexpression of TACE in these cells restores constitutive and regulated processing of HER4 JM-a. Moreover, we show that the sequence specific to the HER4 JM-a juxtamembrane region is sufficient to confer susceptibility to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate-induced cleavage of the HER2 receptor. In conclusion, we provide evidence that TACE is essential for the regulated shedding of the HER4 JM-a receptor.
A hotly debated question in cognitive neuroscience is whether individual instances of perceptual sequences, and the rules that describe them, are processed by the same brain mechanisms. We tested the hypothesis that such rules and instances are processed by dissociable brain mechanisms. We analyzed event-related brain potentials (ERPs) evoked during cognitive sequencing tasks that assessed surface (instance) vs abstract (rule) structure learning. Sequence instances ABCBAC and DEFEDF have different serial order or surface structure, but share the same rule or abstract structure, 123213. Nine healthy subjects were first trained to learn a set of surface and abstract structures in sequences of visually presented stimuli. During the subsequent ERP recording, for surface and abstract structures, they then discriminated between acceptable and unacceptable sequences, based on the pre-learned regularities. Abstract structure processing evoked a late positivity around 500 ms, which was not seen in the surface structure processing, supporting our hypothesis of dissociable processes. We discuss implications for the rule vs instance debate, and similarities between this late positivity and the P600 observed in previous studies of syntactic processing.
We previously reported that alpha-motor neurons in organotypic cultures of rat spinal cord (OTC-SC) are resistant to excitotoxicity induced through NMDA receptors. Here we describe the effects of non-NMDA glutamate receptor agonists kainic acid (KA) and quisqualic acid (QUIS) on motor neurons in OTC-SC. Large ventral horn acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons (VHANs), most of which are motor neurons, were quite sensitive to QUIS and KA toxicity and displayed losses of 95% and 94%, respectively. Small VHANs were reduced by 41% and 61% only. Identical results were obtained in cultures stained for non-phosphorylated neurofilaments. These observations demonstrate that alpha-motor neurons are considerably more sensitive to KA and QUIS than to NMDA toxicity. The proposed excitotoxic mechanism of ALS, therefore, is most likely mediated through non-NMDA glutamate receptors.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a potent orexigenic peptide. In the normal adult rat, hypothalamic NPY mRNA expression is limited to the arcuate nucleus (ARH). The purpose of this study was to characterize the developmental expression of NPY mRNA in the hypothalamus of the rat. In contrast to the normal adult rat, NPY mRNA was observed in the ARH, the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH) and the perifornical region (PFR) during development. NPY mRNA expression in all three regions increased progressively from postnatal days 0-4 (P0-4) to reach maximum levels at P16 and subsequently decreased to near adult levels by P30. The unique expression of NPY mRNA in the PFR and DMH may be important in establishing the proper management of energy homeostasis and body weight in the adult animal.
Conditioned place preference (CPP) is a commonly used model to detect rewarding effect of drugs. To observe the effect of peripheral electric stimulation (PES) on morphine-induced CPP, we trained the rats with morphine in a CPP paradigm. Twelve hours before the testing phase, rats were given PES via stainless-steel needles with frequencies of 2, 100, or 2/100 Hz, respectively. PES of 2 and 2/100 Hz significantly decreased CPP in morphine-trained animals in a naloxone reversible manner, while PES of 100 Hz, foot shock, needle insertion, or plain restraining, showed no effect. Thus, PES with a low-frequency component (2 Hz) could specifically inhibit the expression of morphine-induced CPP, presumably via activation of opioid receptors.
Period (PER), a central component of the circadian clock in Drosophila, undergoes daily oscillation in abundance and phosphorylation state. Here we report that human casein kinase I epsilon (hCKI epsilon) can phosphorylate human PER I (hPER I). Purified recombinant hCKI epsilon (but not a kinase negative mutant of hCKI epsilon, hCKI epsilon-K38R) phosphorylated hPER I in vitro. When co-transfected with wild-type hCKI epsilon, in 293T cells, hPER I showed a significant increase in phosphorylation as evidenced by a shift in molecular mass. Furthermore, phosphorylation of hPER I by hCKI epsilon caused a decrease in protein stability in hPER I. Whereas phosphorylated hPER I had a half-life of approximately 12 h, unphosphorylated hPER I remained stable in the cell for &gt; 24 h. hPER I protein could also be co-immunoprecipitated with transfected hCKI epsilon as well as endogenous hCKI epsilon, indicating physical association between hPER I and hCKI epsilon proteins in vivo.
The apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons integrate inputs from various cortical layers and are central to information processing. Here we show that the growth of apical dendrites towards the pial surface is regulated by a diffusible chemoattractant present at high levels near the marginal zone. A major component of this signal is semaphorin 3A (Sema3A), which was previously characterized as a chemorepellant for cortical axons. Soluble guanylate cyclase is asymmetrically localized to the developing apical dendrite, and is required for the chemoattractive effect of Sema3A. Thus the asymmetric localization of soluble guanylate cyclase confers distinct Sema3A responses to axons and dendrites. These observations reveal a mechanism by which a single chemotropic signal can pattern both axons and dendrites during development.

Recent reports have strongly linked markers near the alpha-7 nicotinic cholinergic receptor subunit gene on human chromosome 15q13-q14 to a sensory gating deficit common in schizophrenics, and have shown positive though non-significant results linking this region to the primary phenotype of schizophrenia in a sample of North American families. We therefore tested for linkage between markers in this region of chromosome 15q and schizophrenia in a sample of 15 multiply affected and 5 single case families with schizophrenia drawn from the Bantu-speaking black population of South Africa. An initial replication using markers from the original study gave an affected-only LOD score maximum of 1.08 under a recessive model at Theta=0.00 for D15S1360, a dinucleotide polymorphism found on the same YAC as the alpha-7 receptor gene. Nonparametric affected-only multipoint analysis gave a Z-score of 1. 29, P=0.098, for D15S1360, and Z=1.45, p=0.075 for D15S118. We then increased the resolution of the map with an extended set of 20 markers. Again, two peaks were observed, with NPL scores of 1.81, p=0.037, at D15S1043 and 1.79 at D15S1360 and 1.80 at D15S1010, both p=0.037. Transmission disequilibrium testing of data from D15S1360 gave an allele-wise and genotype-wise chi(2) of 6.59, 2 df, p=0.037. Haplotype transmission disequilibrium testing using a restricted allele and haplotype set from D15S1043 and D15S1360 gave a global chi(2) of 10.647, 4 df, P=0.007, and a maximum chi(2) of 6.567, 1 df, P=0.004 for excess transmission of the 1.2 haplotype into affected offspring. Am. J. Med. Genet. (Neuropsychiatr. Genet.) 96:196-201, 2000.
A number of linkage studies provide evidence consistent with the existence of a bipolar susceptibility gene on chromosome 4p16. The gene for Wolfram syndrome, a rare recessive neurodegenerative disorder, lies in this region and has recently been cloned. Psychiatric disturbances including psychosis, mood disorder, and suicide have been reported at increased frequency in Wolfram patients and in heterozygous carriers of a Wolfram mutation. In the current investigation we have undertaken a case-control association study using a single nucleotide polymorphism (causing an amino acid change) in exon 8 of the Wolfram gene in a UK Caucasian sample of 312 Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (fourth edition; DSM IV) bipolar I probands and 301 comparison individuals. We found no evidence that variation at this polymorphism influences susceptibility to bipolar disorder. It remains possible that variation at other sites within or near the Wolfram gene plays important roles in determining susceptibility to affective illness. Am. J. Med. Genet. (Neuropsychiatr. Genet.) 96:154-157, 2000.
The aim of the present study was to reinvestigate the stereometric pattern of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity staining in the intermediate layers of the superior colliculus in several mammalian species. A pioneering study in the cat and the monkey by Graybiel (1978) stressed the regular arrangement of AChE staining in the deep collicular layers. According to her description, made in the frontal plane, the enzyme was arranged in a mediolateral series of patches, the cores of which tended to line up in the longitudinal axis of the structure, so they formed roughly parallel bands. As exhaustive a description as possible of the AChE distribution was undertaken in the rat by compiling observations in the frontal, sagittal, and tangential planes. It emerged that AChE-positive elements are organized in the form of a conspicuous honeycomb-like network that is divided into about 100 rounded compartments, over virtually the full extent of the intermediate layers. The generality of the rat model was then tested in other rodents such as mouse and hamster and also in cat and monkey. For these species we resorted to a single tangential cutting plane, which proved to be more appropriate for disclosing such a modular arrangement. The data revealed that in all species AChE staining followed the same architectural plan and identified the striking similarity in the number of compartments that compose the various honeycomb-like lattices. In conclusion, the present findings support a unified model of the AChE arrangement within the intermediate layers of the mammalian colliculus; the model comprehensively incorporates the classical description of the patchy and stripy features of the enzyme distribution. We hypothesize here that the modular AChE arrangement might be the anatomical basis for collicular vectorial encoding of orienting movements.
To elucidate the factor(s) accelerating the autoimmune disease processes, we induced two types of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), severe and very mild, in F344 rats by immunization with myelin basic protein (MBP) plus pertussis toxin (PT) (PT+) or with MBP alone (PT-) and compared the differences between the two. Immunohistochemical examinations showed that although the nature of inflammation was essentially the same between the two groups, the proportion of Vbeta8.2(+) T cells in the CNS lesion of PT (+) rats was larger than that of PT (-) rats. Cytokine analysis by competitive PCR revealed that IL-10 mRNA in the lymphoid organ was significantly suppressed in the PT(+) group, whereas levels of IFN-gamma,TNF-alpha and TGF-beta mRNA were insignificantly different after PT administration. In addition, T cells taken from PT (+) rats proliferated well in response to MBP, while those from PT (-) rats showed a marginal response to the same antigen. However, this finding does not indicate the switching of non-encephalitogenic to encephalitogenic T cells upon PT administration because PT (-) rats contained encephalitogenic T cells and/or their precursor cells as revealed by adoptive transfer experiments. Taken together, these findings suggest that suppression of IL-10 by PT administration is the major factor contributing to the exacerbation of EAE in PT(+) rats.
Genetic factors are important in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Familial AD can result from rare mutations in some genes. Other genes, such as the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE), operate as risk factors for late-onset sporadic AD. On a background of advances in the genetics of AD we suggest a way in which genetic information may be used in the diagnosis of AD. If there is a positive family history of early-onset dementia and the clinical features suggest AD, patients may be tested for presenilin and amyloid precursor protein gene mutations with appropriate pretest and post-test counselling. Predictive testing should be performed under guidelines developed by the World Federation of Neurology and the Human Genetics Society of Australasia. The usefulness of APOE genotyping as an adjunct to conventional diagnostic tests is unknown; data suggest it has low sensitivity and specificity and may have little predictive value in an individual patient. APOE genotyping should not be performed in asymptomatic individuals, except as part of an ethically approved research project; this recommendation is supported by a number of international consensus statements. APOE testing should not be used as a diagnostic test without adequate pretest and post-test counselling, education and support. APOE testing should not be used as a sole diagnostic test in the work-up of patients with AD. Genetic risk factors other than APOE require validation and should not be used routinely, except as part of an ethically approved research protocol.
The acute effects of juvenile isolation on sucrose intake and its long-term consequences on adult social behavior were investigated. Additionally, the role of the endogenous opioid systems was studied. Juvenile rats were housed in one of three conditions: in groups or in isolation with (partial isolation, PI) or without 30 min of daily social contact from 22 to 35 days-of-age. During this period the rats were treated daily with saline or morphine. Juvenile isolated rats showed an increased sucrose intake as compared to non-isolated controls, with PI-rats somewhere in-between, suggesting a negative correlation between the amount of social contact and sucrose consumption. Morphine treatment during the isolation period enhanced the sucrose intake in non-isolated rats, whereas it decreased sucrose consumption in (partial) isolated rats. With regard to the long-term effects, (partial) isolated rats decreased social activity as compared to non-isolated controls which was reversed by morphine treatment during the isolation period. In non-isolated rats, morphine treatment caused an opposite effect: it decreased social activity as compared to the saline treated controls. The data suggest that stimulation of endogenous opioid systems in the juvenile phase may have an important modulatory role in the expression of adult social behavior. The results are discussed in relation to a possible function of morphine as a substitute for the release of endogenous opioid peptides during social play.
The primary regulator of PTH secretion is serum ionized Ca(2+); however, neuropeptide-containing nerve fibers have been localized to the parathyroid gland. The purpose of this study was to determine whether or not substance P (SP) regulates PTH secretion. In dispersed porcine parathyroid cells, SP reversibly inhibited 0.5 mM CaCl(2)-induced PTH secretion (IC(50) = 0.29 nM) and had no effect at CaCl(2) concentrations of 1.5 mM and greater. At 0.5 mM CaCl(2), treatment with a NK-1 selective receptor agonist resulted in a concentration-dependent decrease in PTH secretion (IC(50) = 0.21 nM). In contrast, NK-2 and NK-3 receptor agonists were approximately 100-fold less active than SP or the NK-1 receptor selective agonist. An enantiospecific reversal of the effects of SP on PTH secretion was observed with LY306740, a potent selective NK-1 receptor antagonist (K(i) = 0.125 nM). In porcine parathyroid cells, expression of mRNA for the NK-1 receptor was observed using RT-PCR. In summary, a novel neuroendocrine pathway is described whereby the neuropeptide, SP, regulates PTH secretion through NK-1 receptors.
We identified six genes that encode putative RGS proteins (XRGSI-VI) in developing Xenopus embryos using PCR amplification with degenerate primers corresponding to the conserved region (RGS domain) of known RGS proteins. RT-PCR analysis revealed that mRNAs of these XRGSs are differentially expressed during embryogenesis. At stage 1, only XRGSII mRNA was detected. On the other hand, expression of XRGSVI mRNA increased apparently at stage 14 and expression of three of other XRGS (III, IV, V) elevated between stage 25 and 40. To further characterize XRGS proteins expressed in Xenopus embryos, we isolated a cDNA clone for XRGSIII. Based on determined nucleotide sequence, XRGSIII was considered as a Xenopus homologue of mammalian RGS5 (XRGS5). Genetic analysis using the pheromone response halo assay showed that expression of XRGS5 inhibits yeast response to alpha-factor, suggesting that XRGS5 negatively regulates the G-protein-mediated signaling pathway in developing Xenopus embryos.



A neuropathological report of Madras type of motor neuron disease (MMND) is presented and the differences from other forms of MND are discussed. An 18-year-old girl presented with nerve deafness and slowly progressive bulbo-spinal muscular atrophy, characteristic of MMND. Post-mortem examination of the spinal cord showed a severe loss of anterior horn cells, prominent dilatation of vessels, diffuse, but sparse sprinkling of microglial cells and lymphocytes, and demyelination and sclerosis of the ventrolateral columns. Neuronal depletion and marked gliosis was noted in the cochlear nucleus on both sides, while other bulbar motor nuclei were also involved. The cochlear nerve showed demyelination and axonal loss. Trigeminal and vestibular ganglia revealed features of ganglionitis. The possibility of an inflammatory aetiology for MMND needs to be considered.

Anna Maria Di Giorgio was born on December 22nd,1897 in San Daniele del Friuli. She graduated in Natural Sciences at the University of Florence in 1921. Her career was undertaken in the Institute of Human Physiology of that University under the guide of prof. Gilberto Rossi, one of the most illustrious italian Physiologists, who was her mentor. She was the first woman to win a competition for a Universitary Professorship of Physiology. She was appointed director of the Institutes of Physiology of the Universities of Siena (1938-42) and Turin (1942-61) where she died in 1961. In the centenary of her birth it seemed worthy to commemorate prof. Di Giorgio and her scientific work. She brought fundamental contributions in the field of Neurosciences, in particular on the cerebellum, vestibular apparatus and psychophysiology of vision. She was a pioneer in showing for the first time the plasticity in the spinal cord by the end of the twenties. In addition, she discovered a nystagmogenic center in the cerebral cortex. Her physiological findings have been widely confirmed and are now patrimony of the Neurosciences.
Treatment with gamma-hydroxybutyric acid has been reported to effectively decrease alcohol craving and consumption as well as alcohol withdrawal symptoms in alcoholics. We describe the results of animal studies demonstrating the ability of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid to reduce (1) the severity of ethanol withdrawal signs in rats rendered physically dependent on ethanol and (2) voluntary ethanol intake in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring rats. Furthermore, we review experimental data suggesting that gamma-hydroxybutyric acid and ethanol have several pharmacological effects in common. Relevant similarities are: (1) stimulation of firing rate of dopaminergic neurons and dopamine release in specific rat brain areas; (2) development of cross-tolerance to the motor-impairing effects after repeated administration in rats; 3) abuse potential, as indicated by self-administration of pharmacologically relevant doses of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid in rats and mice; (4) induction of anxiolytic effects in rats; and (5) induction of similar discriminative stimulus effects, as evidenced by symmetrical generalization in a drug discrimination study in rats. These lines of evidence are discussed in relation to gamma-hydroxybutyric acid exerting its antialcohol effects by a substitution mechanism.
Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid, an endogenous compound present in mammalian brain and supposed to be a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator, has been shown to affect several aspects of dependence from some drugs of abuse. It has been successfully used in clinical practice to alleviate both alcohol and opiate withdrawal symptoms. The aim of this study was to investigate whether gamma-hydroxybutyric acid possesses rewarding properties by means of conditioned place preference and intravenous self-administration paradigms. In the present study, gamma-hydroxybutyric acid induced conditioned place preference in rats, was intravenously self-administered by drug-naive mice, and altered cocaine intravenous self-administration in rats. Although to date the physiological role of this compound still remains unclear, there is no doubt that gamma-hydroxybutyric acid, in addition to its proved effect on alcohol and opiate dependence, possesses reinforcing properties of its own and may interfere with the neurochemical events in the rewarding effects produced by psychostimulant drugs. Our investigation points out the abuse liability of this drug, suggesting the use of particular precaution in handling gamma-hydroxybutyric acid as a clinically useful drug.

We have examined whether activation of carotid artery chemoreceptors causes alerting in conscious rabbits. Injection of phenylbiguanide (a 5-hydroxytryptamine(3)-receptor agonist) into the common carotid artery of conscious rabbits increased the proportion of theta rhythm in the hippocampal EEG, commencing in the first 5-s epoch after the injection. Intravenous injection of phenylbiguanide also increased the proportion of theta rhythm in the hippocampal electroencephalogram (EEG), but the onset of the change was not until the second 5-s epoch following injection. Injection of Ringer solution, either into the common carotid artery or into the marginal ear vein, did not affect the hippocampal EEG. Results suggest that phenylbiguanide-mediated activation of carotid and cardiopulmonary chemoreceptor afferents alerts the animal, as assessed by induction of theta rhythm in the hippocampal EEG. This alerting response presumably reflects the action of neural inputs that enter the brain with the carotid sinus nerve at the level of the medulla oblongata.
Leptin, the product of the obese gene, reduces food intake and body weight in rats and mice, whereas administration of the gut-peptide CCK reduces meal size but not body weight. In the current experiments, we report that repeated daily combination of intracerebroventricular leptin and intraperitoneal CCK results in significantly greater loss of body weight than does leptin alone. However, leptin plus CCK treatment does not synergistically reduce the size of individual 30-min sucrose meals during this period, and the effect of leptin-CCK combination on daily chow intake, while significant, is small compared with the robust effects on body weight loss. This synergistic effect on body weight loss depends on a peripheral action of CCK and a central action of leptin. These data suggest a previously unsuspected role for CCK in body weight regulation that may not depend entirely on reduction of feeding behavior and suggest a strategy for enhancing the effects of leptin in leptin-resistant obese individuals.
This paper argues that psychoanalysis is not dead, but in the process of being revived in a more cogent and less erroneous form so it may thrive in the twentieth century. The weak adaptive position is seen as the key error in mainstream psychoanalytic theory. Erroneous concepts, like the primacy of inner fantasies and memories in emotional life and the role of so-called transferences in psychotherapy, have been derived from this base. Affording current psychoanalytic thinking a strong adaptive position that sees coping with environmental impingements as the primary task of the human emotion-processing mind sets straight many existing misconceptions. Revising psychoanalysis in light of a strong adaptive position brings it into line with the theory of evolution, the basic theory of biology. It also clarifies the nature of dreams and leads to the creation of a quantitative, mathematically based, formal science of psychoanalysis replete with laws and regularities. Also explored is the neglect of the emotion-processing mind and efforts to overshadow mental concepts with ideas about the brain from neuroscience. The dangers of this loss of mind are reviewed. The paper concludes with a discussion of the role played by existential death anxiety in the perpetuation of the errors rife in classical psychoanalytic thinking. Lessening our use of denial mechanisms in response to death anxieties is a key requisite for advancing psychodynamic theories in the next one hundred years.
We have analyzed variation in the structure of the human photoreceptor mosaic as a function of age, sex, and retinal location using the nearest neighbor and density recovery profile methods. In contrast to most previous work, we have focused our analysis on the mid- and far-peripheral human retina. Video-enhanced differential interference contrast optics was used to characterize differences in the nasal and temporal periphery of unstained wholemounts from 12 males and 12 females ranging in age from 15- to 83-years-old. At sites matched for cone density (approximately 5,000 cones/mm2), the mosaic is far more orderly in the temporal than in the nasal periphery. This is true at all ages and in both sexes. Despite their increased local order, regularity ratios of adjacent temporal fields tend to be much more variable than are those of adjacent nasal fields. These marked nasal-temporal differences are eliminated when eccentricity is held constant and cone density is allowed to vary. There is a mild, statistically significant age-related decline in the regularity of the cone mosaic, but only in the nasal periphery. There are no significant differences in the precision of the cone mosaic between sexes. The equivalence of the regularity of the mosaic at matched eccentricities, but not at matched cone densities, suggests that the irregularity of the mosaic is secondary to developmental gradients and, more generally, to reduced selection for high acuity vision in the retinal periphery.
As a result of its presence in various structures of the central nervous system serotonin (5-HT) plays a role in a great variety of behaviours such as food intake, activity rythms, sexual behaviour and emotional states. Despite this lack of functional specialization, the serotonergic system plays a significant role in learning and memory, in particular by interacting with the cholinergic, glutamatergic, dopaminergic or GABAergic systems. Its action is mediated via specific receptors located in crucial brain structures involved in these functions, primarily the septo-hippocampal complex and the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM)-frontal cortex. Converging evidence suggests that the administration of 5-HT2A/2C or 5-HT4 receptor agonists or 5-HT1A or 5-HT3 and 5-HT1B receptor antagonists prevents memory impairment and facilitates learning in situations involving a high cognitive demand. In contrast, antagonists for 5-HT2A/2C and 5-HT4, or agonists for 5-HT1A or 5-HT3 and 5-HT1B generally have opposite effects. A better understanding of the role played by these and other serotonin receptor subtypes in learning and memory is likely to result from the recent availability of highly specific ligands, such as 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT2A receptor antagonists, and new molecular tools, such as gene knock-out mice, especially inducible mice in which a specific genetic alteration can be restricted both temporally and anatomically.

After nearly a century of inquiry, the cause of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains to be found. On the subject of AD pathogenesis, recent basic and clinical evidence strongly argues in favor of the concept that AD is linked to brain circulatory pathology. This concept, when viewed from many different medical disciplines and from close pre-morbid similarities to vascular dementia, assembles and hypothetically explains most of the key pathologic events associated with the development of AD. These pathologic events are triggered in AD by impaired cerebral perfusion originating in the microvasculature which affects the optimal delivery of glucose and oxygen and results in an energy metabolic breakdown of brain cell biosynthetic and synaptic pathways. We propose that two factors converge to initiate cognitive dysfunction and neurodegeneration as expressed in AD brain: (1) advanced aging, and (2) the presence of a condition that lowers cerebral perfusion. The first factor introduces a normal but potentially deconstructing process that lowers cerebral blood flow in proportion to increased aging, whereas the second factor adds a crucial burden that further lowers brain perfusion to a critical threshold that triggers neuronal metabolic compromise. When age and a condition that lowers cerebral perfusion converge, critically attained threshold of cerebral hypoperfusion (CATCH) results. CATCH is a cyclical and progressive cerebrovascular insufficiency that will destabilize neurons, synapses, neurotransmission, and cognitive ability, eventually evolving into a neurodegenerative process characterized by the formation of senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and amyloid angiopathy. The concept of impaired cerebral perfusion as the cause of this dementia also explains the heterogeneic profile observed in AD patients, because an extensive list of risk factors for AD are also reported to significantly diminish blood flow to the aging brain.
Vascular dementia (VaD) includes several different vascular mechanisms and changes in the brain, and has different causes and clinical manifestations. Critical to its conceptualization and diagnosis are definitions of the cognitive syndrome, vascular etiologies, and changes in the brain. Variation in these has resulted in different definitions of VaD, estimates of prevalence, and types and distribution of brain lesions. This definitional heterogeneity may have been a factor for negative results in prior clinical trials on VaD. We propose that the division of VaD into subtypes can identify a more homogeneous group of patients for drug trials. A so-called &quot;subcortical&quot; VaD could incorporate two old clinical entities &quot;Binswanger's disease&quot; and &quot;the lacunar state.&quot; Small vessel disease is the primary vascular etiology, lacunar infarcts and ischemic white matter lesions are the primary type of brain lesions, the subcortical areas and frontal connections are the primary location of lesions, and a subcortical syndrome as the primary clinical manifestation. The clinical syndromes are likely more variable, and urgently need to be categorized. Selection of these patients for clinical trials could mainly be based on brain imaging features, where the essential changes and the main aspects of the lesions include extensive ischemic white matter lesions and lacunar infarcts in the deep gray and white matter structures. Subcortical VaD is expected to show a more predictable clinical picture, natural history, outcomes, and treatment responses.
Neuropathological lesions, essential for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), such as senile-neuritic plaques (SP/NPs), neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), the beta-amyloid load (A beta 4) and the load of PHF-tau did not increase with increased severity of cardiovascular disease in 126 clinically demented and 303 nondemented aged individuals. In contrast, the extent of AD lesions was greater in nondemented and demented individuals with the ApoE epsilon 4 allele compared to those without this allele. On the other hand, the extent of vascular lesions currently used for the diagnosis of vascular dementia (VaD) showed correlation with the cardiovascular index, whereas ApoE epsilon 4 allele did not seem to influence the extent of vascular lesions. The calculated CVI showed significant correlation with premortem estimated Hachinski score, and both the CVI and Hachinski score were higher in demented patients with extensive vascular lesions. Our results demonstrate that ApoE epsilon 4 allele, a known risk factor for dementia, indeed influences the extent of Alzheimer's lesions seen in the brain tissue of demented patients and asymptomatic controls. The cardiovascular disease again seems to influence the extent of vascular lesions.
The brain, as an intensely active organ, is highly dependent on a sufficient nutrient and oxygen availability in order to reach its optimal working capacity. It is well known that the vital supply of energy substrates is provided by the circulatory system, which splits up into a fine, terminal capillary network in target tissues. These capillaries are considered as important sites, since the actual nutrient trafficking takes place through their walls. That is why an intact, preserved structure of the microvessels is crucial to fulfill their function. Since the brain is known to be particularly vulnerable to suboptimal oxygen and glucose delivery, the intact morphology of capillaries is of paramount importance. Several observations have indicated that the cerebral capillary ultrastructure is damaged in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Curiously, the regional cerebral blood flow of AD patients is also significantly lower than in age-matched control individuals. Based on these data, it has been suggested that the decreased blood supply and the cerebrovascular alterations contribute to the development of dementia. However, we have observed similar capillary damage in Parkinson's disease patients and chronically hypertensive rats in addition to AD cases, as presented here. These findings indicate that cerebral capillary damage is not exclusive for AD but occurs under other neurodegenerative disorders and hypertension, as well. We hypothesize that ultrastructural abnormalities of cerebral capillaries are causally related to decreased cerebral blood flow and create a condition that favors neurodegenerative mechanisms including the development of dementia.
We report on a female child with congenital myopathy with delayed developmental milestones and mental retardation. The most striking pathological finding was the presence of many condensed to fragmented myonuclei. DNA fragmentation was confirmed by the TUNEL method and supported by the ultrastructural characteristics of apoptotic nuclear changes. We also demonstrated immunohistochemically the activation of caspase-3 and caspase-9. This appears to be the first reported case of congenital myopathy with apoptotic process.
Verbal fluency tests (VFTs) are suggested to assess frontal lobe function. This view is supported by functional imaging studies that report left frontal activation during VFTs. VFTs require retrieval of semantically associated words from long-term memory storage. The neural networks that participate in this process, however, are largely unknown. These neural networks are of interest, given that patients with early Alzheimer's disease, typically without frontal pathology, are often impaired in VFTs. In the present study, functional magnetic resonance imaging was performed to determine brain activation areas during VFTs in young subjects. In the activation task, category fluency was contrasted with orderly listing of numbers. As judged from using this comparison, there was activation in the left medial temporal lobe, in the inferior frontal and retrosplenial cortices bilaterally, and in the left superior parietal lobule. Left medial temporal lobe activation was present in 13 of the 14 study subjects either in the hippocampal formation (11 of 14) or in the posterior parahippocampal gyrus (12 of 14). These results suggest that the medial temporal lobe is required for the process of retrieval by category. Functional magnetic resonance imaging combined with a category fluency task may provide a new method to study patients with early Alzheimer's disease.
Severe dyskinesias or ballism can occur following hemorrhagic events in the subthalamic nucleus (STN), and it has recently been established that the STN plays a major role in the pathophysiology of the motor dysfunction of Parkinson's disease (PD) and that STN inhibition improves parkinsonian dysfunction. Deep brain stimulation of the STN in PD patients is therefore currently being evaluated as a therapy. High-frequency stimulation of the STN in PD patients can induce intense dyskinesias that are similar to those induced by levodopa. These may occur with a variable latency and resemble all types of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs). They can be decreased by reducing the levodopa dosage, which is permitted by the antiparkinsonian effect of stimulating the STN. STN stimulation has been shown to improve all types of LIDs, with the most dramatic effect being that on off-period dystonia. The improvement in LIDs may relate to the decrease in drug dosage, while the off-period dystonia is likely improved by the simultaneous administration of levodopa and STN stimulation. It is thought that the STN is an important node in a network, which can produce dyskinesias when disturbed by a lesion, and is particularly sensitive for the induction of these abnormal movements.
Treatment-related dyskinesias are the major limitation of dopamine replacement therapies such as levodopa in Parkinson's disease (PD). Recent studies in parkinsonian, nonhuman primates have highlighted abnormalities in neural functioning that might underlie the generation of dyskinetic symptoms in patients with PD who have received prolonged dopaminergic therapy. This article reviews studies on metabolic activity in subregions of the basal ganglia which suggest that profound abnormalities in basal ganglia output may underlie levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Such abnormalities may result from changes within basal ganglia circuitry and may include either overt changes in average firing rate or modulation of the pattern of cell-cell communication within subregions of the basal ganglia circuitry. An appreciation of abnormalities in the mechanisms responsible for modulating synaptic transmission in the basal ganglia may suggest novel therapeutic approaches to the problem of dyskinesia.
The normal functioning of the basal ganglia is dependent on dopamine maintaining a balance between the two major output pathways of the striatum, through the D1 and D2 dopamine receptors, which have opposing effects on these pathways. Lesions of the dopamine system, such as occur in Parkinson's disease (PD), disrupt this balance. Gene regulation studies provide a measure of the cellular and molecular effects of dopamine on striatal neurons in animal models of PD. Dopamine agonists, involving selective or mixed D1 and D2 agonists, such as levodopa, are able to reverse many of the homeostatic changes induced by striatal dopamine depletion. However, following dopamine depletion, a supersensitive responsiveness of D1 striatal neurons to dopamine agonists develops, indicated by the induction of immediate early genes. The molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the irreversibility of this supersensitive response with long-term dopamine agonist treatments may provide insights into dyskinesias that develop with long-term levodopa therapy in the treatment of PD.



It has been three decades since John Bowlby first presented an over-arching model of early human development in his groundbreaking volume, Attachment. In the present paper I refer back to Bowlby's original charting of the attachment landscape in order to suggest that current research and clinical models need to return to the integration of the psychological and biological underpinnings of the theory. Towards that end, recent contributions from neuroscience are offered to support Bowlby's assertions that attachment is instinctive behavior with a biological function, that emotional processes lie at the foundation of a model of instinctive behavior, and that a biological control system in the brain regulates affectively driven instinctive behavior. This control system can now be identified as the orbitofrontal system and its cortical and subcortical connections. This 'senior executive of the emotional brain' acts as a regulatory system, and is expanded in the right hemisphere, which is dominant in human infancy and centrally involved in inhibitory control. Attachment theory is essentially a regulatory theory, and attachment can be defined as the interactive regulation of biological synchronicity between organisms. This model suggests that future directions of attachment research should focus upon the early-forming psychoneurobiological mechanisms that mediate both adaptive and maladaptive regulatory processes. Such studies will have direct applications to the creation of more effective preventive and treatment methodologies.
Rats are capable of reaching for food with a single forelimb, but since they locate the target of their reach using olfaction, it is unclear how they adjust their limb movement to compensate for errors. Although it is thought that their reaching movement is ballistic and can only be adjusted by trial and error, whether they can use haptic cues to aid in locating and identifying a target has not been examined. The present study addressed this question by allowing rats to reach through a slot for rigidly held pieces of uncooked pasta of varying thickness, which could be oriented vertically or horizontally from different points around the slot and which were attached to a force transducer. The tasks required that animals not only adjust their reach and grasp to the target's location but also identify the target based on its texture. Acquisition curves were made of head orientation, limb transport trajectories, number of attempts per success, paw orientation, breaking direction and force of the grasp. A haptic discrimination test used pasta and similar sized metal rods with different tactile properties as discriminanda. The results indicated that whereas postural orientation and limb transport trajectory were not modified as a function of target orientation, paw orientation and grasp force did vary as a function of the sensory qualities of the target object, and the rats could make a haptic discriminative choice of a target object. The results show that the rat is capable of adjusting paw movements using haptic information, suggesting that somatosensory features of sensorimotor control of limb and paw movements in carnivores and primates are shared by rodents. This commonality points to a conservation of motor control in mammals, explains some of the idiosyncratic features of rat reaching behavior, and confirms that rodents provide a good model for investigating sensorimotor functions.
CD. However, the pattern of responding at DRL-60s suggested poor schedule control for the WKY rats. Therefore, the performance of SHR in the DRL test does not appear to represent a valid model of ADHD. Further, our findings with the WKY rat suggest that this strain is a poor behavioural control for the SHR.
Groups of rats were rewarded with food for traveling from a start point to 2 different locations while their alternations in choice between those locations on 2 daily trials were recorded. In one experimental condition, the rats swam and received food once they climbed upon a platform that was hidden just below the surface of the water at the food location. In the other condition, the rats walked to reach the food. It was found that the rats did not alternate their choices between target locations when swimming but that they did alternate target choices when walking. Even experience in alternating when walking did not produce reliable alternation when swimming. It is proposed that rats treat escape (swimming) and search (walking) tasks in different ways, and this difference is discussed with respect to the possibility that different central processes may be used in the task solutions.
The effects of inactivation of cerebellar deep nuclei and the lateral pontine nucleus on classical eyeblink conditioning with tone or lateral reticular nucleus (LRN) stimulation as conditioned stimuli (CSs) were examined. Inactivation of cerebellar deep nuclei abolished eyeblink conditioned responses (CRs) when the CS was either a tone or LRN stimulation. Inactivation of the lateral pontine nucleus prevented only the acquisition and retention of tone-evoked eyeblink CRs. Multiple-unit recording demonstrated that when LRN stimulation was used as the CS, inactivation of the interpositus nucleus abolished learning-related neuronal activity in the lateral pontine nucleus, whereas inactivation of pontine nucleus had little effect on similar activity in the interpositus nucleus. Thus, the learning-induced neuronal activity in the lateral pontine nucleus was most likely driven by the cerebellar interpositus nucleus.
Direct current-generated magnetic fields (2-3 mT, 20-min exposure) exerted biphasic effects on the population spike recorded from hippocampal slices. The initial decrease in the potential, observed during exposure of the slices to magnetic fields was followed by a recovery/amplification phase, which began after terminating the magnetic field action. During that phase the population spike exceeded the amplitude observed before application of the magnetic fields. The pattern of magnetic fields influence was not affected either by (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo (a,d) cyclohepten-5, 10-imine maleate (MK801), or by D,L,-2amino-5phosphonovalerate (APV), a noncompetitive and competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, respectively. The rising phase of the potential, however, was eliminated by dantrolene, an inhibitor of intracellular Ca(2 +) channels. This suggests that intracellular calcium channels participate in the mechanism of the influence of the direct current magnetic fields on the function of the hippocampal tissue.
Collins and De Luca [Collins JJ. De Luca CJ (1993) Exp Brain Res 95: 308-318] introduced a new method known as stabilogram diffusion analysis that provides a quantitative statistical measure of the apparently random variations of center-of-pressure (COP) trajectories recorded during quiet upright stance in humans. This analysis generates a stabilogram diffusion function (SDF) that summarizes the mean square COP displacement as a function of the time interval between COP comparisons. SDFs have a characteristic two-part form that suggests the presence of two different control regimes: a short-term open-loop control behavior and a longer-term closed-loop behavior. This paper demonstrates that a very simple closed-loop control model of upright stance can generate realistic SDFs. The model consists of an inverted pendulum body with torque applied at the ankle joint. This torque includes a random disturbance torque and a control torque. The control torque is a function of the deviation (error signal) between the desired upright body position and the actual body position, and is generated in proportion to the error signal, the derivative of the error signal, and the integral of the error signal [i.e. a proportional, integral and derivative (PID) neural controller]. The control torque is applied with a time delay representing conduction, processing, and muscle activation delays. Variations in the PID parameters and the time delay generate variations in SDFs that mimic real experimental SDFs. This model analysis allows one to interpret experimentally observed changes in SDFs in terms of variations in neural controller and time delay parameters rather than in terms of open-loop versus closed-loop behavior.

Mammalian cortical granules contain two polypeptides (p62 and p56) that are incorporated into the cortical granule envelope after fertilization and function in cleavage of the zygote and the preimplantation blastomeres. Since the echinoderm hyaline layer and mammalian cortical granule envelope are analogous, and since the hyaline layer protein, hyalin, functions in early echinoderm embryogenesis, this study was done to determine whether p62 and p56 and/or other components of the mammalian cortical granule envelope are related to hyalin. A polyclonal antibody (IL2) against purified S. purpuratus hyalin was shown by confocal scanning laser microscopy to bind to hamster cortical granules and to the cortical granule envelope of fertilized hamster oocytes and preimplantation embryos up to the blastocyst stage. In immunoblots, IL2 bound only to 62- and 56-kDa cortical granule proteins that were incorporated into the cortical granule envelope after fertilization. IL2 binding antigens appeared to be resynthesized by preimplantation embryos starting at the 2-cell stage of development. In vivo treatment of 2-cell-stage hamster embryos with IL2 inhibited blastomere cleavage, but treatment of morulae did not inhibit blastocyst implantation. These results support the idea that the mammalian cortical granule envelope proteins, p62/p56, share a common antigenic epitope(s) with echinoderm hyalin, and that p62/p56, like hyalin, play a role in early embryogenesis.
In only the past few decades, neuroscience has expanded beyond recognition, and shows no sign of slowing down. The problems for this ever-growing and increasingly fragmented field are matched only by its potentials. This article explores possible avenues of research and ethical debate that wait to be faced in the new Decade of the Mind.
Stress system alterations, in particular HPA axis hyperactivations, are fairly well documented in suicide victims and in depressed suicide attempters who subsequently complete suicide. In suicide attempters with no documented completed suicide, the results are more inconsistent. This may depend on differences in studies due to diagnostic heterogeneity among suicide attempters, and the time between the suicide attempt and the examination. Recent data suggests differences in the stress system between depressed patients with a recent suicide attempt and depressed patients in general. The field merits further examination, with thorough examinations of genotypes, actual suicide attempts and stress in combination with examinations of the stress system.
L-type (alpha(1C)) calcium channels inactivate rapidly in response to localized elevation of intracellular Ca(2+), providing negative Ca(2+) feedback in a diverse array of biological contexts. The dominant Ca(2+) sensor for such Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation has recently been identified as calmodulin, which appears to be constitutively tethered to the channel complex. This Ca(2+) sensor induces channel inactivation by Ca(2+)-dependent CaM binding to an IQ-like motif situated on the carboxyl tail of alpha(1C). Apart from the IQ region, another crucial site for Ca(2+) inactivation appears to be a consensus Ca(2+)-binding, EF-hand motif, located approximately 100 amino acids upstream on the carboxyl terminus. However, the importance of this EF-hand motif for channel inactivation has become controversial since the original report from our lab implicating a critical role for this domain. Here, we demonstrate not only that the consensus EF hand is essential for Ca(2+) inactivation, but that a four-amino acid cluster (VVTL) within the F helix of the EF-hand motif is itself essential for Ca(2+) inactivation. Mutating these amino acids to their counterparts in non-inactivating alpha(1E) calcium channels (MYEM) almost completely ablates Ca(2+) inactivation. In fact, only a single amino acid change of the second valine within this cluster to tyrosine (V1548Y) supports much of the functional knockout. However, mutations of presumed Ca(2+)-coordinating residues in the consensus EF hand reduce Ca(2+) inactivation by only approximately 2-fold, fitting poorly with the EF hand serving as a contributory inactivation Ca(2+) sensor, in which Ca(2+) binds according to a classic mechanism. We therefore suggest that while CaM serves as Ca(2+) sensor for inactivation, the EF-hand motif of alpha(1C) may support the transduction of Ca(2+)-CaM binding into channel inactivation. The proposed transduction role for the consensus EF hand is compatible with the detailed Ca(2+)-inactivation properties of wild-type and mutant V1548Y channels, as gauged by a novel inactivation model incorporating multivalent Ca(2+) binding of CaM.

P2X receptors are a family of ligand-gated ion channels responsive to ATP. Seven subtypes have been identified which form homo-multimeric or hetero-multimeric pores. P2X3 receptors are selectively expressed predominantly on small-diameter nociceptive sensory neurones in the dorsal root, trigeminal and nodose ganglia, particularly the non-peptidergic subpopulations labelled with the lectin IB4. P2X2/3 labelling is also present in inner lamina II of the spinal cord and in sensory nerve projections to skin and viscera, but few receptors are present in skeletal muscle. P2X3 receptors are down-regulated after peripheral nerve injury and their expression can be regulated by glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor. P2X receptor activation of sensory neurones has been demonstrated in in vivo pain models, including the rat hindpaw and knee-joint preparations, as well as in inflammatory models. P2X4 and/or P2X6 receptors in the CNS also seem to be involved in pain pathways. Non-nociceptive P2 receptors on sensory nerves are present in muscle and on sensory endings in the heart and lung that initiate reflex activity involving vagal afferent and efferent nerve fibres. The sources of ATP involved in nociception and non-nociceptive sensory nerve stimulation are discussed as well as a novel hypothesis about purinergic mechanosensory transduction.
The pharmacology of the orexin-like peptides, hypocretin-1 and hypocretin-2, was studied in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells stably expressing orexin-1 (OX(1)) or orexin-2 (OX(2)) receptors by measuring intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) using Fluo-3AM. Orexin-A and orexin-B increased [Ca(2+)](i) in CHO-OX(1) (pEC(50)=7. 99+/-0.05 and 7.00+/-0.10 respectively, n=8) and CHO-OX(2) (pEC(50)=8.30+/-0.05 and 8.21+/-0.07 respectively, n=5). However, hypocretin-1 and hypocretin-2 were markedly less potent, with pEC(50) values of 5.31+/-0.04 and 5.41+/-0.04 respectively in CHO-OX(2) cells (n=5). In CHO-OX(1) cells 10 microM hypocretin-1 only elicited a 37.5+/-3.4% response whilst 10 microM hypocretin-2 elicited a 18.0+/-2.1% response (n=8). Desensitisation of OX(1) or OX(2) with orexin-A (100 nM) abolished the response to orexin-A (10 nM) and the hypocretins (10 microM), but not to UTP (3 microM). In conclusion, the hypocretins are only weak agonists at the orexin receptors.
Certain cognitive and behavioural deficits suggest that the frontal lobe functions abnormally in patients with autism, but little anatomical research is available to either verify or refute this. In contrast, several neuropathological and neuroimaging studies have demonstrated anatomical abnormalities in the cerebellum in autistic patients. The current study shows that frontal lobe cortex volume is increased in a subset of patients with autism and that this increase correlates with the degree of cerebellar abnormality. This evidence of concurrent structural abnormalities in both the frontal lobe and the cerebellum has important implications for understanding the development and persistence of the autistic disorder.
Although several prominent morphological features of apoptosis are evident in the cell body (e.g., cell shrinkage, membrane blebbing, and nuclear DNA condensation and fragmentation) the biochemical and molecular cascades that constitute the cell death machinery can be engaged in synaptic terminals and neurites. Initiating events such as oxyradical production and calcium influx, and effector processes such as Par-4 production, mitochondrial alterations and caspase activation, can be induced in synapses and neurites. Several prominent signal transduction pathways in synaptic terminals play important roles in either promoting or preventing neuronal death in physiological and pathological conditions. For example, activation of glutamate receptors in postsynaptic spines can induce neuronal apoptosis, whereas local activation of neurotrophic factor receptors in presynaptic terminals can prevent neuronal death. Factors capable of inducing nuclear chromatin condensation and fragmentation can be produced locally in synaptic terminals and neurites, and may propogate to the cell body. Recent findings suggest that, beyond their roles in inducing or preventing cell death, apoptotic and anti-apoptotic cascades play roles in synaptic plasticity (structural remodelling and long-term functional changes). For example, caspase activation results in proteolysis of glutamate receptor (AMPA) subunits, which results in altered neuronal responsivity to glutamate. Activation of neurotrophic factor receptors in synaptic terminals can result in local changes in energy metabolism and calcium homeostasis, and can induce long-term changes in synaptic transmission. The emerging data therefore suggest that synapses can be considered as autonomous compartments in which both pro- and anti-apoptotic signaling pathways are activated resulting in structural and functional changes in neuronal circuits. A better understanding of such synaptic signaling mechanisms may reveal novel approaches for preventing and treating an array of neurodegenerative conditions that are initiated by perturbed synaptic homeostasis.
Organotypic brain slice cultures have been used in a variety of studies on neurodegenerative processes [K.M. Abdel-Hamid, M. Tymianski, Mechanisms and effects of intracellular calcium buffering on neuronal survival in organotypic hippocampal cultures exposed to anoxia/aglycemia or to excitotoxins, J. Neurosci. 17, 1997, pp. 3538-3553; D.W. Newell, A. Barth, V. Papermaster, A.T. Malouf, Glutamate and non-glutamate receptor mediated toxicity caused by oxygen and glucose deprivation in organotypic hippocampal cultures, J. Neurosci. 15, 1995, pp. 7702-7711; J.L. Perez Velazquez, M.V. Frantseva, P.L. Carlen, In vitro ischemia promotes glutamate mediated free radical generation and intracellular calcium accumulation in pyramidal neurons of cultured hippocampal slices, J. Neurosci. 23, 1997, pp. 9085-9094; L. Stoppini, L.A. Buchs, D. Muller, A simple method for organotypic cultures of nervous tissue, J. Neurosci. Methods 37, 1991, pp. 173-182; R.C. Tasker, J.T. Coyle, J.J. Vornov, The regional vulnerability to hypoglycemia induced neurotoxicity in organotypic hippocampal culture: protection by early tetrodotoxin or delayed MK 801, J. Neurosci. 12, 1992, pp. 4298-4308.]. We describe two methods to induce traumatic cell damage in hippocampal organotypic cultures. Primary trauma injury was achieved by rolling a stainless steel cylinder (0.9 g) on the organotypic slices. Secondary injury was followed after dropping a weight (0.137 g) on a localised area of the organotypic slice, from a height of 2 mm. The time course and extent of cell death were determined by measuring the fluorescence of the viability indicator propidium iodide (PI) at several time points after the injury. The initial localised impact damage spread 24 and 67 h after injury, cell death being 25% and 54%, respectively, when slices were kept at 37 degrees C. To validate these methods as models to assess neuroprotective strategies, similar insults were applied to slices at relatively low temperatures (30 degrees C), which is known to be neuroprotective [F.C. Barone, G.Z. Feuerstein, R.F. White, Brain cooling during transient focal ischaemia provides complete neuroprotection, Neurosci. Biobehav. Rev. 1, 1997, pp. 31-44; V.M. Bruno, M.P. Goldberg, L.L. Dugan, R.G. Giffard, D.W. Choi, Neuroprotective effect of hypothermia in cortical cultures exposed to oxygen glucose deprivation or excitatory aminoacids, J. Neurochem. 4, 1994, pp. 387-392; G.C. Newman, H. Qi, F.E. Hospod, K. Grundhmann, Preservation of hippocampal brain slices with in vivo or in vitro hypothermia, Brain Res. 1, 1992, pp. 159-163; J.Y. Yager, J. Asseline, Effect of mild hypothermia on cerebral energy metabolism during the evolution of hypoxic ischaemic brain damage in the immature rat, Stroke, 5, 1996, pp. 919-925.]. Low temperature incubation significantly reduced cell death, now being 9% at 24 h and 14% at 67 h. Our results show that these models of moderate mechanical trauma using organotypic slice cultures can be used to study neurodegeneration and neuroprotective strategies.
Differential display (DD) has become a popular technique for the identification of differentially expressed genes. Here we present a DD protocol for studying mRNA expression changes during neuronal apoptosis. Neuronal apoptosis is typically dependent on macromolecular synthesis, thus suggesting that regulation of gene expression is involved in control of the activation of the cell-death machinery. In order to identify some of the genes involved, we employed the widely used cell culture model in which apoptosis is induced in rat cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) using potassium deprivation. Although DD has been applied productively in the study of various biological phenomena, the method has its drawbacks. In particular, the cloning and verification of cDNA fragments is frequently described as problematic or laborious, and often produces many &quot;false positives&quot;. Here we report the successful use of DD including an efficient protocol for cDNA clone screening and verification. This protocol avoids some of the problems presented by heterogeneous DD bands, which may be a major cause of false-positive results. To identify the desired clones, we apply single-stranded conformational polymorphism (SSCP) and slot blot techniques.

Synapses are classically defined as close connections between two nerve cells or between a neuronal cell and a muscle or gland cell across which a chemical signal (i.e., a neurotransmitter) and/or an electrical signal (i.e., current-carrying ions) can pass. The definition of synapse was developed by Charles Sherrington and by Ramon y Cajal at the beginning of this century and refined by John Eccles and Bernard Katz 50 years later; in this collection of papers, the definition of synapses is discussed further in the chapter by Mike Bennett. who provided the first functional demonstration of electrical transmission via gap junction channels between vertebrate neurons. As is evidenced by the range of topics covered in this issue, research dealing with gap junctions in the nervous system has expanded enormously in the past decade, major findings being that specific cell types in the brain expresses specific types of connexins and that expression patterns coincide with tissue compartmentalization and function and that these compartments change during development.
The purpose of this review is to summarize emerging evidence that the neurobehavioral features of Lesch-Nyhan disease (LND), a developmental disorder caused by congenital deficiency of the purine salvage enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT), may be attributable to dysfunction of the basal ganglia. Affected individuals have severe motor disability described by prominent extrapyramidal features that are characteristic of dysfunction of the motor circuits of the basal ganglia. They also display disturbances of ocular motility, cognition, and behavioral control that may reflect disruption of other circuits of the basal ganglia. Though neuropathologic studies of autopsy specimens have revealed no obvious neuroanatomical abnormalities in LND, neurochemical studies have demonstrated 60-90% reductions in the dopamine content of the basal ganglia. In addition, recent PET studies have documented significant reductions in dopamine transporters and [18F]fluorodopa uptake in the basal ganglia. These findings support the proposal that many of the neurobehavioral features of LND might be related to dysfunction of the basal ganglia.
Cells expressing herpes simplex-thymidine kinase (HSV-tk) can be killed &quot;in vitro&quot; within 5 days of treatment with 20 microM ganciclovir (GCV) and transmit this toxicity to adjacent cells lacking HSV-tk; this phenomenon was termed &quot;bystander effect&quot; or &quot;kiss of death&quot;. On testing a large number of cell lines in vitro, a wide range of sensitivity to GCV-mediated bystander killing has been reported. Although intercellular transfer of GCV metabolites through gap junction channels seems to be a likely mechanism for the &quot;kiss of death&quot;, some studies suggest that other pathways may contribute to induced apoptosis of neighboring cells. To further investigate the mechanism underlying cell death mediated by HSV-tk and to evaluate the efficacy of gap junction channels formed by different connexins in this process, we have stably transfected a virtually uncoupled mouse neuroblastoma cell line (N2A cells) with different connexin-types expressed by neural cells (Cx32, Cx37, Cx40, Cx43) and co-cultured these cells with N2A cells stably transfected with Cx37 and HSV-tk. Here, we confirm our previous studies and those of others that the extent of cell death and sensitivity to GCV depend on the degree of connexin expression in transfectants. Further, we show that the bystander effect also depends on which connexin is expressed; reported disparities regarding the extent of GCV-mediated cellular apoptosis are likely due both to the degree of functional coupling and the type of connexin expressed. These results support the notion that gap junction hemichannels formed of certain connexins are more likely than others to pair functionally with Cx37, and suggest co-transfection strategies that might prove effective in sensitizing tumor cell populations to GCV. In addition, potential applications are discussed for use of the &quot;good Samaritan effect&quot;, a mechanism by which bystander cells have been suggested to prevent cytotoxicity.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and the allelic disorder Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) are common X-linked recessive neuromuscular disorders that are associated with a spectrum of genetically based developmental cognitive and behavioral disabilities. Seven promoters scattered throughout the huge DMD/BMD gene locus normally code for distinct isoforms of the gene product, dystrophin, that exhibit nervous system developmental, regional and cell-type specificity. Dystrophin is a complex plasmalemmal-cytoskeletal linker protein that possesses multiple functional domains, autosomal and X-linked homologs and associated binding proteins that form multiunit signaling complexes whose composition is unique to each cellular and developmental context. Through additional interactions with a variety of proteins of the extracellular matrix, plasma membrane, cytoskeleton and distinct intracellular compartments, brain dystrophin acquires the capability to participate in the modulatory actions of a large number of cellular signaling pathways. During neural development, dystrophin is expressed within the neural tube and selected areas of the embryonic and postnatal neuraxis, and may regulate distinct aspects of neurogenesis, neuronal migration and cellular differentiation. By contrast, in the mature brain, dystrophin is preferentially expressed by specific regional neuronal subpopulations within proximal somadendritic microdomains associated with synaptic terminal membranes. Increasing experimental evidence suggests that in adult life, dystrophin normally modulates synaptic terminal integrity, distinct forms of synaptic plasticity and regional cellular signal integration. At a systems level, dystrophin may regulate essential components of an integrated sensorimotor attentional network. Dystrophin deficiency in DMD/BMD patients and in the mdx mouse model appears to impair intracellular calcium homeostasis and to disrupt multiple protein-protein interactions that normally promote information transfer and signal integration from the extracellular environment to the nucleus within regulated microdomains. In DMD/BMD, the individual profiles of cognitive and behavioral deficits, mental retardation and other phenotypic variations appear to depend on complex profiles of transcriptional regulation associated with individual dystrophin mutations that result in the corresponding presence or absence of individual brain dystrophin isoforms that normally exhibit developmental, regional and cell-type-specific expression and functional regulation. This composite experimental model will allow fine-level mapping of cognitive-neurogenetic associations that encompass the interrelationships between molecular, cellular and systems levels of signal integration, and will further our understanding of complex gene-environmental interactions and the pathogenetic basis of developmental disorders associated with mental retardation.
The functional significance of gap junctional coupling among neurons is poorly understood. We are studying gap junctions among spinal motor neurons as a model for understanding roles of interneuronal gap junctional communication during development and after injury. Electrical and dye coupling is widespread among neonatal motor neurons but is transient, disappearing by the end of the first postnatal week. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis, in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry show that five rodent connexins, Cx36, Cx37, Cx40, Cx43 and Cx45, are expressed by developing motor neurons. These gap junction proteins remain expressed in some motor neurons through adult life, with the exception of Cx40, whose expression appears to decrease shortly after birth. After nerve injury in adult animals, motor neurons once again become dye coupled, and this appears to occur without dramatic changes in connexin expression. The transient gap junctional coupling present among developing motor neurons, which is re-capitulated after axotomy, may mediate electrical or biochemical signaling that shapes neuronal function.
Electrotonic synaptic communication between neurons via gap junctions (gjs) is increasingly recognized as an important synchronizing mechanism in the brain. At the same time, the biology of central nervous system (CNS) gjs is being unravelled. The pathogenesis of the abnormal neuronal synchrony underlying seizures, formerly thought to be based mainly on chemical synaptic transmission, now includes a role for gap junctional communication. This concept has been strengthened by evidence from several in vitro seizure models, in which pharmacological manipulations of gap junctional communication predictably affect the generation of seizures: blockers diminishing seizures and enhancers increasing the seizures. Evidence for interneurons, coupled in part by gjs, generating synchronous neural network activity including seizures, is presented. Also neuromodelling studies, which have enhanced our ability to understand the functional role that gap junctional communication plays in the generation and maintenance of neural synchrony and seizures, are presented. Gap junctional communication appears to be a promising target for the development of future anticonvulsant therapy.
Communication through gap junction channels provides a major signaling mechanism during early brain histogenesis, a developmental time during which neural progenitor cells are inexcitable and do not express ligand-gated channel responses to the major CNS neurotransmitters. Expression of different gap junction types during neurogenesis may therefore define intercellular pathways for transmission of developmentally relevant molecules. To better understand the molecular mechanism(s) by which growth and differentiation of neurons are modulated by gap junction channels, we have been examining the developmental effects of a specific set of cytokines on differentiation and gap junction expression in a conditionally immortalized mouse embryonic hippocampal neuronal progenitor cell line (MK31). When multipotent MK31 cells are in an uncommitted state, they uniformly express the neuroepithelial intermediate filament class VI marker, nestin, are strongly coupled by gap junctions composed of connexin43 (Cx43) and express connexin45 (Cx45) at the mRNA level. As these cells undergo neuronal lineage commitment and exit from cell cycle, they begin to express the early neurofilament marker, NF66, and coupling strength and expression of Cx43 begin to decline with concurrent expression of other connexin proteins, including Cx26, Cx33, Cx36, Cx40 and Cx45. Terminal neuronal differentiation is heralded by the expression of more advanced neurofilament proteins, increased morphologic maturation, the elaboration of inward currents and action potentials that possess mature physiological properties, and changing profiles of expression of connexin subtypes, including upregulation of Cx36 expression. These important developmental transitions are regulated by a complex network of cell cycle checkpoints. To begin to examine the precise roles of gap junction proteins in traversing these developmental checkpoints and in thus regulating neurogenesis, we have focused on individual members of two classes of genes involved in these seminal events: ID (inhibitor of differentiation)-1 and GAS (growth arrest-specific gene)5. When MK31 cells were maintained in an uncommitted state, levels of ID-1 mRNA were high and GAS5 transcripts were essentially undetectable. Application of cytokines that promote neuronal lineage commitment and cell cycle exit resulted in down-regulation of ID-1 and upregulation of GAS5 transcripts, whereas additional cytokine paradigms that promoted terminal neuronal differentiation resulted in the delayed down-regulation of GAS5 mRNA. Stable MK31 transfectants were generated for ID-1 and GAS5. In basal conditions, cellular proliferation was enhanced in the ID-1 transfectants and inhibited in the GAS5 transfectants when compared with control MK31 cells. When cytokine-mediated neurogenesis was examined in these transfected cell lines, constitutive expression of ID-1 inhibited and constitutive expression of GAS5 enhanced initial and terminal stages of neuronal differentiation, with evidence that terminal neuronal maturation in both transfectant lines was associated with decreased cellular viability, possibly due to the presence of conflicting cell cycle-associated developmental signals. These experimental reagents will prove to be valuable experimental tools to help define the functional interrelationships between changing profiles of connexin protein expression and cell cycle regulation during neuronal ontogeny in the mammalian brain. The present review summarizes the current state of research involving the temporal expression of such connexin types in differentiating hippocampal neurons and speculates on the possible role of these intercellular channels in the development and plasticity of the nervous system. In addition, we describe the functional properties and expression pattern of the newly discovered neuronal-specific gap junctional protein, Cx36, in the developing mouse fetal hippocampus and in the rat retina and brain.
The gap junction protein connexin43 (Cx43) is the primary component of intercellular channels in cardiac tissue and in astrocytes, the most abundant type of glial cells in the brain. Mice in which the gene for Cx43 is deleted by homologous recombination die at birth, due to profound hypertrophy of the ventricular outflow tract and stenosis of the pulmonary artery. Despite this significant cardiovascular abnormality, brains of connexin43 null [Cx43 (-/-)] animals are shown to be macroscopically normal and to display a pattern of cortical lamination that is not detectably different from wildtype siblings. Presence of Cx40 and Cx45 in brains and astrocytes cultured from both Cx43 (-/-) mice and wildtype littermates was confirmed by RT-PCR, Northern blot analyses and by immunostaining; Cx46 was detected by RT-PCR and Northern blot analyses. Presence of Cx26 in astrocyte cultures was indicated by RT-PCR and by Western blot analysis, although we were unable to resolve whether it was contributed by contaminating cells; Cx30 mRNA was detected by Northern blot in long term (2 weeks) but not fresh cultures of astrocytes. These studies thus reveal that astrocyte gap junctions may be formed of multiple connexins. Presumably, the metabolic and ionic coupling provided by these diverse gap junction types may functionally compensate for the absence of the major astrocyte gap junction protein in Cx43 (-/-) mice, providing whatever intercellular signaling is necessary for brain development and cortical lamination.
Gap junctions are the morphological substrate of one class of electrical synapse. This memoir records the author's involvement in the development of our knowledge of the physiology and ultrastructure of electrical synapses. The answer to whether neurotransmission is electrical or chemical is either. One lesson is that Occam's razor sometimes cut too deep; the nervous system does its operations in a number of different ways and a unitarian approach can lead one astray [M.V.L. Bennett, Nicked by Occam's razor: unitarianism in the investigation of synaptic transmission, Biol. Bull. 168 (1985) 159-167]. Electrical synapses can do many things that chemical synapses can do, and do them just as slowly. The new molecular, cellular and physiological techniques will clarify where gap junctions and electrical coupling do and do not occur and permit experimental manipulation with high specificity.




Studies based on whole-head MEG recordings are providing more and more impressive results. In such recordings, the MEG sensors are several centimeters away from the scalp and the positions of the MEG sensors with respect to the head differ from subject to subject, and from session to session for the same subject. In this paper, a method is presented and tested to estimate the scalp MEG distributions from whole-head MEG measurements. The goal is to remove the discrepancy of MEG measurements caused by the various sensor positions with respect to the head, as well as to reduce the smearing effect caused by the distance of the MEG sensors from the scalp. The MEG measurement was first projected to a hypothetical dipole layer within the head volume conductor model using the inverse solution. The scalp MEG estimation was then obtained from the resultant dipole layer by the forward solution. The results from simulation studies, phantom experiments, and the auditory evoked field analysis demonstrated that, with reasonable signal to noise ratios, this method is a feasible way to achieve our goals.
Connexin46 (Cx46) forms functional hemichannels in the absence of contact by an apposed hemichannel and we have used these hemichannels to study gating and permeation at the single channel level with high time resolution. Using both cell-attached and -excised patch configurations, we find that single Cx46 hemichannels exhibit some properties expected of half of a gap junction channel, as well as novel properties. Cx46 hemichannels have a large unitary conductance (approximately 300 pS) and a relatively large pore as inferred from permeability to TEA. Both monovalent cations and anions can permeate, but cations are substantially more permeable. The open channel conductance shows marked inward rectification in symmetric salts. We find that the conductance and permeability properties of Cx46 cell-cell channels can be explained by the series addition of two hemichannels. These data suggest that the pore structures of unapposed hemichannels and cell-cell channels are conserved. Also like cell-cell channels, unapposed Cx46 hemichannels are closed by elevated levels of H+ or Ca2+ ions on the cytoplasmic face. Closure occurs in excised patches indicating that the actions of these agents do not require a soluble cytoplasmic factor. Fast (&lt;0.5 ms) application of H+ to either side of the open hemichannel causes an immediate small reduction in unitary conductance followed by complete closure with latencies that are dependent on H+ concentration and side of application; sensitivity is much greater to H+ on the cytoplasmic side. Closure by cytoplasmic H+ does not require that the hemichannel be open. Thus, H+ ions readily permeate Cx46 hemichannels, but at high enough concentration close them by acting at a cytoplasmic site(s) that causes a conformational change resulting in complete closure. Extracellular H+ may permeate to act on the cytoplasmic site or act on a lower affinity extracellular site. Thus, the unapposed hemichannel is a valuable tool in addressing fundamental questions concerning the operation of gap junction channels that are difficult to answer by existing methods. The ability of Cx46, and perhaps other connexins, to form functional unapposed hemichannels that are opened by moderate depolarization may represent an unexplored role of connexins as mediators of transport across the plasma membrane.
Gap junctions are clusters of intercellular channels directly connecting the cytoplasm of adjacent cells. These channels are formed by proteins named connexins and are present in all metazoan organisms where they serve diverse functions ranging from control of cell growth and differentiation to electric conduction in excitable tissues. In this overview we describe the presence of connexins in the cardiovascular and lympho-hematopoietic systems giving the reader a summary of the topics to be covered throughout this edition and a historical perspective of the discovery of gap junctions in the immune system.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has appeared as a new tool that is very powerful for cognitive neuroscience, offering the potential to look at the dynamics of cerebral processes underlying cognition, non-invasively and on an individual basis. Work remains to be done to optimize the technique and to better understand its basic mechanisms, but one may expect to build in a foreseeable future a functional list of the main brain cortical networks implicated in sensory-motor or cognitive processes. Still, the real understanding of brain function requires direct access to the functional unit consisting of the neuron, so that one may look at the transient temporal relationships that exist between largely distributed groups of hundreds or thousands of neurons. Furthermore, communication pathways between networks, which are carried by brain white matter, must be identified to establish connectivity maps at the individual scale, taking into account individual variability resulting from genetic factors and cerebral plasticity. In this respect, MRI of molecular diffusion is very sensitive to water molecular motion and, thus, to tissue dynamic microstructure, such as cell size and geometry. Preliminary data suggest that diffusion MRI visualizes dynamic tissue changes associated with large neuronal activation and space orientation of large bundles of myelinated axons in the white matter.
1. Transient forebrain ischemia in adult rats, induced by 10 min of bilateral carotid occlusion and an arterial hypotension of 40 mmHg, caused substantial damage not only to CA-1 neurons in hippocampus but also to epithelial cells in lateral ventricle choroid plexus. 2. When transient forebrain ischemia was followed by reperfusion (recovery) intervals of 0 to 12 hr, there was moderate to severe damage to many frond regions of the choroidal epithelium. In some areas, epithelial debris was sloughed into cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Although some epithelial cells were disrupted and necrotic, their neighbors exhibited normal morphology. This patchy response to ischemia was probably due to regional differences in reperfusion or cellular metabolism. 3. Between 12 and 24 hr postischemia, there was marked restoration of the Na+, K+, water content, and ultrastructure of the choroid plexus epithelium. Since there was no microscopical evidence for mitosis, we postulate that healthy epithelial cells either were compressed together on the villus or migrated from the choroid plexus stalk to more distal regions, in order to &quot;fill in gaps&quot; along the basal lamina caused by necrotic epithelial cell disintegration. 4. Epithelial cells of mammalian choroid plexus synthesize and secrete many growth factors and other peptides that are of trophic benefit following injury to regions of the cerebroventricular system. For example, several growth factors are upregulated in choroid plexus after ischemic and traumatic insults to the central nervous system. 5. The presence of numerous types of growth factor receptors in choroid plexus allows growth factor mediation of recovery processes by autocrine and paracrine mechanisms. 6. The capability of choroid plexus after acute ischemia to recover its barrier and CSF formation functions is an important factor in stabilizing brain fluid balance. 7. Moreover, growth factors secreted by choroid plexus into CSF are distributed by diffusion and convection into brain tissue near the ventricular system, e.g., hippocampus. By this endocrine-like mechanism, growth factors are conveyed throughout the choroid plexus-CSF-brain nexus and can consequently promote repair of ischemia-damaged tissue in the ventricular wall and underlying brain.
We previously reported that the nuclear import of substrates containing SV40 T antigen nuclear localization signal (NLS) was suppressed in a temperature-sensitive RCC1 mutant cell line, tsBN2, at nonpermissive temperature. Moreover, it was shown that import into wild type BHK21 cell-derived nuclei gradually decreased in heterokaryons between the tsBN2 and BHK21 cells, although the BHK21 nuclei retained wild type RCC1 and should contain RanGTP (Tachibana et al., 1994). In this study, it was found that in the heterokaryons cultured at non-permissive temperature, endogenous importin alpha was not detected immunocytochemically in the cytoplasm or BHK21 nuclei but only in the tsBN2 nuclei, suggesting that importin alpha cannot be exported from the RCC1-depleted nuclei. In fact, importin alpha microinjected into the nucleus of tsBN2 cells at non-permissive temperature remained in the nucleus. These results strongly support the hypothesis that the recycling of importin alpha from the nucleus requires nuclear RanGTP. Moreover, it was found that cytoplasmic injection of importin alpha restored the import of SV40 T-NLS substrates in the BHK21 nuclei but not the tsBN2 nuclei in the heterokaryons. This indicates that the decrease of importin alpha from the cytoplasm in the heterokaryons leads to a suppression of the efficiency of nuclear import of the T-NLS substrate and provides support for the view that nuclear RanGTP is essential for the nuclear entry of the substrates.
The aqueous medium bathing the dendrites of olfactory neurons contains high concentrations of odorant-binding proteins (OBPs) whose role is still unclear. OBPs may facilitate interactions between odorants and their membrane-bound receptors, perhaps by increasing the water solubility of hydrophobic molecules. Alternatively, OBPs may be involved in the inactivation of odorants and other volatile molecules, preventing desensitization and/or protecting olfactory neurons from toxic chemicals. We report here novel features of the localization of two putative OBPs, PBPRP2 and PBPRP5, that have important and different implications for their role in olfaction. Unlike several other putative OBPs of Drosophila melanogaster that are only found in adult olfactory organs, PBPRP5 is also expressed in the larval olfactory organs, suggesting that it plays a common role in olfaction at both stages. In the adult, PBPRP5 expression is restricted to the sensillum lymph that bathes the olfactory dendrites of a subset of olfactory hairs, the basiconic sensilla. Since individual basiconic sensilla differ in olfactory specificity, PBPRP5 may be able to bind to and mediate olfactory responses to a wide range of odorants. In contrast, PBPRP2 is present in the space immediately below the antennal cuticle and in the outer cavity of approximately 30% of the double-walled coeloconic sensilla on the antennal surface. In neither case is PBPRP2 in contact with the dendritic membranes of olfactory neurons, making a carrier function unlikely for this protein. Instead, PBPRP2 may act as a sink, binding to odorants and other volatile chemicals and limiting their interactions with olfactory neurons.
Biochemical and immunocytochemical analyses have been used to provide new insights into age-related changes in the sensory and supporting cells of the guinea pig organ of Corti. Quantitative densitometry of immunoblots showed that, while levels of alpha-tubulin remained relatively constant in guinea pigs from 3 weeks to 18 months old, there were progressive shifts in some tubulin isoforms. Levels of tyrosinated tubulin increased with age, nontyrosinatable tubulin (delta2-tubulin) showed a compensatory decrease, but detyrosinated tubulin did not change; acetylated, polyglutamylated, and glycylated tubulin levels also decreased. Immunolabeled tissue sections showed that cell type-specific distribution of tubulin seen in young guinea pigs (tyrosinated in the microtubules of the sensory cells, and post-translationally modified isoforms in the supporting cells) did not change as animals aged. However, there were age-related decreases in labeling for alpha-tubulin and all post-translationally modified isoforms. Biochemical and immunocytochemical results both support an age-related decrease in the number and/or length of microtubules as well as an increase in the pool of soluble tyrosinated and detyrosinated tubulin. They further suggest that microtubules containing nontyrosinatable tubulin from older animals are the sites for further modification of tubulin by acetylation, polyglutamylation, and glycylation. Changes in tubulin isoform levels and stability of microtubules in the organ of Corti may alter its micromechanical properties; the resulting changes in conduction of sound-induced vibration would provide one mechanism for age-related hearing loss.
Area 7a, in the inferior parietal lobe, has been implicated in optic flow processing to obtain spatial information about the environment. Optic flow, angle-of-gaze and center-of-motion dependencies are already documented, but the selectivity of area 7a to speed is unknown. Such information is crucial as area 7a provides the final step in visual motion analysis that begins at the lateral geniculate nucleus and passes through MT, MST and LIP/VIP. Macaque area 7a neurons were tested with optic flows with speeds of 0.5-128 degrees /s. Of 161 neurons tested in four hemispheres of two adult male macaques, 53% (86/161) were speed selective at either the time of stimulus onset, at the end of the trial, or at both times. Speed selec- tivities resembling the basic filter types (band-pass, band-reject, high-pass, low-pass, broadband) were found. Area 7a neurons exhibited two novel properties not previously reported elsewhere. Speed selectivity was found to be dynamic in that many cells gained, lost or changed speed tuning over the course of a trial. In addition, speed dependence and optic flow selectivity interacted. For example, a cell could preferentially respond to one type of naviga- tional optic flow at a slow speed and a different navigational optic flow at a fast speed. The presence of speed selectivity combined with other properties of area 7a neurons indicates that these neurons may have a role in the concurrent representation of heading as well as multiple object speeds and directions.
Of all areas studied in the accompanying study, attention effects were most consistent and well resolved in V4. In this study, to define some of the anatomical circuits and neural processes underlying the influence of attention, we examined the laminar distribution and physiology of attention effects in V4 and in two lower areas, V1 and V2. Laminar event-related potential (ERP), current source density (CSD) and multiunit activity (MUA) profiles allowed identification of processes occurring in the local ensembles, as well as their sequence and laminar distribution. These methods also permitted us to analyze the brain processes reflected in attention-sensitive components of the surface ERP. As outlined in the previous study, the first robust modulation by attention occurred in V4 during the 100-300 ms poststimulus interval. This is the time frame of the net refractoriness which follows the net local excitatory response to luminance increment. Over this interval, attention reduced CSD amplitudes and increased action potential firing rates, findings consistent with disinhibition as a mechanism for attention in V4. Similar effects were observed during the 100-300 ms time frame in V2. In V4, attention had no effect on the initial excitatory response at the depth of lamina 4, but it did produce large modulations in supragranular and deep laminae, origins of both feedforward and feedback projections. Attentional modulation in V2 was later than in V4 and concentrated in extragranular laminae, with no modulation of the initial layer 4 response. Attentional modulation in V1 was smaller and still later than that in V2 and was focused in the supragranular laminae. In this paradigm, attention did not modulate either the response in lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) or the initial excitation in lamina 4C of V1. The timing of effects across areas and the laminar distribution of effects within areas indicate that attention effects are mediated by feedback projections. Moreover, our findings suggest that attention may increase the perceptual salience of stimuli by reducing stimulus-evoked refractoriness and/or inhibition in cortical ensembles. Finally, attentional modulation of transmembrane current flow in V4 produced a sustained negative deflection in the laminar ERP profile, that was manifested in the ERP over the occipital surface. This posits a mechanism for the 'selection negativity', a scalp ERP effect noted under similar experimental conditions in human subjects.
This study quantified the magnitude and timing of selective attention effects across areas of the macaque visual system, including the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), lower cortical areas V1 and V2, and multiple higher visual areas in the dorsal and ventral processing streams. We used one stimulus configuration and behavioral paradigm, with simultaneous recordings from different areas to allow direct comparison of the distribution and timing of attention effects across the system. Streams of interdigitated auditory and visual stimuli were presented at a high rate with an irregular interstimulus interval (mean of 4/s). Attention to visual stimuli was manipulated by requiring subjects to make discriminative behavioral responses to stimuli in one sensory modality, ignoring all stimuli in the other. The attended modality was alternated across trial blocks, and difficulty of discrimination was equated across modalities. Stimulus presentation was gated, so that no stimuli were presented unless the subject gazed at the center of the visual stimulus display. Visual stimuli were diffuse light flashes differing in intensity or color and subtending 12 degrees centered at the point of gaze. Laminar event-related potential (ERP) and current source density (CSD) response profiles were sampled during multiple paired penetrations in multiple visual areas with linear array multicontact electrodes. Attention effects were assessed by comparing responses to specific visual stimuli when attended versus when visual stimuli were looked at the same way, but ignored. Effects were quantified by computing a modulation index (MI), a ratio of the differential CSD response produced by attention to the sum responses to attended and ignored visual stimuli. The average MI increased up levels of the lower visual pathways from none in the LGN to 0.0278 in V1 to 0.101 in V2 to 0.170 in V4. Above the V2 level, attention effects were larger in ventral stream areas (MI = 0. 152) than in dorsal stream areas (MI = 0.052). Although onset latencies were shortest in dorsal stream areas, attentional modulation of the early response was small relative to the stimulus-evoked response. Higher ventral stream areas showed substantial attention effects at the earliest poststimulus time points, followed by the lower visual areas V2 and V1. In all areas, attentional modulation lagged the onset of the stimulus-evoked response, and attention effects grew over the time course of the neuronal response. The most powerful, consistent, and earliest attention effects were those found to occur in area V4, during the 100-300 ms poststimulus interval. Smaller effects occurred in V2 over the same interval, and the bulk of attention effects in V1 were later. In the accompanying paper, we describe the physiology of attention effects in V1, V2 and V4.
Peroxynitrite (PN), a very reactive oxidant formed by the combination of superoxide and nitric oxide, appears to play a role in producing tissue damage in a number of inflammatory conditions. Pharmacological scavenging and decomposition of PN within these areas has therapeutic value in several tissue injury models. Recently, we have been interested in nitroxide free radical-containing compounds as possible scavengers of PN decomposition products. Nitroxides can undergo redox reactions to the corresponding hydroxylamine anion or oxoammonium cation in biological systems as shown by its ability to react with superoxide, leading to the formation of hydrogen peroxide and molecular oxygen. We found that 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-1-oxyl (Tempol) inhibits PN-mediated nitration of phenolic compounds in the presence of a large molar excess of PN, suggesting a catalytic-like mechanism. In these experiments, Tempol inhibited PN-mediated nitration over the pH range of 6.5-8.5. This inhibition was specific for nitration and had no effect on hydroxylation. After the inhibition of PN-mediated nitration, Tempol was recovered from the reaction mixtures unmodified. In addition, Tempol was effective in protecting PC-12 cells from death induced by SIN-1, a PN-generating compound. The exact mechanism of Tempol's interaction with PN is not clear; however, we propose that an intermediate in this reaction may be a nitrogen dioxide radical-Tempol complex. This complex could react with water to form either nitrite or nitrate, or with a phenol radical to produce nitrophenol or nitrosophenol products and regenerate the nitroxide.

Galectin-3, a member of the beta-galactoside-binding animal lectins, has been implicated in tumor invasion and metastasis. Using an immunoligand assay, we assessed the circulating levels of galectin-3 in sera from cancer patients as well as from healthy controls. Low serum levels of galectin-3 were detected in healthy individuals (median, 62 ng/ml; range, 20-313 ng/ml; 95th percentile, 184.3 ng/ml). Compared with healthy individuals, galectin-3 serum levels in patients with breast, gastrointestinal, lung, or ovarian cancer, melanoma, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were significantly elevated (P = 0.014). Moreover, galectin-3 concentrations in sera from patients with metastatic disease were higher than in sera from patients with localized tumors. Maximum serum concentrations of galectin-3 (median, 320 ng/ml; range, 20-950 ng/ml) were found in patients with metastatic gastrointestinal carcinoma. These results suggest that circulating galectin-3 may play a role in tumor progression. The possibility of using this assay in early-stage cancer to predict metastasis should be studied.




Data are now rapidly accumulating to show that metallochemical reactions might be the common denominator underlying Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, prion diseases, cataracts, mitochondrial disorders and Parkinson's disease. In these disorders, an abnormal reaction between a protein and a redox-active metal ion (copper or iron) promotes the formation of reactive oxygen species or radicalization. It is especially intriguing how the powerful catalytic redox activity of antioxidant Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase can convert into a pro-oxidant activity, a theme echoed in the recent proposal that Abeta and PrP, the proteins respectively involved in Alzheimer's disease and prion diseases, possess similar redox activities.
Fifteen years after its introduction by Anthony Barker, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) appears to be 'coming of age' in cognitive neuroscience and promises to reshape the way we investigate brain-behavior relations. Among the many methods now available for imaging the activity of the human brain, magnetic stimulation is the only technique that allows us to interfere actively with brain function. As illustrated by several experiments over the past couple of years, this property of TMS allows us to investigate the relationship between focal cortical activity and behavior, to trace the timing at which activity in a particular cortical region contributes to a given task, and to map the functional connectivity between brain regions.

Many new drugs and therapies can now be offered to patients with epilepsy. The problem is that we do not know just how much better these new and more expensive therapies are compared with the old ones, nor do we know the full range of side-effects. This review focuses on the major clinical studies that have been published in the past year with emphasis on information as to tolerability and efficacy, especially when there is some information comparing different drugs or therapies. The topics include vigabatrin, lamotrigine, gabapentin, felbamate, topiramate, tiagabine, oxcarbazepine, levetiracetam, vagus nerve stimulation and the ketogenic diet. It is encouraging that some of the newly published double-blinded placebo-controlled studies now include children and the elderly, patient groups that have previously been neglected.
Classical lissencephaly and double cortex are genetic neuronal migration disorders associated with mental retardation and epilepsy. In classical lissencephaly, the six-layered cortex is replaced by a four layered structure lacking normal gyri or sulci. In double cortex, a second layer of cortical neurons underlies a normal cortex. A mutation in LIS1 or doublecortin can lead to either classical lissencephaly or double cortex, but because LIS1 is autosomal and doublecortin is X-linked (on the X chromosome), the disease inheritance pattern and risk of recurrence for the two genes are distinct. Mutation analysis for LIS1 and doublecortin is essential in determining the etiology of the disease in patients and may be helpful in determining the recurrence risk in families.
Functional neuroimaging in child psychiatry presents unique scientific, ethical, and technical challenges. The study of childhood disorders presupposes knowledge of neurodevelopment and brain maturation. However, much of human brain science is based on inferences from animal work and indirect neurochemical measures from body fluids. Neuroimaging can examine brain development directly in humans. The benefits can be enormous for learning how and when to intervene to prevent or treat a disorder. These unprecedented potential gains are countered by complex and difficult ethical issues. Technical advances can reduce ethical concerns by minimizing risks. They also promise to enhance the sensitivity and specificity of the measures (eg, by improving spatial and temporal resolution). Judiciously designed investigations will permit the testing of a priori hypotheses built on rational models of neuropathology. Finally, it is the integration of scientific knowledge across the various fields of neuroscience and clinical research that will push the limits of our understanding of health and disease.
The vertebrate embryonic hindbrain is segmented into rhombomeres. Gene expression studies suggest that amphioxus, the closest invertebrate relative of vertebrates, has a hindbrain homolog. However, this region is not overtly segmented in amphioxus, raising the question of how hindbrain segmentation arose in chordate evolution. Vertebrate hindbrain segmentation includes the patterning of cranial motor neurons, which can be identified by their expression of the LIM-homeodomain transcription factor islet1. To learn if the amphioxus hindbrain homolog is cryptically segmented, we cloned an amphioxus gene closely related to islet1, which we named simply islet. We report that amphioxus islet expression includes a domain of segmentally arranged cells in the ventral hindbrain homolog. We hypothesize that these cells are developing motor neurons and reveal a form of hindbrain segmentation in amphioxus. Hence, vertebrate rhombomeres may derive from a cryptically segmented brain present in the amphioxus/vertebrate ancestor. Other islet expression domains provide evidence for amphioxus homologs of the pineal gland, adenohypophysis, and endocrine pancreas. Surprisingly, homologs of vertebrate islet1-expressing spinal motor neurons and Rohon-Beard sensory neurons appear to be absent.
Under controlled conditions, infant rats emit ultrasonic vocalizations during extreme cold exposure and after administration of the alpha(2) adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine. Previous investigations have determined that, in response to clonidine, ultrasound production increases through the 2nd-week postpartum and decreases thereafter. Given that sympathetic neural dominance exhibits a similar developmental pattern, and given that clonidine induces sympathetic withdrawal and bradycardia, we hypothesized that clonidine's developmental effects on cardiac rate and ultrasound production would mirror each other. Therefore, in the present experiment, the effects of clonidine administration (0.5 mg/kg) on cardiac rate and ultrasound production were examined in 2-, 8-, 15-, and 20-day-old rats. Age-related changes in ultrasound production corresponded with changes in cardiovascular variables, including baseline cardiac rate and clonidine-induced bradycardia. This experiment is discussed with regard to the hypothesis that ultrasound production is the acoustic by-product of a physiological maneuver that compensates for clonidine's detrimental effects on cardiovascular function.
The secreted factor Sonic hedgehog (SHH) is both required for and sufficient to induce multiple developmental processes, including ventralization of the CNS, branching morphogenesis of the lungs and anteroposterior patterning of the limbs. Based on analogy to the Drosophila Hh pathway, the multiple GLI transcription factors in vertebrates are likely to both transduce SHH signaling and repress Shh transcription. In order to discriminate between overlapping versus unique requirements for the three Gli genes in mice, we have produced a Gli1 mutant and analyzed the phenotypes of Gli1/Gli2 and Gli1/3 double mutants. Gli3(xt) mutants have polydactyly and dorsal CNS defects associated with ectopic Shh expression, indicating GLI3 plays a role in repressing Shh. In contrast, Gli2 mutants have five digits, but lack a floorplate, indicating that it is required to transduce SHH signaling in some tissues. Remarkably, mice homozygous for a Gli1(zfd )mutation that deletes the exons encoding the DNA-binding domain are viable and appear normal. Transgenic mice expressing a GLI1 protein lacking the zinc fingers can not induce SHH targets in the dorsal brain, indicating that the Gli1(zfd )allele contains a hypomorphic or null mutation. Interestingly, Gli1(zfd/zfd);Gli2(zfd/+), but not Gli1(zfd/zfd);Gli3(zfd/+) double mutants have a severe phenotype; most Gli1(zfd/zfd);Gli2(zfd/+) mice die soon after birth and all have multiple defects including a variable loss of ventral spinal cord cells and smaller lungs that are similar to, but less extreme than, Gli2(zfd/zfd) mutants. Gli1/Gli2 double homozygous mutants have more extreme CNS and lung defects than Gli1(zfd/zfd);Gli2(zfd/+) mutants, however, in contrast to Shh mutants, ventrolateral neurons develop in the CNS and the limbs have 5 digits with an extra postaxial nubbin. These studies demonstrate that the zinc-finger DNA-binding domain of GLI1 protein is not required for SHH signaling in mouse. Furthermore, Gli1 and Gli2, but not Gli1 and Gli3, have extensive overlapping functions that are likely downstream of SHH signaling.
In the developing spinal cord, axons project in both the transverse plane, perpendicular to the floor plate, and in the longitudinal plane, parallel to the floor plate. For many axons, the floor plate is a source of long- and short-range guidance cues that govern growth along both dimensions. We show here that B-class transmembrane ephrins and their receptors are reciprocally expressed on floor plate cells and longitudinally projecting axons in the mouse spinal cord. During the period of commissural axon pathfinding, B-class ephrin protein is expressed at the lateral floor plate boundaries, at the interface between the floor plate and the ventral funiculus. In contrast, B-class Eph receptors are expressed on decussated commissural axon segments projecting within the ventral funiculus, and on ipsilaterally projecting axons constituting the lateral funiculus. Soluble forms of all three B-class ephrins bind to, and induce the collapse of, commissural growth cones in vitro. The collapse-inducing activity associated with B-class ephrins is likely to be mediated by EphB1. Taken together, these data support a possible role for repulsive B-class Eph receptor/ligand interactions in constraining the orientation of longitudinal axon projections at the ventral midline.

Strategy, Management and Health PolicyVenture Capital Enabling TechnologyPreclinical ResearchPreclinical Development Toxicology, Formulation Drug Delivery, PharmacokineticsClinical Development Phases I-III Regulatory, Quality, ManufacturingPostmarketing Phase IVThe effects of structural modifications of adenine nucleotides previously shown to enhance either agonist (2-thioether groups) or antagonist (additional phosphate moieties at the 3'- or 2'-position) properties at P2Y(1) receptors were examined at recombinant rat P2X(1), P2X(2), P2X(3), and P2X(4) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes. The potency of P2Y(1) agonists HT-AMP (2-(hexylthio)adenosine-5'-monophosphate) and PAPET (2-[2-(4-aminophenyl)ethylthio]adenosine-5'-triphosphate) was examined at P2X receptors. Both nucleotides showed a preference for the Group I (,-meATP-sensitive, fast-inactivating) P2X sub-units. HT-AMP was 5-fold more potent than ATP at P2X(3) receptors and a partial agonist at all except P2X(2) receptors, at which it was a full agonist. The efficacy of HT-AMP was as low as 23% at P2X(4) receptors. PAPET was a weak partial agonist at rat P2X(4) receptors and a nearly full agonist at the other subtypes. At rat P2X(3) receptors, PAPET was more potent than any other known agonist (EC(50) = 17  3 nM). MRS 2179 (N(6)-methyl-2'-deoxyadenosine 3', 5-bisphosphate, a potent P2Y(1) receptor antagonist) inhibited ATP-evoked responses at rat P2X(1) receptors with an IC(50) value of 1.15  0.21 M. MRS 2179 was a weak antagonist at rat P2X(3) receptors, with an IC(50) value of 12.9  0.1 M, and was inactive at rat P2X(2) and P2X(4) receptors. Thus, MRS 2179 was 11-fold and 130-fold selective for P2Y(1) receptors vs. P2X(1) and P2X(3) receptors, respectively. MRS 2209, the corresponding 3'-deoxy-2'-phosphate isomer, was inactive at rat P2X(1) receptors, thus demonstrating its greater selectivity as a P2Y(1) receptor antagonist. Various adenine bisphosphates in the family of MRS 2179 containing modifications of either the adenine (P2Y(1) antagonists with 2- and 6-substitutions), the phosphate (a 3',5'-cyclic diphosphate, inactive at P2Y(1) receptors), or the ribose moieties (antagonist carbocyclic analogue), were inactive at both rat P2X(1) and P2X(3) receptors. An anhydrohexitol derivative (MRS 2269) and an acyclic derivative (MRS 2286), proved to be selective antagonists at P2Y(1) receptors, since they were inactive as agonist or antagonist at P2X(1) and P2X(3) receptors.
Past studies have reported the appearance of cells sharing phenotypic characteristics of gonadotropes and GH cells. During diestrus and early proestrus, a subset of somatotropes (40-60%) expressed both GH antigens and gonadotropin (LH-beta, LHbeta, or FSH-beta) messenger RNAs (mRNAs) or GnRH receptors. More recently, we reported that subsets of gonadotropes identified by LHbeta or FSHbeta antigens expressed GH- releasing hormone (GHRH) binding sites. The present studies were designed to learn if these putative multipotential cells also expressed GH mRNA. Biotinylated sense and antisense oligonucleotide probes were developed and cytochemical in situ hybridization tests were optimized for the detection of GH mRNA with GH, LHbeta, and FSHbeta antigens. RNase protection assays were developed with a complementary RNA probe that detected a 380-bp region at the 5' end of the GH mRNA. Both the in situ hybridization and RNase protection assays detected changes in expression of GH mRNA during the estrous cycle with the lowest expression occurring during metestrus and peak expression occurring on the morning of proestrus. Cell counts confirmed the results of the RNase protection assays showing that increases in mRNA levels seen from metestrus to proestrus reflected increased percentages of GH mRNA-bearing cells. In addition, densitometric analyses demonstrated that the higher GH mRNA levels assayed from diestrus to proestrus reflected increased area and density of label per cell. Both types of assays showed sex differences in expression of GH mRNA; male rat cell populations had higher values than female rats in metestrus, diestrus, or estrus. However, percentages of GH cells in male rats were equal to those from proestrous female rats and levels of GH mRNA were lower in male rats than proestrous females. Dual labeling experiments showed that, in male rats and diestrous, proestrous, or estrous females, GH mRNA was expressed in over 70% of GH cells. Expression of GH mRNA was also found in 50-57% of cells with LHbeta or FSHbeta antigens in the same groups. The lowest expression was seen in the metestrous groups (30-40% of GH cells or gonadotropes expressed GH mRNA). Expression of GH mRNA was first increased from metestrus to diestrous largely in GH cells, and slightly in cells with LHbeta antigens. Further increases were seen in GH and LH cells by the morning of proestrus. In contrast, FSH gonadotropes did not show an increased expression of GH mRNA until the morning of proestrus (reaching the same peak reached by LH cells). These data confirm the working hypothesis that a multihormonal cell type develops during diestrus to support both the somatotrope and gonadotrope populations. Collectively, our studies suggest that this multihormonal cell may function to help support the regulatory functions of the gonadotrope during the periovulatory period. In addition, the appearance of significant levels of expression of GH mRNA by male rat gonadotropes suggests that this multihormonal cell may play a role in regulation of the male reproductive system as well.

Free radical (FR) production, a major step in calcium-dependent neurodegeneration, has been linked to the generation of epileptiform activity and seizure-induced cell death. However, direct evidence of FR production in neurons during seizures has never been presented. Using hippocampal cultured slices we demonstrate that FRs are produced in CA3 but not CA1 pyramidal neurons during the rhythmic synchronous activity induced by the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline. The production of FRs (measured as changes in the fluorescence emission of dihydrorhodamine 123) was correlated with an increase in the baseline levels of intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) estimated by fluo-3 injected into individual neurons via a patch pipette. [Ca2+]i increased during spike bursting and returned to baseline levels after the burst termination in CA1, but not in CA3, pyramidal neurons where 'interburst' calcium concentrations progressively increased. Measurement of cell death, performed with propidium iodide 48 h after a 30-min exposure to bicuculline, revealed most prominent degeneration of pyramidal neurons in the CA3 pyramidal layer. The FR scavengers vitamin E and glutathione significantly reduced the seizure-induced neurodegeneration without supressing spontaneous epileptiform activity. These observations indicate that FR overproduction is related to seizure-induced neuronal death.
Neurotrophins have been suggested to act as liaison molecules between activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and the establishment of patterns of synaptic connectivity during postnatal developmental in different brain areas, including the visual cortex. In particular, recent studies have shown that Trk B ligands are involved in the formation of the ocular dominance columns during postnatal development. Here, we examined the contribution of endogenous Trk B activation to the regulation of different forms of synaptic plasticity including long-term potentiation (LTP), long-term depression (LTD) and LTP after LTD in the developing visual cortex. Rat cortical slices were incubated with a soluble form of Trk B receptor (TrkB IgG) preventing Trk B activation by endogenous ligands. LTP expression was also studied at P23 (postnatal), when the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) reaches a peak and the LTP expression is normally downregulated. The present results demonstrate that Trk B activation is required for the long-term maintenance, &gt; 30 min, of both LTP and LTP after LTD at P17. At P23, a higher concentration of TrkB IgG was necessary to impair LTP. In contrast, neither amplitude nor duration of LTD were affected by Trk B ligands blockade. Taken together, these results indicate that endogenous Trk B ligands are necessary for the expression of LTP but not LTD at a critical time during postnatal cortical development.
In order to delimit the supra-brainstem structures that are activated during the sleep-waking cycle, we have examined c-fos immunoreactivity in four groups of polygraphically recorded cats killed after 3 h of prolonged waking (W), slow-wave sleep (SWS), or paradoxical sleep (PS), following microinjection of muscimol (a gamma-aminobutyric acid, GABA agonist) into the periaqueductal grey matter and adjacent areas [Sastre et al. (1996), Neuroscience, 74, 415-426]. Our results demonstrate that there was a direct relationship between a significant increase in c-fos labelling and the amount of PS in the laterodorsalis tegmenti in the pons, supramamillary nucleus, septum, hippocampus, gyrus cingulate, amygdala, stria terminalis and the accumbens nuclei. Moreover, in all these structures, the number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons in the PS group was significantly higher (three to 30-fold) than in the SWS and W groups. We suggest that the dense expression of the immediate-early gene c-fos in the rhinencephalon and striatum may be considered as a tonic component of PS at the molecular level and that, during PS, the rhinencephalon and striatum are the main targets of an excitatory system originating in the pons.
Cytokines are extracellular mediators that have been reported to affect neurotransmitter release and synaptic plasticity phenomena when applied in vitro. Most of these effects occur rapidly after the application of the cytokines and are presumably mediated through the activation of protein phosphorylation processes. While many cytokines have an inflammatory action, interleukin-6 (IL-6) has been found to have a neuroprotective effect against ischaemia lesions and glutamate excitotoxicity, and to increase neuronal survival in a variety of experimental conditions. In this paper, the functional effects of IL-6 on the spread of excitation visualized by dark-field/infrared videomicroscopy in rat cortical slices and on glutamate release from cortical synaptosomes were analysed and correlated with the activation of the STAT3, mitogen-activated protein kinase ERK (MAPK/ERK) and stress-activated protein kinase/cJun NH2-terminal kinase (SAPK/JNK) pathways. We have found that IL-6 depresses the spread of excitation and evoked glutamate release in the cerebral cortex, and that these effects are accompanied by a stimulation of STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation, an inhibition of MAPK/ERK activity, a decreased phosphorylation of the presynaptic MAPK/ERK substrate synapsin I and no detectable effects on SAPK/JNK. The effects of IL-6 were effectively counteracted by treatment of the cortical slices with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor lavendustin A. The inhibitory effects of IL-6 on glutamate release and on the spread of excitation in the rat cerebral cortex indicate that the protective effect of IL-6 on neuronal survival could be mediated by a downregulation of neuronal activity, release of excitatory neurotransmitters and MAPK/ERK activity.
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), a 19 amino acid cyclic peptide, is largely expressed in the hypothalamus. It is implicated in the control of general arousal and goal-orientated behaviours in mammals, and appears to be a key messenger in the regulation of food intake. An understanding of the biological actions of MCH has been so far hampered by the lack of information about its receptor(s) and their location in the brain. We recently identified the orphan G-protein-coupled receptor SLC-1 as a receptor for the neuropeptide MCH. We used in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry to determine the distribution of SLC-1 mRNA and its protein product in the rat brain and spinal cord. SLC-1 mRNA and protein were found to be widely and strongly expressed throughout the brain. Immunoreactivity was observed in areas that largely overlapped with regions mapping positive for mRNA. SLC-1 signals were observed in the cerebral cortex, caudate-putamen, hippocampal formation, amygdala, hypothalamus and thalamus, as well as in various nuclei of the mesencephalon and rhombencephalon. The distribution of the receptor mRNA and immunolabelling was in good general agreement with the previously reported distribution of MCH itself. Our data are consistent with the known biological effects of MCH in the brain, e.g. modulation of the stress response, sexual behaviour, anxiety, learning, seizure production, grooming and sensory gating, and with a role for SLC-1 in mediating these physiological actions.


Using adult Long-Evans male rats, this experiment compared spontaneous (assessed 15 days and 4.5 months after surgery) and amphetamine-induced (assessed from 4.5 months after surgery onwards; 1 mg/kg, i.p., ten injections, 48 h apart) locomotor activity following N-methyl-D-aspartate lesions of the entorhinal cortex, electrolytic lesions of the fimbria-fornix, or ibotenate lesions of the hippocampus. Sham-operated rats were used as controls. Hippocampal and fimbria-fornix lesions, but not entorhinal-cortex lesions induced diurnal and nocturnal hyperactivity, which was attenuated over time, but only in rats with fimbria-fornix lesions. Amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion was assessed in a familiar environment. Lesions of the entorhinal cortex potentiated the locomotor effects of amphetamine, but not lesions of the hippocampus or interruption of the axons in the fimbria-fornix pathway. Sensitization appeared to be decreased by fimbria-fornix lesions and to be prevented by hippocampal lesions. Rats with entorhinal-cortex lesions behaved as if they had already been sensitized by the lesion. These results clearly show that lesions of the fimbria-fornix, the hippocampus, and of the entorhinal cortex have different effects on spontaneous and amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, as they also have on learning and memory tasks.
The nervous (nr) mutation induces a progressive and severe degeneration of cerebellar Purkinje cells and retinal photoreceptors that is virtually complete within the first few months of life. Previous studies of the retina in nervous (nr/nr) mice have focused primarily on the structural abnormalities seen at the level of the photoreceptor cell bodies and outer segments. Here, we have carried out a series of functional studies of the visual pathway in nervous mice and have quantified the status of the inner retinal cell and plexiform layers. Affected animals were obtained by mating nr/+ heterozygotes and screening the offspring for the ataxia characteristic of nervous animals; phenotypically normal littermates (i.e. nr/+ or +/+) were used as controls. As described previously, there is a substantial loss of photoreceptors cells in the nervous retina and a marked shortening of the inner and outer segments. These changes are accompanied by a more modest decline in the thickness of the inner plexiform and inner nuclear layers. These anatomic abnormalities were accompanied by reproducible changes in visual function, as measured with the electroretinogram (ERG) and visual evoked potential (VEP). The dark-adapted ERGs of nervous and control mice had similar waveforms, although the nervous responses were substantially smaller in amplitude. The reductions in the amplitude of the ERG a-wave corresponded to the loss of photoreceptor cells and shortened outer segments seen histologically. Nevertheless, the kinetics of the leading edge of the a-wave did not differ between nervous and control mice, indicating that the rod outer segments of nervous mice continue to respond to light in a normal fashion. The amplitudes of cone ERGs were also reduced in nervous mice, although the extent of this reduction in any given animal was always less than that for rod-mediated ERG components. Overall, this result is consistent with cone involvement occurring only as a secondary effect of rod photoreceptor degeneration. The peak latencies of VEPs of nervous mice were slower than those of control littermates. These functional abnormalities correspond well to the structural changes induced by the nervous mutation, which does not appear to prevent visual signals from being transmitted centrally, beyond the limitations imposed by the degenerative process.
Drusen are abnormal extracellular deposits that accumulate between the retinal pigmented epithelium and Bruch's membrane and are commonly associated with age-related macular degeneration. Our recent work has identified a number of plasma proteins as molecular components of drusen. Of interest is the fact that many of these drusen-associated molecules are acute phase reactant proteins and some have established roles in mediating immune responsiveness. As immune and inflammatory responses appear to play a role in the formation of other pathologic age-related deposits, we examined the distribution of immunoglobulin molecules and terminal complement complexes at sites of drusen deposition. Here, we report that concentrations of immunoglobulin G and terminal C5b-9 complement complexes are present in drusen. In addition, we observe that retinal pigmented epithelial cells overlying or directly adjacent to drusen, as well as some within apparently normal epithelia, exhibit cytoplasmic immunoreactivity for immunoglobulin and the C5 component of complement. Taken together, these results suggest that drusen biogenesis may be a byproduct of immune responsiveness, and they implicate immune complex-mediated pathogenesis involving retinal pigmented epithelial cells as an initiating event in drusen formation.

Using double-labeling techniques for both in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry some peptides and peptide receptors were studied quantitatively in a sensory and a sympathetic ganglion after axotomy. In the lumbar 5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) normally no neuropeptide Y- and only a few galanin-positive cell bodies are seen. Following complete transection of the sciatic nerve around 60% of all neuropeptide Y (NPY) neuron profiles (NPs) were galanin positive (+) and 33-44% of all galanin NPs were NPY(+). A good agreement between immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization was observed for NPY and galanin. NPY Y1- and Y2-receptor (R) mRNAs were found in around 40% of all NPY mRNA(+) NPs, and more than half of the Y1-R mRNA(+) NPs and two-thirds of the Y2-R mRNA(+) NPs were NPY(+). In addition, more than one-third of the galanin mRNA-containing NPs showed colocalization with NPY receptor mRNAs and up to 70% of the Y2-R mRNA(+) NPs also expressed galanin mRNA. In the control superior cervical ganglion (SCG) 10% of the NPY(+) NPs were Y2-R mRNA(+), and 85% of the Y2-R(+) NPs were NPY mRNA(+), and the corresponding percentages after axotomy were around 35 and 45%, respectively. Following axotomy of the carotid nerves around half of all NPY(+) NPs were galanin(+), and conversely around 50% of all galanin NPs were NPY(+) at the mRNA level, whereas much lower percentages (15 and 9%, respectively) were observed with immunohistochemistry. These results demonstrate that double-labeling procedures are valid tools to quantitatively evaluate coexistence situations in sensory and sympathetic ganglia, showing a high degree of coexistence for NPY and galanin in axotomized neurons both in the lumbar 5 DRG and in the SCG. However, the immunohistochemical analysis in the SCG demonstrated much lower numbers of peptide-positive neurons than seen with in situ hybridization, suggesting that the latter technique is more sensitive. The fact that a considerable number of neurons express NPY together with Y1- and/or Y2-Rs indicates that both receptors may act as autoreceptors, the Y1-R presumably at the level of the cell body and the Y2-R on nerve terminals in the dorsal horn and/or the periphery. The present results also show that in both sensory and sympathetic neurons there is a strong upregulation of the Y2-R after nerve injury, suggesting a possible role in trophic and regenerative events.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) plays a crucial role in synaptic plasticity during brain development and adulthood by activating a dual receptor system composed of TrkA and p75 (p75NTR) receptors. Exogenous NGF modulates the expression of both receptors. Little is known about the ability of endogenous NGF to regulate the expression of these receptors in basal forebrain cholinergic terminals. The ability of glucocorticoids to increase NGF expression in the hippocampus prompted us to investigate whether the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX) increases TrkA and p75NTR expression in NGF-target cholinergic neurons in developing rats. We first examined the effect of DEX on NGF mRNA by in situ hybridization. DEX given systemically (0.5 mg/kg, sc) for 1 week to 7-day-old rats elicited an increase in NGF mRNA levels in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and superficial layers II and III of the cerebral cortex. Immunohistochemical analysis of p75NTR and TrkA levels revealed a dramatic increase in p75NTR immunoreactivity (IR) in both basal forebrain and hippocampus and TrkA IR in the hippocampus. Interestingly, in DEX-treated rats more axonal terminals were immunopositive for p75NTR in the hippocampus and cortex, suggesting an increase in p75NTR IR in cell bodies as well as in terminals. Our data indicate that the endogenously produced NGF elicits biological changes similar to those of the exogenously delivered NGF. We suggest that glucocorticoids might regulate and coordinate cholinergic neuronal maturation by increasing the biosynthesis of NGF.
The neurogenetics and neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are still largely unknown, even though recent work has clarified some genetic components in this common and devastating neurodegenerative disease. Most of the genetic mutations have been shown to be, at least in the early onset type of AD, related to the function of a large transmembrane protein, amyloid precursor protein (APP). This protein is cleaved into various smaller fragments that are either soluble or aggregating. It is thought that this processing of APP is inherently important for the initiation and progression of AD. Recent animal models have suggested that it is not the formation of beta-amyloid plaques per se, but the altered processing of APP and the subsequent loss of soluble APP, that sets the stage for the massive neuronal cell loss which occurs in AD. We would like to propose a three-way relationship between oestrogen, APP and nerve growth factor (NGF) in the neural pathways of the brain which are involved in learning and memory - the limbic system. The degeneration of the cholinergic innervation from the basal forebrain to the hippocampal formation in the temporal lobe is thought to be one of the factors determining the progression of memory decay, both during normal ageing and AD. Oestrogen and NGF are among the neuroprotective agents that have shown some potential for the treatment of AD. Previous results of treatment with these two agents and their relationship to the amyloid proteins, will be discussed in this review.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder is a childhood psychiatric disorder characterized by inattention, impulsivity, and overactivity. Considerable research has focused on the neurobiological substrates of this disorder. Although the specific nature of the brain dysfunction remains elusive, progress has been made and several models of the underlying pathophysiology have been suggested. Research in the fields of neuropsychology, neuroimaging, neurochemistry, and molecular genetics, which points to a multifactorial etiology for the disorder, is reviewed. While several inconsistencies exist across studies, evidence supports dysfunction of fronto-striatal dopaminergic and noradrenergic circuits with resultant executive deficits in cognitive functioning.
Three-dimensional trunk motion, trunk muscle electromyography and intra-abdominal pressure were evaluated to investigate the preparatory control of the trunk associated with voluntary unilateral upper limb movement. The directions of angular motion produced by moments reactive to limb movement in each direction were predicted using a three-dimensional model of the body. Preparatory motion of the trunk occurred in three dimensions in the directions opposite to the reactive moments. Electromyographic recordings from the superficial trunk muscles were consistent with preparatory trunk motion. However, activation of transversus abdominis was inconsistent with control of direction-specific moments acting on the trunk. The results provide evidence that anticipatory postural adjustments result in movements and not simple rigidification of the trunk.
Argos is a secreted protein that contains an EGF-like domain and acts as an inhibitor of Drosophila EGF receptor activation. To identify genes that function in the Argos-regulated signaling pathway, we performed a genetic screen for enhancers and suppressors of the eye phenotype caused by the overexpression of argos. As a result, new alleles of known genes encoding components of the EGF receptor pathway, such as Star, sprouty, bulge, and clown, were isolated. To study the role of clown in development, we examined the eye and wing phenotypes of the clown mutants in detail. In the eye discs of clown mutants, the pattern of neuronal differentiation was impaired, showing a phenotype similar to those caused by a gain-of-function EGF receptor mutation and overexpression of secreted Spitz, an activating ligand for the EGF receptor. There was also an increased number of pigment cells in the clown eyes. Epistatic analysis placed clown between argos and Ras1. In addition, we found that clown negatively regulated the development of wing veins. These results suggest that the clown gene product is important for the Argos-mediated inhibition of EGF receptor activation during the development of various tissues. In addition to the known genes, we identified six mutations of novel genes. Genetic characterization of these mutants suggested that they have distinct roles in cell differentiation and/or survival regulated by the EGF receptor pathway.
The pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and nitric oxide (NO) can be produced by activated glial cells and play a critical role in various neurological diseases. Using primary co-cultures of rat microglial and astroglial cells, we investigated the effects of the anti-inflammatory cytokines transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1)/beta2, IL-4, and IL-10 on the production of (pro-) inflammatory mediators after stimulation of the cells with lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 0.1 micrograms/ml, 24 h). IL-10 (10 and 100 ng/ml) and IL-4 (5 and 50 U/ml) suppressed the LPS-induced production of NO, IL-6, and TNF-alpha in a dose-dependent manner, whereas TGF-beta1/beta2 (2 and 20 ng/ml) only suppressed NO production. LPS-induced levels of IL-1beta were suppressed by IL-10, but not by IL-4 and TGF-beta1/beta2. Conversely, co-incubation of the glial cells with LPS and antibodies to TGF-beta1/beta2 selectively enhanced LPS-induced NO production, whereas co-incubation with antibody to IL-10 enhanced LPS-induced production of all pro-inflammatory cytokines and NO. This finding strongly suggests that effective concentrations of TGF-beta1/beta2 and IL-10 are produced by LPS-stimulated glial cell co-cultures. Production of IL-10 in these co-cultures was confirmed by measurement of rat IL-10 by radioimmunoassay. We conclude that anti-inflammatory cytokines affect the production of inflammatory mediators in LPS-activated co-cultures of microglial and astroglial cells differentially.
This review focuses on the possible contribution of the growth hormone (GH)-insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) axis to cognitive function. Binding sites for GH and IGF-I are found in various areas of the brain. Their distribution suggests that GH and IGF-I contribute to the function of the hippocampus, a brain structure important for the maintenance of cognitive functions such as learning and memory. Evidence for cognitive deficits in GH-deficient individuals has been found in various studies, some of which have shown that these deficits can be reversed by GH substitution therapy. In addition to examining conditions of GH deficiency, this article reviews studies evaluating the correlation between the cognitive deficits associated with ageing and age-related decreases in GH or IGF-I secretion. Based on the available data, one might hypothesize that relative GH or IGF-I deficiency could contribute to the deterioration of cognitive functions observed in the elderly.

The otoacoustic emissions (OAEs) and auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) measured in two separate large scale studies were examined retrospectively for potential differences between those women using, and those not using, oral contraception (OC). Fourteen dependent variables were examined, all of which exhibited substantial sex differences. For 13 of those 14 dependent variables, the means for the users of OC were shifted away from the means of the non-users in the direction of the males. Specifically, for four different measures of OAE strength, for seven of eight measures of AEP latency or amplitude, and for two cognitive tests (mental rotation and water level), the means for the users of OC were located intermediate to those of the non-users of OC and the males. Few of these differences between users and non-users of OC achieved statistical significance, but the near universality of the direction of the difference suggests that oral contraceptives do produce a weak masculinizing effect on some auditory structures. These weak masculinizing effects appear to run contrary to the facts that the levels of both free testosterone and estradiol are lower in women using OC than in normal-cycling women. Past findings on auditory sex differences may have underestimated those sex differences.
Mild hypothermia is effective in the prevention of brain edema associated with cerebral ischemia and traumatic brain injury. Brain edema is also a serious complication of acute liver failure (ALF). To assess the effectiveness of hypothermia in ALF, groups of rats were subjected to hepatic devascularization (portacaval anastomosis, followed 48 hours later by hepatic artery ligation), and body temperatures were maintained at either 35 degrees C (hypothermic) or 37 degrees C (normothermic). Mild hypothermia resulted in a significant delay in the onset of severe encephalopathy and in reduction of brain water content compared with normothermic ALF rats (control [n = 8] 80.22%; ALF-37 degrees C [n = 8] 81.74%; ALF-35 degrees C [n = 8] 80.48% [P &lt;.01 compared with ALF-37 degrees C]). This protective effect was accompanied by a significant reduction of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (but not plasma) ammonia concentrations (CSF ammonia: control: 0.05 mg/dL; ALF-37 degrees C: 1.01 mg/dL; ALF-35 degrees C: 0.07 mg/dL, P &lt;.01 compared with ALF-37 degrees C). In vivo cerebral microdialysis studies revealed that mild hypothermia resulted in a significant reduction of extracellular glutamate concentrations in the brains of rats with ALF (control: 1. 06 micromol/L; ALF-37 degrees C: 2.74 micromol/L; ALF-35 degrees C: 1.49 micromol/L [P &lt;.01 compared with ALF-37 degrees C]). These findings suggest that: 1) mild hypothermia is an effective approach to the prevention of the central nervous system consequences of experimental ALF; and that 2) the beneficial effect of hypothermia is mediated via mechanisms involving reduced blood-brain transfer of ammonia and/or reduction of extracellular brain glutamate concentrations. Mild hypothermia may be an effective approach to delay the onset of brain edema in patients with ALF awaiting liver transplantation.
Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is an autoimmune disease that accompanies anti-phospholipid antibodies measured as either anti-cardiolipin antibodies (aCL) or lupus anticoagulant. beta(2)-glycoprotein I (beta(2)GPI) is the most common and apparently the best-characterized antigenic target for aCL. To investigate T-cell responses to beta(2)GPI, we stimulated PBMC of 18 APS or systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients carrying anti-beta(2)GPI and 10 healthy controls, using a peptide library covering the beta(2)GPI sequence. We established seven CD4(+) T cell lines reactive with beta(2)GPI peptide. Three of four epitopes for patient-derived T cell lines were p244-264, whereas one T cell line from a control subject also recognized p244-264. Furthermore, there was no tendency for particular HLA class II molecules to present beta(2)GPI peptides. However, cytokine producing patterns were significantly different between T cell lines from patients and those from healthy individuals (p =.028); patients' T cells tend to exhibit higher IL-4 and lower IFN-gamma responses. These T cell lines did not react to beta(2)GPI purified from human plasma. These results indicate that beta(2)GPI-reactive CD4(+) T cells of APS/SLE patients mainly recognize cryptic p244-264 in the context of various HLA class II molecules, and exhibit Th0-Th2-type responses. Our findings may provide a clue to the pathogenesis of APS.
Because of the recent identification of several mutations of methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) in patients with Rett syndrome (RTT), a patient with suspected RTT from an autism clinic was screened for mutations. She was found to have a novel heterozygous nonsense mutation, 129C&gt;T (Q19X), which leads to the most severely truncated MECP2 protein reported to date. Sequencing of parental DNA revealed the mutation was de novo. The patient was not affected with microcephaly or hyperventilation, but had other features of Rett syndrome including severe mental retardation and symptoms of autistic disorder. Moderately skewed X-chromosome inactivation (XCI) may have contributed to her relatively mild phenotype.
The effect of ritanserin, a potent 5HT 2A/2C receptor antagonist, used as an add-on medication to neuroleptic treatment in patients with schizophrenia, was compared with that of placebo, in an international, double-blind, parallel-group study. Previously established neuroleptic therapy was maintained, and ritanserin 10 mg or placebo was given once daily for 8 weeks. Psychopathology was assessed with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) cale. Safety assessments included the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale (ESRS), and the requirement for antiparkinsonian medication was monitored. About 70 per cent of patients completed the treatment. There was no difference between the two groups in the numbers of patients with clinical improvement at endpoint on the PANSS negative subscale and total PANSS. The CGIs of overall severity of schizophrenia were better under placebo. The overall prevalence of side effects and the requirements for antiparkinsonism medication were comparable in the two groups. Copyright 2000 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.



A previous study found that many papers in the Indian Journal of Psychiatry (UP) had failed to reference relevant papers previously published in the same journal. The present study examined whether any change in referencing patterns had occurred The database comprised 182 eligible articles published in the UP during 1993-1996. In general, few articles cited previous UP papers (median citations, 0-1); however, few articles omitted to cite previous (relevant) UP research (median omissions, 0-1). The average number of articles cited: omitted was 2:1. Original articles cited as well as omitted more UP references than brief communications. The larger the number of total references cited, the larger was the number of UP references both cited and omitted. No significant changes in referencing patterns was evident across the years. Indexing of articles, an important method of identifying relevant, previously published research was grossly adequate in 89% of articles; the average article received 2 index entries. While UP papers appear to be receiving greater attention, it is suggested that room for improvement remains.
Official guidelines for the practice of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) recommend routine seizure modification to minimize musculoskeletal complications; nevertheless, unmodified ECT continues to be administered in India. We therefore assessed musculoskeletal morbidity with unmodified ECT with particular reference to the development of vertebral fractures and backache X-rays of the thoracolumbar spine were routinely obtained before and after a course of 6 ECTs in 50 consecutive schizophrenic patients receiving unmodified sinusoidal wave treatment.Backache was reported by 52% of patients; the symptom was severe in 14%. Severe backache developed early during the ECT course and was commoner in older patients. Gender, height and weight did not predict either presence or severity of backache. One patient experienced a vertebral fracture which was not considered serious this contrasts with the 20-40% incidence of adverse orthopedic events described with unmodified ECT in early studies. There were no other untoward events. It is concluded that, with specific reference to Indian patients, musculoskeletal morbidity with unmodified ECT may be less than earlier believed Risks with modified vs unmodified ECT therefore need to be systematically reassessed, and decision-making processes may need to be reformulated taking individual situations into account. The findings, conclusions and recommendations of this study carry much medicolegal significance for practitioners of ECT in India.
The specific beta-amyloid(25-35) fragment induced cellular degradation of the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y, but did not elicit an effect on the levels of interleukin-1beta and interleukin-1beta converting enzyme, as determined by semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunocytochemical analysis. The assays revealed constitutive expression of these proteins both at mRNA and protein level. It is conceivable that in the absence of glial elements, such as in the present neuroblastoma cell line, beta-amyloid triggers the toxicity through a direct action and/or through the production of other harmful molecules.
Depression is the most common psychiatric disorder among the elderly and in old age may interact with emotional and cognitive functioning. Depression in old age has been shown to be associated with degenerative changes in the brain. It is, therefore, important that in this patient population antidepressants with a favourable tolerability profile, such as the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), are examined for both antidepressant efficacy and effect on cognitive function and emotional impairment. This randomised, double-blind study compared the efficacy and tolerability of citalopram and mianserin in 336 elderly, depressed patients with or without dementia. Patients received either citalopram 20-40 mg/day or mianserin 30-60 mg/day for 12 weeks. The treatments were equivalent with respect to change in Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) total score; patients in both treatment groups responded well. Patients with dementia showed a smaller decrease in total MADRS score than patients without dementia. Both treatments were well tolerated with a relatively low incidence of adverse events. Fatigue and somnolence were more frequent with mianserin, while insomnia was more frequent with citalopram. Overall, this study showed that the two treatments were equivalent in efficacy, and that citalopram is an effective, well-tolerated and non-sedative treatment for elderly depressed patients with or without dementia.
The use of computerized random dot stimuli in modern neuroscience was introduced by Julesz in the 1960s. This method made it possible to study exclusively cortical processing of binocular information by disparity-sensitive neurons, and it has attained widespread use among neuroscientists and psychologists. It is now largely forgotten that in the last century, the famous neuroanatomist Ramn y Cajal had worked on random dot stereograms as a means of encoding written information. A brief note was finally published in a Spanish journal on photography in 1901. We present a translation of this text and summarize the early ideas on random dot stereograms, and we also supply a brief historical account on stereoscopic perception.
Smith-Lemli-Opitz (SLO) syndrome is a congenital disorder characterized by severe mental retardation. Patients with SLO lack 7-dehydrocholesterol (7 dH) reductase, which catalyzes the last step of cholesterol synthesis. Administration of an agent that blocks 7 dH cholesterol reductase, BM 15.766 (BM), leads to a biochemical profile which resembles that of SLO patients, i.e., lower plasma, liver, and brain cholesterol levels accompanied by the appearance of the precursors 7 dH and 8 dH cholesterol. In this article we address the functional consequences of chronic BM treatment on new motor learning by assessing acquisition of the classically conditioned eyeblink response. Just-weaned rats were fed BM by gavage for four months, with half of these rats given exogenous cholesterol during the last two months of BM treatment. Acquisition of the eyeblink response was impaired in BM-treated rats. Impaired acquisition of the eyeblink response was not accompanied by alterations in responsiveness to either the conditioned or unconditioned stimulus. Exogenous cholesterol, a clinically relevant countertreatment, failed to correct for the learning impairment produced by BM treatment. Chronic treatment with a cholesterol synthesis-blocking agent impaired associative learning in just-weaned rats.




The cortical representations of the vibrissae of the rat form a matrix in which each whisker has its own area of cortex, called a 'barrel'. The afferent pathways from the periphery travel first to the trigeminal nuclei and thence via the ventroposteromedial thalamus (VPM) to the cortical barrels have been described in detail. We have studied the output from barrels by filling adjacent areas of the primary somatosensory cortex (SI) with either Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) or biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) and demonstrating the course and terminations of the axons that arise within the barrel fields. The method not only dramatically illustrates the previously described corticothalamic pathway to VPM but also demonstrates a strict topography in the cortical afferents to the thalamic reticular nucleus (RT). Cells supplying the RT projection are found below the barrels in layer IV. Connections to the posterior thalamus, on the other hand, have no discernible topography and are derived from cortical areas surrounding the barrels. Thus the outputs of these 'septal' areas return to the region from which they receive thalamic input. The corticocortical connections are also visible in the same material. Contralateral cortical connections arise from the cells of the septa between barrels. The projections to secondary somatosensory area (SII) are mirror images of the barrel pattern in SI with rather more overlap but nonetheless a recognisable topography.

Endomorphin-2 (Tyr-Pro-Phe-Phe-NH(2)) is a novel endogenous opioid with high affinity and selectivity for the mu-opioid receptor. Immunocytochemical studies have located this peptide in spinal cord, brainstem and selected brain regions. However, there are disagreements regarding its distribution between published reports. Furthermore, the distributions reported for the endomorphins resemble that of neuropeptide FF, suggesting that some of the previous findings might be due to cross-reactivity with the latter substance. In the present study, the distribution of endomorphin-2-immunoreactivity (ir) was examined throughout the entire rat brain using an affinity-purified antiserum that appeared not to cross-react with neuropeptide FF. Endomorphin-2-ir cell somata were most prominent in the hypothalamus and the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). Endomorphin-2-ir varicose fibers were observed in such areas as the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the septal nuclei, the periaqueductal gray, the locus coeruleus, the lateral parabrachial nucleus, the NTS, and the substantia gelatinosa of the medulla. More modest immunoreactivity was seen in substantia nigra, nucleus raphe magnus, the ventral tegmental area, the pontine nuclei and the amygdala. Fibers were also observed in the ventral cerebellum. Of note was the negligible immunoreactivity in the striatum, a region known to express high levels of mu-opioid receptors. Thus, endomorphin-2-ir was widely, but not uniformly, distributed throughout the central nervous system and was associated largely, but not exclusively, with regions expressing mu-opioid receptors. Based on its distribution, it may have a role in the control of neuroendocrine, cardiovascular and respiratory functions, and mood, feeding, sexual behavior and pain.
Nitric oxide and acetylcholine are important neuromodulators implicated in brain plasticity and disease. We have examined the cellular and fiber localization of nitric oxide in the cat superior colliculus (SC) and its degree of co-localization with ACh using nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPHd) histochemistry and an antibody to neuronal nitric oxide synthase. ACh was localized using an antibody against choline acetyltransferase. We also made injections of biocytin into the region of the parabrachial brainstem to confirm that this region is a source of nitric oxide containing fibers in SC. NADPHd labeled neurons within the superficial layers of the superior colliculus included pyriform, vertical fusiform, and horizontal morphologies. Labeled neurons in the intermediate gray layer were small to medium in size, and mostly of stellate morphology. Neurons in the deepest layers had mostly vertical or stellate morphologies. NADPHd labeled fibers formed dense patches of terminal boutons within the intermediate gray layer and streams of fibers within the deepest layers of SC. Choline acetyltransferase antibody labeling in adjacent sections indicated that many fibers must contain both labels. Over 94% of neurons in the pedunculopontine tegmental and lateral dorsal tegmental nuclei were also labeled by both NADPHd and choline acetyltransferase. In addition, biocytin labeled fibers from this region were localized in the NADPHd labeled patches. We conclude that nitric oxide is contained in a variety of cell types in SC and that both nitric oxide and ACh likely serve as co-modulators in this midbrain structure.
Staurosporine (ST), a protein kinase C inhibitor, was found to produce antitumor effects against C22.20, a clonal subline derived from colon cancer HT-29 line, selected for low expression of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). However, as assessed by FACS analysis using propidium iodide, no apoptosis or cell cycle alteration was found on day 3 after treatment of C22.20 cells with ST (1-100nM). Exposure of cells to graded concentrations of the drug (i.e., from 1 to 25nM) resulted in a concentration-dependent increase in the percentage of CEA positive cells, as determined by flow cytometric analysis. However, when higher concentrations (i.e. 50nM - 100nM) of ST were used, the percentage of CEA positive cells declined compared to that detected in 25nM-treated tumor. Since these results were obtained in a clonal cell population, it is reasonable to hypothesize that induction rather than selection mechanism is involved in this phenomenon. The potential clinical interest of the present findings stems from the consideration that treatment with ST or its derivatives could improve sensitivity and efficacy of diagnostic and/or immunotherapeutic approaches based on CEA molecules.
Open-label risperidone was administered to 26 subjects (24 boys: 19 with borderline IQ and 5 with mild mental retardation), 10-18 years old, who were hospitalized for treatment of psychiatric disorders associated with aggressive behavior. Risperidone was given in daily doses ranging from 0.5 to 4 mg for periods of 2-12 months. Treatment response was monitored by means of the improvement scale of the CGI and the modified OAS. Extrapyramidal side effects were measured on the ESRS. Fourteen (54%) of 26 subjects had a marked reduction in aggression; 10 subjects had a moderate reduction; two subjects had mild changes; and none worsened. Two subjects had a marked weight gain in the first 8 weeks of treatment. In seven of the 22 children who continued taking risperidone after week 8, tiredness and sedation that necessitated dose reduction emerged between weeks 8 and 16. These results suggest that risperidone may be useful when treating severe aggressive behavior in children and adolescents. Weight gain and sedation can be troublesome side effects.
In the present study, a working memory paradigm was used to assess coordinative abilities required for the flexible control of a sequence of actions. Subjects had to maintain and recall a list of digits that functioned as an ensemble of activity cues used for guiding a sequence of forced-choice responses. In three task conditions, the demand on the selection of the activity cues was varied parametrically to manipulate the requirement of coordinating maintenance and processing operations of working memory for guiding the response sequences. A comparison between subjects suffering from severe closed head injury (CHI) and matched controls in a blocked presentation of task conditions revealed that patients, in contrast to controls, did not preplan the sequence by rearranging the ensemble of activity cues prior to execution of the action sequence. Patients' performance was more comparable to controls tested in a random presentation in which preplanning was not possible. Our results further suggest that patients are less efficient in selecting activity cues from working memory, especially in more demanding situations when activity cues have to be completely reordered for guiding a sequence of actions. These results point to an executive dysfunction in CHI subjects that may contribute to the deficits known as inflexible and rigid behavior.
In multiple sclerosis (MS) patients who carry the Class II major histocompatibility (MHC) type HLA-DR2, T cells specific for amino acids 95-116 in the proteolipid protein (PLP) are activated and clonally expanded. However, it remains unclear whether these autoreactive T cells play a pathogenic role or, rather, protect against the central nervous system (CNS) damage. We have addressed this issue, using mice transgenic for the human MHC class II region carrying the HLA-DR2 (DRB1* 1502) haplotype. After stimulating cultured lymph node cells repeatedly with PLP95-116, we generated 2 HLA-DR2-restricted, PLP95-116-specific T-cell lines (TCLs) from the transgenic mice immunized with this portion of PLP. The TCLs were CD4+ and produced T-helper 1 (Th1) cytokines in response to the peptide. These TCLs were adoptively transferred into RAG-2/2 mice expressing HLA-DR2 (DRG1* 1502) molecules. Mice receiving 1 of the TCLs developed a neurological disorder manifested ataxic movement without apparent paresis on day 3, 4, or 5 after cell transfer. Histological examination revealed inflammatory foci primarily restricted to the cerebrum and cerebellum, in association with scattered demyelinating lesions in the deep cerebral cortex. These results support a pathogenic role for PLP95-116-specific T cells in HLA-DR2+ MS patients, and shed light on the possible correlation between autoimmune target epitope and disease phenotype in human CNS autoimmune diseases.

This article reports a meta-analysis of seven independent studies on the association of tardive dyskinesia with all-cause mortality in psychiatric patients. Most of the studies included provide either small sample sizes or follow-up periods too short to reach a substantive conclusion on their own. In the meta-analysis, the overall odds ratio (OR) was significant when calculated either by the fixed-effects model (OR = 1.4, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.2-1.7, p &lt; 0.005) or the random-effects model (OR = 1.4, 95% CI = 1.1-1.8, p &lt; 0.005). There was no overall heterogeneity (Q test = 8.1, df = 7,p = 0.32). The overall estimate changed within study designs (OR = 1.4,p = 0.002 in three prospective controlled studies; OR = 2.2, p = 0.02 in two prospective uncontrolled studies; and OR = 0.9, p = 0.80 in two retrospective controlled studies). It was modified upward when the two most influential studies (one prospective and one retrospective) were removed from the overview (OR = 2.2, 95% CI = 1.4-3.5,p = 0.001; Q test = 0.81, df = 4,p = 0.94). The conclusion of the meta-analysis was that tardive dyskinesia must be considered a weak risk factor in terms of mortality. It remains to be elucidated whether it is a risk factor on its own or just a surrogate for any unknown organic liability.
Conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM) occurs when classical conditioning modifies responding to an unconditioned stimulus (US) in the absence of a conditioned stimulus (CS). Three experiments monitored rabbit nictitating (Oryctolagus cuniculus) membrane unconditioned responses to 5 intensities and 4 durations of periorbital electrical stimulation before and after CS or US manipulation. CRM occurred after 12 days of CS-US pairings but not following unpaired CS/US presentations or restraint. CRM survived CS-alone and CS/US-unpaired extinction of the conditioned response (CR) but not presentations of the US alone, although CRs remained intact. Thus, CRs could be weakened without eliminating CRM and CRM could be weakened without eliminating CRs. Data indicate CRM is a reliable, associative effect that is more than a generalized CR and may not be explained by habituation, stimulus generalization, contextual conditioning, or bidirectional conditioning.
Two interspersed and differently colored sets of dots were rotated in opposite directions and were perceived as superimposed transparent surfaces. Probes consisting of brief changes in dot motion direction were reported. Two probes affecting the same surface were discriminated accurately. The 2nd probe was discriminated poorly if it affected a surface different from the 1st and if the time between probes was less than 600 ms. This reflects a difficulty in switching attention rapidly between surfaces. Spatial proximity increased the interference. Controls were incompatible with traditional spatial mechanisms (2- or 3-dimensional) or with simple sensory filters. Instead, probes were apparently selected by object files. The interference is not simply due to an inability to process 2 objects at once but requires close spatial proximity of incompatible motion signals.
When diphtheria toxin encounters a low pH environment, the channel-forming T domain undergoes a poorly understood conformational change that allows for both its own membrane insertion and the translocation of the toxin's catalytic domain across the membrane. From the crystallographic structure of the water-soluble form of diphtheria toxin, a &quot;double dagger&quot; model was proposed in which two transmembrane helical hairpins, TH5-7 and TH8-9, anchor the T domain in the membrane. In this paper, we report the topography of the T domain in the open channel state. This topography was derived from experiments in which either a hexahistidine (H6) tag or biotin moiety was attached at residues that were mutated to cysteines. From the sign of the voltage gating induced by the H6 tag and the accessibility of the biotinylated residues to streptavidin added to the cis or trans side of the membrane, we determined which segments of the T domain are on the cis or trans side of the membrane and, consequently, which segments span the membrane. We find that there are three membrane-spanning segments. Two of them are in the channel-forming piece of the T domain, near its carboxy terminal end, and correspond to one of the proposed &quot;daggers,&quot; TH8-9. The other membrane-spanning segment roughly corresponds to only TH5 of the TH5-7 dagger, with the rest of that region lying on or near the cis surface. We also find that, in association with channel formation, the amino terminal third of the T domain, a hydrophilic stretch of approximately 70 residues, is translocated across the membrane to the trans side.
Functional neuroimaging and quantitative electroencephalographic procedures are being used increasingly in brain injury research and clinical care. These procedures are also seeing increased use in the context of forensic evaluations, particularly in cases of mild head trauma. This article provides an overview of the use of procedures such as positron emission tomography, single photon emission computed tomography, and quantitative electroencephalogram in adults. Also discussed are the clinical limitations of each procedure within the context of myriad interpretive confounds that can interfere with accurate differential diagnosis of mild head trauma.



Voltage-activated sodium channels in central neurons of larval and adult Heliothis virescens were characterized using whole-cell patch clamp techniques. Macroscopic currents showing rapid activation and inactivation kinetics were uniformly sensitive to tetrodotoxin (IC(50)=1.9nM). Currents began to activate at voltage steps to -45mV and reached half maximal at -30mV. Fast inactivation was evident at voltages as negative as -75mV and reached half maximal at -50mV. Full recovery from inactivation occurred within 1 to 2ms. Currents in larval neurons exhibited similar properties to those of adult neurons, except for the rate of fast inactivation (t(1)), which was significantly slower in larval neurons. The biophysical properties of sodium channels remained unchanged for up to 3days in culture. Two insecticidal neurotoxins, LqhalphaIT and AaIT, produced distinctly different modifications of H. virescens sodium channels. LqhalphaIT slowed channel inactivation, while AaIT specifically shifted voltage-dependent activation to more negative potentials. Overall, the results indicate that sodium channels in H. virescens neurons exhibit biophysical characteristics similar to those of vertebrates, yet possess pharmacological uniqueness with respect to scorpion toxin modification.
A novel method is presented for acquiring multislice T1-weighted images. The method utilizes non-slice-selective inversion pulses followed by a series of slice-selective excitations. k-space is divided into a number of segments equal to the number of slices. Successive segments of k-space are assigned to successive slice-selective pulses, and the order in which the slices are excited is manipulated to ensure that images of each slice have identical contrast and point spread function (PSF). This method is applied to the MDEFT experiment, a particular version of the inversion recovery experiment. The implications of this acquisition scheme on the PSF are examined, and it is shown that, provided the k-space modulation function does not change sign, a good PSF is achieved. For a given maximum number of slices, the total experimental duration depends only on TR and the number of phase-encoding steps. A method of accelerating the experiment by multiply exciting each slice is described. An experimental demonstration of the proposed sequences is given by imaging the human head at 3 T.
Rett syndrome (RTT) was first described in 1966. Its biological and genetic foundations were not clear until recently when Amir et al reported that mutations in the MECP2 gene were detected in around 50% of RTT patients. In this study, we have screened the MECP2 gene for mutations in our RTT material, including nine familial cases (19 Rett girls) and 59 sporadic cases. A total of 27 sporadic RTT patients were found to have mutations in the MECP2 gene, but no mutations were identified in our RTT families. In order to address the possibility of further X chromosomal or autosomal genetic factors in RTT, we evaluated six candidate genes for RTT selected on clinical, pathological, and genetic grounds: UBE1 (human ubiquitin activating enzyme E1, located in chromosome Xp11.23), UBE2I (ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2I, homologous to yeast UBC9, chromosome 16p13.3), GdX (ubiquitin-like protein, chromosome Xq28), SOX3 (SRY related HMG box gene 3, chromosome Xq26-q27), GABRA3 (gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor alpha3 subunit, chromosome Xq28), and CDR2 (cerebellar degeneration related autoantigen 2, chromosome 16p12-p13.1). No mutations were detected in the coding regions of these six genes in 10 affected subjects and, therefore, alterations in the amino acid sequences of the encoded proteins can be excluded as having a causative role in RTT. Furthermore, gene expression of MECP2, GdX, GABRA3, and L1CAM (L1 cell adhesion molecule) was also investigated by in situ hybridisation. No gross differences were observed in neurones of several brain regions between normal controls and Rett patients.
In adulthood, songbird species vary considerably in the extent to which they rely on auditory feedback to maintain a stable song structure. The continued recruitment of new neurons into vocal motor circuitry may contribute to this lack of resiliency in song behavior insofar as new neurons that are not privy to auditory instruction could eventually corrupt established neural function. In a first step to explore this possibility, we used a comparative approach to determine if species differences in the rate of vocal change after deafening in adulthood correlate positively with the extent of HVc neuron addition. We confirmed previous reports that deafening in adulthood changes syllable phonology much more rapidly in bengalese finches than in zebra finches. Using [(3)H]thymidine autoradiography to identify neurons generated in adulthood, we found that the proportion of new neurons in the HVc one month after labeling was nearly twice as great in bengalese than in zebra finches. Moreover, among the subset of HVc vocal motor neurons that project to the robust nucleus of the archistriatum, the incidence of [(3)H]thymidine-labeled neurons was nearly three times as great in bengalese than in zebra finches. This correlation between the proportion of newly added neurons and the rate of song deterioration supports the hypothesis that HVc neuron addition may disrupt stable adult song production if new neurons cannot be &quot;trained&quot; via auditory feedback.
The survival of inferior olive neurons is dependent on contact with cerebellar Purkinje cells. There is evidence that this dependence changes with time. Because inferior olivary axons, called climbing fibers, already show significant topographical ordering in cerebellar target zones during late embryogenesis in mice, the question arises as to whether olive neurons are dependent on target Purkinje cells for their survival at this early age. To better characterize this issue, inferior olive development was studied in two transgenic mouse mutants, wnt-1 and L7ADT, with embryonic and early postnatal loss of cerebellar target cells, respectively, and compared to that in the well-studied mutant, Lurcher. Morphological criteria as well as quantitative measures of apoptosis were considered in this developmental analysis. Survival of inferior olive neurons is observed to be independent of Purkinje cells throughout embryogenesis, but dependence begins immediately at birth in both wild types and mutants. Thereafter, wild types and mutants show a rapid increase in olive cell apoptosis, with a peak at postnatal day 4, followed by a period of low-level, but significant, apoptosis that continues to at least postnatal day 11; the main difference is that apoptosis is quantitatively enhanced in the mutants compared to wild types. The multiphasic course of these effects roughly parallels the known phases of climbing fiber synaptogenesis. In addition, despite significant temporal differences among the mutants with respect to absolute numbers of dying cells, there are common spatial features suggestive of distinct intrinsic programs linking different olivary subnuclei to their targets.
Properties of cysteinyl residues in the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) of synaptic vesicles isolated from Torpedo californica were probed. Cysteine-specific reagents of different size and polarity were used and the effects on [3H]vesamicol binding determined. The vesamicol dissociation constant increased 1,000-fold after reaction with p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonate or phenylmercury acetate, but only severalfold after reaction with relatively small methylmercury chloride or methylmethanethiosulfonate (MMTS). Methylmercury chloride, but not MMTS, protected binding from phenylmercury acetate. Thus, two classes of cysteines react to affect vesamicol binding. Class 1 reacts with only organomercurials, and class 2 reacts with both organomercurials and MMTS. Quantitative analysis of the competition between p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonate and VAChT ligands was possible after defining second-order reaction conditions. The results indicate that each cysteinyl class probably contains a single residue. Acetylcholine protects cysteine 1, but apparently does not protect cysteine 2. Vesamicol, which binds to a different site than acetylcholine does, apparently protects both cysteines, suggesting that it induces a conformational change. The relatively large reagent glutathione removes a substituent from cysteine 1, but not cysteine 2, suggesting that cysteine 2 is deeper in the transporter than cysteine 1 is. The complete sequence of T. californica VAChT is given, and possible identities of cysteines 1 and 2 are discussed.
The pathophysiology of traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) involves abnormal activation of the neutral cysteine protease calpain I (EC 3.4.22.17). In the present study we examined the effect of the calpain inhibitor CEP-4143 on cytoskeletal protection and neurological recovery after SCI in adult rats. Microinjection of 50 mM CEP-4143 into the T7 vertebral segment 10 min before a 35-g clip compression injury resulted in inhibition of calpain activation at 2 and 4 h postinjury, as determined by western blotting for calpain I-mediated spectrin degradation, and significantly attenuated the degradation of dephosphorylated NF200 neurofilament protein at 4 and 8 h postinjury. To examine the in vivo chronic neuroprotective effects of CEP-4143, animals underwent microinjection with saline or 50 mM CEP-4143 10 min before injury, followed by weekly blinded behavioral assessments for 6 weeks. Animals receiving CEP-4143 treatment showed significant improvement over saline-treated controls on the Basso Beattie Bresnahan locomotor rating scale (p &lt; 0.02) and inclined plane test (p &lt; 0.05). Counts of neurons in the red nucleus retrogradely labeled by fluoro-gold after introduction distal to the injury site were significantly higher in CEP-4143-treated animals. Finally, morphometric assessment of the injury site by computer-assisted image analysis revealed significant tissue preservation in CEP-4143-treated animals. We conclude that the calpain antagonist CEP-4143 exhibits biochemical, behavioral, and anatomical neuroprotection following traumatic SCI.
The stress-activated kinases c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 are members of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase family and take part in signalling cascades initiated by various forms of stress. Their targets include the microtubule-associated protein tau, which becomes hyperphosphorylated in Alzheimer's disease. It is necessary, as a forerunner for in vivo studies, to identify the protein kinases and phosphatases that are responsible for phosphate turnover at individual sites. Using nanoelectrospray mass spectrometry, we have undertaken an extensive comparison of phosphorylation in vitro by several candidate tau kinases, namely, JNK, p38, ERK2, and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta). Between 10 and 15 sites were identified for each kinase. The three MAP kinases phosphorylated Ser202 and Thr205 but not detectably Ser199, whereas conversely GSK3beta phosphorylated Ser199 but not detectably Ser202 or Thr205. Phosphorylated Ser404 was found with all of these kinases except JNK. The MAP kinases may not be strictly proline specific: p38 phosphorylated the nonproline sites Ser185, Thr245, Ser305, and Ser356, whereas ERK2 was the most strict. All of the sites detected except Thr245 and Ser305 are known or suspected phosphorylation sites in paired helical filament-tau extracted from Alzheimer brains. Thus, the three MAP kinases and GSK3beta are importantly all strong candidates as tau kinases that may be involved in the pathogenic hyperphosphorylation of tau in Alzheimer's disease.
Kappa-opioid receptor agonists prevent alterations in dopamine neurotransmission that occur in response to repeated cocaine administration. The present microdialysis study examined whether administration of the selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist U69593 with methamphetamine prevents alterations in dopamine levels produced by neurotoxic doses of methamphetamine. Swiss Webster mice were injected intraperitoneally with methamphetamine (10.0 mg/kg) or saline, four times in 1 day, at 2-h intervals. Prior to the first and third injection, they received U69593 (0.32 mg/kg s.c.) or vehicle. Microdialysis was conducted 3, 7, or 21 days later. Basal and K+-evoked (60 and 100 mM) dopamine overflow were reduced 3 days after methamphetamine administration. These effects were long-lasting in that they were still apparent 7 and 21 days after methamphetamine treatment. Intrastriatal (5.0 and 50 microM) or systemic (1.0-10.0 mg/kg) administration of methamphetamine increased dopamine concentrations in control animals. In mice preexposed to methamphetamine, methamphetamine-evoked dopamine overflow was reduced. In animals that had received methamphetamine with U69593, basal dopamine levels did not differ from those of vehicle-treated controls. U69593 treatment attenuated the decrease in K+-evoked dopamine produced by prior methamphetamine exposure. The reduction in methamphetamine-evoked dopamine levels was also attenuated. The administration of U69593 alone did not modify basal or stimulus-evoked dopamine levels. These data demonstrate that repeated methamphetamine administration reduces presynaptic dopamine neuronal function in mouse striatum and that co-administration of a selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist with methamphetamine attenuates these effects. U69593 treatment did not modify the hyperthermic effects of methamphetamine, indicating that this kappa-opioid receptor agonist selectively attenuates methamphetamine-induced alterations in dopamine neurotransmission.
In C6 glioma cells exposed to chemical hypoxia, an increase of extracellular lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity, cell death, and intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) occurred. Sodium nitroprusside (SNP), a nitric oxide donor and an iron-containing molecule, reduced chemical hypoxia-induced LDH release and cell death. These effects were counteracted by bepridil and by 5-(N-4-chlorobenzyl)-2',4'-dimethylbenzamil (CB-DMB), two specific inhibitors of the Na+-Ca2+ exchanger. SNP also increased the activity of the Na+-Ca2+ exchanger as a Na+ efflux pathway, stimulated by Na+-free conditions and evaluated by monitoring [Ca2+]i in single cells. In addition, SNP produced a further increase of chemical hypoxia-elicited [Ca2+]i elevation, and this effect was blocked by bepridil. Chemical hypoxia-evoked cell death and LDH release were counteracted by the ferricyanide moiety of the SNP molecule, K3Fe(CN)6, and by ferric chloride (FeCl3), and this effect was counteracted by CB-DMB. In addition, the iron ion chelator deferoxamine reversed the protective effect exerted by SNP on cell injury. Collectively, these findings suggest that the protective effect of SNP on C6 glioma cells exposed to chemical hypoxia is due to the activation of the Na+-Ca2+ exchanger operating as a Na+ efflux-Ca2+ influx pathway induced by iron present in the SNP molecule.
Fish optic nerve fibres quickly regenerate after injury, but the onset of remyelination is delayed until they reach the brain. This recapitulates the timetable of CNS myelinogenesis during development in vertebrate animals generally, and we have used the regenerating fish optic nerve to obtain evidence that it is the axons, not the myelinating glial cells, that determine when myelin formation begins. In fish, the site of an optic nerve injury becomes remyelinated by ectopic Schwann cells of unknown origin. We allowed these cells to become established and then used them as reporters to indicate the time course of pro-myelin signalling during a further round of axonal outgrowth following a second upstream lesion. Unlike in the mammalian PNS, the ectopic Schwann cells failed to respond to axotomy and to the initial outgrowth of new optic axons. They only began to divide after the axons had reached the brain. Shortly afterwards, small numbers of Schwann cells began to leave the dividing pool and form myelin sheaths. More followed gradually, so that by 3 months remyelination was almost completed and few dividing cells were left. Moreover, remyelination occurred synchronously throughout the optic nerve, with the same time course in the pre-existing Schwann cells, the new ones that colonised the second injury, and the CNS oligodendrocytes elsewhere. The optic axons are the only common structures that could synchronise myelin formation in these disparate glial populations. The responses of the ectopic Schwann cells suggest that they are controlled by the regenerating optic axons in two consecutive steps. First, they begin to proliferate when the growing axons reach the brain. Second, they leave the cell cycle to differentiate individually at widely different times during the ensuing 2 months, during the critical period when the initial rough pattern of axon terminals in the optic tectum becomes refined into an accurate map. We suggest that each axon signals individually for myelin ensheathment once it completes this process.
This paper reviews the main neuropsychological features of movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), multiple system atrophy (MSA), Huntington's disease (HD), corticobasal degeneration (CBD), and diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD). These neurodegenerative disorders all share a prominent frontal lobe-like syndrome which can be explained by damage to connections between the basal ganglia and the cortical areas involved in movement, and in behavioural and mood control. In this paper different types of cognitive and mood alteration are described in an attempt to identify additional reasons for the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism-like syndromes.


We sought to determine the relative incidence of meningiomas compared to other central nervous system tumours in an Asian surgical series, as well as the demographic and biological characteristics of these meningiomas. A review of 655 consecutive cases of central nervous system tumours from 583 patients representing the last five years admissions to one hospital in Singapore was undertaken. A total of 33 malignant/atypical tumours from 19 patients and 196 benign meningiomas from 187 patients were identified. Twenty malignant/atypical and 20 benign tumours were selected at random and subjected to histochemical and immunohistochemical analysis using antibodies directed against p53, bax and 3'-DNA hydroxy groups (TUNEL). Meningiomas comprised some 35.2% of all central nervous system tumours with malignant/atypical meningiomas representing 9.2% of meningiomas. Histochemically, necrosis was the predominant finding. However, peri-necrotic areas displayed p53 positivity in 10% of cases and bax positivity in 25% of cases. Apoptotic cells were detected in the peri-necrotic areas in 90% of benign and 75% of malignant/atypical meningiomas. Meningiomas represent the predominant form of central nervous system tumour in the Singaporean population, and aberration of p53 expression is not associated with tumour formation or progression. There was a slight but non-significant reduction in apoptosis in the progression from benign to malignant meningioma, suggesting that in contrast to many other tumour types disruption of cellular apoptosis is not a predominant driving force in Asian meningioma tumourigenesis.
Insulin and insulin receptor (IR) kinase are found in abundance in discrete brain regions yet insulin signaling in the CNS is not understood. Because it is known that the highest brain insulin-binding affinities, insulin-receptor density, and IR kinase activity are localized to the olfactory bulb, we sought to explore the downstream substrates for IR kinase in this region of the brain to better elucidate the function of insulin signaling in the CNS. First, we demonstrate that IR is postnatally and developmentally expressed in specific lamina of the highly plastic olfactory bulb (OB). ELISA testing confirms that insulin is present in the developing and adult OB. Plasma insulin levels are elevated above that found in the OB, which perhaps suggests a differential insulin pool. Olfactory bulb insulin levels appear not to be static, however, but are elevated as much as 15-fold after a 72-h fasting period. Bath application of insulin to cultured OB neurons acutely induces outward current suppression as studied by the use of traditional whole-cell and single-channel patch-clamp recording techniques. Modulation of OB neurons is restricted to current magnitude; IR kinase activation does not modulate current kinetics of inactivation or deactivation. Transient transfection of human embryonic kidney cells with cloned Kv1.3 ion channel, which carries a large proportion of the outward current in these neurons, revealed that current suppression was the result of multiple tyrosine phosphorylation of Kv1.3 channel. Y to F single-point mutations in the channel or deletion of the kinase domain in IR blocks insulin-induced modulation and phosphorylation of Kv1.3. Neuromodulation of Kv1.3 current in OB neurons is activity dependent and is eliminated after 20 days of odor/sensory deprivation induced by unilateral naris occlusion at postnatal day 1. IR kinase but not Kv1.3 expression is downregulated in the OB ipsilateral to the occlusion, as demonstrated in cryosections of right (control) and left (sensory-deprived) OB immunolabeled with antibodies directed against these proteins, respectively. Collectively, these data support the hypothesis that the hormone insulin acts as a multiply functioning molecule in the brain: IR signaling in the CNS could act as a traditional growth factor during development, be altered during energy metabolism, and simultaneously function to modulate electrical activity via phosphorylation of voltage-gated ion channels.
Response properties of auditory cortical neurons measured in anesthetized preparations have provided important information on the physiological differences between neurons in different auditory cortical areas. Studies in the awake animal, however, have been much less common, and the physiological differences noted may reflect differences in the influence of anesthetics on neurons in different cortical areas. Because the behaving monkey is gaining popularity as an animal model in studies exploring auditory cortical function, it has become critical to physiologically define the response properties of auditory cortical neurons in this preparation. This study documents the response properties of single cortical neurons in the primary and surrounding auditory cortical fields in monkeys performing an auditory discrimination task. We found that neurons with the shortest latencies were located in the primary auditory cortex (AI). Neurons in the rostral field had the longest latencies and the narrowest intensity and frequency tuning, neurons in the caudomedial field had the broadest frequency tuning, and neurons in the lateral field had the most monotonic rate/level functions of the four cortical areas studied. These trends were revealed by comparing response properties across the population of studied neurons, but there was considerable variability between neurons for each response parameter other than characteristic frequency (CF) in each cortical area. Although the neuronal CFs showed a systematic spatial organization across AI, no such systematic organization was apparent for any other response property in AI or the adjacent cortical areas. The results of this study indicate that there are physiological differences between auditory cortical fields in the behaving monkey consistent with previous studies in the anesthetized animal and provide insights into the functional role of these cortical areas in processing acoustic information.
Cochlear prostheses for electrical stimulation of the auditory nerve (&quot;electrical hearing&quot;) can provide auditory capacity for profoundly deaf adults and children, including in many cases a restored ability to perceive speech without visual cues. A fundamental challenge in auditory neuroscience is to understand the neural and perceptual mechanisms that make rehabilitation of hearing possible in these deaf humans. We have developed a feline behavioral model that allows us to study behavioral and physiological variables in the same deaf animals. Cats deafened by injection of ototoxic antibiotics were implanted with either a monopolar round window electrode or a multichannel scala tympani electrode array. To evaluate the effects of perceptually significant electrical stimulation of the auditory nerve on the central auditory system, an animal was trained to avoid a mild electrocutaneous shock when biphasic current pulses (0.2 ms/phase) were delivered to its implanted cochlea. Psychophysical detection thresholds and electrical auditory brain stem response (EABR) thresholds were estimated in each cat. At the conclusion of behavioral testing, acute physiological experiments were conducted, and threshold responses were recorded for single neurons and multineuronal clusters in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) and the primary auditory cortex (A1). Behavioral and neurophysiological thresholds were evaluated with reference to cochlear histopathology in the same deaf cats. The results of the present study include: 1) in the cats implanted with a scala tympani electrode array, the lowest ICC and A1 neural thresholds were virtually identical to the behavioral thresholds for intracochlear bipolar stimulation; 2) behavioral thresholds were lower than ICC and A1 neural thresholds in each of the cats implanted with a monopolar round window electrode; 3) EABR thresholds were higher than behavioral thresholds in all of the cats (mean difference = 6.5 dB); and 4) the cumulative number of action potentials for a sample of ICC neurons increased monotonically as a function of the amplitude and the number of stimulating biphasic pulses. This physiological result suggests that the output from the ICC may be integrated spatially across neurons and temporally integrated across pulses when the auditory nerve array is stimulated with a train of biphasic current pulses. Because behavioral thresholds were lower and reaction times were faster at a pulse rate of 30 pps compared with a pulse rate of 2 pps, spatial-temporal integration in the central auditory system was presumably reflected in psychophysical performance.
Three classes of vestibular-related neurons were found in and near the prepositus and medial vestibular nuclei of alert or decerebrate gerbils, those responding to: horizontal translational motion, horizontal head rotation, or both. Their distribution ratios were 1:2:2, respectively. Many cells responsive to translational motion exhibited spatiotemporal characteristics with both response gain and phase varying as a function of the stimulus vector angle. Rotationally sensitive neurons were distributed as Type I, II, or III responses (sensitive to ipsilateral, contralateral, or both directions, respectively) in the ratios of 4:6:1. Four tested factors shaped the response dynamics of the sampled neurons: canal-otolith convergence, oculomotor-related activity, rotational Type (I or II), and the phase of the maximum response. Type I nonconvergent cells displayed increasing gains with increasing rotational stimulus frequency (0.1-2.0 Hz, 60 degrees /s), whereas Type II neurons with convergent inputs had response gains that markedly decreased with increasing translational stimulus frequency (0.25-2.0 Hz, +/-0.1 g). Type I convergent and Type II nonconvergent neurons exhibited essentially flat gains across the stimulus frequency range. Oculomotor-related activity was noted in 30% of the cells across all functional types, appearing as burst/pause discharge patterns related to the fast phase of nystagmus during head rotation. Oculomotor-related activity was correlated with enhanced dynamic range compared with the same category that had no oculomotor-related response. Finally, responses that were in-phase with head velocity during rotation exhibited greater gains with stimulus frequency increments than neurons with out-of-phase responses. In contrast, for translational motion, neurons out of phase with head acceleration exhibited low-pass characteristics, whereas in-phase neurons did not. Data from decerebrate preparations revealed that although similar response types could be detected, the sampled cells generally had lower background discharge rates, on average one-third lower response gains, and convergent properties that differed from those found in the alert animals. On the basis of the dynamic response of identified cell types, we propose a pair of models in which inhibitory input from vestibular-related neurons converges on oculomotor neurons with excitatory inputs from the vestibular nuclei. Simple signal convergence and combinations of different types of vestibular labyrinth information can enrich the dynamic characteristics of the rotational and translational vestibuloocular responses.
This study investigated how neuronal activity in orbitofrontal cortex related to the expectation of reward changed while monkeys repeatedly learned to associate new instruction pictures with known behavioral reactions and reinforcers. In a delayed go-nogo task with several trial types, an initial picture instructed the animal to execute or withhold a reaching movement and to expect a liquid reward or a conditioned auditory reinforcer. When novel instruction pictures were presented, animals learned according to a trial-and-error strategy. After experience with a large number of novel pictures, learning occurred in a few trials, and correct performance usually exceeded 70% in the first 60-90 trials. About 150 task-related neurons in orbitofrontal cortex were studied in both familiar and learning conditions and showed two major forms of changes during learning. Quantitative changes of responses to the initial instruction were seen as appearance of new responses, increase of existing responses, or decrease or complete disappearance of responses. The changes usually outlasted initial learning trials and persisted during subsequent consolidation. They often modified the trial selectivities of activations. Increases might reflect the increased attention during learning and induce neuronal changes underlying the behavioral adaptations. Decreases might be related to the unreliable reward-predicting value of frequently changing learning instructions. The second form of changes reflected the adaptation of reward expectations during learning. In initial learning trials, animals reacted as if they expected liquid reward in every trial type, although only two of the three trial types were rewarded with liquid. In close correspondence, neuronal activations related to the expectation of reward occurred initially in every trial type. The behavioral indices for reward expectation and their neuronal correlates adapted in parallel during the course of learning and became restricted to rewarded trials. In conclusion, these data support the notion that neurons in orbitofrontal cortex code reward information in a flexible and adaptive manner during behavioral changes after novel stimuli.
The orbitofrontal cortex appears to be involved in the control of voluntary, goal-directed behavior by motivational outcomes. This study investigated how orbitofrontal neurons process information about rewards in a task that depends on intact orbitofrontal functions. In a delayed go-nogo task, animals executed or withheld a reaching movement and obtained liquid or a conditioned sound as reinforcement. An initial instruction picture indicated the behavioral reaction to be performed (movement vs. nonmovement) and the reinforcer to be obtained (liquid vs. sound) after a subsequent trigger stimulus. We found task-related activations in 188 of 505 neurons in rostral orbitofrontal area 13, entire area 11, and lateral area 14. The principal task-related activations consisted of responses to instructions, activations preceding reinforcers, or responses to reinforcers. Most activations reflected the reinforcing event rather than other task components. Instruction responses occurred either in liquid- or sound-reinforced trials but rarely distinguished between movement and nonmovement reactions. These instruction responses reflected the predicted motivational outcome rather than the behavioral reaction necessary for obtaining that outcome. Activations preceding the reinforcer began slowly and terminated immediately after the reinforcer, even when the reinforcer occurred earlier or later than usually. These activations preceded usually the liquid reward but rarely the conditioned auditory reinforcer. The activations also preceded expected drops of liquid delivered outside the task, suggesting a primary appetitive rather than a task-reinforcing relationship that apparently was related to the expectation of reward. Responses after the reinforcer occurred in liquid- but rarely in sound-reinforced trials. Reward-preceding activations and reward responses were unrelated temporally to licking movements. Several neurons showed reward responses outside the task but instruction responses during the task, indicating a response transfer from primary reward to the reward-predicting instruction, possibly reflecting the temporal unpredictability of reward. In conclusion, orbitofrontal neurons report stimuli associated with reinforcers are concerned with the expectation of reward and detect reward delivery at trial end. These activities may contribute to the processing of reward information for the motivational control of goal-directed behavior.
The big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus, navigates and hunts prey with echolocation, a modality that uses the temporal and spectral differences between vocalizations and echoes from objects to build spatial images. Closely spaced surfaces (&quot;glints&quot;) return overlapping echoes if two echoes return within the integration time of the cochlea ( approximately 300-400 micros). The overlap results in spectral interference that provides information about target structure or texture. Previous studies have shown that two acoustic events separated in time by less than approximately 500 micros evoke only a single response from neural elements in the auditory brain stem. How does the auditory system encode multiple echoes in time when only a single response is available? We presented paired FM stimuli with delay separations from 0 to 24 micros to big brown bats and recorded local field potentials (LFPs) and single-unit responses from the inferior colliculus (IC). These stimuli have one or two interference notches positioned in their spectrum as a function of two-glint separation. For the majority of single units, response counts decreased for two-glint separations when the resulting FM signal had a spectral notch positioned at the cell's best frequency (BF). The smallest two-glint separation that reliably evoked a decrease in spike count was 6 micros. In addition, first-spike latency increased for two-glint stimuli with notches positioned nearby BF. The N(4) potential of averaged LFPs showed a decrease in amplitude for two-glint separations that had a spectral notch near the BF of the recording site. Derived LFPs were computed by subtracting a common-mode signal from each LFP evoked by the two-glint FM stimuli. The derived LFP records show clear changes in both the amplitude and latency as a function of two-glint separation. These observations in relation with the single-unit data suggest that both response amplitude and latency can carry information about two-glint separation in the auditory system of E. fuscus.
A major component of the cortical regulation of the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system is known to occur via activation of striatal efferent systems projecting to the substantia nigra. The potential intermediary role of striatal nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-containing interneurons in modulating the efferent regulation of DA neuron activity was examined using single-unit recordings of DA neurons performed concurrently with striatal microdialysis in anesthetized rats. The response of DA neurons recorded in the substantia nigra to intrastriatal artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) or drug infusion was examined in terms of mean firing rate, percent of spikes fired in bursts, cells/track, and response to electrical stimulation of the orbital prefrontal cortex (oPFC) and striatum. Intrastriatal infusion of NOS substrate concurrently with intermittent periods of striatal and cortical stimulation increased the mean DA cell population firing rate as compared with ACSF controls. This effect was reproduced via intrastriatal infusion of a NO generator. Infusion of either a NOS inhibitor or NO chelator via reverse microdialysis did not affect basal firing rate but increased the percentage of DA neurons responding to striatal stimulation with an initial inhibition followed by a rebound excitation (IE response) from 40 to 74%. NO scavenger infusion also markedly decreased the stimulation intensity required to elicit an IE response to electrical stimulation of the striatum. In single neurons in which the effects of electrical stimulation were observed before and after drug delivery, NO antagonist infusion was observed to decrease the onset latency and extend the duration of the initial inhibitory phase induced by either oPFC or striatal stimulation. This is the first report showing that striatal NO tone regulates the basal activity and responsiveness of DA neurons to cortical and striatal inputs. These studies also indicate that striatal NO signaling may play an important role in the integration of information transmitted to basal ganglia output centers via corticostriatal and striatal efferent pathways.
