The corticospinal projections of mice with callosal agenesis were investigated using electro-physiological and horseradish peroxidase techniques. In the normal mouse, intracortical stimulation of the motor area with the microelectrode resulted in contralateral contraction of the forelimb, whereas ipsilateral contraction was observed in the acallosal mouse. Hence, mice with congenital absence of the corpus callosum show physiologically ipsilateral motor control. Furthermore, latency of the forelimb contraction elicited by electrical stimulation of the acallosal mouse was slightly shorter than that of the normal mouse. On the other hand, it was confirmed by a horseradish peroxidase technique that the corticospinal tract and peripheral motor neurons in the spinal cord of the acallosal mouse were identical to those of the normal mouse.
The major afferent projections of the suprachiasmatic nuclei originate in the retina and the intergeniculate leaflet of the lateral geniculate nucleus and are important in the entrainment of endogenous circadian rhythms. A characteristic feature of the suprachiasmatic nucleus and the intergeniculate leaflet of the thalamus is that they are bilaterally innervated from the retina. However, parts of the olivary and posterior pretectal nuclei have been shown to be bilaterally innervated from the retina as well. We therefore aimed to explore whether these two nuclei, in the rat, were anatomically related to the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The anterograde neuronal tract-tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin, was injected iontophoretically into different pretectal nuclei. Pretectal injections centered only in the medial part of the pretectum, i.e. involving the olivary and posterior pretectal nuclei, gave rise to a substantial bilateral innervation of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. From the site of injection, Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin-immunoreactive nerve fibers coursed laterally and rostrally into the optic tract, and within the optic tract and chiasm, under the diencephalon to penetrate dorsally into the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Varicose Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin-labeled nerve fibers were found exclusively in the ventrolateral part of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, mostly on the ipsilateral side. To determine the precise location of the projecting neurons, the retrograde tracer Cholera toxin, subunit B, was iontophoretically injected into the suprachiasmatic nucleus. The presence of of labeled neurons scattered in both the posterior and olivary pretectal nuclei was observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acetylcholine or carbachol stimulated cyclic GMP production in neuronal cultures from embryonic rat dorsal root ganglia but not in non-neuronal dorsal root ganglia cultures. Acetylcholine stimulation of cyclic GMP production was mediated by muscarinic receptors and required extracellular Ca2+. Basal cyclic GMP production and acetylcholine-evoked cyclic GMP production were attenuated by Methylene Blue, suggesting the involvement of soluble guanylate cyclase and nitric oxide synthase. L-NG-Monomethyl arginine attenuated basal, acetylcholine or carbachol-stimulated cyclic GMP production; this inhibition of acetylcholine and carbachol stimulation of cyclic GMP was reversed by L-arginine. These results suggest that a nitrosyl factor mediates basal, as well as acetylcholine- and carbachol-stimulated, cyclic GMP production. Selective destruction of small diameter neurons by capsaicin pretreatment of dorsal root ganglion neuronal cultures abolished acetylcholine and capsaicin stimulation of cyclic GMP, but did not affect sodium nitroprusside stimulation of cyclic GMP. These results suggest that acetylcholine evoked production of a nitrosyl factor in capsaicin-sensitive (small diameter) sensory neurons, which subsequently stimulated a soluble guanylate cyclase and cyclic GMP production in adjacent neuronal and/or non-neuronal cells. These results demonstrate that muscarinic agonists stimulate the nitric oxide-cyclic GMP signaling system in capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons. Thus, the noxious character of acetylcholine when administered peripherally may be mediated by nitric oxide-cyclic GMP.
The role of sub-optimal neurotrophic support in the aetiology of the sensory neuron dysfunction associated with diabetic neuropathy was investigated. The status of sciatic nerve neuropeptide content was related to target tissue nerve growth factor messenger RNA levels in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. The levels of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in diabetic sciatic nerve were significantly lowered by approximately 50% and 28%, respectively, compared with aged matched controls and insulin-treated diabetic rats (P &lt; 0.01) for both peptides and both comparisons). Measurements of nerve growth factor messenger RNA levels in sensory neuron target tissues, namely foot-skin and soleus muscle, revealed deficits of approximately 50% in diabetic rats, with insulin treatment reversing the decrease in foot-skin but not in soleus muscle. The results show a possible correlation between deficient neuropeptide gene expression in sensory neurons and reduced nerve growth factor messenger RNA levels in target tissue.
Experimental inflammation produced by an intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant results in local sensory hypersensitivity and up-regulates the neuropeptides substance P and calcitonin gene related peptide in the primary sensory neurons innervating the inflamed tissue. The inflammation also elevates nerve growth factor levels in the skin. Systemic administration of anti-NGF neutralizing antibodies prevent the behavioral sensitivity, the up-regulation of neuropeptides and the inflammation-induced expression of the immediate early gene c-fos in dorsal horn neurons, without modifying swelling and erythema. Elevation of the neurotrophin NGF in the periphery is a major contributor, therefore, of inflammatory pain.
The distribution of neuropeptide Y at different levels of the spinal cord of 23 human fetuses aged from 10-41 weeks of gestation was studied using immunocytochemical staining. Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons were identified at all levels of the spinal cord examined as early as 10 weeks of gestation. These cells were localized in the superficial layers (laminae I and II of Rexed) of the dorsal gray matter. As the age of the fetuses increased, their cell number increased and the region containing positive neurons extended from the superficial to deep layers (laminae III and VI). Immunoreactive fibers started to appear in fetuses at 10 weeks of gestation. They were found not only in the gray and white matters, but also in the pia mater lining the spinal cord. As the fetuses aged, the neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive fibers became mostly concentrated in the intermediate zones of the thoracic and sacral segments corresponding to the developing autonomic centers. Our results suggest that neuropeptide Y may play a role in the early development of the autonomic system.
Nitric oxide synthase, the enzyme responsible for the formation of nitric oxide, was demonstrated by an indirect immunofluorescence technique to be present in both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system of the domestic pig. In the sympathetic nervous system, nitric oxide synthase was mainly present in preganglionic neurons projecting to postganglionic neurons, some of which contained neuropeptide Y in the superior cervical, the coeliac and the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic chain. A minor population of postganglionic sympathetic neurons contained nitric oxide synthase, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and peptide histidine isoleucine. In the densely sympathetically innervated vascular beds such as the spleen, kidney and skeletal muscle, many neuropeptide Y- but no nitric oxide synthase-positive fibres were found. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine reduced cardiac output by 40% and caused profound vasoconstriction in a variety of vascular beds. Furthermore, no or minor changes in plasma catecholamines, neuropeptide Y or endothelin-1 were observed up to 20 min after NG-nitro-L-arginine. Milrinone (a phosphodiesterase III inhibitor) prevented this NG-nitro-L-arginine-induced reduction in cardiac output, and the regional vasoconstriction was reduced, whereas some elevation of the blood pressure was still observed. Sympathetic nerve stimulation, with single impulses of 10 Hz for 1 s in the presence of NG-nitro-L-arginine, evoked vasoconstrictor responses which were largely in the same range as in control conditions. Parasympathetic postganglionic neurons to the submandibular salivary gland contained nitric oxide synthase, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, peptide histidine isoleucine and neuropeptide Y. The vasodilatation evoked by parasympathetic nerve stimulation (10 Hz for 1 s) in the presence as well as in the absence of atropine was, on the other hand, markedly reduced by NG-nitro-L-arginine administration. Milrinone attenuated the inhibitory effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine on the parasympathetic vasodilation. In conclusion, nitric oxide synthase can be demonstrated in preganglionic sympathetic and postganglionic parasympathetic neurons. The main effect of nitric oxide synthase inhibition seems to be related to attenuation of basal endothelial nitric oxide production and parasympathetic transmission. Inhibition of phosphodiesterase counteracts both the haemodynamic and the neuronal effects of NG-nitro-L-arginine.

We examined the effect of spatial factors and hemispheric lateralization upon hand-scanning strategies in 14 right-handed men tested in a tactual-tactual matching task. The experiment involved comparisons (judgments of same or different) between two objects sequentially touched by the fingertips of the left or right hand. Stimuli were made of smoothly joined cubes whose junctions were not haptically discernible. Exploratory strategies were inferred from the durations and locations of hand contacts with any of the cubes composing the stimuli. Accuracy was greater when the same stimulus was touched twice by the same hand than when different hands were used to feel it. With regard to strategies, both hands touched the upper parts of the object longer than the lower parts. Subjects also inspected more portions of the objects ipsilateral to the hand used. Overall differences in time spent touching cubes were greater for the right hand than for the left hand, showing that touch times were less evenly distributed on object parts for the former than for the latter. In this study, the process of information gathering by touch appears to be determined by the intertwining integration of contextual factors (e.g., stimulus position in space), biomechanical constraints on hand movements, and such cognitive factors as hemispheric differences on the ability to encode spatial pattern information.
The normal reduction in acoustic startle amplitude caused by a weak prepulse (prepulse inhibition; PPI) is deficient in schizophrenic patients and in rats after systemic or intraaccumbens treatment with the D2 dopamine agonist quinpirole. We examined the anatomical substrates of the PPI-disruptive effects of intraaccumbens quinpirole. PPI was significantly reduced in a dose-dependent manner by quinpirole infusion into the medial accumbens shell region, the lateral accumbens core region, and an intermediate central region. There was a weak tendency for this quinpirole effect to be more pronounced in core and central accumbens regions than in the medial and anteromedial accumbens. Using the retrograde tracer Nuclear yellow, shell and core regions were verified to receive different patterns of limbic cortical innervation. Although the accumbens appears to have a complex and functionally diversified intrinsic anatomy, the accumbens D2 modulation of sensorimotor gating appears to be distributed across several different accumbens subregions.

The plasma membrane has been implicated as a critical target of photodynamic action on cells. We have observed that the photosensitization of human cerebral glioma (U-87 MG) cells by hematoporphyrin derivative (HpD) causes a large increase in intracellular calcium [Ca2+]i. This increase in [Ca2+]i was solely due to the influx of extracellular Ca2+ through the plasma membrane and showed a dependence on HpD concentration, light dose and concentration of calcium in the extracellular medium. The magnitude of the Ca2+ influx decreased with increasing postirradiation time, which suggests that the cell membrane partially recovers from the photodynamic injury. The photoinduced Ca2+ influx was inhibited by the Ca2+ channel blocker diltiazem and the reducing agent dithioerythritol. These findings are discussed in terms of possible activation of a Ca2+ channel as a result of photosensitization.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a serious neuropsychiatric complication of both acute and chronic liver disease. Several hypotheses have emerged following the development of appropriate animal models of HE and following studies using postmortem brain tissue from HE patients. It was originally suggested that primary energy failure was responsible for HE; however, there is now mounting evidence that the pathogenetic defect involves neurotransmission failure. Specific neurotransmitter systems implicated in the pathogenesis of portal-systemic encephalopathy (PSE) include the excitatory amino acid glutamate as well as neuroactive and/or neurotoxic biogenic amine metabolites. Although it has been proposed that alterations in the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) system may play a pathogenic role in HE associated with both chronic and acute liver failure, there is now overwhelming evidence to the contrary. On the other hand, there is evidence to suggest that a subgroup of patients with HE have increased blood and CSF concentrations of substances that bind to GABA-related benzodiazepine receptors in brain. Alterations of both the glutamatergic and serotoninergic neurotransmitter systems in PSE likely result from the metabolic consequences of chronic exposure of brain to toxic levels of ammonia. In addition to its effects on glutamatergic and serotoninergic systems during chronic liver disease, ammonia has been intimately associated with the brain edema invariably observed in acute liver failure. It is evident that, regardless of the type of liver failure, effective reductions of ammonia levels remains the strategy of choice in the prevention of encephalopathy. The further elucidation of neurotransmitter alterations in HE could result in novel &quot;downstream&quot; neuropharmacologic approaches to its prevention and treatment.

We conducted an MRI pilot study of three schizophrenic patients with the syndrome of polydipsia-hyponatremia. Paired MRI scans were obtained at baseline and in the water-loaded state to study the acute effects of water loading and accompanying changes in serum sodium and osmolality on brain structures. We report the pilot data on the observed individual MRI changes of reduced volume of the lateral ventricles in all three patients, and the third ventricles in two patients, in the water-loaded state. These changes were not statistically significant possibly because of small sample size.

Differential diagnosis between psychogenic or ('hysterical') pseudoseizures and clinical partial complex seizures has often employed an index or inference of suggestibility. However, recent research indicates a moderate association between complex partial epileptic-like signs and hypnotic capacity in the normal population as well as for complex partial epileptic patients. Consequently, the precipitation of overt, non-stereotyped seizures by instruction may not be a reliable diagnostic method when an insidious process is slowly elevating temporal/limbic lobe lability. Implications for treatment and contra-indication of antipsychotic (D2 antagonist) drugs are discussed.

Franz Josef Gall, born in 1758, studied medicine in Strasbourg and Vienna and focused his research in two areas. His most notorious research was in craniofacial morphology that gradually evolved into the pseudoscience of phrenology. His second research area was neuroanatomy. Although Gall is usually best remembered for his inglorious introduction of phrenology, his neuroanatomic contributions have more lasting significance. In this vignette we explore Gall's neuroanatomic contributions especially as they relate to brain stem anatomy. By means of blunt dissection he was the first to describe the origins of several cranial nerves, including the trigeminal nucleus. It will be apparent that Gall--his dubious introduction of phrenology notwithstanding--was a pioneer in the description of brain stem anatomy.
Many of the genes responsible for axial patterning have been conserved throughout evolution. Recent studies of invertebrates and vertebrates are extending our understanding of this molecular conservation into the anterior region of the animal embryo, including the developing brain. These studies suggest that this domain is specified according to a genetic paradigm that is different from that governing trunk development, and are also beginning to provide insights into the structures that underlie the rostral brain.

The distribution of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in the lateral eye and brain of the horseshoe crab was investigated with histochemical means using standard controls to eliminate butyrylcholinesterase and nonspecific staining. Intense staining was observed in the neural plexus of the lateral compound eye, in the lateral optic nerve, and in various neuropils of the brain. Nerve fibers with moderate to weak staining were widespread in the brain. No somata were stained in either the lateral eye or the brain. The distribution of acetylcholinesterase in the supraesophageal ganglia and nerves of the giant barnacle was also investigated for comparison. Although both the median optic nerve of the barnacle and the lateral optic nerve of the horseshoe crab appear to contain the fibers of histaminergic neurons, only the lateral optic nerve of the horseshoe crab shows AChE staining. Other parts of the barnacle nervous system, however, showed intense AChE staining. These results along with the histochemical controls eliminate the possibility that some molecule found in histaminergic neurons accounted for the AChE staining but support the possibility that acetylcholine might be involved as a neurotransmitter in lateral inhibition in the horseshoe crab retina. Two reasonable neurotransmitter candidates for lateral inhibition, histamine and acetylcholine, must now be investigated.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) has been shown to potentiate current responses elicited by activation of the GABAA receptor (IGABA) in freshly dissociated ganglion cells of the rat retina. Here we tested the hypothesis that this heteroreceptor cross talk is mediated by an intracellular cascade of events that includes the sequential activation of a stimulatory guanine nucleotide binding (Gs) protein and adenylate cyclase, the subsequent increase in levels of cyclic AMP and, finally, the action of the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). Intracellular dialysis of freshly dissociated ganglion cells with GTP gamma s irreversibly potentiated IGABA, while GDP beta s either decreased or had no effect on IGABA. Additionally, GDP beta s blocked the potentiation of IGABA by VIP. Cholera toxin rendered VIP ineffective in potentiating IGABA, while pertussis toxin had no effect on the VIP-induced potentiation of IGABA. Extracellular application of either forskolin or 8-bromo-cyclic AMP potentiated IGABA, as did the introduction of cyclic AMP directly into the intracellular compartment through the recording pipet. Intracellular application of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) potentiated IGABA, while a PKA inhibitor blocked the potentiating effect of VIP. These results lead us to conclude that activation of a cyclic AMP-dependent second-messenger system mediates the modulation of GABAA receptor function by VIP in retinal ganglion cells.
Important advances in the field of clinical neuropharmacology have created an increasing demand by the pharmaceutical industry for neurologists. As recently as a decade ago, neurologists were relatively rare in the pharmaceutical industry. I describe the roles played by industrial neurologists and review both the opportunities and risks in this career path.
Sincalide (CCK-8) is an antiopioid substance. In this study, we investigated the effects of sincalide and opioids on c-fos expression and their interaction in brain and spinal dorsal horn in vitro. Immunoprecipitation was used for detection of c-fos protein. The results indicated that 0.1 mumol.L-1 sincalide induced c-fos expression markedly in both brain (a 3.8-fold increase in c-fos protein level) and in spinal dorsal horn (a 3.6-fold increase). NDAP (a kappa receptor agonist) 0.1 mumol.L-1 showed some activating effects on c-fos expression, the c-fos protein level increased 2.7 and 2.6 times respectively in brain and spinal dorsal horn. Ohmefentanyl (Ohm, a mu receptor agonist) 0.1 mumol.L-1 also exhibited an inducing effect on c-fos protein production. Sincalide and NDAP exerted some additive effects on c-fos protein production in spinal cord. In contrast, the effect of sincalide on c-fos protein production is antagonistic to that of Ohm. The results suggested that there were changing patterns of interaction on c-fos expression between sincalide and opioids.
Previous research in this laboratory has shown that preweaning and postweaning juvenile meadow voles, Microtus pennsylvanicus, can acquire a spatial task, the Morris water-maze task. The present study examined the influence of age of juvenile acquisition (&quot;before weaning&quot; (BW; Day 10 and 15 after birth) and &quot;after weaning&quot; (AW; Day 20 and 25 after birth)) of a spatial task on subsequent re-acquisition of the same hidden-platform spatial water-maze task. This study also compared sex differences and litter sex-ratio effects on reacquisition performance. Fifteen litters of adults were re-tested in the same water maze 6 weeks after being initially tested as juveniles. All analyses were conducted using a covariate that removed the group differences in the original task performance. Adult voles from female-biased litters, that had previously learned the task at an older juvenile age (AW), reacquired the same task faster than adults that had previously learned the task at a younger juvenile age (BW). In the adult BW group there was also a significant litter sex-ratio effect such that voles born into a female-biased litter re-acquired the task more slowly than did voles born into a male-biased litter. There were no significant sex or litter sex-ratio effects on spatial learning in the AW group. These results show that adult meadow voles can require a spatial task more quickly if they initially learned the task at an older juvenile age, suggestive of a period of infantile amnesia. In addition, these results indicate that the litter sex-ratio can affect adult spatial performance, suggesting that the relative amount of androgens in utero may influence the development of sexually-dimorphic spatial ability in adulthood.
Previous work has shown that olfactory stimulation with toluene, xylene and other organic solvents elicits a burst of 15-30 Hz fast waves in the dentate gyrus of male rats. Other odorous substances including food, rat vaginal secretions and rat excrement were much less effective. In the present study we confirm that water, ammonia, rat food, rat cage litter and the presence of a conspecific did not reliably elicit dentate fast wave responses but that toluene and methyl methacrylate were very effective. We further show that both 2-propylthietane, which is a component of weasel gland secretions, and trimethyl thiazoline, an ingredient of fox droppings, elicited dentate fast waves as effectively as toluene and methyl methacrylate and that putrescine, cadaverine, butyric acid, caproic acid and indole were ineffective by comparison. Similarly, orally administered solutions of acetic acid, quinine, sodium chloride and sucrose were ineffective. These findings raise the possibility that the dentate fast waves elicited in the rat may be part of a cerebral response to the odor of a potential predator, such as the weasel or fox.
We have previously demonstrated that antibodies to the growth-associated protein, GAP-43, introduced intracellularly using a lipid carrier inhibited neurite outgrowth in NB2a/d1 neuroblastoma cells, and that culturing of these cells on adhesive substrates such as laminin or poly-L-lysine overcame this restriction. These findings suggest that GAP-43 may facilitate neuritogenesis by increasing membrane adhesiveness. To address this issue, in the present study we examined the effect of intracellular delivery of this antibody on growth cone size. A statistically significant percentage of those neurites that did elaborate following intracellular delivery of GAP-43 exhibited either no observable growth cones or smaller growth cones versus cells receiving pre-immune IgG. These results support the hypothesis that the requirement for GAP-43 in neuritogenesis may be related to growth cone formation and membrane adhesiveness.
Pleckstrin homology (PH) domains are found in numerous proteins important in signal transduction and cytoskeletal function. Several PH domains are now known to contain a binding site for the beta gamma subunits of trimeric G-proteins (G beta gamma), a finding which naturally raises the question of where on the G beta gamma complex these PH domains bind. Here we demonstrate binding of the PH domains of beta-adrenergic receptor kinase and beta-spectrin to the G beta subunit and not the G gamma subunit in a nitrocellulose gel replica assay. Furthermore, the C-terminal tryptic fragment of G beta containing only 5 WD40/beta-transducin (WD40) repeats also binds these two PH domains. Finally, constructs containing only WD40 repeats of G beta were shown to bind to beta-ARK and beta-spectrin PH domains in solution. These findings suggest that WD40 repeats of G beta are ligands for PH domains and have interesting implications for other proteins containing WD40 sequences.
Activins and inhibins are polypeptides of the transforming growth factor-beta family that participate in differentiation and growth of diverse cell types, and are involved in endocrine/paracrine regulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal axis. Mice with alpha-inhibin subunit gene deletion develop large testicular tumors. In these animals, a 200-fold increase in testicular expression of activin beta A subunit mRNA was detected using S1-nuclease protection analysis. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that a predominant mRNA form of approximately 6.5 kb and a second minor form of 4.5 kb were overexpressed in the testes of the alpha-inhibin deficient animals. Testicular expression of the type II activin receptor was decreased 3-fold in these mice. In contrast, hypothalamic beta A and type II activin receptor mRNA levels remained unaltered. alpha-Inhibin may play a role to suppress the expression of beta A mRNA in the mammalian testes. These results demonstrate that increased expression of activin is accompanied by a tissue specific reduction in the expression of its own receptor mRNA in vivo.
The synapsins, a family of neuron-specific phosphoproteins, have been implicated in the functional and structural maturation of synapses. The cell biological basis for these effects is unknown. In vitro, the synapsins interact with cytoskeletal elements including actin. To examine, in vivo, the possible effect of the synapsins on cytoskeletal organization and cell morphology, we have transfected each of the four known members of the synapsin family into nonneuronal cells. We report here that synapsin expression in fibroblast cells gives rise to an alteration in cell morphology that is associated with formation of highly elongated processes. This morphological change is accompanied by a reorganization of filamentous actin (F-actin) characterized by disruption of existing stress fibers and formation of bundles of actin cables in the elongated processes. These results suggest that interactions of the synapsins with actin, and possibly with other cytoskeletal elements, may play a role in the morphological differentiation of neurons.
Spatial correlations define the statistical structure of any visual image. Two-point correlations inform the visual system about the spatial frequency content of an image. Higher-order correlations can capture salient features such as object contours. We studied &quot;isodipole&quot; texture discrimination in V1 to determine if higher-order spatial correlations can be extracted by early stages of cortical processing. We made epicortical, local field potential, and single-cell recordings of responses elicited by isodipole texture interchange in anesthetized monkeys. Our studies demonstrate that single neurons in V1 can signal the presence of higher-order spatial correlations in visual textures. This places a computational mechanism, which may be essential for form vision at the earliest stage of cortical processing.
The Alzheimer A beta amyloid peptide (A beta) is the principal proteinaceous component of amyloid associated with Alzheimer disease (AD). We have determined the relative abundance of A beta structural variants present in amyloid from brains of 10 individuals with sporadic AD, 2 individuals with familial AD carrying specific mutations in the Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein gene, and 5 nondemented elderly controls. A procedure of isolation based on the extreme insolubility of A beta amyloid was used. The purified, nondigested A beta was analyzed by N-terminal sequencing and electrospray-ionization mass spectrometry. Three principal A beta variants were detected--A beta-(1-40), A beta-(1-42), and A beta-(11-42)--in all brains analyzed. The predominant variant in sporadic AD was A beta-(1-40), whereas the principal A beta variant in nondemented elderly controls was A beta-(1-42). The ratio A beta-(1-40)/A beta-(1-42) differed by 10-fold between brains from nondemented controls and those with sporadic AD.
This report investigates the sequence specificity requirements for homeodomain structure and DNA binding activity by the design and synthesis of a &quot;minimAl&quot; homeodomain (for minimalist design and alanine scanning mutagenesis) which contains the consensus residues and in which all nonconsensus residues have been replaced with alanine. The murine homeodomain Msx served as the prototype for the minimAl homeodomain, Ala-Msx. We show that Ala-Msx binds to DNA specifically, albeit with lower affinity than Msx. A derivative of the minimAl homeodomain, Ala-Msx(NT), which contains a native rather than an alanine-substituted N-terminal arm, has similar DNA binding affinity as Msx. We show that the native N-terminal arm stabilizes the tertiary structure of the minimAl homeodomain. Although Ala-Msx resembles a molten-globule protein, the structure of Ala-Msx(NT) is similar to Msx. The requirement for an intact N-terminal arm is not unique to the minimAl homeodomain, since the N-terminal arm also promotes high-affinity binding activity and appropriate tertiary structure of Msx. Therefore, the homeodomain &quot;scaffold&quot; consists of consensus residues, which are sufficient for DNA recognition, and nonconsensus residues in the N-terminal arm, which are required for optimal DNA binding affinity and appropriate tertiary structure. MinimAl design provides a powerful strategy to probe homeodomain structure and function. This approach should be of general utility to study the sequence specificity requirements for structure and function of other DNA-binding domains.
The monoclonal antibody Alz-50 is directed against Alzheimer's disease-related modified tau proteins and reveals cytoskeletal changes, i.e. neurofibrillary tangles and dystrophic neurites. The present study shows that, in the hypothalamus of non-demented control subjects, this same antibody gives a distinctive staining pattern of a subpopulation of somatostatin neurons and beaded fibres. Furthermore, Alz-50 occasionally recognizes somatostatin-containing cell bodies and dystrophic neurite-like fibers in the (neuritic) senile plaques of AD patients. These observations have direct consequences for the interpretation of Alz-50 staining in diagnostic usage and for the assessment of Alzheimer's disease-like changes induced by beta-amyloid in experimental animal brains. On dot spotting, Alz-50 was found to bind to a number of fragments from the somatostatin precursor, of which somatostatin 15-28 stained best. Preadsorption of Alz-50 by somatostatin 15-28, as well as other specificity tests, failed, however, to provide any clue to the nature of the unknown compound(s) stained in the control hypothalamus.
Multiple lines of evidence indicate dopamine is a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator in the cerebellum and hippocampus. In this study, we explored the utility of 3-methoxytyramine as an index of dopamine release in these regions. We found that: (1) cerebellar and hippocampal 3-methoxytyramine levels can be measured by combined gas chromatography-mass fragmentography with negative chemical ionization; (2) basal 3-methoxytyramine accumulation rates following monoamine oxidase inhibition, but not the steady-state tissue levels, are several times lower in these regions than in the frontal cortex; (3) accumulation of 3-methoxytyramine in the hippocampus and cerebellum can be enhanced following electroconvulsive shock, but not acute haloperidol (0.4 mg/kg) treatment. We conclude that 3-methoxytyramine accumulation may be a useful index of dopamine release in the cerebellum and hippocampus, but dopamine release is regulated differently in these regions than in the frontal cortex and striatum.
To further elucidate the previously demonstrated protective actions of nicotine on lesioned nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) systems (Janson and Mller, Neuroscience, 57 (1993) 931-941), the present receptor binding experiments were carried out. Rats were partially hemitransected at the meso-diencephalic junction and the effects of chronic continuous (-)nicotine treatment (osmotic pumps s.c., 0.125 mg/kg/h, 14 days) on [3H]N-propylnorapomorphine ([3H]NPA) and [3H]methylcarbamylcholine ([3H]MCC) binding were investigated in striatal coronal sections to study the agonist binding sites of DA D2 receptors and nicotinic cholinoceptors, respectively. In saline-treated but not in nicotine-treated rats, the lesion led to an increased Bmax value of [3H]NPA binding. The Bmax value of [3H]MCC binding was increased by nicotine treatment and decreased by the partial hemitransection. These results indicate that chronic nicotine treatment counteracts the lesion-induced upregulation of the high-affinity agonist binding site of the DA D2 receptor, which may be explained by an increased presence of DA via a protective effect of nicotine on neostriatal DA terminals. This action of nicotine may be of interest in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease.
The survival of immature nerve cells in a cerebellar culture, predominantly excitatory granule cells, is known to be promoted by chronic exposure to high K+ (&gt; 20 mM) or glutamate (Glu) receptor agonists. These treatments are believed to mimic the in vivo effect of the incoming glutamatergic afferents, the mossy fibres. Here we report that with maturation the cells become vulnerable to excitatory amino acids (EAAs) and that the characteristics of EAA sensitivity are dependent on the environmental influences being either &quot;trophic&quot; (25 mM K+ or 140 microM NMDA, K25 or K10 + NMDA) or &quot;non-trophic&quot; (10 mM K+, K10). Toxicity was assayed routinely at 9 days in vitro (DIV) after 24 h exposure to EAAs. Under all the tested conditions, the effect of Glu was mediated exclusively through NMDA receptors. However, the efficacy and potency of Glu were high in K25- and K10 + NMDA-grown cells compared with K10-grown cells. Growth conditions had the same influence on NMDA as on Glu-induced toxicity, but with the following special features: (1) in comparison with K25 cells, the potency of NMDA was significantly lower in K10 + NMDA cells. The K10 + NMDA cultures behaved as if they were completely insensitive to the NMDA which is present in their growth medium. (2) The K10-grown cells were not vulnerable to NMDA, unless the cell membrane was depolarised by shifting the cells into K25 medium. The efficacy of NMDA became then similar to that in K25 cultures, although the potency was about 7-fold less. Thus NMDA receptors can be activated by the depolarisation of K10 cells, implying the operation of Mg2+ blockade of the channel at normal resting membrane potential. Although non-NMDA receptors did not seem to be involved in Glu toxicity, cells were vulnerable to kainate, which killed significantly more cells than Glu (about 80% vs 70%). This was partly due to the resistance of GABAergic interneurons present in the cultures to Glu- or NMDA-induced toxicity. In contrast to the effects of Glu or NMDA, KA vulnerability was lower in cells grown in K25 or K40 than K10 medium (rank order K10 &gt; K25 &gt; K40). Under our experimental conditions, cultured cells were resistant to AMPA, quisqualate and the selective metabotropic Glu receptor agonist 1S,3R-ACPD. Collectively, the observations indicated that EAA sensitivity of cultured cerebellar interneurons is significantly and differentially influenced by environmental factors, believed to mimic in vivo trophic influences on these cells.
The distribution and density of glutamate transporter sites was determined in human cervical and lumbar spinal cord, by quantitative autoradiography using [3H]D-aspartate. In the normal human spinal cord (n = 8) there was specific binding of [3H]D-aspartate throughout the spinal grey matter, with the highest levels observed in the substantia gelatinosa and central grey matter. In the ventral horns, particularly at the L5 level, focal hot spots of binding were observed in a distribution corresponding to that of lower motor neuron somata. Comparison of motor neuron disease (MND) cases (n = 12) with normal controls showed a reduction in the density of [3H]D-aspartate binding in the intermediate grey matter and the substantia gelatinosa of the lumbar cord. These changes were more marked in the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) compared to the progressive muscular atrophy (PMA) subgroup, and may be due to loss of glutamatergic terminals of the corticospinal tract. The changes observed in the cervical cord were milder and did not reach statistical significance. No differences were found between [3H]D-aspartate binding in the spinal cords of the normal controls and a neurological disease control group (n = 6), suggesting that the changes observed in MND are disease specific. These findings provide further evidence in support of a disturbance of glutamatergic neurotransmission in MND.
The distribution and density of non-NMDA receptors in spinal cord and motor cortex was compared in 10 cases of motor neuron disease (MND) and 8 neurologically normal controls by quantitative autoradiography using [3H]CNQX and [3H]kainate. In the motor cortex of MND cases, an increased density of [3H]kainate binding sites was observed which was most marked in the deep layers. No significant differences were observed in [3H]CNQX binding in the motor cortex between MND and control cases. In the spinal cord significantly increased densities of both [3H]CNQX and [3]kainate binding sites were found in the substantia gelatinosa and the intermediate grey matter in the MND group. The changes in [3H]kainate binding were observed only in the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) subgroup of MND, while the changes in [3H]CNQX binding in the spinal cord were more marked in ALS compared to progressive muscular atrophy (PMA) cases. These findings provide evidence in support of a disturbance of glutamatergic neurotransmission in MND and suggest that there may be an increased excitatory drive to motor neurons via non-NMDA receptors. It is unclear at present whether the changes observed represent a compensatory response to loss of motor neurons in MND or a pathophysiological phenomenon contributing to motor neuron degeneration. Modulation of non-NMDA receptor activity may represent a possible target for therapeutic intervention in this disease.
Interruption of a chronic GABA infusion into the rat somatosensory cortex induces the appearance of focal epileptic manifestations, known as the 'GABA withdrawal syndrome' (GWS). The aim of the present study was to determine, by immunocytochemistry, if neurotransmitters other than GABA are involved in GWS, namely: noradrenaline (NA), serotonin, choline acetyltransferase (CAT), cholecystokinin, neuropeptide Y, somatostatin and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP). Immunocytochemical data were compared in three animal groups: GABA-, saline- and L-aspartate (L-Asp)-infused rats. Only GABA-infused rats presented epileptic manifestations after interruption of the infusion. Saline- and L-Asp-infused rats served as controls. Observations were limited to the region surrounding the cortical infusion site. GABA-infused rats showed in the zone of the epileptic focus a number of cell bodies strongly immunoreactive to NA antibodies much larger than control rats. In addition, NA-immunoreactive fibers formed a dense plexus and some of them were observed around perikarya. In saline- and L-Asp-infused rats, the NA-immunolabelled fibers were sparse and NA immunolabelling was rarely observed in cell bodies. These results contrast to those obtained for the serotonergic system, where no significant difference was observed among the three groups of rats. CAT immunolabelling was observed in cell bodies, but not in nerve terminals in rats of the three groups. The number of CAT-immunoreactive cell bodies was much greater in GABA-infused rats than in the control animals. GFAP immunolabelling showed an important number of astrocytes throughout the cortex of the GABA-infused hemisphere, whereas, astrocytic reaction was limited to the infusion site in controls. Immunocytochemical data concerning peptides revealed cortical neuronal elements labelled similarly in the three groups of rats. Noradrenergic, cholinergic and glial modifications observed mainly in GABA-infused rats can result from lesion and from a specific action of GABA in chronic infusion. These modifications may contribute to the epileptogenesis of GWS, as recently demonstrated by electrophysiological recordings that show a modulating action of NA on firing activity of neurons involved in the epileptic focus.
Histamine, acting via H1 receptors, dose-dependently stimulated [3H]inositol phosphate production in GT1-7 neuronal cells. GT1-7 cells also responded to Substance P but not to other neuroactive drugs tested. Acute histamine pretreatment desensitised the histamine-induced response, resulting in a reduction in the maximal response and a slower time-course of [3H]-inositol phosphate production. The desensitisation phenomenon was reversible, with full recovery by 2 h.
Cultures of septal and hippocampal neurons from fetal rat and dorsal root ganglion neurons from embryonic chick were pretreated with GM1 ganglioside or cycloheximide and then supplemented with toxic concentrations of ethanol. GM1 provided significant protection against ethanol neurotoxicity in each population. The inhibition of protein synthesis by cycloheximide, however, which protects against cell death resulting from withdrawal of neurotrophic factor support, did not ameliorate ethanol-induced neuronal loss.
Amino acids are demonstrated to be important neurotransmitters mediating the inhibitory transmission from nucleus raphe magnus to spinal nociceptive dorsal horn neurons. In this study, the role of glycine and GABA in the inhibitory processes evoked by stimulation in periaqueductal gray (PAG) of responses of primate spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons to cutaneous mechanical and thermal stimuli was investigated by examining the effects of strychnine and bicuculline, antagonists of glycine and GABAA receptors, respectively, introduced into the dorsal horn through a microdialysis fiber. The inhibitory effects of iontophoretic application of glycine and GABAA agonists on STT cell activity evoked by noxious mechanical stimulation of the skin were selectively blocked by their specific antagonist, strychnine or bicuculline, infused into the dorsal horn. Similarly, intra-spinal application of strychnine or bicuculline resulted in a significant reduction in the PAG stimulation-induced inhibition of responses of STT cells to cutaneous stimuli. This reduction was mainly on the PAG-induced inhibition of the responses to noxious mechanical stimuli. Our results suggest that glycinergic and GABAergic inhibitory interneurons in the spinal cord dorsal horn synapsing on STT cells are activated during stimulation in PAG and contribute to descending antinociceptive actions.
In guinea-pigs, acute treatment with mu and delta receptor opioid agonists induces sedation and immobility [1,5], and attenuates the behavioural activation produced by the dopamine D2 agonist quinpirole [5]. In contrast, kappa-selective opioid agonists induce dystonic-like movements [4,5,8]. This has led us to investigate the possibility of an interaction between acute opioid treatment and the dopamine D2 system. The effect of acute treatment with mu, delta and kappa opioid agonists on [3H]spiperone binding sites (dopamine D2) in guinea-pig brain was studied using receptor autoradiography. The mu preferring agonist morphine (15 mg/kg subcutaneously, SC) given for 2 h, and the delta receptor selective agonist DPDPE (Tyr-D-Pen-Gly-Phe-D-Pen) (20 nM, intracerebroventricularly, ICV) given for 0.5 h, both decreased the density of specific (butaclamol displaceable) [3H]spiperone binding in the caudate putamen by 23.8 +/- 1.7% and 24.2 +/- 2.7% respectively, and in nucleus accumbens by 26.1 +/- 2.7% and 21.9 +/- 4.6% respectively compared to saline treated animals. There were no significant changes in the level of [3H]spiperone binding to other brain regions examined including frontal cortex, hippocampus, substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, amygdala, hypothalamic nuclei and cerebellum. In other experiments, incubation of coronal slices from various brain regions with [3H]spiperone, in the presence of a high concentration of morphine (20 microM) or DPDPE (10 microM) did not affect the level of binding, thus precluding effects due to residual tissue levels of drugs after in vivo treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Neurotoxicity mediated by 1-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) was investigated by infusing this agent continuously for 7 days intrathecally to adult rats using a mini-osmotic pump. Behavioral changes were apparent only after the second postoperative day, when the rats displayed hindlimb palsy or incontinence of urine. The behavioral deficits became progressively severe and the rats usually displayed both hindlimb paraplegia and incontinence of urine by the 7th postoperative day. These progressive behavioral deficits were induced in a dose-dependent manner in the rats that received AMPA at a dose of &gt; 100 pmol/h (100 microM at 1 microliter/h, 17 nmol in total dose). The severity of behavioral deficits was in parallel with that of neuropathological changes in the lumbosacral cords. In spinal segments rostrally adjacent to those with severe pathological changes, only the neurons in the dorsal horns (Rexed's laminae II-IV) were destroyed with intense gliosis. These changes were not induced by infusing AMPA for 1 day. The concomitant administration of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), an antagonist for non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, with AMPA, but not that of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV), an antagonist for NMDA receptor, prevented induction of the behavioral and neuropathological changes. The findings of the present study suggest that this late-onset, selective neurotoxicity is mediated by AMPA-type glutamate receptors.
Lumbar subarachnoid injection of dynorphin A causes an ischemia-induced neuronal degeneration and persistent hindlimb paralysis. The protective effects of a variety of competitive and non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists indicate that activation of the NMDA receptor complex is essential for dynorphin A-induced spinal cord injury. 1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) is a high affinity, partial agonist at strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors associated with the NMDA receptor complex. Pretreatment of rats with ACPC (100 and 200 mg/kg, i.p., 30 min prior to dynorphin A) significantly eliminated the persistent hindlimb motor deficits and neuropathological changes produced by 20 nmol of this peptide. The neuroprotective effects of ACPC (100 mg/kg, i.p.) were abolished by parenteral administration of glycine (800 mg/kg, 30 min prior to ACPC), consistent with other in vivo and in vitro studies indicating that the pharmacological actions of ACPC are effected through strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors. When given instead as six daily injections (200 mg/kg, i.p.) followed by an injection-free day, ACPC also significantly improved neurological recovery following dynorphin-A injection. These results support earlier indications that: (1) activation of the NMDA receptor complex plays a critical role in mediating dynorphin A-induced rat spinal cord injury; (2) ACPC provides an effective means of antagonizing excitotoxic phenomena; and (3) chronic administration of ACPC can elicit a persistent change in the NMDA receptor complex.
Proteolytic cleavage of protein kinase C (PKC) under cell-free conditions generates a co-factor independent, free catalytic subunit (PKM). However, the difficulty in visualizing PKM in intact cells has generated controversy regarding its physiological relevance. In the present study, treatment of SH-SY-5Y cells with 2-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate resulted in complete down-regulation of PKC within 24 h without detection of PKM. By contrast, low levels of PKM were transiently detected following ionophore-mediated calcium influx under conditions which induced no detectable PKC loss. PKM was not detected during rapid cell-free degradation of partially purified SH-SY-5Y PKC alpha by purified human brain mM calpain. However, when the kinetics of PKC degradation were slowed by lowering levels of calpain, PKM was transiently detected. PKM was also only transiently observed following calpain-mediated degradation of purified rat brain PKC alpha. Densitometric analyses indicated that, once formed, PKM was degraded approximately 10 times faster than PKC. These data provide an explanation as to why PKM is difficult to observe in situ, and indicate that PKM should not be considered as an 'unregulated' kinase, since its persistence is apparently strictly regulated by proteolysis.
Footpads of normal adult mice are innervated by sympathetic and sensory fibers. The sympathetic fibers associated with sweat glands contain acetylcholinesterase and immunoreactivity for vasoactive intestinal peptide. Although catecholamine histofluorescence is absent, the gland innervation exhibits immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase. A distinct population of sympathetic fibers, which possess catecholamines and neuropeptide Y as well as tyrosinehydroxylase immunoreactivity, innervates blood vessels. Sensory fibers containing immunoreactivity for substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide course beneath the epidermis and some form endings in it. Treatment of neonatal mice with the adrenergic neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine, results in loss of sympathetic innervation of sweat glands and blood vessels, permits growth of sensory axons into sweat glands, but does not alter the peptidergic sensory innervation of the dermis and epidermis. Three mouse mutations, Tabby (Ta), crinkled (cr), and downless (dl), disrupt the interactions between the mesenchyme and epidermis that are required for normal development of specific epidermal derivatives, including sweat glands. The sympathetic innervation of blood vessels and sensory innervation of footpad skin of the three mutant mice that lack sweat glands is indistinguishable from normal. The sympathetic fibers that normally innervate sweat glands, however, are not present. These results indicate that in the absence of their normal target, the sympathetic fibers that innervate sweat glands are lacking. Furthermore, they suggest that, although sensory fibers may sprout into sympathetic targets in the footpad, the domains occupied by sensory fibers are not normally accessible to sympathetic axons.
Studies of the projection from the vertebrate retina have contributed significantly to current concepts of neural development. The zebrafish has recently become a favored system for the study of development in general and neural development in particular. Although the development of both the optic nerve and the retinotectal projection of the zebrafish has been described, the retinofugal projection in its entirety has not. This paper describes it and also addresses the issue of projectional exuberance: i.e., transient projections to targets that are not innervated in the adult. The retinofugal projection of embryonic and larval zebrafish (32 hours to 7 days post-fertilization) was labeled by intraocular injection of DiI (1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3',tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate) and then studied in wholemounts and sections. The first optic axons crossed the chiasm at 32 hours post-fertilization and projected in a straight line to reach the tectum at about 44 hours. At 48 hours, a few optic axons deviated along either the tract of the posterior commissure or the tract of the postoptic commissure. By 72 hours (about the time of hatching) optic axons arborized in ten distinct regions, termed arborization fields. At 6-7 days post-fertilization, the same ten arborization fields (nine contralateral, one bilateral) were evident. Most of the arborization fields were located in the superficial neuropil and were not associated with morphologically identifiable clusters of somata. On the basis of various landmarks, the ten arborization fields are identified as precursors of retinorecipient nuclei previously described in other adult cypriniform fishes. The development was characterized by the nearly complete absence of any transient projections. Thus, the idea that axonal outgrowth is initially exuberant and trimmed back later is not supported by these results.
The aim of the study was to account for direction selectivity of visual cortical neurons through systematic positional mismatch between excitatory and suppressive influences on each neuron. Direction-selective complex neurons were therefore recorded from striate cortex of cats lightly anaesthetized with halothane in nitrous oxide-oxygen. All but small residual eye movements were eradicated with intravenous gallamine triethiodide. Excitatory receptive field (ERF) dimensions and centring were quantified with optimal sine-wave grating stimuli, appropriately windowed to limit them to variable locations along and across the receptive field (RF) centre. Related suppressive receptive fields (SRFS) were similarly mapped during binocular conditioning, induced by an optimal grating applied to the other eye and drifting continuously in each neuron's preferred direction. Its purpose was to elevate ongoing levels of discharge to reveal often concealed null suppression. ERF and SRF profiles were systematically offset, especially along the line of preferred direction such that, for stimuli moving in the non-preferred direction, the SRF lay ahead of the ERF. Derivations of ERFS and SRFS during conditioning, within a single batch of trials, excluded eye movements as a source of positional mismatch. It is concluded that this mismatch may provide the basis for direction selectivity and the emergence of null suppression.
Quantitative measurements of perceptual colour constancy show that human observers have a limited and variable ability to match coloured surfaces in scenes illuminated by different light sources. Observers can, however, make fast and reliable discriminations between changes in illuminant and changes in the reflecting properties of scenes, a discriminative ability that might be based on a visual coding of spatial colour relations. This coding could be provided by the ratios of cone-photoreceptor excitations produced by light from different surfaces: for a large class of pigmented surfaces and for surfaces with random spectral reflectances, these ratios are statistically almost invariant under changes in illumination by light from the sun and sky or from a planckian radiator. Cone-excitation ratios offer a possible, although not necessarily unique, basis for perceptual colour constancy in so far as it concerns colour relations.

A new point mutation at nucleotide pair 3291 in the mitochondrial tRNA-Leu(UUR) gene was found in a Japanese MELAS patient. The nucleotides at the mutated site were evolutionarily invariant from humans through sea urchins. The mutant genomes were detected in a heteroplasmic fashion in muscle and blood cells of the proband by means of PCR-RFLP. Among 46 MELAS, 5 MERRF, 23 CPEO and 55 normal controls examined, this is the only patient with the mutation. This is the third mutation associated with MELAS in addition to nucleotides at 3243 and 3271. All three mutations occurred within the tRNA-Lue(UUR) region indicating that the tRNA alteration is responsible for the MELAS phenotype.
The modulation of neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptors by alpha 2 receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarii (Sol) of the rat was evaluated using quantitative receptor autoradiography and measurements of mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate. The receptor autoradiographical experiments showed that clonidine (10 nM), a selective alpha 2 receptor agonist, induced a 59% increase in the B0 value and a 47% decrease in the IC50 value of NPY(1-36) when competing for [125I]peptide YY ([125I]PYY)-binding sites in the presence of [Leu31, Pro34]NPY (100 nM), a selective NPY Y1 receptor agonist, to block the binding to NPY Y1 receptors. In contrast, when NPY(13-36) (300 nM), a selective NPY Y2 receptor agonist, was used to block the binding to NPY Y2 receptors, clonidine (1-30 nM) did not affect the B0 value and the IC50 value of NPY(1-36) when competing for [125I]PYY-binding sites, suggesting that the stimulation of alpha 2 receptors can selectively increase the affinity of NYP(1-36) for the NPY Y2 receptor. Microinjections of threshold doses of adrenaline or clonidine into the Sol not only counteracted the vasopressor action of a close to ED50 dose of coinjected NPY(13-36), but also changed the vasopressor and tachycardic response produced by NPY(13-36) into a vasodepressor and bradycardic response. However, threshold doses of adrenaline or of clonidine microinjected into the Sol did not modify the vasodepressor responses to a close to ED50 dose of NPY(1-36) or of [Leu31, Pro34]NPY.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The mammalian bombesin-like peptide, gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP), is expressed by many small cell lung carcinomas (SCLC), stimulates the growth of some SCLC and thus is an autocrine growth factor for a subset of SCLC. The subset of SCLC that expresses GRP typically shows neuroendocrine differentiation and has been designated as &quot;classic&quot; SCLC. To begin to characterize the mechanisms responsible for the expression of GRP in classic SCLC, the 5'-flanking region of the human GRP gene was sequenced and analyzed for cis-acting elements. Constructs containing up to 6.0 kilobases of 5'-flanking region were transiently expressed in SCLC and in control cell lines. Deletion analysis demonstrated that a sequence of 178 bases upstream of the transcriptional start was sufficient for basal expression in SCLC cell lines. A negative regulatory element was located between -5.5 and -2.6 kilobases; a general enhancer element was located between -1409 and -1197 kilobases, and a tissue-specific element was located between -1128 and -793 kilobases. Mobility shift analysis indicated that proteins from nuclear extracts of classic SCLC but not variant SCLC bound to this tissue-specific regulatory element. Thus the regulation of GRP gene expression in SCLC cell lines is a balance between a negative element, a general enhancer, and a tissue-specific element that appears active only in classic SCLC cell lines.
1. The functional expression of transient voltage-activated K+ currents (IA) was examined using whole-cell recording techniques in embryonic chick sympathetic ganglion neurones that developed in situ and under various growth conditions in vitro. 2. The density of IA increased dramatically during development in sympathetic neurones isolated acutely between embryonic days 7 and 20 (E7-E20). The time course of IA inactivation became significantly faster between E7 and E13. With these protocols, neuronal differentiation and development occurred entirely in situ. 3. Sympathetic neurones isolated at E9 and maintained in vitro for 4 days did not express a normal IA compared to neurones isolated acutely at E13. Those neurones that were in physical contact with other neurones expressed normal densities of IA, but the resulting inactivation kinetics were abnormally slow. Sympathetic neurones that were cultured on the membrane fragments of lysed neurones expressed normal densities of IA even when they failed to make visible connections with other viable neurones, but the resulting inactivation kinetics were abnormally slow. Those cultured neurones that were not in physical contact with other cells or their membranes had markedly reduced densities of IA with abnormally slow inactivation kinetics. 4. Application of 5-100 ng ml-12.5 S nerve growth factor by itself did not promote normal A density of kinetics in E9 sympathetic neurones cultured for 4 days. 5. Sympathetic neurones that developed in vitro in physical contact with ventral spinal cord explants, cardiac myocytes or aortic smooth muscle cells expressed normal densities of IA, but the inactivation kinetics were abnormally slow. Cell culture media conditioned by these tissues failed to promote normal IA expression. Sympathetic neurones cultured as explants or maintained under depolarizing conditions did not express a normal IA. 6. Embryonic chick sympathetic neurones exhibit developmental changes in the density and kinetics of IA that can be regulated independently by extrinsic environmental factors including interactions with insoluble components of the plasma membranes of some cells.
These studies were undertaken to determine if convulsant doses of i.c.v. vs i.v. administered NMDA exhibit differential specificity for anatomical regions of the brain in stimulating c-fos. In rats i.c.v. or i.v. NMDA produced behaviorally similar clonic (popcorn) convulsions associated with transient increases in c-fos mRNA in different brain areas. Transcription of c-fos mRNA peaked at 30 min post-treatment regardless of the route of administration. However, the route of administration clearly influenced the anatomical specificity of the NMDA-induced c-fos mRNA changes. For example, following i.c.v. administration maximal stimulation in c-fos mRNA was measured in the cerebellum. In contrast, i.v. NMDA produced maximal c-fos mRNA stimulation in the cerebral cortex. Our results demonstrate that NMDA has differential anatomical specificity for molecular signaling in rat brain and suggest that the route of NMDA administration may influence its pathophysiological response.
Quantitative receptor autoradiography was performed to test the effects of neurotensin (NT)/neuromedin N (NN) peptides on dopamine (DA) D2 receptors in rat neostriatal sections. Competition experiments showed that 10 nM of NT, 10 nM of NN, and 1 nM of the C-terminal NT-(8-13) fragment produced a 2-fold increase in the IC50 value and a 20% decrease in the B0 value of DA for the D2 antagonist [125I]iodosulpride binding sites. The results demonstrate a stronger reduction in the affinity of DA for neostriatal D2 receptors by the NT/NN peptides in brain sections compared with membrane preparations indicating the possible involvement of cytoplasmic factors and/or a demand for a more intact membrane structure in these receptor-receptor interactions. Further evidence for the hypotheses that the C-terminal NT fragments may be among the major ligands for the neostriatal NT receptors and that the neostriatal NT receptors may be a new subtype of NT receptor has been obtained.
Nitric oxide level in the mouse brain was estimated by determination of nitrite and nitrate using an automated flow injection analyser for NOx. Different experimental conditions were examined to determine which produced reproducible results. After pretreatment of tissue specimens by the ZnSO4-NaOH method for deproteinization, reproducible and constant values were obtained. The values were more accurate immediately after sectioning without freezing than after 24 h with freezing. Two sacrifice methods, decapitation and microwave irradiation of the head, were investigated, but there was no significant difference between the two. No substances in the mouse brain exerted a positive or negative influence on the results. These results show that our method is indeed applicable to the brain tissue.
Several topics in contemporary neuroscience are treated in historical perspective. These include the localizationist-connectionist model of brain function and its influence on experimental neuroscience and clinical management of brain damaged persons; brain plasticity; the accumulating evidence for non-synaptic diffusion neurotransmission (NDN) as a major mechanism of information transmission in the brain; and the co-existence of plasticity and localization as well as of synaptic and non-synaptic mechanisms. The status of theory in the neurosciences is examined.
The effect of striatal perfusion with the intestinal peptide PEC-60 on endogenous dopamine (DA) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release in the dorsolateral striatum and GABA release in the globus pallidus was monitored using in vivo microdialysis in the halothane anaesthetized rat. The results show that PEC-60 (100 nM) increases DA release in the dorsolateral striatum without influencing GABA release in the dorsolateral striatum or in the globus pallidus. In addition, PEC-60 failed to influence the extracellular striatal 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) levels. The PEC-60 induced increase in striatal DA was abolished by the addition of tetrodotoxin (1 microM) to the perfusion medium. These data suggest that PEC-60 plays a role in modulating striatal DA release but not DA metabolism and that this effect is primarily targeted on the presynaptic DA terminals of the nigrostriatal DA pathway rather than on the postsynaptic striatopallidal GABA projection neurons in the dorsolateral striatum.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) levels were measured in various tissues of the gracile axonal dystrophy (GAD) mouse. When the disease had fully progressed, the NGF levels in the skeletal muscle, dorsal root ganglion and the spinal cord were decreased. These findings suggest that a reduction of the NGF level is involved in the pathophysiological processes in the GAD mouse.

Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) expression during embryogenesis was determined by in situ hybridization of whole mouse embryos from E10.5 through E17.5. The strongest expression occurs in the basal midbrain and hindbrain, and continues posteriorly into the neural canal. This expression coincides with extensive cell migration and proliferation, and tissue remodelling of this region. tPA mRNA is also associated with cells that appear to be invading the cerebellar anlage. Presumptive proliferating and migrating cells in the olfactory neuroepithelium also express tPA. These results indicate that tPA is expressed by a number of different cell types in the developing nervous system and suggest a role for tPA in cell migration and tissue remodelling of the developing CNS.
Abecarnil (0.1-1 mg/kg i.p.), a new anxioselective and anticonvulsant ligand of benzodiazepine receptors, like diazepam (2.5-10 mg/kg i.p.) inhibited in a dose-dependent manner the basal release of acetylcholine in the hippocampus of freely moving rats. In contrast, whereas diazepam inhibited the basal output of dopamine in the prefrontal cortex, abecarnil had no such effect. The effects of both abecarnil and diazepam were antagonized by prior treatment with flumazenil at a dose (1 mg/kg i.p.) that per se had no effect on acetylcholine or dopamine release. The results suggest that abecarnil has different intrinsic efficacies at gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptors involved in the regulation of acetylcholine release in the hippocampus and dopamine release in the prefrontal cortex, two brain areas important in cognitive function and emotional state, respectively.
The pharmacological properties of [3H]7-hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2- aminotetralin ([3H]7-OH-DPAT) binding sites in the islands of Calleja of the rat were studied using quantitative receptor autoradiography. The KD and the Bmax values of [3H]7-OH-DPAT binding were about 1.6 nM and 100 fmol/mg protein, respectively. The rank order of potency was R(-)-propylnorapomorphine &gt; 7-OH-DPAT approximately haloperidol &gt; raclopride &gt; dopamine &gt; remoxipride. Remoxipride injected in vivo (0.03-100 mumol/kg i.p., 1 h before decapitation) did not inhibit subsequent [3H]7-OH-DPAT binding. These results indicate that the pharmacological profile of dopamine D3 receptors in the islands of Calleja of the rat resembles that obtained from cell lines or membrane preparations.
1-(3-Chlorophenyl)piperazine (m-CPP) (0.1-4 mg/kg s.c.) and N-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl)-piperazine (TFMPP) (0.5-4 mg/kg s.c.), 5-HT1C receptor agonists, but not 8-hydroxy-dipropylamino-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) (0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg s.c.), a 5-HT1A receptor agonist, induced penile erection and yawning with a U-inverted dose-response curve in male rats. The maximal effect was found with 0.5 mg/kg s.c. of m-CPP and with 1 mg/kg s.c. of TFMPP. The m-CPP (0.5 mg/kg s.c.) and TFMPP (1 mg/kg s.c.) responses were prevented by mianserin (0.2 mg/kg s.c.) and by ritanserin (1 mg/kg s.c.) given 15 min before m-CPP and TFMPP. In contrast, m-CPP- or TFMPP-induced penile erection and yawning were not antagonized by haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) or by [d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)2,Orn8]vasotocin (5 micrograms i.c.v.). Apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced penile erection, but not yawning, was also antagonized by mianserin and less effectively by ritanserin. The results suggest that 5-HT1C receptor agonist-induced penile erection and yawning are not mediated by increased dopaminergic and/or oxytocinergic transmission, and raise the possibility that a neuronal dopamine-oxytocin-5-HT link is involved in the control of penile erection and not necessarily of yawning in male rats.
In this study we examined the morphological maturation of the basal dendritic field of layer III pyramidal neurons located in the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in subjects ranging from 7.5 months after birth up to 27 years. The sections were stained with the Golgi-Cox method and the three-dimensional branching pattern was measured with a semi-automatic dendrite measuring system. Results show a rapid growth phase of the dendritic field from 7.5 months after birth up to one year. A marked increase in total dendritic length is observed, for which elongation of the terminal segments, longer intermediate segments and an increase in number of segments is an explanation. The dendritic length appears to have stabilized after one year, leading us to conclude that the postnatal morphological maturation of the layer III pyramidals does not continue well into childhood, but is completed at a much younger age. Additionally we analyzed the effect of varying section thickness on dendritic parameters and found no tendency for higher dendritic values with increasing section thickness for the range of thickness values of the histological sections used.
The actions of the peptides bombesin (BN), gastrin releasing peptide (GRP), neuromedin C (NMC), litorin and neuromedin B (NMB) were studied on neurons in slices of rat brain maintained in vitro to determine the BN receptor type present in different brain areas. Intracellular and extracellular recordings were made from hypothalamic neurons on the border of the periventricular nucleus (PVN) and suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and from mesencephalic 5-HT sensitive neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus. In the region of the brain containing the SCN and PVN, BN and the BN-related peptides excited 31 out of 77 neurons on which they were tested. There was little difference in the potency of the BN-related peptides as excitants of neurons, the EC50 being about 10 nM. The response to the peptides usually lasted between 5 and 15 min with little sign of desensitization. Using NMC, GRP and NMB as agonists, the equilibrium constant for the GRP receptor antagonist [D-Phe6]-BN-(6-13)-ethylamide was approximately 10 nM. The response to the peptides fully recovered on washout of the antagonist. The CCKB/gastrin receptor antagonist CI-988 (1 microM) had no effect on either GRP- or NMC-mediated excitation. In the dorsal nucleus 40 of 75 neurons were sensitive to the BN-related peptides. BN, [Tyr4]-BN, NMB and litorin, were 10-20 times more potent than GRP and NMC. The responses to the BN-related peptides were not blocked by the selective GRP receptor antagonists [D-Phe6]-BN-(6-13)-methylester, [DF5Phe6][D-Ala11]-BN-(6-13)-methylester and [D-Phe6]-BN-(6-13)- ethylamide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Extensive in vitro phosphorylation of a purified preparation of control human brain tau consistently produces four rather than, as previously believed, three tau species on SDS-PAGE. The species thus generated are shifted on SDS-PAGE to positions that match those of PHF-tau isolated from Alzheimer's disease brain. A mixture of recombinant human tau isoforms phosphorylated by GSK-3 beta gave similar results to those obtained with control human brain tau. In vitro phosphorylation of the individual recombinant isoforms by GSK-3 beta showed that the four bands of PHF-tau are likely to consist of isoforms 3R,0 alone; 4R,0 with 3R,29; 4R,29 with 3R,58 and 4R,58 alone.
The Bienenstock, Cooper, and Munro (BCM) theory of synaptic plasticity has successfully reproduced the development of orientation selectivity and ocular dominance in kitten visual cortex in normal, as well as deprived, visual environments. To better compare the consequences of this theory with experiment, previous abstractions of the visual environment are replaced in this work by real visual images with retinal processing. The visual environment is represented by 24 gray-scale natural images that are shifted across retinal fields. In this environment, the BCM neuron develops receptive fields similar to the fields of simple cells found in kitten striate cortex. These fields display adjacent excitatory and inhibitory bands when tested with spot stimuli, orientation selectivity when tested with bar stimuli, and spatial-frequency selectivity when tested with sinusoidal gratings. In addition, their development in various deprived visual environments agrees with experimental results.
Retinoic acid is synthesized from retinaldehyde by several different dehydrogenases, which are arranged in conserved spatial and developmentally regulated patterns. Here we show for the mouse that a class-1 aldehyde dehydrogenase, characterized by oxidation and disulfiram sensitivity, is found in the brain at high levels only in the basal forebrain. It is present in axons and terminals of a subpopulation of dopaminergic neurons of the mesostriatal and mesolimbic system, forming a retinoic acid-generating projection from the ventral tegmentum to the corpus striatum and the shell of the nucleus accumbens. In the striatum the projection is heaviest to dorsal and rostral regions, declining gradually toward ventral. The enzyme is expressed early in development, shortly after appearance of tyrosine hydroxylase. Other dopaminergic neurons in the brain, as well as the chromaffin cells of the adrenal medulla, do not contain this dehydrogenase. The presence of this enzyme may be a factor in the long-term success of transplants of dopaminergic cells to the corpus striatum in Parkinson disease, and it may play a role in parkinsonism and catatonia due to disulfiram (Antabuse) neurotoxicity.
Prior to forming an axon, retinal ganglion cells retain a primitive radial configuration while maintaining ventricular and vitreal endfeet attachments. During their subsequent differentiation, ganglion cells polarize their cell body and axon only along the vitreal surface. When the ventricular surfaces of intact retinas in organ culture were exposed to free chondroitin sulfate (CS) in solution, both the cell body and nerve fiber layers were repolarized to the opposite side of the neuroepithelium. However, the basal lamina remained in its usual position. Thus, the ability to initiate an axon is not restricted to the vitreal endfoot region of differentiating neurons, and in addition, the radial position at which the axon emerges can be mediated by the location and concentration of the extracellular CS milieu.
An unsupervised neural network model inductively acquires the ability to distinguish categorically the stop consonants of English, in a manner consistent with prenatal and early postnatal auditory experience, and without reference to any specialized knowledge of linguistic structure or the properties of speech. This argues against the common assumption that linguistic knowledge, and speech perception in particular, cannot be learned and must therefore be innately specified.
The secreted form (sAPP) of the Alzheimer amyloid beta/A4 protein precursor (APP) has been shown to be involved in the in vitro regulation of fibroblast growth and neurite extension from neuronal cells. The active site of sAPP responsible for these functions is within a small domain just C-terminal to the Kunitz-type protease inhibitor (KPI) insertion site. We report here that a 17-mer peptide, containing this active domain of sAPP, can induce cellular and behavioral changes when infused into rat brains. After 2 weeks of APP 17-mer peptide infusion, the animals were tested for reversal learning and memory retention and were sacrificed for morphological examination of brains. We found that administration of the APP 17-mer peptide resulted in an 18% increase in the number of presynaptic terminals in the frontoparietal cortex. At the behavioral level, 17-mer-infused animals with nonimpaired learning capability showed an increased memory retention that seemed to interfere with reversal learning performance. This APP 17-mer effect on memory retention was not observed in animals with impaired initial learning capacity. These results suggest that APP is involved in memory retention through its effect on synaptic structure.
Chronic alcoholism is associated with hypercortisolemia and low serum zinc (Zn). Hypercortisolemia could be responsible for alcoholic cerebral atrophy and is also associated with enhanced NMDA neurotoxicity. It is hypothesized that low brain Zn, noted in chronic alcoholics, enhances NMDA excitotoxicity and ethanol withdrawal seizure susceptibility. Also, Zn deficiency can produce neuronal damage through increased free radical formation. Clinically, Zn replacement therapy may be a rational approach to the treatment of alcohol withdrawal seizures and alcohol-related brain dysfunction.
A fenfluramine (60-mg oral dose) challenge test was performed in 19 male heavy drinkers (mean daily consumption 88 g of pure alcohol). Twelve healthy males served as controls. The prolactin and temperature responses to fenfluramine were significantly reduced in the group of heavy drinkers. The results suggest impaired central serotonergic neurotransmission in alcoholism, possibly involving subsensitivity in various serotonin receptor subtypes.
Previous work has demonstrated that short periods (1-2 weeks) of exposure to ethanol produce an upregulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex in hippocampus; an alteration that appears to be associated with the development of physical dependence, because a return to control levels occurs over a 24- to 48-hr abstinence period. Prolonged periods of chronic ethanol treatment (CET; 4-8 months of treatment) have been shown to produce severe and permanent alterations in the morphological and functional characteristics of hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Several lines of research have demonstrated that the NMDA receptor complex is involved in excitotoxic cell loss during certain pathological states. On the basis of this evidence, we hypothesized that prolonged ethanol exposure would be accompanied by an enduring increase in NMDA receptors and that NMDA receptor binding in cells surviving CET would be altered. To test this hypothesis, we measured the binding characteristics of the NMDA receptor complex in a variety of brain structures following CET. Animals were fed a nutritionally complete, ethanol-containing diet for 28 weeks and then allowed a 48-hr abstinence period. A control group was fed the same diet, except sucrose was isocalorically substituted for ethanol. We first examined the effect of CET on the binding properties of a noncompetitive antagonist to the NMDA receptor channel, [3H]diclozipene ([3H]MK-801). Next, as an indirect examination of NMDA receptor function, we measured the ability of glutamate to stimulate channel opening and thus [3H]MK-801 binding. In all brain structures examined, neither the Kd nor the Bmax of [3H]MK-801 binding to the NMDA receptor was altered following CET. In addition, no effect of treatment was seen on the ability of glutamate to stimulate [3H]MK-801 binding.
Sacral defect with anterior meningocele (SDAM) is a type of caudal dysgenesis. It is present at birth and becomes symptomatic later in life, usually because of obstructive labor in females, chronic constipation, rectal fistula and abscess, or meningitis. The inheritance is autosomal dominant. HLA has been implicated in caudal dysgenesis because of analogy with disorders of the T-locus complex, a tail length determining gene in mice which is linked to the major histocompatibility complex, H-2. Members of a 5-generation family with sacral defect and anterior meningocele (SDAM) were typed with polymorphic markers (dinucleotide repeats D6S89, D6S105, D6S109, and TCTE1) linked to HLA. Two-point and multipoint analysis exclude the HLA region as the location for the SDAM gene in this family.

Intracellular mechanisms that mediate mitogenic effects of gastrin remain largely unknown. The present studies were designed to examine if protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) mediate growth effects of gastrin on a rat intestinal epithelial cell line (IEC-6 cells). Gastrin (&lt; 10 nM) was mitogenic for IEC-6 cells. PTK activity of cell membranes was stimulated in response to 0.01-10.0 nM and 0.05-10.0 microM gastrin in a double biphasic manner. Cells labeled with H3(32)PO4 were stimulated with gastrin and cellular proteins immunoprecipitated with phosphotyrosine antibodies. Endogenous proteins were phosphorylated in a dose- (100% effective dose = 0.1-1.0 nM) and time-dependent manner; at &gt; 10 nM gastrin, the second peak of response was not measured in intact cells. Thus the growth and phosphorylation response of intact cells to gastrin was similar. Both high [dissociation constant (Kd) = 1 nM]- and low (Kd = approximately 0.1 microM)-affinity gastrin binding sites are present on IEC-6 cells. The results of the present study suggest that occupancy of both high- and low-affinity gastrin-binding sites can potentially activate membrane-associated PTKs. However, in intact cells, occupancy of low-affinity sites apparently attenuates kinase activity resulting in reduced protein phosphorylation. Eight protein bands [with relative molecular weight (M(r)) of 32-145 kDa] were tyrosine phosphorylated in intact cells in response to 0.1-1.0 nM gastrin, including two pp60 src-like proteins (with M(r) of 54 and 62 kDa). Thus the growth response pattern of a target cell to gastrin may depend on the stimulation of kinases and other factors (phosphatases?) that phosphorylate and/or dephosphorylate several proteins including c-src-like proteins in a dose-dependent manner.
Leydig cells are coupled in vivo by numerous gap junctions. In vivo and in vitro cells were immunolabeled by connexin 43 (Cx43) but not by Cx26 or Cx32 antibodies; immunoblotting confirmed specificity of Cx43 labeling. Pairs of Leydig cells dissociated from mouse testis were studied by dual whole cell voltage clamp, and a high incidence of dye (n = 20) and electrical coupling (n = 60; &gt; 90%) was found. Coupling coefficients were near 1 and junctional conductance (gj) averaged 7.2 +/- 1.2 nS (SE, n = 40). Large transjunctional voltage (Vj) decreased gj; currents decayed exponentially with time constants of seconds that decreased at greater Vj. The residual conductance at large Vj was at least approximately 40% of the initial conductance. Exposure of cell pairs to saline solutions saturated with CO2 (n = 15) or containing 2 mM halothane (n = 15) or 3.5 mM heptanol (n = 15) rapidly and reversibly reduced gj. In eight cell pairs, gating of single junctional channels was observed during halothane-induced reduction in gj. Most gating events at Vj &lt; 40 mV were fit by a Gaussian distribution with a mean of approximately 100 pS. With Vj &gt; 40 mV, smaller transitions of approximately 30 pS were also recorded, and the frequency and duration of the approximately 100-pS transitions decreased. Also, approximately 70-pS transitions between 30- and 100-pS conductances were observed in the absence of 70-pS transitions to or from the baseline, indicating that the 30-pS conductance was a substate induced by large Vj.

Long-chain acyl-CoA's are important intermediates in fatty acid oxidation and phospholipid metabolism. For quantitative analysis of brain acyl-CoA's, and to avoid decomposition due to high brain acyl-CoA hydrolase activity, a fast and efficient analytical method was developed for isolation and determination of acyl-CoA's. The analysis includes solid-phase extraction by an oligonucleotide purification cartridge and HPLC measurements using a synthetic internal standard. Estimates of concentration in rat brain are oleoyl-CoA (11.0 nmol/g), palmitoyl-CoA (6.0 nmol/g), stearoyl-CoA (4.0 nmol/g), and linoleoyl- and arachidonoyl-CoA (2.0 nmol/g) for a total concentration of 23 nmol/g brain.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) catalyzes the two-step alpha-amidation of peptidylglycine intermediates. PAM-1, a Type I integral membrane protein, was solubilized from the membranes of stably transfected hEK-293 cells and purified to homogeneity by antibody affinity chromatography. Purified PAM-1 exhibits an acidic pH optimum and a lower maximal velocity than soluble bifunctional PAM. Limited tryptic digestion of this integral membrane protein releases monofunctional peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase, increasing its specific activity almost fourfold and shifting its pH optimum to coincide with the pH optimum of peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase.

There is good evidence for a genetic causation of a significant proportion of the human epilepsies. These genetic epilepsies include a large number of rare mendelian syndromes in which epilepsy usually occurs as part of a more complex neurological phenotype, and the more common familial epilepsies in which seizures occur in isolation but inheritance is not mendelian. The molecular basis of these epilepsies is entirely unknown. The current revolution in genetics and neuroscience is, however, providing methods for the molecular genetic analysis of epilepsy. Two principal strategies exist. The first, positional cloning, requires localization of the disease genes by linkage analysis followed by analysis of transcripts within the disease-gene region. The second, candidate gene analysis, comprises direct screening of cloned genes which may on theoretical grounds have a role in epilepsy. At present, two epilepsy genes have been localized by linkage analysis: that for benign familial neonatal convulsions to chromosome 20, and that for progressive myoclonic epilepsy of Unverricht and Lundborg to chromosome 21. Linkage analysis of non-mendelian epilepsies is more difficult, but may be feasible with the generation of high-resolution linkage maps of the human genome. A number of plausible candidate genes for the epilepsies have now been cloned, including in particular the ligand-gated and voltage-gated ion channels. An understanding of the genetic epilepsies at a molecular level will provide new precision in diagnosis and genetic counselling, and may allow new strategies for pharmacological control of seizures.
In a bidirectional control procedure, rats had their first opportunity to push a joystick immediately after observing, from an adjacent compartment, the joystick moving 50 times either to the right or to the left, with each movement signalling the delivery of inaccessible food. Half of these animals observed the joystick moving automatically, and half observed a conspecific demonstrator pushing the joystick. When they were given direct access to the joystick, the observers were rewarded for both left and right pushes. Rats that had observed the joystick moving through the action of a conspecific demonstrator showed a response bias in favour of the observed direction of joystick movement (Experiment 1), while rats that had observed the joystick moving automatically, either in the presence or absence of a passive conspecific, did not show observation-consistent responding (Experiments 1 and 2). These results apparently confirm that rats are capable of imitation or observational learning.


Amplitude fluctuations of evoked synaptic responses can be used to extract information on the probabilities of release at the active sites, and on the amplitudes of the synaptic responses generated by transmission at each active site. The parameters that describe this process must be obtained from an incomplete data set represented by the probability density of the evoked synaptic response. In this paper, the equations required to calculate these parameters using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm and the maximum likelihood criterion have been derived for a variety of statistical models of synaptic transmission. These models are ones where the probabilities associated with the different discrete amplitudes in the evoked responses are a) unconstrained, b) binomial, and c) compound binomial. The discrete amplitudes may be separated by equal (quantal) or unequal amounts, with or without quantal variance. Alternative models have been considered where the variance associated with the discrete amplitudes is sufficiently large such that no quantal amplitudes can be detected. These models involve the sum of a normal distribution (to represent failures) and a unimodal distribution (to represent the evoked responses). The implementation of the algorithm is described in each case, and its accuracy and convergence have been demonstrated.
Procedures for discriminating between competing statistical models of synaptic transmission, and for providing confidence limits on the parameters of these models, have been developed. These procedures were tested against simulated data and were used to analyze the fluctuations in synaptic currents evoked in hippocampal neurones. All models were fitted to data using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm and a maximum likelihood criterion. Competing models were evaluated using the log-likelihood ratio (Wilks statistic). When the competing models were not nested, Monte Carlo sampling of the model used as the null hypothesis (H0) provided density functions against which H0 and the alternate model (H1) were tested. The statistic for the log-likelihood ratio was determined from the fit of H0 and H1 to these probability densities. This statistic was used to determine the significance level at which H0 could be rejected for the original data. When the competing models were nested, log-likelihood ratios and the chi 2 statistic were used to determine the confidence level for rejection. Once the model that provided the best statistical fit to the data was identified, many estimates for the model parameters were calculated by resampling the original data. Bootstrap techniques were then used to obtain the confidence limits of these parameters.
D-Serine, a selective agonist for the strychnine-insensitive glycine allosteric site associated with the NMDA receptor-ion channel complex, was found to modulate differentially the antinociception produced by kappa and mu-opioid receptor agonists in the rat formalin test. D-Serine (100 micrograms, i.c.v.) attenuated the antinociception produced by the selective kappa-opioid agonist, enadoline (0.003-0.1 mg kg-1, s.c.) against the tonic, but not acute, phase of the formalin response. Conversely, D-serine potentiated the antinociception produced by morphine (0.3-10 mg kg-1, s.c.) against both the acute and tonic phases. These results demonstrate an important interaction between the opioid and NMDA/glycine systems in the control of nociceptive information possibly at different levels of the neuraxis.
Childhood cases of global anterograde amnesia, visual agnosia or alexia without agraphia, either alone or in any combination, are extremely rare. Here we report the case of a male adolescent, Neil (a pseudonym), who consequent to a pineal tumour began to exhibit all three disorders in the presence of normal verbal intelligence. The most surprising aspect of Neil's case, however, is his ability to retrieve postmorbid memories through the act of writing without being able to provide any oral account of the content of his written reports. His memory retrieval thus has some of the character of 'automatic writing'. This evidence pointing to Neil's possession of a dissociated form of episodic memory presents a new challenge to our understanding of the organization of memory and of the cerebral systems underlying it.
Five patients are described with a progressive sensory neuropathy in association with a spastic paraplegia and a mutilating lower limb acropathy. Disease onset was in childhood. Two pairs of siblings were both the offspring of normal consanguinous parents, suggesting autosomal recessive inheritance. The fifth case was sporadic; her parents were normal and non-consanguinous. Nerve biopsy in three patients showed an axonopathy with a loss of myelinated nerve fibres of all diameters and also of unmyelinated axons. In combination with the previous report by Cavanagh et al. (Brain 1979; 102: 79-94), the present patients establish the existence of an autosomal recessive form of hereditary sensory neuropathy with spastic paraplegia. There have been previous descriptions of a dominantly inherited form.
In this study, the functional properties of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of the rat were examined in a task for spatial navigation. The dorsomedial (dmPFC) and ventromedial (vmPFC) parts of the PFC differ in their connectivity with the hippocampus, vmPFC being the main recipient of hippocampal input. Therefore, it is hypothesized that in a spatial task known to be particularly sensitive to hippocampal, but also to prefrontal cortical damage, especially vmPFC is committed to proper spatial learning and memory. Using the Morris water maze task, with an invisible platform, male rats with either partial (dmPFC or vmPFC) or whole (mPFC) bilateral lesions were subjected to various procedures reflecting spatial learning and memory, including a spatial reversal. Animals with dmPFC, vmPFC and mPFC lesions learned and remembered the spatial task equally well as their controls, regardless of the size or site of the bilateral lesion. However, when presented with a spatial reversal, animals with whole mPFC lesions were initially slower in locating the invisible platform than controls and animals with partial mPFC damage, but this effect was only short-lasting. When subsequently presented with a visible platform, all animals with partial (dmPFC or vmPFC) or whole mPFC damage needed significantly more time to locate the platform than the controls. This effect was transient and lasted longer in the animals with whole mPFC damage than in animals with partial damage. On the basis of these findings we conclude that an intact mPFC is not necessary for proper spatial learning and memory. The impairments in the reversal task and especially in the visually-cued task can best be explained as a diminished behavioural flexibility when a shift in task demands occurs. Since the degree of this impairment was related to the size of these lesions, but not to their sites, these differences are ascribed to a 'mass action' of medial prefrontal cortex lesions.
Recent research has shown that olfactory stimuli such as toluene vapor, but not visual, auditory, tactile or gustatory stimuli, elicit a burst of fast waves (15-30 Hz) in the hilus of the dentate gyrus in waking rats. In urethane-anaesthetized rats, toluene odors elicit similar fast waves. The present study shows that noxious stimulation (tail clamp) produces a blockade of spontaneous slow waves (1-12 Hz) in the hilus of the dentate gyrus but does not increase fast wave activity in urethane-anaesthetized rats. This slow wave blockade, which resembles neocortical activation, is independent of olfaction since it is not affected by tracheotomy. In contrast, tracheotomy abolishes the fast wave response to toluene presentation to the snout unless the toluene vapor is drawn into the nasal passages by suction at the rostral end of the severed trachea. Both the toluene odor-induced fast wave and the tail clamp-induced activation responses are abolished by scopolamine hydrobromide (5.0 mg/kg, i.p.) but not by scopolamine methyl bromide (5.0 mg/kg, i.p.) which does not cross the blood-brain barrier. However, evoked potentials elicited in the dentate hilus by single pulse stimulation of the olfactory bulb are not blocked by scopolamine in urethane-anaesthetized rats. The results suggest that several different types of electrical activity in the hippocampal formation are mediated by cholinergic inputs and that the dentate gyrus plays a role in olfaction.
What is neuroplasticity and what are its origins? These questions have been the subject of intense theoretical and experimental research in the neurosciences for decades. Basically, the term neuroplasticity refers to the ability of neurons to alter some functional property in response to alterations in input. Traditional definitions, however, are often imprecise and restricted to particular 'model' neural systems. In the present article we will consider several of the most widely studied models of synaptic-level neuroplasticity including alterations in response properties of two types of invertebrate sensory neurons, long-term potentiation (LTP) in mammalian hippocampus and cortex, and ocular dominance shifts in cat visual cortex. While many other forms of neuroplasticity have been studied, these examples typify the diversity of the subject, as well as illustrate our contention that no unitary model of the phenomena is possible for all conditions. This last point is of particular importance for the mammalian literature, since many hypotheses concerning the mechanism(s) underlying the initiation of neuroplasticity have proposed a single crucial molecular element as the primary causal agent. A closer examination of these various hypotheses, in concert to several examples from the invertebrate literature, leads, however, to the conclusion that synaptic neuroplasticity must arise from a series of inter-related molecular events of a particular form, a cascade, in which individual elements may differ radically from system to system. We next provide an overview of our studies of age-dependent regulation of excitatory and inhibitory ionotropic neurotransmitter receptor populations in cortex in response to agonist and depolarizing stimulation. We provide evidence that such regulation for ionotropic receptors is under the control of ionically driven receptor kinase and phosphatase activity which is also age-dependent in function. These data provide the basis for a cascade model of receptor regulation. Based on this qualitative model, we describe a quantitative computer simulation of certain age-dependent stages in the receptor regulatory cascade which may interact to produce LTP-like effects. While such a model is not exclusive, it nevertheless provides a demonstration that elements in the proposed cascade may comprise the necessary and sufficient conditions for some forms of neuroplasticity. We also propose some of the principles underlying our model as a means of unifying much of the diverse phenomenology reported in the literature. Finally, we make a series of explicit predictions which are testable with current experimental techniques.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A synaptic vesicle amine transporter cDNA, termed hSVAT, has been isolated by the reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique from human substantia nigra and subsequent screening of a human substantia nigra library. The hSVAT sequence obtained is highly homologous to the rat SVAT sequence (92% homology) and is essentially identical to the human sequence identified recently by Surratt and colleagues [33]. This labelled hSVAT cDNA detected a single band (approximately 5.0 kb) when used as a probe for Northern analysis of human nigral RNA extract. In situ hybridization studies using hSVAT specific antisense oligonucleotides showed a strong hybridization signal concentrated over the cells of the substantia nigra pars compacta. This cDNA sequence when expressed in chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells conferred resistance to MPP+ the toxic metabolite of MPTP and cells containing it accumulated dopamine.
The possibility that schizophrenia is associated with a differential expression, in the brain, of the short and long isoforms of the dopamine D2 receptor has been investigated by assessing the abundance of mRNA for each of the isoforms. Using a quantitative RNA-PCR technique, increased mRNA for both isoforms of the D2 receptor were observed in some brain regions, with no differential distribution between the isoforms in the schizophrenics compared to controls.

Reports of a high prevalence rate for multiple sclerosis in Southern Alberta led to an epidemiologic study of this disease in the Crowsnest Pass and Cardston regions. In Cardston, the prevalence rate for multiple sclerosis was 88 per 100,000. In the Crowsnest Pass, the prevalence rate was 217 per 100,000. Previous epidemiologic studies of the prevalence rate of multiple sclerosis in Western Canada have shown rates between 93 and 111 per 100,000. Two prevalence studies of multiple sclerosis in Barrhead County, Alberta and Westlock County, Alberta show prevalence rates of 196 and 201 per 100,000. The prevalence rate in the Crowsnest Pass is comparable to the prevalence in Barrhead County and Westlock County, Alberta. However, there is no statistically significant difference between prevalence rates in the Cardston and Crowsnest Pass regions and our overall feeling is that the results of studies of small populations should be interpreted with caution.
We studied the influence of sulindac, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent on experimental streptozotocin-induced diabetic neuropathy. Untreated diabetic rats were compared with nondiabetic rats, diabetic rats treated with low dose insulin and diabetic rats given sulindac (6.0 mg/kg by gavage 5 of 7 days weekly). Neuropathy was assessed by following serial in vivo motor and sensory caudal conduction, resistance to ischemic conduction failure, and in vitro conduction in sural myelinated and unmyelinated sensory fibers. The impact of low dose insulin and sulindac treatment on the microenvironment of the L4 dorsal root ganglion and sciatic endoneurium was assessed by measuring local perfusion and oxygen tension after 16 weeks of diabetes. Sulindac normalized conduction velocity in caudal sensory fibers, sural myelinated fibers and sural unmyelinated fibers, and reduced the number of diabetic cataracts. Sulindac also normalized a deficit in dorsal root ganglion blood flow and a reduction in sciatic endoneurial oxygen tension in diabetic rats. Low dose insulin improved neuropathy as well but the pattern of benefits was less robust than that of sulindac. Sulindac may be a candidate for a clinical trial in human diabetic polyneuropathy.
We tested the hypothesis that the excitability of corticospinal neurons was altered by changes in PCO2. Magnetic stimulation was used to excite the neurons in the human motor cortex that give rise to the fast-conducting corticospinal pathway. The characteristics of the composite excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) produced in individual spinal motoneurons by cortical stimulation were derived from changes in the firing probability of voluntarily activated motor units. The amplitudes of these composite EPSPs in response to a constant cortical stimulus were assumed to reflect the excitability of cortical neurons. In 10 healthy subjects, we found no statistically significant changes in the excitability of the cortical neurons during normocapnic conditions (mean end-tidal PCO2 5.1 kPa), during hyperventilation-induced hypocapnia (mean end-tidal PCO2 2.9 kPa), and during hyperoxic hypercapnia induced by a rebreathing technique (mean end-tidal PCO2 6.9 kPa). We conclude that the excitability of corticospinal neurons activated by magnetic stimulation is not significantly affected by changes in PCO2.
Mitosis of Balb/c3T3 cells induced by epidermal growth factor and insulin is inhibited by pertussis toxin. Pertussis toxin inactivates certain GTP-binding proteins, of which only Gi is present in Balb/c3T3 cells. Therefore, Gi was implicated as important in the signal transduction of EGF and insulin receptors leading to mitosis. Our previous studies of the role of Gi in cell division have shown that the alpha-subunit of Gi(Gi alpha) is induced to translocate from the cell periphery to the nucleus by these growth factors, and in the nucleus of dividing cells Gi alpha binds to the separating chromatin. As protein phosphorylations are essential components of the messenger systems from these receptors, we have examined whether Gi could be functionally coupled to protein kinases in the activated cell. We have found that Gi alpha 2 is directly linked to a serine kinase in Balb/c3T3 fibroblasts, and that Gi alpha 2 itself is a substrate for phosphorylation in vitro. This phosphorylation of Gi alpha 2 is inhibited if the G-protein is first activated with GTP or inactivated with GDP, suggesting that the phosphorylation may be occurring in the guanine nucleotide binding region. We present evidence that the kinase is not a protein kinase C. Such a phosphorylation of Gi alpha 2 could represent either a negative feedback mechanism of signal transduction, or a GTP-independent pathway of G-protein signal transduction in fibroblasts.
We report 2 patients with bilateral dressing apraxia. One patient had prominent bilateral dressing apraxia without severe constructional apraxia together with anosodiaphoria for dressing apraxia. The other patient had mild dressing apraxia with severe constructional apraxia and was aware of her disabilities. This dissociation implies that anosodiaphoria for dressing apraxia is an important factor in the severity of bilateral dressing apraxia. This also explains why automatic acts in dressing are more severely affected than when patients are asked to put clothing on in dressing examination.
In Parkinson's disease (PD), a compensatory increase in dopamine (DA) turnover occurs in the remaining nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons, resulting in greater exposure of each neuron to hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) derived from oxidative deamination of DA. The formation of oxyradicals from H2O2 is regarded as a mechanism that could contribute to the progression of PD, and incubation of rat striatal synaptosomes with levodopa (LD) results in an increase in oxidized glutathione (GSSG), indicative of oxidant stress. The present study was undertaken to determine whether striatal GSSG levels increase in response to administration of LD in vivo. Acute and repeated (3-week) treatment of normal rats with LD at doses of up to 100 mg/kg did not increase striatal GSSG despite marked increase in DA turnover. These results suggest that intact striatum may possess increased defense capacity against oxidant stress generated by increased DA turnover as compared with isolated synaptosomes.

Honey bee vision, like human vision, involves active learning: the bees adjust the way they scan a scene so as to improve their uptake of useful information.
Ca2+ is critical for mechanosensory adaptation, frequency tuning, afferent synaptic transmission, and efferent modulation in hair cells. These four processes involve cytoplasmic Ca2+ in three independent signalling pathways. Recent work suggests that Ca2+ regulates a myosin adaptation motor, and that a mobile Ca2+ buffer is highly concentrated in hair cells. Focal Ca2+ entry and the cytoplasmic Ca2+ buffer help to separate these pathways by limiting the spread of Ca2+ signals.
The sagittal organization of the mammalian cerebellum can be observed at the anatomical, physiological and biochemical level. Previous screening of monoclonal antibodies produced in our laboratory has identified two intracellular antigens, zebrin I and II, that occur exclusively in adult cerebellar Purkinje cells. As their name suggests, the zebrin antibody staining of the Purkinje cell population is not uniform. Rather, zebrin-positive Purkinje cells are organized in stripes or bands that run from anterior to posterior across most of the cerebellum; interposed between the zebrin-positive cells are bands of Purkinje cells that are zebrin-negative. Comparison of the position of the antigenic bands with the anatomy of afferent projections suggests that the bands are congruent with the basic developmental and functional 'compartments' of the cerebellum. We report the isolation of cDNA clones of the 36 x 10(3) M(r) antigen, zebrin II, by screening of a mouse cerebellum cDNA expression library. Sequence analysis reveals a 98% identity between our clone and the glycolytic isozyme, aldolase C. In order to more rigorously demonstrate the identity of the two proteins, we stained adult cerebellum with an independent monoclonal antibody raised against aldolase C. Anti-aldolase staining occurs in a previously unreported pattern of sagittal bands of Purkinje cells; the pattern is identical to that revealed by the zebrin II monoclonal. Further, in situ hybridization of antisense aldolase C riboprobe shows that the accumulation of zebrin II/aldolase C mRNA corresponds to the pattern of the zebrin antigen in Purkinje cells. Zebrin II/aldolase C gene expression is thus regulated at the level of transcription (or mRNA stability). In light of previous work that has demonstrated the cell-autonomous and developmentally regimented expression of zebrin II, further studies of the regulation of this gene may lead to insights about the determination of cerebellar compartmentation.
The developmental difference between the dorsal root ganglion (DRG), paravertebral ganglion (PVG) and the central nervous system (CNS) in embryos and fetuses was investigated using immunohistochemical (neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and human natural killer-1 (HNK-1)) and morphometrical methods. NSE positive cells developed from 7 weeks of gestation in the DRG as early as the anterior horn cells of the spinal cord, while the pyramidal cells of the cerebral cortex matured after 20 weeks of gestation. HNK-1 positive granules were present until 14 weeks gestation in the spinal cord and until 26-27 weeks in the DRG and PVG. This early development of DRG cells may be closely related to the peripheral organ maturation during the embryonic or early fetal period.
Naturally occurring environmental substances often mimic endogenous substances found in mammals and are capable of interacting with specific proteins, such as receptors, with a high degree of fidelity and selectivity. Narcotic alkaloids and amphibian skin secretions, introduced into human society through close association with plants and animals through folk medicine and religious divination practices, were incorporated into the armamentarium of the early pharmacopoeia. These skin secretions contain a myriad of potent bioactive substances, including alkaloids, biogenic amines, peptides, enzymes, mucus, and toxins (noxious compounds notwithstanding); each class exhibits a broad range of characteristic properties. One specific group of peptides, the opioids, containing the dermorphins (dermal morphinelike substances) and the deltorphins (delta-selective opioids), display remarkable analgesic properties and include an amino acid with the rare (in a mammalian context) D-enantiomer in lieu of the normal L-isomer. Synthesis of numerous stereospecific analogues and conformational analyses of these peptides provided essential insights into the tertiary composition and microenvironment of the receptor &quot;pocket&quot; and the optimal interactions between receptor and ligand that trigger a biological response; new advances in the synthesis and receptor-binding properties of the deltorphins are discussed in detail. These receptor-specific opioid peptides act as more than mimics of endogenous opioids: their high selectivity for either the mu or delta receptor makes them formidable environmentally derived agents in the search for new antagonists for treating opiate addiction and in the treatment of a wide variety of human disorders.
The locomotor movements of vertebrates are controlled by rhythm-generating networks in the spinal cord. These circuits are under modulatory influence from different sources, of both supraspinal, propriospinal and sensory origin. This paper reviews the neuronal mechanisms underlying swimming movements in the lamprey, the CNS of which provides a convenient model system for detailed investigations of the cellular bases for vertebrate locomotor behaviour, and which can be studied under in vitro conditions. The principal organization of the spinal, segmental network responsible for the generation of the rhythm, intrinsic membrane properties of importance for burst activity, as well as different mechanisms for modulation of the network activity including its sensory control, will be briefly described. The principles for coordination between segments during locomotion will also be shortly described.
In this paper an outline is presented of the foundations of comparative neuroanatomy. The significance of topology (i.e. the geometry of distortion) for an accurate analysis of the kinds of morphological transformations to which central nervous systems are subjected is emphasized. The major tasks of comparative neuroanatomy are: (1) to sample the variation existing in the central nervous systems on the basis of an analysis of a multitude of carefully selected species; (2) to place the patterns of variation found, wherever possible, in an phylogenetic context; (3) to relate the morphological data and relations determined, to their putative biological (functional, behavioural) significance, and (4) to reflect on the question of which specific factors and processes might have caused the changes through which the brains of organisms have passed, and to develop explanatory scenarios.
This study examined the effects of ibotenate lesions of the entorhinal cortex (EC) on performance of a spatial recognition memory task, the delayed non-matching-to-place task (DNMTP), varying in level of difficulty according to the number of interpolated arm visits between sample-place presentation and subsequent recognition in mice. Results of experiment 1, designed to test the rate of acquisition of the task, showed that experimental animals were impaired in the basic non-matching task. However, with further training they were able to learn the task. Impairments were also observed when the amount of interpolating information inserted was gradually increased, and then all problem difficulties were pseudorandomly tested. There was no measurable recovery of function over time when the animals were retested on the task approximately 1 month later. Experiment 2 showed that the animals that received extensive training on the task prior to lesions of the EC were only transiently impaired in the DNMTP task. These data suggest that the EC plays an important role in acquisition rather than retention of the spatial recognition memory task.
The nucleus accumbens in the rat has been parcelled into shell and core subdivisions. Despite accumulating evidence for such a division of the nucleus accumbens, these territories have not been delineated throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the nucleus. In the present study, an attempt has been made to delineate the shell and core using the distribution of calcium-binding protein immunoreactivity, substance P immunoreactivity and acetylcholinesterase activity in transverse and horizontal sections through the nucleus accumbens. It was found that the pattern of calcium-binding protein immunoreactivity provides the most unequivocal criterion to divide the nucleus accumbens into a ventral and medial, peripheral shell displaying low to moderate immunostaining, and a more laterally and dorsally located, strongly stained inner core. In most parts of the nucleus, borders seen in the calcium-binding protein immunoreactivity pattern can also be recognized in the distributions of substance P immunoreactivity and acetylcholinesterase activity. It is concluded that the shell occupies most of the rostral part of the nucleus accumbens, whereas rostrally the core is represented only in the most lateral part. Differences in staining intensities for all three markers indicate that both the shell and core have a heterogeneous structure. Patterns of connectivity appear to support the division of the nucleus accumbens as indicated by calcium-binding protein immunoreactivity in the present study.
An additional component of the depolarization induced by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the rat isolated vagus nerve has recently been attributed to activation of 5-HT4 receptors. To confirm and extend this finding, extracellular recordings of D.C. potentials were made using the 'grease-gap' technique during continuous superfusion of the isolated nerve. Beginning at 1 nM, 5-HT induced small depolarizations that displayed a slow onset. At concentrations &gt; or = 1 microM, large depolarizations with rapid onset were elicited. In the presence of the 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, granisetron or ondansetron, 5-HT responses were diminished and exhibited an increased latency to peak. These small, slow depolarization were not reduced by 5-HT1 or 5-HT2 receptor antagonists, but were potently inhibited by the 5-HT4 receptor antagonist GR 113808 (pA2 = 9.3), and mimicked by 5-methoxytryptamine (pEC50 = 5.3). 5-HT4-mediated responses were larger at 37 degrees C than at 31 degrees C, but also showed marked diminution with repeated 5-HT applications at concentrations greater than 1 microM. Conversely, 5-HT3 receptor responses were potentiated at lower temperatures (&lt; or = 31 degrees C). Consistent with the reported positive coupling of 5-HT4 receptors to adenylyl cyclase, forskolin and 8-Br-cAMP produced slowly developing depolarizations which were qualitatively similar to 5-HT4 receptor activation. Pre-depolarization of nerves with 10 microM forskolin or 300 microM 8-Br-cAMP diminished the effect of 5-HT4 receptors. This study has confirmed the presence of 5-HT4 receptors on the vagus nerve of the rat and defined some conditions that optimize their pharmacological isolation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This study pertains to the transition between selective neuronal necrosis and the development of cerebral infarction (pan-necrosis). We infused the neuron selective excitotoxin N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) at a relatively high concentration (10 microliters of 50 mM NMDA in phosphate buffer, pH 7.4) into the rat cortex. Local injection of lactic acid and a minor stab wound in the cortex were used as a reference. The tissue damage was evaluated with immunohistochemical markers for neurons (MAP2, parvalbumin) and for astrocytes (GFAP and S100 protein). The stab wound and infusion of lactic acid led to a small distinct area of pan-necrosis with a sharp border to the surrounding tissue. The NMDA lesions were characterized by a center of pan-necrosis with loss of all tissue elements that were larger and less distinctly demarcated than the other lesions. This study shows that activation of NMDA receptors per se can induce pan-necrosis, and we conclude that the transition from selective neuronal necrosis to infarction depends on the intensity of the neuronal damage process.
The behaviors of neuroblasts of granule cell neurons and their precursor cells on a poly-L-lysine/laminin substratum were examined in cerebellar microexplant cultures from early postnatal reeler mutant and normal mice. The total numbers of migrating neuroblasts and their precursor cells or blast cells derived from the mutant cerebellum were markedly reduced in comparison with their normal counterparts. However, no difference was shown between these two strains in either the numbers of blast cells or neuroblasts that migrated from single explants. In addition, all behaviors examined, such as migration of neuroblasts and the proliferation of blast cells in culture were identical between both genotypes. Thus, behaviors of both granule cells and their precursors in the cerebellar cortex of reeler mutant mouse may be qualitatively identical to those of normal counterparts, but precursors of granule cells in the external germinal layer of the cerebellar cortex may be reduced in the reeler mouse.
An intravenous injection of 1.2 mg/kg of Pseudomonas aeruginosa elastase induces immediate lethal shock in guinea-pigs. In the present study, alpha-2-macroglobulin (alpha 2M) was shown to be the major factor in guinea-pig plasma that inhibits the enzymatic activity of elastase in vitro. Depletion of circulating alpha 2M by injecting anti-guinea-pig alpha 2M rabbit IgG F(ab')2 rendered the animals sensitive to a dose of elastase of 0.05 mg/kg. When the alpha 2M-depleted guinea-pigs were reconstituted with human alpha 2M, this sensitivity was reversed. Lethal shock did not occur in alpha 2M-depleted animals even at an elastase dose of 0.2 mg/kg when Hageman factor was simultaneously depleted, indicating that elastase induces shock through activation of the Hageman factor-dependent system. Similar results were obtained when the culture supernatants of an elastase-producing strain, IFO-3455, were used instead of the purified elastase, whereas no cardiovascular changes occurred, even in the alpha 2M-depleted guinea-pigs, when the culture supernatants were pretreated with an elastase specific inhibitor (zincov) or when the culture supernatants of an elastase non-producing strain, PA-103 were used.
Some of the effects of noise on the perception of plosive-vowel syllables have been investigated. It was found that noise added to the syllables for the duration of the speech had a more deleterious effect on perception than noise of the same intensity played continuously. Physiological experiments have shown that the response thresholds of cochlear nerve fibers to tones are raised by continuous background noise but not by short bursts of noise. It is suggested that this may be responsible for the speech perception results. In order to investigate this, an auditory model was developed which incorporated response threshold shifts. This was interfaced to a hidden Markov model recognizer and tested with the same sounds that were employed in the human perception experiments. The recognition scores were greater with the threshold shifts than without them.
In normal subjects, maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) and electrical ulnar nerve stimulation (UNS; 30-Hz bursts of 0.33 s) were systematically compared with regard to the forces generated in different directions (abduction/adduction and flexion) and at different degrees of index finger abduction. With a &quot;resting&quot; hand position in which there was no index finger abduction, UNS produced about one-half of the abduction force elicited by an MVC (mean ratio 51%). Qualitatively, such a discrepancy would be expected, because UNS activates two index finger muscles with opposing actions in the abduction/adduction plane of torques: the first dorsal interosseus (FDI) and the first palmar interosseus (FPI). The abduction forces produced by MVC and UNS were very sensitive to index finger abduction angle: at a maximum degree of abduction, the UNS-generated force even reversed its direction of action to adduction (with FPI dominating) and the abduction MVC declined to 37% of that in the resting hand position. Inasmuch as these declines in MVC- and UNS-generated abduction force could not be explained by a change in moment arm, the main alternative seemed to be abduction-associated alterations in FDI fiber length (analysis by previously published biomechanical data). The FDI and FPI were further compared by application of a UNS-generated fatigue test (5-min burst stimulation), with the index finger kept at a &quot;neutral&quot; angle, i.e., the abduction angle at which, in the unfatigued state, the forces of the FDI and FPI were in balance (zero net UNS-generated abduction/adduction force).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The high molecular weight subunits of neurofilaments, NF-H and NF-M, have distinctively long carboxyl-terminal domains that become highly phosphorylated after newly formed neurofilaments enter the axon. We have investigated the functions of this process in normal, unperturbed retinal ganglion cell neurons of mature mice. Using in vivo pulse labeling with [35S]methionine or [32P]orthophosphate and immunocytochemistry with monoclonal antibodies to phosphorylation-dependent neurofilament epitopes, we showed that NF-H and NF-M subunits of transported neurofilaments begin to attain a mature state of phosphorylation within a discrete, very proximal region along optic axons starting 150 microns from the eye. Ultrastructural morphometry of 1,700-2,500 optic axons at each of seven levels proximal or distal to this transition zone demonstrated a threefold expansion of axon caliber at the 150-microns level, which then remained constant distally. The numbers of neurofilaments nearly doubled between the 100- and 150-microns level and further increased a total of threefold by the 1,200-microns level. Microtubule numbers rose only 30-35%. The minimum spacing between neurofilaments also nearly doubled and the average spacing increased from 30 nm to 55 nm. These results show that carboxyl-terminal phosphorylation expands axon caliber by initiating the local accumulation of neurofilaments within axons as well as by increasing the obligatory lateral spacing between neurofilaments. Myelination, which also began at the 150-microns level, may be an important influence on these events because no local neurofilament accumulation or caliber expansion occurred along unmyelinated optic axons. These findings provide evidence that carboxyl-terminal phosphorylation triggers the radial extension of neurofilament sidearms and is a key regulatory influence on neurofilament transport and on the local formation of a stationary but dynamic axonal cytoskeletal network.
The effects of changing the length of the cat soleus muscle on electromyographic (EMG) signals, muscle force and the corresponding EMG-force relationship were assessed using distributed stimulation of ten ventral root filaments and irregular interpulse intervals. EMG-force relationships were first determined for four muscle lengths using a protocol of simultaneous addition and rate modulation of ventral root filaments. In the second test, three submaximal levels of stimulation were applied at eight muscle lengths. EMG signals were obtained using surface and wire electrodes, and force was measured using a strain transducer. For most muscle lengths, the relationships between integrated EMG and mean force obtained using wire and surface electrodes were sigmoid with a linear intermediate region. The effects of muscle length on EMG signals were likely to be associated with movement of the recording electrodes relative to each other and to the active motor units. Mean forces increased with increasing muscle length and with increasing levels of stimulation. Mean force-length relationships obtained using submaximal stimulation were not simply scaled down versions of the force-length relationship obtained using supramaximal stimulation of the soleus nerve, but appeared to be shifted towards longer muscle lengths.
Three experiments were conducted to determine whether attention-related changes in luminance detectability reflect a modulation of early sensory processing. Experiments 1 and 2 used peripheral cues to direct attention and found substantial effects of cue validity on target detectability; these effects were consistent with a sensory-level locus of selection but not with certain memory- or decision-level mechanisms. In Experiment 3, event-related brain potentials were recorded in a similar paradigm using central cues, and attention was found to produce changes in sensory-evoked brain activity beginning within the 1st 100 ms of stimulus processing. These changes included both an enhancement of sensory responses to attended stimuli and a suppression of sensory responses to unattended stimuli; the enhancement and suppression effects were isolated to different neural responses, indicating that they may arise from independent attentional mechanisms.
We have studied the inactivation of high-voltage-activated (HVA), omega-conotoxin-sensitive, N-type Ca2+ current in embryonic chick dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Voltage steps from -80 to 0 mV produced inward Ca2+ currents that inactivated in a biphasic manner and were fit well with the sum of two exponentials (with time constants of approximately 100 ms and &gt; 1 s). As reported previously, upon depolarization of the holding potential to -40 mV, N current amplitude was significantly reduced and the rapid phase of inactivation all but eliminated (Nowycky, M. C., A. P. Fox, and R. W. Tsien. 1985. Nature. 316:440-443; Fox, A. P., M. C. Nowycky, and R. W. Tsien. 1987a. Journal of Physiology. 394:149-172; Swandulla, D., and C. M. Armstrong. 1988. Journal of General Physiology. 92:197-218; Plummer, M. R., D. E. Logothetis, and P. Hess. 1989. Neuron. 2:1453-1463; Regan, L. J., D. W. Sah, and B. P. Bean. 1991. Neuron. 6:269-280; Cox, D. H., and K. Dunlap. 1992. Journal of Neuroscience. 12:906-914). Such kinetic properties might be explained by a model in which N channels inactivate by both fast and slow voltage-dependent processes. Alternatively, kinetic models of Ca-dependent inactivation suggest that the biphasic kinetics and holding-potential-dependence of N current inactivation could be due to a combination of Ca-dependent and slow voltage-dependent inactivation mechanisms. To distinguish between these possibilities we have performed several experiments to test for the presence of Ca-dependent inactivation. Three lines of evidence suggest that N channels inactivate in a Ca-dependent manner. (a) The total extent of inactivation increased 50%, and the ratio of rapid to slow inactivation increased approximately twofold when the concentration of the Ca2+ buffer, EGTA, in the patch pipette was reduced from 10 to 0.1 mM. (b) With low intracellular EGTA concentrations (0.1 mM), the ratio of rapid to slow inactivation was additionally increased when the extracellular Ca2+ concentration was raised from 0.5 to 5 mM. (c) Substituting Na+ for Ca2+ as the permeant ion eliminated the rapid phase of inactivation. Other results do not support the notion of current-dependent inactivation, however. Although high intracellular EGTA (10 mM) or BAPTA (5 mM) concentrations suppressed the rapid phase inactivation, they did not eliminate it. Increasing the extracellular Ca2+ from 0.5 to 5 mM had little effect on this residual fast inactivation, indicating that it is not appreciably sensitive to Ca2+ influx under these conditions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Impulse propagation across sudden expansions of excitable tissue has been shown to exhibit various forms of conduction disturbance on a macroscopic scale, ranging from small delays to unidirectional or complete conduction block. With the present study, we attempted to characterize systematically the dependence of impulse propagation on the geometry of the underlying excitable tissue on a microscopic scale by investigating the spatio-temporal pattern of transmembrane voltage changes associated with impulse propagation from a narrow cell strand to a large cell area using multiple site optical recording of transmembrane voltage (MSORTV) in conjunction with patterned growth of neonatal rat heart cells in culture. While action potential propagation was smooth in the case of funneled expansions, delays of variable size occurred during propagation into rectangular or incised expansions. Close to the abrupt expansion, which functionally represented an increased electrical load to the narrow cell strand, the delays were accompanied by marked distortions of the action potential upstroke, exhibiting, in extreme cases, an initial depolarization to 50% followed by a delayed secondary depolarization to 100% of the full-signal amplitude. These distortions, which were based on bidirectional electrotonic interactions across the transition, were maximal immediately downstream from the expansion. The maximal slowing of impulse conduction across abrupt expansions was, in agreement with recently published results obtained from two-dimensional computer simulations, always situated in the expanded region. At high stimulation rates, the delays sometimes turned into intermittent unidirectional blocks, as revealed by reverse stimulation. These blocks were always characterized by a marked abbreviation of the action potentials upstream from the region causing the block which might, in an appropriate network, facilitate reentry because of the associated shortening of the refractory period. Because the patterns were composed of cells having identical membrane properties, the results show that the local action potential shape can be modulated profoundly by the two-dimensional architecture of the underlying cell ensemble alone.
Numerous factors have been reported to influence the pathogenesis of stroke. The risks arising from variations in genes between individuals have not been explored. The angiotensin 1-converting enzyme gene is a candidate gene for atherosclerotic related disease. In this work we studied the frequency of the deletion allele D and the polymorphism DD within the gene encoding angiotensin 1-converting enzyme in stroke patients compared with controls to determine if this deletion polymorphism was a potential independent risk factor for stroke. We report a study of 100 patients with cerebral infarction along with 73 normal age and sex matched controls. Personal medical histories associated with high risk factors for stroke were documented. Cholesterol and triglyceride levels for each individual were also measured. Using polymerase chain reaction techniques patients were divided into the three angiotensin 1-converting enzyme genotypes (Deletion D and Insertion I) II, ID and DD. The D/I frequency in patients with stroke (0.57/0.43) was compared with controls (0.48/0.52). This was not statistically different (P &gt; 0.05, chi-squared test). Although strokes did occur at a younger age in those with the DD genotype compared with those with the insertion allele, the results did not approach acceptable levels of significance (II/ID) (P &gt; 0.05, Mann-Whitney U-test). There were no differences between the three genotypes and other well accepted risk factors for stroke.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
There is increasing evidence to suggest that the gene encoding angiotensin 1-converting enzyme (ACE) plays a significant part in cardiac disease risk. It is not clear if this risk is due to atherosclerotic factors in general or whether its influence is local to cardiac tissue. Previous studies have suggested that there is a genetic control of plasma ACE levels in normal subjects. We sought to see if such a relationship also existed amongst computer tomography (CT) proven cerebral infarction. Twenty-eight patients with stroke and 19 control subjects were grouped according to their ACE genotype and their plasma ACE levels were assessed. Although there is a trend for plasma levels to be associated with the variant ACE alleles there was a wide overlap. However, when compared with their respective alleles in control subjects there was no difference. We conclude that any future evaluation of stroke risk from the ACE gene will need to determine both plasma ACE level and genotype.
To study ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) and its reproducibility in healthy normotensive elderly subjects, 34 individuals were randomly selected. Their ages were 65 years (n = 10), 70 years (n = 10), 75 years (n = 8) and 80 years (n = 6). SpaceLabs 90207 system was used and one initial and a follow-up measurement after one year was performed. It was found that 24h ABP easily could be recorded in elderly subjects. A mean of 97% of the measurements were successful and only two of 34 subjects dropped out because of measurement failures. Nocturnal blood pressures were lower in all age groups and in both sexes. The standard deviations of the differences between the baseline and one year measurements were for the daytime period 8/4 mmHg and for the nighttime period 12/8 mmHg. In conclusion, ABP is easily accepted as a clinical method in normotensive elderly subjects. In all subjects there is a reduction of the nocturnal blood pressure and the reproducibility of ABP after one year is good.
To identify proteinases responsible for fibronectin degradation in the wound environment we studied wound fluid obtained from burn patients. Immunoblotting experiments showed that extensive degradation of fibronectin had occurred in some burn wound fluid samples, in which case intact fibronectin molecules were undetectable, and the largest fibronectin fragment was 116 kDa. The 116-kDa fragment as well as a smaller 90-kDa fragment contained the fibronectin cell binding domain. These burn-fluid samples degraded freshly added fibronectin. Activity of the fibronectin-degrading enzyme was blocked by a broad-spectrum serine proteinase inhibitor or by specific neutrophil elastase inhibitors but not by metalloproteinase inhibitors or inhibitors of trypsin-like or chymotrypsin-like serine proteinases. Enzyme activity also was neutralized by antibodies against human neutrophil elastase. Incubation of fibronectin with burn wound fluid or purified human neutrophil elastase generated similar fibronectin-degradation products. Finally, direct assay of burn-wound-fluid samples with a synthetic elastase substrate showed a correlation between fluid-phase elastase activity and fibronectin degradation. Based on these findings, we conclude that burn-wound-fluid elastase is responsible for extensive fibronectin degradation. Acute elevation of elastase did not appear to hinder normal wound repair.
Retinal ganglion cell (RGC) survival and neurite outgrowth were investigated in retinal explants from adult rats. Neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5) caused dose-dependent increases in neurite outgrowth with one-half maximal effects at approximately 0.5 ng/ml and maximal effects at 5 ng/ml. In explants treated for 7 days, the actions of NT-4/5 were similar to those of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF); with either neurotrophin, nearly twice as many RGCs survived and there was a two- to threefold increase in the number of neurites formed by RGCs. Combinations of saturating concentrations of NT-4/5 and BDNF did not enhance these in vitro effects, implying that both neurotrophins share a common signaling pathway. In contrast, nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), or ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) appeared to exert minimal influences on RGC survival or neurite outgrowth.
Brain fatty acid incorporation into phospholipids can be measured in vivo following intravenous injection of fatty acid tracer. However, to calculate a cerebral incorporation rate, knowledge is required of tracer specific activity in the final brain precursor pool. To determine this for one tracer, unesterified [3H]arachidonate was infused intravenously in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats to maintain constant plasma specific activity for 1-10 min. At the end of infusion, animals were killed by microwave irradiation and analyzed for tracer specific activity and concentration in brain phospholipid, neutral lipid, and lipid precursor, i.e., unesterified arachidonate and arachidonoyl-CoA, pools. Tracer specific activity in brain unesterified arachidonate and arachidonoyl-CoA rose quickly (t1/2 &lt; 1 min) to steady-state values that averaged &lt; 5% of plasma specific activity. Incorporation was rapid, as &gt; 85% of brain tracer was present in phospholipids at 1 min of infusion. The results demonstrate that unesterified arachidonate is rapidly taken up and incorporated in brain but that brain phospholipid precursor pools fail to equilibrate with plasma in short experiments. Low brain precursor specific activity may result from (a) dilution of label with unlabeled arachidonate from alternate sources or (b) precursor pool compartmentalization. The results suggest that arachidonate turnover in brain phospholipids is more rapid than previously assumed.
Iron is a universal cofactor for mitochondrial energy generation and supports the growth and differentiation of all cell types. In the CNS, iron is a key component of systems responsible for myelination and the synthesis of several neurotransmitters. In this study the spatial and temporal pattern of iron and its regulatory proteins transferrin and ferritin are quantitatively examined in the rat CNS during the first 3 weeks of postnatal life and in adults and aged animals. The midbrain, the cerebral cortex, and the cerebellum-pons are examined independently. Iron, transferrin, and ferritin concentrations are highest in all three brain regions at birth and decrease in each region to minimum levels during the third postnatal week. The decrease in levels of iron, transferrin, and ferritin is most pronounced in the cerebellum-pons and cortex and least in the midbrain. From postnatal day 17, iron (total iron content) and ferritin levels increase throughout the lifetime of the rat. In contrast, transferrin levels remain fairly constant in each brain region after postnatal day 24. The midbrain region, which includes the iron-rich regions such as the globus pallidus, substantia nigra, and red nucleus, has the least change in iron with development, has the highest level of ferritin during development, and consistently has the highest level of transferrin at all ages. These observations are consistent with reports that iron important for normal motor function.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cultured neurons from rat dorsal root ganglia and cerebral cortex were infected with Sendai virus, which gives a productive replication with lysis of most neurons, and with the RW strain of mumps virus, which undergoes defective replication causing degeneration of only 30-40% of the neurons within 5 days after initial infection. In Sendai virus-infected cells the amount of polyisoprenoid lipids was enhanced. In mumps virus-infected cultures there were transient reductions in the contents of cholesterol, dolichol, and ubiquinone-9 in the cultures, whereas the reduction in the ubiquinone-10 level was progressive, reaching 20% of its original value 21 days after infection. Treatment of mumps virus-infected cultures with ubiquinone-10 protected the neurons from degeneration, whereas no effects were observed on exposure to ubiquinone-9. Linolenic acid (18:3) and arachidonic acid (20:4), but not myristic acid (14:0) and palmitic acid (16:0), also had significant neuroprotective effects.
We examined whether prior exposure to chronic cold (17-28 days, 5 degrees C) alters basal or stress-evoked (30-min tail shock) catecholamine release in medial prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, and striatum, using in vivo microdialysis. Basal norepinephrine (NE) concentrations in medial prefrontal cortex did not differ between chronically cold-exposed rats and naive control rats (2.7 +/- 0.3 vs. 2.5 +/- 0.2 pg/20 microliters respectively). Basal dopamine (DA) efflux in any of the brain regions was not significantly different between chronically cold-exposed rats and naive rats. However, a trend for lower basal DA efflux in the cold-exposed relative to naive rats was observed in medial prefrontal cortex (1.5 +/- 0.2 vs. 2.2 +/- 0.3 pg/20 microliters, respectively), nucleus accumbens (3.7 +/- 0.8 vs. 5.4 +/- 0.9 pg/20 microliters, respectively), and striatum (4.4 +/- 0.5 vs. 7.2 +/- 1.5 pg/20 microliters, respectively). In medial prefrontal cortex of rats previously exposed to cold, tail shock elicited a greater increase from baseline in both DA and NE efflux relative to that measured in naive rats (DA, 2.3 +/- 0.3 vs. 1.2 +/- 0.1 pg, respectively; NE, 3.8 +/- 0.4 vs. 1.4 +/- 0.2 pg, respectively). However, in nucleus accumbens or striatum of rats previously exposed to cold, the stress-induced increase in DA efflux was not significantly different from that of naive rats (nucleus accumbens, 1.8 +/- 0.7 vs. 1.5 +/- 0.3 pg, respectively; striatum, 1.9 +/- 0.4 vs. 2.6 +/- 0.7 pg, respectively). Thus, both cortical NE projections and cortically projecting DA neurons sensitize after chronic exposure to cold. In contrast, subcortical DA projections do not sensitize under these conditions.
Neonatal rat cortical astrocytes in primary culture synthesize and secrete nerve growth factor (NGF). Treatment of astrocytes with interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) or the protein kinase C (PKC) activator 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA) increased NGF mRNA content by six- to 10-fold, followed in time by increases in cell content and cell secretion of NGF. Dexamethasone potently inhibited the effects of IL-1 and TPA on astroglial cell NGF expression. The action of IL-1 was not mediated by PKC because treatment of cells with maximal concentrations of both IL-1 and TPA gave an additive increase in NGF mRNA content and NGF secretion, and because down-regulating PKC activity failed to inhibit the stimulatory effects of IL-1. Moreover, both agents increased NGF gene transcription in nuclear run-on assays, but only IL-1 significantly stabilized the NGF mRNA. An analysis of the effects of IL-1 and TPA on immediate early gene expression indicated that IL-1 preferentially induced c-jun gene expression, whereas TPA greatly increased c-fos and zif/268 gene expression. These results suggest that IL-1 activates c-jun and NGF gene expression, and NGF mRNA stabilization in astrocytes by a distinct PKC-independent signaling pathway.
Recent studies have identified the Alzheimer's disease amyloid beta/A4 protein precursor (APP) as a trophic and/or tropic protein on several types of cells, including fibroblasts, primary culture neurons, PC12 cells, and B103 neuron-like cells. Many trophic proteins bind heparin, and it is believed that the heparin-binding domain is crucial for the trophic activity of these proteins. APP also binds heparin. The current studies were undertaken to examine the hypothesis that the neuritotropic activity of APP requires heparin binding. It was found that APP produced in E. coli bound B103 cells through detergent-extractable molecules. Approximately 50% of the binding sites were heparinase-sensitive, and heparin and heparan sulfate competed for APP binding to these sites. The heparinase-insensitive sites were recognized by a stretch of 17 amino acids of APP (residues 319-335) that contains the neuritotropic activity of APP. A mutant APP with a deletion at this site was capable of binding to the heparinase-sensitive sites, although this molecule was not neuritotropic to B103 neuron-like cells. Therefore, the neuritotropic site and the heparin-binding site are distinct in APP, and the neuritotropic effect of APP is produced through its binding to detergent-extractable and heparinase-insensitive sites.
The neurotransmitter phenotype switch that occurs in cultures of rat superior cervical ganglion neurons after treatment with leukemia inhibitory factor or ciliary neurotrophic factor is a useful model permitting investigation of the mechanisms of cytokine-mediated differentiation. Recently the actions of leukemia inhibitory factor and ciliary neurotrophic factor have been linked through their interactions with related receptor complexes. Here we compare the effects of these two cytokines on gene expression in sympathetic neuronal cultures and begin to investigate their mechanisms. We report that, as has been shown for leukemia inhibitory factor, ciliary neurotrophic factor regulates peptides and classical transmitters in these cultures at the mRNA level. In addition, we find that the induction of substance P mRNA by these cytokines is rapid, dependent on protein synthesis, and occurs in 40-50% of superior cervical ganglion neurons in dissociated culture.
Induction of an interferon-gamma-like molecule, previously isolated from neurons (N-IFN-gamma), and of the neuronal isoform I of the synthetic enzyme of the free radical nitric oxide, nitric oxide synthase I, as well as of NADPH-diaphorase, were examined in axotomized dorsal motor vagal and hypoglossal neurons. Unilateral transection of the vagal and hypoglossal nerves was performed in the same rat and an induction of N-IFN-gamma and nitric oxide synthase I immunostaining as well as NADPH-diaphorase histochemical positivity was observed in the ipsilateral motoneurons after 2-4 days. The immuno- and enzyme-histochemical positivities were much stronger in the dorsal motor vagal neurons than in hypoglossal neurons. Two and 4 weeks after axotomy N-IFN-gamma immunoreactivity and NADPH-diaphorase positivity persisted in the former, but started to decrease in the latter neurons. Previous data have shown that 23 weeks after nerve transection the majority of the dorsal motor vagal neurons are lost, while the majority of the hypoglossal neurons survive. The high and persistent expression of N-IFN-gamma and nitric oxide synthase I after axotomy in the dorsal motor vagal neurons, that are largely destined to die, indicates that the co-induction of these two molecules may be implicated in the pathogenesis of neuronal degeneration.
The secretory activity of endocrine cells largely depends on the concentration of free cytosolic calcium. We have studied the mechanisms that are involved in supplying the calcium necessary for the secretion of alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) from melanotrope cells in the pituitary intermediate lobe of the amphibian Xenopus laevis. Using whole-cell voltage clamp, high-voltage activated calcium currents were observed, with a peak current between 0 and +20 mV. Two types of Ca(2+)-currents appeared, depending on the experimental setup. An inactivating current, which was observed after a 10 msec depolarizing prepulse, resembled currents through N-type channels as it was clearly inhibited by 1 microM omega-conotoxin. The second type was a non-inactivating current, which was blocked up to 50% by 1 microM nifedipine, indicating its L-type nature. Only a small component of this inactivating current could be blocked by omega-conotoxin. No evidence was found for the presence of transient, low-voltage activated currents. The spontaneous secretion of alpha-MSH from superfused neurointermediate lobes was dependent on extracellular calcium, as low calcium conditions (10(-4)-10(-8) M) rapidly inhibited this process. Under these conditions, secretion was not affected by depolarizing concentrations of potassium chloride. The calcium ionophore A23187 increased secretion under low calcium conditions, but had no effect on spontaneous alpha-MSH release. These results suggest that spontaneous alpha-MSH release depends on influx of calcium through voltage-operated calcium channels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Male rats treated with reserpine were motionless and ingested only a few of ten consecutive intraoral injections of a 1 M solution of sucrose. While injection of apomorphine, a dopamine agonist, stimulated locomotion and stereotyped sniffing in reserpinized rats, it did not reactivate ingestive responses. The non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK801, however, stimulated locomotion as well as ingestion suggesting involvement of glutamate in the suppressive effect of resperpine on ingestive responses. A series of experiments was therefore undertaken to investigate the possible physiological role of glutamate in feeding. For this purpose, we used Grill's intraoral intake test, in which the rat is infused intraorally with a sucrose solution and the amount ingested measured. In untreated rats, MK801 dose-dependently facilitated ingestion of the sucrose solution and antagonized inhibition of ingestion by cholecystokinin octapeptide. Administration of cholecystokinin octapeptide or ingestion of sucrose increased the concentration of glutamate in the nucleus of the solitary tract, a brain stem relay transmitting sensory information from the gastrointestinal tract to the forebrain. MK801 was found to bind specifically to this brain area and block the elevation of glutamate and dopamine levels which occurred after treatment with cholecystokinin octapeptide in this neural site. Together these data suggest that dopamine and glutamate may interact within the nucleus of the solitary tract in controlling ingestive behaviour.
Three healthy subjects underwent repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (20 Hz, 1 s) with a round oil-cooled coil held tangentially against the skull surface 3 or 4 cm above the inion, while viewing a random-dot stereogram through red-green glasses. The coil was positioned over the midline of the bilateral superior occipital lobes. All three subjects experienced loss of stereoscopic perception during stimulation. A stimulus duration of more than 0.2 s and a stimulus frequency of more than 10 Hz seem to be necessary to disrupt the cortical mechanisms involved in global stereopsis. Repetitive magnetic stimulation easily and painlessly produced a reversible disturbance in global stereopsis. The results suggest that the bilateral superior occipital cortices are involved in the perception of global stereopsis.
A 25 year old man had an acute subarachnoid haemorrhage due to the rupture of a right peduncular subthalamic arteriovenous malformation. Seven months later he developed a left rest tremor associated with mild bilateral extrapyramidal symptoms and responsive to levodopa treatment. Surface EMG recording showed synchronous activity of agonist and antagonist muscles in the left limbs. A PET 18F-dopa study showed a large decrease of the Ki value in the right striatum. One year after the stroke a persistent postural component developed in the tremor.

1. We have used a combination of eye movement recordings and computer modeling to study long-term adaptive modification (motor learning) in the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR). The eye movement recordings place constraints on possible sites for motor learning. The computer model abides by these constraints, as well as constraints provided by data in previous papers, to formalize a new hypothesis about the sites of motor learning. The model was designed to reproduce as much of the existing neural and behavioral data as possible. 2. Motor learning was induced in monkeys by fitting them with spectacles that caused the gain of the VOR (eye speed divided by head speed) to increase to values &gt; 1.6 or to decrease to values &lt; 0.4. We elicited pursuit by providing ramp motion of a small target at 30 degrees/s along the horizontal axis. Changes in the gain of the VOR caused only small and inconsistent changes in the eye acceleration in the first 100 ms after the onset of pursuit and had no effect on the eye velocity during tracking of steady target motion. Electrical stimulation in the flocculus and ventral paraflocculus with single pulses or trains of pulses caused smooth eye movement toward the side of stimulation after latencies of 9-11 ms. Neither the latency, the peak eye velocity, nor the initial eye acceleration varied as a consistent function of the gain of the VOR. 3. The computer model contained nodes that represented position-vestibular-pause cells (PVP-cells) and flocculus target neurons (FTNs) in the vestibular nucleus, and horizontal gaze-velocity Purkinje cells (HGVP-cells) in the cerebellar flocculus and ventral paraflocculus. Node FTN represented only the &quot;E-c FTNs,&quot; which show increased firing for eye motion away from the side of recording. The transfer functions in the model included dynamic elements (filters) as well as static elements (summing junctions, gain elements, and time delays). Except for the transfer functions that converted visual motion inputs into commands for smooth eye movement, the model was linear. 4. The performance of the model was determined both by computer simulation and, for the VOR in the dark, by analytic solution of linear equations. For simulation, we adjusted the parameters by hand to match the output of the model to the eye velocity of monkeys and to match the activity of the relevant nodes in the model to the firing of HGVP-cells, FTNs, and PVP-cells when the gain of the VOR was 0.4, 1.0, and 1.6.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. We made extracellular recordings from Purkinje cells in the flocculus and ventral paraflocculus of awake monkeys before and after motor learning in the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR). Three samples were recorded 1) after miniaturizing spectacles had reduced the gain of the VOR (eye speed divided by head speed) to 0.4; 2) when the gain of the VOR was near 1.0; and 3) after magnifying spectacles had increased the gain of the VOR to 1.6. 2. We studied Purkinje cells that showed stronger modulation of simple-spike firing rate during horizontal than during vertical pursuit. These cells corresponded to the previously identified &quot;horizontal gaze velocity Purkinje cells&quot; or HGVP-cells. During pursuit of smooth target motion with the head stationary, HGVP-cells showed strong modulation of firing rate with increases for ipsiversive eye motion (toward the side of recording). When the monkey canceled his VOR by tracking a target that moved exactly with him during sinusoidal head rotation in the horizontal plane, HGVP-cells again showed strong modulation of firing rate with increases for ipsiversive head motion. 3. The responses of HGVP-cells during pursuit with the head stationary and during cancellation of the VOR reveal separate components of firing rate related to eye and head velocity. We used these two behavioral conditions to test for effects of motor learning on the head and eye velocity components of the simple-spike firing of HGVP-cells. Our data confirm the previous observation that motor learning causes the sensitivity to head velocity to be larger when the gain of the VOR is high and smaller when the gain of the VOR is low. Thus we agree with the previous conclusion that changes in the vestibular sensitivity of HGVP-cells, measured during sinusoidal head motion at low frequencies, are in the wrong direction to cause changes in the gain of the VOR. 4. To determine whether the simple-spike output from the HGVP-cells plays a role in the VOR after motor learning, we recorded simple-spike firing during the VOR evoked by transient, rapid changes in head velocity in darkness. When the gain of the VOR was low, firing rate increased during the VOR evoked by ipsiversive head motion and decreased during the VOR evoked by contraversive head motion. When the gain of the VOR was high, the direction selectivity of the responses was reversed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. We recorded from neurons in the brain stem of monkeys before and after they had worn magnifying or miniaturizing spectacles to cause changes in the gain of the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR). The gain of the VOR was estimated as eye speed divided by head speed during passive horizontal head rotation in darkness. Electrical stimulation in the cerebellum was used to identify neurons that receive inhibition at monosynaptic latencies from the flocculus and ventral paraflocculus (flocculus target neurons or FTNs). Cells were studied during smooth pursuit eye movements with the head stationary, fixation of different positions, cancellation of the VOR, and the VOR evoked by rapid changes in head velocity. 2. FTNs were divided into two populations according to their responses during pursuit with the head stationary. The two groups showed increased firing during smooth eye motion toward the side of recording (Eye-ipsiversive or E-i) or away from the side of recording (Eye-contraversive or E-c). A higher percentage of FTNs showed increased firing rate for contraversive pursuit when the gain of the VOR was high (&gt; or = 1.6) than when the gain of the VOR was low (&lt; or = 0.4). 3. Changes in the gain of the VOR had a striking effect on the responses during the VOR for the FTNs that were E-c during pursuit with the head stationary. Firing rate increased during contraversive VOR eye movements when the gain of the VOR was high or normal and decreased during contraversive VOR eye movements when the gain of the VOR was low. Changes in the gain of the VOR caused smaller changes in the responses during the VOR of FTNs that were E-i during pursuit with the head stationary. We argue that motor learning in the VOR is the result of changes in the responses of individual FTNs. 4. The responses of E-i and E-c FTNS during cancellation of the VOR depended on the gain of the VOR. Responses tended to be in phase with contraversive head motion when the gain of the VOR was low and in phase with ipsiversive head motion when the gain of the VOR was high. Comparison of the effect of motor learning on the responses of FTNs during cancellation of the VOR with the results of similar experiments on horizontal-gaze velocity Purkinje cells in the flocculus and ventral paraflocculus suggests that the brain stem vestibular inputs to FTNs are one site of motor learning in the VOR.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. We have identified a group of brain stem cells called &quot;flocculus target neurons&quot; (or FTNs) because they are inhibited at monosynaptic latencies by stimulation of the flocculus and the ventral paraflocculus with single electrical pulses. We report the responses of FTNs, as well as those of other brain stem cells, during horizontal eye movements with the head stationary and during natural vestibular stimulation in monkeys. 2. FTNs discharged primarily in relation to eye movements. The majority (71%) showed increased firing for eye movement away from the side of the recording (&quot;contraversive&quot;), which is consistent with their inhibition by Purkinje cells that show increased firing for eye movement toward the side of recording. However, a significant and surprisingly large percentage (29%) of FTNs showed increased firing for eye movement toward the side of recording (&quot;ipsiversive&quot;). 3. The firing rate of FTNs showed strong modulation during pursuit of sinusoidal target motion with the head stationary and during the compensatory eye movements evoked by fixation of an earth-stationary target with sinusoidal head rotation. In addition, firing rate was related to eye position during steady fixation at different positions. Of the FTNs that showed increased firing for contraversive eye motion during pursuit with the head stationary, most had an infection in the relationship between firing rate and eye position so that the sensitivity to eye position was low for eye positions ipsilateral to straight-ahead gaze and high for eye positions contralateral to straight-ahead gaze. 4. When the monkey canceled the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) by tracking a target that moved exactly with him during sinusoidal head rotation, the firing rate of FTNs was modulated much less strongly than during pursuit with the head stationary. In the FTNs that showed increased firing for contraversive eye motion during pursuit, firing rate during cancellation of the VOR increased for contraversive head motion during sinusoidal vestibular rotation at 0.4 Hz but was only weakly modulated during rotation at 0.2 Hz. 5. The position-vestibular-pause cells (PVP-cells), previously identified as interneurons in the disynaptic VOR pathways, were not inhibited by stimulation of the flocculus and ventral paraflocculus and had response properties that were different from FTNs. The majority (69%) showed increased firing for contraversive eye motion during pursuit and for ipsiversive head motion during cancellation of the VOR, whereas some (31%) showed the opposite direction preferences under both conditions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. For horizontal eye movements, previous observations led to the hypothesis that the legendary neural integrator necessary for correct gaze holding, adequate vestibuloocular reflex (VOR), and optokinetic nystagmus, was located in the region of the complex formed by the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi (NPH) and the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN). 2. The aim of the present study was to test the respective contributions of the NPH, of the rostral part of the MVN, which contains most second-order vestibular neurons, and of the central part of the MVN to the horizontal integrator. 3. An injection of muscimol was used to inactivate each of these three zones in the cat's brain. Muscimol is a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist. By binding to GABAA receptors, it induces a hyperpolarization of the neurons that nullifies their activity. Muscimol was injected into the brain stem of the alert cat through a micropipette by an air pressure system. 4. The search coil technique was used to record spontaneous eye movements and the VOR induced by rotating a turntable at a constant velocity. VOR was analyzed by a new method: transient analysis of vestibular nystagmus. 5. A unilateral injection of muscimol into the NPH induced a bilateral gaze-holding failure: saccades were followed by a centripetal postsaccadic drift. A vestibular imbalance was also present but it was moderate and variable. The VOR responses were distorted drastically. Through transient analysis of vestibular nystagmus, that distortion was revealed to be due more to a failure of the neural integrator than to an alteration of the vestibular input to the neural integrator. The responses to a rotation either toward the injected side or in the opposite direction were asymmetrical. The direction of that asymmetry was variable. 6. A unilateral injection of muscimol into the rostral part of the MVN caused a vestibular imbalance: in complete darkness, a nystagmus appeared, whose linear slow phases were directed toward the side of injection. 7. A unilateral injection of muscimol into the central part of the MVN induced a syndrome where a severe bilateral gaze-holding failure was combined with a vestibular imbalance. In the light, saccades were followed by a bilateral centripetal postsaccadic drift. In complete darkness, a nystagmus was observed, whose curved slow phases were directed towards the side of injection. The VOR responses were distorted drastically. Here again, that distortion was revealed by our analysis to be due more to a failure of the neural integrator than to an alteration of the vestibular input to the neural integrator.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Specific Ca2+ channel blocker were used to isolate and characterize different components of whole cell Ba2+ current in granule neurons acutely dissociated from guinea pig hippocampal slices. 2. Granule cell Ba2+ current peaked around +5 mV, whether elicited by step or ramp commands, and was completely blocked by 100 microM Cd2+. 3. Saturating doses (&gt; or = 5 microM) of the dihydropyridine antagonist, nimodipine, blocked 39% of the total current, and the inhibition was partially reversible. Nimodipine had a greater effect on current at the end of a depolarizing step, suggesting some voltage dependence of its action. 4. Saturating doses (&gt; or = 3 microM) of omega-conotoxin-GVIA irreversibly blocked 21% of the total current and did not occlude subsequent nimodipine inhibition. 5. High concentrations (&gt; or = 100 nM) of omega-agatoxin-IVA irreversibly blocked another 20% of the total current. The effect of omega-Aga-IVA was quite slow, but saturated after several minutes at 200 nM concentration. A high dose (1 microM) produced rapid effects that were used to quantify the magnitude of block. 6. When applied together, all three blockers inhibited nearly the same amount of total current (77%) as would be expected from the sum of each blocker applied individually (80%), suggesting that the three antagonists blocked different channel types. 7. Quantitatively similar results were obtained for the effect of each blocker alone and in combination on currents elicited by depolarizing ramp commands. Ramp currents blocked by each antagonist (difference ramps) all peaked near the same potential as the initial control ramp, indicating very similar activation properties for the three current components. Difference currents elicited by step commands similarly showed little difference among the three components in their kinetics of inactivation during relatively brief (30 ms) depolarizations. With longer steps, however, the omega-CgTX-GVIA-sensitive component showed some inactivation, whereas the omega-Aga-IVA-sensitive current did not inactivate. 8. The component of current resistant to all three blockers (approximately 23% of total current) was not inhibited by omega-conotoxin-MVIIC, but was half blocked by 50 microM Ni2+. This Ni(2+)-sensitive component showed relatively rapid inactivation and peaked at a somewhat lower potential (-10 mV) than the control current. The resistant current was also inactivated by approximately 50% by holding at -60 compared with -80 mV.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The glutamatergic synapses formed between the unbranched giant reticulospinal axons onto spinal neurons in lamprey offer a central vertebrate synapse in which the presynaptic element can be impaled with one or several microelectrodes, which may be used for recording as well as microinjection of different substances. To provide a basis for the use of this synapse in studies of release mechanisms, we have examined the use-dependent modulation of the synaptic response under conditions of conventional cell body stimulation, and during direct stimulation of the presynaptic axon. 2. To examine the stability of the mixed electrotonic and chemical reticulospinal excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) over time, action potentials were evoked at a rate of 1 Hz for 800-1000 trials. In three out of seven synapses the chemical component remained at a similar amplitude, while in four cases a progressive decrease (up to 35%) occurred. The electrotonic component remained at a similar amplitude in all cases. 3. During paired pulse stimulation of the reticulospinal cell body (pulse interval 65 ms) the chemical EPSP component showed a net facilitation in all cases tested [from 0.64 +/- 0.35 to 0.89 +/- 0.48 (SD) mV, n = 13], while the peak amplitude of the electrotonic component was unchanged (1.37 +/- 0.68 and 1.36 +/- 0.66 mV, respectively). Recording of the axonal action potential during paired pulse stimulation showed that the width of the first and second action potential did not differ [1/2 width (2.48 +/- 0.39 ms and 2.48 +/- 0.42 ms, respectively; n = 8)]. 4. The degree of facilitation varied markedly between different synapses, ranging from an increase of a few percent to a two-fold increase (24 +/- 16% mean change of total EPSP amplitude, corresponding to 44 +/- 26% mean change of chemical EPSP amplitude). This type of variability was also observed in synapses made from the same unbranched reticulospinal axon onto different postsynaptic cells. 5. When paired pulse stimulation was applied to the reticulospinal axon in the very vicinity of the synaptic area (0.1-1 mm) a net depression of the chemical component occurred in 11 out of 19 cases, and in the remaining cases the level of net facilitation was lower as compared with cell body stimulation (range between +17 and -23% change of total EPSP amplitude; mean -5%; n = 19). 6. To test if the change of the EPSP plasticity during local stimulation correlated with an increased transmitter release, two microelectrodes were placed in the same reticulospinal axon at different distances from the synaptic area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The effect of covert attention was studied in area 7a of the posterior parietal cortex of rhesus monkeys performing a spatial match-to-sample task. The task required the animals to fixate a central target light, to detect and remember the location of a transient spatial cue, and to respond when one of a series of stimuli appeared at the cued location. Neuronal responses evoked by the visual stimuli were recorded during each behavioral trial. 2. Thirty-eight percent of the neurons isolated and studied in these experiments responded to visual stimuli. The responses of 55% of the neurons tested were suppressed, and 5% enhanced for stimuli presented at the attended location. Responses in the remaining neurons (40%) were unaffected by shifts in attention. 3. Activity in 57% of the suppressed neurons was reduced to rates not significantly different from spontaneous activity. 4. The extent of suppression for individual neurons was often restricted to the attended portion of the receptive field. 5. These data suggest a potential role for these neurons in the redirection of visual attention.
A great deal is now known about the cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) that are responsible for promoting the growth of ganglion cell axons as they project out of the retina through the optic nerve and finally to distant targets in the brain. However, the CAMs important for regulating axon outgrowth from nonprojection neurons, such as amacrine cells and rods, are not known. Such local circuit neurons extend their neurites rather short distances on cellular surfaces not normally encountered by the ganglion cell axons. To study the mechanisms regulating axon or dendrite growth from local circuit neurons, neurite outgrowth from amacrine cells and rod photoreceptor cells derived from the rat was examined in vitro on immunopurified forms of NCAM, L1, and N-cadherin, three well-characterized adhesive molecules found in the developing retina. Either early (P3) or late (P10) postnatal amacrine cells grew neurites on all three CAMs, but there were significant differences in the percentage of the amacrine cells that responded to each CAM. None of the CAMs supported neurite outgrowth from early postnatal rods, but, surprisingly, NCAM stimulated vigorous neurite extension from rods isolated at postnatal day 10. Postnatal ganglion cells were also examined for comparison and were found not to grow neurites on NCAM, but did grow extensive processes on L1 and N-cadherin. These results show that NCAM, L1, and N-cadherin can promote neurite outgrowth from local circuit neurons, but that the effectiveness of any particular CAM is dependent on the cell type and the developmental period.
Animals confronting threatening stimuli respond with a coordinated set of autonomic, neuroendocrine, neurochemical, and behavioral responses that constitute the stress response. The role of the NMDA receptor and its glycine modulatory site was investigated in a rat conditioned stress model. Behavioral, neuroendocrine, and neurochemical analyses were conducted. Regional dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) utilization was assessed by postmortem tissue measurements of metabolite-to-parent neurotransmitter ratios. Rats were conditioned to fear a tone previously paired with footshock. The following day, rats were systemically administered saline or the NMDA glycine site antagonist (+)-HA-966 before exposure to thirty minutes of conditioned stress. Conditioned stress resulted in a selective increase in medial prefrontal cortical DA and 5-HT utilization, elevation in serum corticosterone, and freezing behavior in control animals. The conditioned stress-induced increase in DA utilization in control animals was also detected in the lateral prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens, whereas DA utilization was not affected in the perirhinal or cingulate cortices, lateral-basolateral amygdaloid complex, anterior ventromedial caudatoputamen, or posterior dorsolateral caudatoputamen. Pretreatment with (+)-HA-966 at 15 mg/kg completely abolished the conditioned stress-induced increase in DA utilization in the medial and lateral prefrontal cortices. This effect was regionally specific since (+)-HA-966 pretreatment did not block increased DA utilization in the nucleus accumbens. This effect was also neurochemically specific since the stress-induced increase in 5-HT utilization in the medial prefrontal cortex was not affected by (+)-HA-966 pretreatment. Pretreatment with (+)-HA-966 did not affect stress-induced serum corticosterone elevation but did attenuate the freezing response. Control experiments demonstrated that (+)-HA-966 pretreatment did not (1) induce sedation, (2) interfere with habituation to a novel environment, (3) alter basal DA, 5-HT, or serum corticosterone levels, or (4) block acquisition of aversive memories. These data suggest that the NMDA receptor complex and associated glycine modulatory site may play an important role in the afferent control of the mesoprefrontal cortical DA system during conditioned stress. The relevance of these findings to schizophrenia and human anxiety disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder are discussed.
The barn owl's inferior colliculus contains a retina-like map of space on which a sound generates a focus of activity whose position corresponds to the location of the sound source. When there is more than one source of sound, the sound waves sum and may generate spurious binaural cues that degrade the auditory image. We investigated the signal conditions under which neurons in the owl's auditory space map are able to resolve two simultaneously active sound sources. We recorded from space map neurons responding to sounds from a pair of speakers separated in azimuth by 45 degrees and mounted on a rotatable arm. Stimuli consisted of a sum of sinusoids or pseudorandom noise bursts emitted simultaneously and at equal overall levels. The characteristics of the sounds in each speaker were varied, and the neuron's response was plotted as a function of the speaker pair's position. When the speakers emitted different sets of summed sinusoids, the cells responded to each speaker separately; that is, the cells were able to resolve two separate targets. However, when the speakers emitted identical summed sinusoids generating binaural cues that were identical to those of a single phantom source between the two speakers, the neurons responded when the speakers were on either side of their receptive fields. By manipulating the amplitude at which each speaker emitted the various frequencies, we could control the position, number, and size of the phantom sources detected by the cell. The cells also resolved two separate sources when they emitted noise bursts that were statistically independent or temporally reversed versions of one another. Since the overall spectra of such waveforms are identical, we suggest that the space map relies on differences between noise bursts that exist over brief time spans.
The dynamics of calcium and other diffusible second messengers play an important role in intracellular signaling. We show here the conditions under which nonlinear equations governing the diffusion, extrusion, and buffering of calcium can be linearized. Because the resulting partial differential equation is formally identical to the one-dimensional cable equation, quantities analogous to the input resistance, space constant, and time constant--familiar from the study of passive electrical propagation--can be defined. Using simulated calcium dynamics in an infinite cable and in a dendritic spine as examples, we bound the errors due to the linearization, and show that parameter uncertainty is so large that most nonlinearities can usually be ignored: robust phenomena in the nonlinear model are also present in the linear model.
Neurons of the nucleus magnocellularis (nMAG) of the chick express AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate) receptors displaying unusually rapid kinetics of desensitization (Raman and Trussell, 1992a). To investigate whether fast AMPA receptors are present in other auditory neurons, we compared the properties of AMPA receptors in auditory as well as nonauditory cells. These included neurons of nMAG, the nucleus angularis, the nucleus laminaris, the cochlear ganglion, the Purkinje cell layer of the cerebellum, the ventral horn of the spinal cord, and the brainstem nucleus of the glossopharyngeal nerve (ncIX). Rapid application of glutamate to voltage-clamped outside-out membrane patches indicated that AMPA receptors in the four types of auditory cells had significantly faster kinetics of desensitization than did the three types of nonauditory neurons. Channel kinetics in auditory (nMAG) and nonauditory (ncIX) cells were also compared by means of spectral analysis and the time course of current deactivation upon removal of glutamate. Both techniques revealed a burst duration for nMAG channels of 400-500 musec at room temperature, two to three times shorter than for ncIX cells. Single channels in nMAG had a burst duration of 550 musec and an open time of approximately 150 musec. Miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents of brainstem auditory neurons in slices were also brief, with decay constants of 150-250 musec at 29-32 degrees C. We demonstrated that the fast kinetics of this AMPA receptor are physiologically important, since cyclothiazide, which reduces desensitization and prolongs synaptic currents, doubled the relative refractory period of orthodromic spikes in nMAG cells in brain slices. We conclude that auditory brainstem neurons express a specialized subtype of AMPA receptors. This &quot;fast&quot; AMPA receptor may be useful in transmitting signals necessary for sound localization.
A coordinated care model was developed on a neuroscience unit to achieve positive outcomes in a cost-effective environment. This included the development of a patient care coordinator (PCC) role, critical paths and a system for variance tracking. The PCC was responsible for coordinating care of patients and ensuring that patients progressed toward expected outcomes. Multidisciplinary critical paths were developed for four medical diagnoses. To evaluate the effectiveness of the program, an analysis of length of stay data, cost comparison, patient and staff satisfaction, and variance reports of one critical path, the microvascular decompression for trigeminal neuralgia were completed. Results from the pilot project were positive and provided valuable information for the use of coordinated care as a hospital-wide patient care delivery model.
Many patients with mild head injury are discharged from the hospital without recognition of their true rehabilitative needs. This qualitative study was designed to describe what patient cues the expert nurse uses when making an assessment of mild head injury. Although the majority of cues the participants identified are supported in the head injury literature, several other cues, not previously linked with the assessment of mild head injury, were found. The identification of these aspects of the nursing assessment provides new insight into the art of neuroscience nursing.
Cerebral infarction is often considered a disease of middle-aged or elderly patients; it is uncommon in young adults. Venous stroke, however, has been recognized for many years as a hazard in young females during pregnancy and the postpartum period. Occlusion by thrombus is the most common abnormality and can be caused by alteration in blood viscosity, changes in blood volume and a hypercoagulable state. Because the neuroscience nurse may be faced with the challenge of caring for this different type of patient, an understanding of venous stroke, its manifestations and treatment is necessary in order to establish a plan of care.
The effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A (5-HT1A) receptor activation on hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) efflux measured by microdialysis and on motor activity was determined in the guinea pig. Administration of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin HBr (8-OH-DPAT) dose-dependently increased ACh efflux and motor activity. The effects of 8-OH-DPAT on ACh efflux may be mediated by activation of 5-HT1A receptors but are unlikely to be achieved through 5-HT1A receptors on cholinergic nerve terminals, because administering 8-OH-DPAT through the dialysis probe had no effect. Systemic administration of the 5-HT1A receptor partial agonists buspirone and ipsapirone produced marked increases in ACh efflux with less pronounced motor effects, whereas 8-[2-(2,3-dihydro-1,4-benzodioxin-2-yl- methylamino)ethyl]-8-azaspiro[4,5]-decane-7,9-dione methyl sulphonate (MDL 73005) modestly increased ACh efflux with no effect on motor activity. MDL 73005 did not influence the 8-OH-DPAT-induced increase in ACh efflux but attenuated the 8-OH-DPAT-induced increase in motor activity. Administration of 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)-4-[4-(2-phthalimido)butyl] piperazine HBr (NAN-190) blocked the behavioral effects of 8-OH-DPAT and attenuated the 8-OH-DPAT-induced increase in ACh. These actions of NAN-190 may be influenced by its alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist properties, because administration of prazosin decreased ACh efflux. The differential actions of partial agonists influencing ACh efflux and motor activity in the guinea pig may be due to differing proportions of spare receptors available for each response.
1. Investigations were made into the effects of BRL 38227, a potassium channel activator, on ATP-sensitive potassium channels (K+ATP channels) in single fibres dissociated from the flexor digitorum brevis muscle of C57BL/6J mice. 2. In cell-attached patches BRL 38227 (100 microM) caused activation of a glibenclamide-sensitive potassium current. Linear slope conductance of the inward current, partial rectification of the outward current and glibenclamide sensitivity indicate that K+ATP channels are the site of action of BRL 38227. 3. In the absence of ATP at the cytoplasmic side of excised inside-out patches, BRL 38227 caused direct and magnesium-dependent activation of K+ATP channels. The degree of activation diminished with successive applications of BRL 38227. 4. BRL 38227 also caused activation of K+ATP channels in the presence of low (&lt; 100 microM) but not high (1.0 mM) ATP, particularly in patches containing large numbers of channels. 5. BRL 38227 and 5 microM MgATP failed to activate channels following complete run-down. 6. Results show that BRL 38227 caused direct activation of K+ATP in skeletal muscle and that this was mediated through a magnesium-dependent binding site rather than alleviation of inhibition by competitive displacement of ATP from the inhibitory site.
The presentation of an antigen endogenously processed by B lymphocytes was investigated. The expression plasmid vectors, harboring genomic rearranged V genes from two monoclonal B cells and genomic mu-constant region gene, were constructed. Two B-cell lines, the MOPC104E myeloma mu-heavy chain expressing AMB line and the control hybridoma mu-heavy chain expressing AHB line, were established by gene transfection into A20.2J B lymphoma cell line. The cloned transfectant cell lines expressed surface and cytoplasmic IgM. Radioimmunoprecipitation analysis of surface IgM revealed that both cell lines used transfected mu-heavy chain and host-derived kappa-light chain. The T-cell line, MRT-2, specific for the MOPC104E protein, proliferated on AME B cell lines but not on control AHB-cell lines. MRT-2 proliferation was inhibited by anti-I-Ed,k,p,r but not by anti-I-Ad monoclonal antibody. Although the AME-transfectant lines secrete IgM into the culture medium, double chamber-type culture-experiments revealed that MRT-2 proliferation is not mediated by the uptake of secreted IgM. The results suggest that B cells process and present their own immunoglobulin heavy-chain V-region peptides to T cells in the context of MHC class-II molecules.
This study examined the role of longitudinal fiber splitting in enlarged anterior latissimus dorsi (ALD) muscle of adult quail. Muscle hypertrophy was induced using a model of progressive stretch overload (PSO) (5). After 16 and 28 d of PSO, muscle mass in the stretched ALD muscle increased significantly (P &lt; 0.05) 188% and 294%, respectively, when compared with the intra-animal control muscle. Muscle length increased significantly (P &lt; 0.05) in the stretched ALD muscle vs the intra-animal control by approximately 77% for both groups. Fiber number, which was assessed using direct counts after nitric acid digestion, did not change in the 16-d group; however, the 28-d stretched ALD muscle exhibited a 30% increase (P &lt; 0.05) in fiber number vs the intra-animal control muscle. Furthermore, the frequency of splitting (i.e., branching) fibers was less than 0.3% in all muscles examined except the 28-d stretched ALD muscle. The 28-d stretched ALD muscle had 5.25% of its muscle fibers exhibiting split profiles. These results demonstrate that PSO produces effects unlike chronic stretch overload in that longitudinal fiber splitting may contribute significantly to an increase in fiber number.
The respective roles of neurofilaments (NFs), microtubules (MTs), and the microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) MAP 1B and tau on neurite outgrowth and stabilization were probed by the intracellular delivery of specific antisera into transiently permeabilized NB2a/d1 cells during treatment with dbcAMP. Intracellular delivery of antisera specific for the low (NF-L), middle (NF-M), or extensively phosphorylated high (NF-H) molecular weight subunits did not prevent initial neurite elaboration, nor did it induce retraction of existing neurites elaborated by cells that had been previously treated for 1 d with dbcAMP. By contrast, intracellular delivery of antisera directed against tubulin reduced the percentage of cells with neurites at both these time points. Intracellular delivery of anti-NF-L and anti-NF-M antisera did not induce retraction in cells treated with dbcAMP for 3 d. However, intracellular delivery of antisera directed against extensively phosphorylated NF-H, MAP1B, tau, or tubulin induced similar levels of neurite retraction at this time. Intracellular delivery of monoclonal antibodies (RT97 or SMI-31) directed against phosphorylated NF-H induced neurite retraction in cell treated with dbcAMP for 3 d; a monoclonal antibody (SMI-32) directed against nonphosphorylated NF-H did not induce neurite retraction at this time. By contrast, none of the above antisera induced retraction of neurites in cells treated with dbcAMP for 7 d. Neurites develop resistance to retraction by colchicine, first detectable in some neurites after 3 d and in the majority of neurites after 7 d of dbcAMP treatment. We therefore examined whether or not colchicine resistance was compromised by intracellular delivery of the above antisera. Colchicine treatment resulted in rapid neurite retraction after intracellular delivery of antisera directed against extensively phosphorylated NF-H, MAP1B, or tau into cells that had previously been treated with dbcAMP for 7 d. By contrast, colchicine resistance was not compromised by the intracellular delivery of antisera directed against NF-L, NF-M, or tubulin. These findings support previous studies indicating that MT polymerization mediates certain aspects of axonal neurite outgrowth and suggest that NFs do not directly participate in these events. These findings further suggest that NFs function in stabilization of the axonal cytoskeleton, apparently by interactions among NFs and MTs that are mediated by NF-H and MAPs.
The bombesin-like peptides were originally characterized in frog skin, then later found to have a wide distribution and range of actions in mammals. The bombesin-like peptides have classically been divided into three subfamilies, the bombesin subfamily, of which gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) is the mammalian form; the ranatensin subfamily, of which neuromedin-B (NMB) is the mammalian form; and the phyllolitorin subfamily, which to date has only been characterized in amphibians. As a first step in characterizing mammalian phyllolitorin-like peptides, we have cloned complementary DNAs (cDNAs) encoding Leu8 and Phe8 phyllolitorin from Phyllomedusa sauvagei. Sequence analysis revealed that the amphibian phyllolitorin messenger RNA (mRNA) encodes a precursor of 90 amino acids containing a signal peptide sequence, an amino-terminal extension peptide, the phyllolitorin peptide of nine amino acids, and a carboxy-terminal extension peptide. Northern blot, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and in situ hybridization analysis showed that the mRNA was present at highest levels in skin, at lower levels in brain, and at lowest levels in gut. Phylogenetic analysis of bombesin-like peptide prohormone sequences showed that the phyllolitorin prohormones are much more closely related to the bombesin and ranatensin prohormones than to the GRP and NMB prohormones. This analysis suggests that the bombesin-like peptides should be reclassified into the GRP subfamily, the NMB subfamily, and the skin peptide subfamily. Surprisingly, the cDNAs encoding Phe8 and Leu8 phyllolitorins were identical except for a single T to C difference in the codon coding for the Phe or Leu residue of phyllolitorin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

To understand the immune mechanism suggested in HTLV-I-associated myelopathy (HAM/TSP), we investigated T cell response to proteolipid protein (PLP). Because of high autologous proliferative response (APR) of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in culture, the lymphocyte proliferation assay was not useful in this disease. Unexpectedly, however, APR was profoundly (70-98%) suppressed in 6 of 9 cases when PLP peptide 105-124 was added in the culture. PLP peptide 85-104 or 145-159 also suppressed APR in a few cases. Time course study showed that the peptide-mediated suppression became apparent after day 4 in culture. The results can be interpreted as that suppressor cells recognizing the PLP peptides were present in the PBMC of HAM/TSP patients and suppressed the APR as the consequence of antigen specific response. This may indicate that a T cell response to certain PLP determinants is involved in the pathomechanism of HAM/TSP at least in part. Molecular mimicry between PLP and HTLV-I may account for the T cell sensitization to PLP in HAM/TSP.
TrkC receptor isoforms have been identified by cDNA cloning and RT-PCR analysis of embryonic chick brain RNA. An N-terminal truncation motif is missing from the signal sequence and first cysteine cluster of the extracellular domain. Within the cytoplasmic dimain, a kinase truncation motif retains part of the kinase domain, but appeared to lack activity. Finally, a kinase insert (KI) motif introduces a 25 amino acid sequence distinct from the known mammalian inserts. KI receptors, like full-length receptors, were tyrosine phosphorylated in response to NT-3 and mediated the transformation of chick embryo fibroblasts and process outgrowth from rat PC12 cells. However, KI receptors supported little, if any, survival of serum-deprived PC12 cells. These results indicate that alternative splicing of trkC transcripts is an important mechanism for regulating cellular responses to NT-3.
We have cloned a rat cDNA for a novel brain-derived immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily molecule, BIG-1, by using PCR based on the amino acid sequences of the two closely related and well-known Ig superfamily members, rat TAG-1 and mouse F3. BIG-1 is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored membrane protein with six Ig-like domains and four fibronectin type III repeats, belonging to the TAG-1/F3 subgroup. The expression of BIG-1 mRNA is developmentally regulated with the highest level in the adult brain. It is restricted to subsets of neurons such as Purkinje cells of the cerebellum, granule cells of the dentate gyrus, and neurons in the superficial layers of the cerebral cortex. Recombinant BIG-1 protein has a neurite outgrowth-promoting activity when used as a substrate for neurons in vitro. These results suggest that BIG-1 may be involved in the formation and maintenance of neuron type-specific networks in the brain.
We have used a replication-incompetent retrovirus to analyze the lineage of olfactory receptor neurons in young rats. At 5-40 days after infection, clusters of infected cells comprised two major types: one consisted of 1-2 horizontal basal cells, and a second consisted of variable numbers of globose basal cells and immature and mature sensory neurons. Olfactory nerve lesion (which enhances neuronal turnover) increased the frequency of the globose-sensory neuron clusters as well as the number of cells in such clusters. No clusters contained both horizontal and globose basal cells, and none contained sustentacular cells. These data suggest, at least in young rats, that horizontal basal cells are not precursors of olfactory neurons, that there is a lineage path from globose cells to mature neurons, and that sustentacular cells may arise from a separate lineage.
Subcellular compartments in the outer retina of the larval tiger salamander were identified as likely sites of production of nitric oxide (NO), a recently recognized intercellular messenger. NADPH diaphorase histochemistry and NO synthase immunocytochemistry labeled photoreceptor ellipsoids and the distal regions of bipolar and glial cells apposing photoreceptor inner segments, suggesting a role for NO in visual processing in the outer retina. We investigated the actions of NO on several rod photoreceptor ion channels. Application of the NO-generating compound S-nitrosocysteine increased Ca2+ channel current and a voltage-independent conductance, but had no affect on voltage-gated K+ or nonspecific cation currents. Given the steep relation between voltage-dependent Ca2+ influx and photoreceptor synaptic output, these results indicate that NO could modulate transmission of the photoresponse to second order cells.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS), visualized immunohistochemically or with NADPH diaphorase histochemistry, is transiently expressed in discrete areas of the developing rat nervous system. In the brain transient NOS expression occurs in the cerebral cortical plate. At E15-E19, the majority of cells in the plate stain, with their processes extending through the corpus striatum to the thalamus. This staining decreases after birth and vanishes by the 15th postnatal day. Neurons in olfactory epithelium also express NOS from E15 till early postnatal life. In embryonic sensory ganglia virtually all neuronal cells are NOS positive, whereas by early adulthood only 1% express NOS. By contrast to these areas of transient NOS expression, in other neuronal sites NOS staining appears after cell bodies cease dividing and cells extend processes, and the staining persists in adult life. The transient expression of neuronal NOS may reflect a role in developmental processes such as programmed cell death.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a diffusible free radical that functions as a second messenger and neurotransmitter. NO synthase (NOS) is highly and transiently expressed in neurons of the developing olfactory epithelium during migration and establishment of primary synapses in the olfactory bulb. NOS is first expressed at E11 in cells of the presumptive nervous layer of the olfactory placode. NOS immunoreactivity persists in the descendants of these cells that differentiate into embryonic olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs). Olfactory NOS expression in the ORN and in its afferents rapidly declines after birth and is undetectable by P7. Following bulbectomy, NOS expression is rapidly induced in the regenerating ORN and is particularly enriched in their outgrowing axons. Immunoblot and Northern blot analyses similarly demonstrate an induction of NOS protein and mRNA expression, respectively, the highest levels of which coincide with peaks of ORN regeneration. These data argue against a role for NO in odorant-sensitive signal transduction, but suggest a prominent function for NO in activity-dependent establishment of connections in both developing and regenerating olfactory neurons.
Lewis rat experimental allergic neuritis (EAN) was treated with the 21-aminosteroid, tirilazad mesylate (U-74006F). High doses of tirilazad mesylate, begun just before the onset of clinical signs, reduced the clinical and pathological severity of the disease. In rats immunized with a high dose of myelin, axonal degeneration was a major pathological feature. Tirilazad mesylate reduced the amount of axonal degeneration but had little effect on the other pathological features of EAN, such as inflammation and demyelination. Tirilazad mesylate may block axonal degeneration by inhibiting lipid peroxidation of axonal membranes. Inhibition of axonal degeneration is an important goal in the treatment of human neuropathies.
Alzheimer's disease, the most common cause of dementia in the elderly, is rapidly becoming epidemic in the western world, with major social and economic ramifications. Thus enormous international scientific efforts are being made to increase our understanding of the pathogenesis of this disease, with the eventual goal of developing beneficial therapy. The two major neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are extracellular senile plaques, the principal component of which is the A beta amyloid peptide, and intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles, which are composed of aggregated tau protein in the form of paired helical filaments (PHF). In the past decade, since the major proteinaceous components of these pathological markers have been identified, great strides have been made in elucidating the biochemical processes which may underlie their abnormal deposition and aggregation in Alzheimer's disease. Simultaneously, extensive population genetic analyses have identified mutations in the A beta amyloid precursor protein (APP) in a small number of pedigrees with familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) whilst other FAD cases have been linked to an, as yet, unidentified marker on chromosome 14. Most recently, inheritance of the type 4 allele of apolipoprotein E has also been identified as a risk factor in sporadic AD. The challenge facing scientists now is to incorporate this wealth of exciting new biochemical and genetic data into a coherent model which can explain the long established neurochemical and histopathological lesions characteristic of AD.
Recent radioligand binding studies have demonstrated the presence of 5-HT4 receptors throughout the nigrostriatal and mesolimbic systems of mammalian brain. In many regions, the binding has not yet been correlated with functional responses. The present study was carried out to fully characterize the regional distribution of 5-HT4 receptors in brain sections from three species using two structurally distinct radioligands, [3H]GR113808, and [3H]BIMU-1. The highest density of 5-HT4 receptors labeled with [3H]GR113808 was found in the olfactory tubercle, substantia nigra, ventral pallium and striatum of rat and guinea pig, and similar regions of pig-tail macaque monkey. A similar distribution of 5-HT4 receptors was observed in guinea pig brain using [3H]BIMU-1. With either ligand, the binding was saturable and of high affinity (Kd = 0.08-0.53 nM for [3H]GR113808; 1.4-3.0 nM for [3H]BIMU-1). These results extend previous distribution studies, confirm the heterogenous distribution of 5-HT4 receptors throughout the nigrostriatal and mesolimbic systems of three species, and demonstrate a similar distribution using two structurally distinct 5-HT4 radioligands.
There is little detailed information about retinal ganglion cells which project to specific central targets in the brain. The present study examined retinal ganglion cells projecting to the nucleus of the basal optic root, a major accessory retinal target in the turtle. These ganglion cells were first selectively labeled using retrograde transport of rhodamine injected stereotaxically into the nucleus of the basal optic root. The number and distribution of the retrogradely labeled cells in the retina was then determined. Some of these retrogradely labeled cells were then injected intracellularly with Lucifer Yellow, photoconverted using diaminobenzidine, and drawn in detail using a camera lucida attachment. There were approximately 1500 ganglion cells in each retina which projected to the nucleus of the basal optic root, of which 20% had cell bodies displaced to the inner nuclear layer. More than 50% of the total population was concentrated in the visual streak region. All ganglion cells projecting to the nucleus of the basal optic root, both normal and displaced, had monostratified dendritic arborizations in stratum 1 of the inner plexiform layer. About 41% of these ganglion cells had elongated dendritic arborizations with distinct orientations, which may suggest a correlation of morphology and function. There were similarities in the overall appearance, and in the type and stratification of the dendritic arborizations of all ganglion cells projecting to the nucleus of the basal optic root. These anatomical similarities are consistent with the previously demonstrated similarities in physiology and may reflect a common role for these ganglion cells in visual processing.
In order to study the distribution and morphological classes of retinal ganglion cells that can be retrogradely labelled from the pulvinar nucleus, we made two iontophoretic injections of horseradish peroxidase into the pulvinar in each hemisphere of five macaque monkeys. The retrogradely labelled ganglion cells projecting to or through the pulvinar nucleus were examined in retinal whole-mounts. They comprise all three major ganglion cell classes. Primate gamma cells formed the great majority of classifiable cells and, like the primate alpha cells that were found in much smaller numbers, they were already known to send axons to the superior colliculus and to the pretectal complex. In contrast, the primate beta cells were hitherto thought to project solely to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. This primate beta cell projection to an extrageniculate target could account in part for the substantial number of primate beta cells that escape transneuronal retrograde retinal degeneration following striate cortical ablation, and might contribute to the residual visual sensitivity that survives destruction of striate cortex and the degeneration of the lateral geniculate nucleus.
Changes in discharge rate of 21 fusimotor neurons to medial gastrocnemius muscle during long-lasting fatiguing contractions of lateral gastrocnemius and soleus muscles were recorded in decerebrate cats with innervation of the same hindlimb preserved. Both the spontaneous activity and reflex responses of fusimotor neurons differed from those found previously in preparations with denervated hindlimb. Higher proportion of units fired at rest at rates above 20 impulses/s, the initial increase in discharge rate at the onset of muscle contraction was markedly prolonged, lasting in the majority of units throughout the muscle contraction, while the late increase in discharge rate developing with muscle fatigue was either absent or short-lasting. It is suggested that the increase in spontaneous firing rate occurs in dynamic fusimotor neurons being supported by afferent inflow from secondary muscle spindle endings from non-contracting muscles, the enhancement of the early responses to be primarily due to recurrent disinhibition and the differences in changes of early and late responses to reflect their partly different origin. The possibility is raised that the late reflex responses are lacking more often in static than in dynamic fusimotor neurons. From the functional point of view the differences in fusimotor reflex responses in innervated versus denervated hindlimb may indicate their susceptibility to modifications by changes in afferent inflow according, supposedly, to the current demands of motor control of the active and/or fatigued muscle.
The activity of identified cerebellar nuclear neurons was recorded in the alert cat during blinks induced by corneal air puffs, light flashes and tones. Eyelid response to air puffs consisted of an early (16.5 +/- 2.7 ms) downward movement followed by two to three late downward steps. Blinks induced by flashes or tones presented longer latencies (52.6 +/- 4.8 and 50.1 +/- 8.0 ms). Type A neurons (n = 86) increased their spike activity in coincidence with the beginning of the blink, regardless of the stimulus modality. The late eyelid downward responses were accompanied by corresponding increases in the firing rate of the neuron. Type A neurons were activated mostly from the red nucleus (48/86) or the restiform body (24/86). Type B neurons (n = 30) fired a brief burst of spikes slightly preceding the blink, followed by a noticeable decrease in their firing rate. As for type A, the discharge response of type B neurons was always the same regardless of the sensory modality. These neurons were activated from the red nucleus (18/30), oculomotor complex (6/30) and restiform body (6/30). Although no precise temporal coupling was found between the beginning of the neuronal response and the start of either the stimulus or the motor response, linear regression analysis demonstrated significant relationships between mean firing rate of type A and B neurons and eyelid position, velocity and/or acceleration. Deep cerebellar nuclei neurons presented here seem to be directly involved in the execution of reflexively induced blinks following the smaller details of eyelid motor performance. The opposite behavior of type A and B cells suggests an interplay of reciprocal actions to determine the ongoing displacements of the lid. Finally, the cerebellum seems to influence blinks through a spread action on many brainstem sites and not exclusively on the red nucleus.
The stimulation of thyrotropin release by cold is associated with an increase in thyrotropin-releasing hormone gene expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Cold exposure also stimulates autonomic outflow to viscera. There is evidence that caudal raphe nuclei are involved in autonomic regulation through thyrotropin-releasing hormone projections to the dorsal vagal complex and spinal cord. To determine whether cold modulates thyrotropin-releasing hormone gene expression in the caudal raphe nuclei, the effect of cold exposure on thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA levels in the rat lower brainstem was examined by quantitative Northern blot analysis and thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA was localized by in situ hybridization. The gastric responses to cold exposure were also assessed in sham or vagotomized rats with pylorus ligation. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA signal was detected in the RNA extracted from the medulla and hypothalamus but not from the amygdala, periaqueductal gray or cerebellum. Cold exposure (4 degrees C) for 1 or 3 h increased thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA levels in the medulla by 77 +/- 37 and 142 +/- 39% respectively. In situ hybridization histochemistry showed that the increase in silver grain density occurred exclusively in the raphe pallidus and raphe obscurus. Exposure to cold stress for 2 h stimulated gastric acid secretion and resulted in gastric lesion formation in sham but not vagotomized rats. There are established thyrotropin-releasing hormone projections from the raphe pallidus and obscurus to the dorsal vagal complex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We studied the effects of serotonin on compound action potentials in dorsal columns isolated from young (nine to 13 days old) rats. Conducting action potentials were activated by submaximal (50%) and supramaximal constant current electrical stimuli and recorded with glass micropipettes. At 10 microM and 100 microM concentrations, serotonin significantly increased mean action potential amplitudes by 9.6 +/- 6.5% (+/- S.D., P &lt; 0.05) and 16.6 +/- 12.2% (+/- S.D., P &lt; 0.005), respectively. Likewise, 10 microM and 100 microM of quipazine (a serotonin2A agonist) increased the amplitudes by 9.6 +/- 2.5% (+/- S.D., P &lt; 0.0005) and 37.7 +/- 8.7% (+/- S.D., P &lt; 0.0005), respectively. In contrast, 10 microM and 100 microM concentrations of 8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin-hydrobromide (a serotonin 1A agonist) reduced axonal excitability by -9.4 +/- 5.5% (+/- S.D., P &lt; 0.05) and -32.9 +/- 10.6% (+/- S.D., P &lt; 0.0005), respectively. At 50 microM concentration, mianserin (a serotonin2A and serotonin2C antagonist) eliminated the excitatory effects of 100 microM quipazine dimaleate. The combination of 50 microM mianserin and 100 microM serotonin reduced action potential amplitudes by -5.6 +/- 4.9% (+/- S.D., P &lt; 0.05). These results suggest that serotonin1A and serotonin2A receptor subtypes are present on spinal dorsal column axons. These two receptor subtypes have opposing effects on axonal excitability. The ratios and sensitivities of these two axonal receptor subtypes may modulate axonal excitability in rat dorsal column axons and have important implications for both development and injury of axons.
The locus coeruleus is involved in the regulation of blood pressure. The present study was undertaken to address the question of how the blood pressure, in turn, changes the activity of the locus coeruleus neurons via the action of baroreceptors. In chloralose- and urethane-anesthetized rats, the central cut end of the aortic depressor nerve, which does not contain chemoreceptor afferents in this species, was stimulated electrically to excite baroreceptor afferents after bilateral vagotomy and sectioning of the carotid sinus nerve. Single train-pulse stimulation of the aortic depressor nerve provoked the inhibition of ongoing activity in 48% of locus coeruleus neurons tested, but 30% of them responded by excitation with subsequent inhibition. However, when the train-pulse stimulation was repeated with a frequency of 5 Hz, which is close to that of the heartbeat in the rat, all neurons were markedly inhibited. Another series of experiments was conducted in vagotomized and carotid sinus nerve-sectioned rats with intact aortic depressor nerves. When blood pressure was elevated by an intravenous injection of a pressor agent, methoxamine or angiotensin II, or by rapid blood loading, ongoing activities of all locus coeruleus neurons tested were suppressed. In contrast, intravenously injected nitroprusside, a depressor agent, increased the activity of locus coeruleus neurons. In rats with all nerves preserved, rapid blood loading markedly inhibited the activity of these neurons. Such inhibition was partially but significantly attenuated by bilateral sectioning of the aortic depressor nerves.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of this study was to examine comprehensively and quantitatively the effects of sustained hypertension and hypotension on neuronal expression of Fos, the protein product of the proto-oncogene c-fos, in the brain of conscious rabbits. Hypertension or hypotension was produced by continuous intravenous infusion of phenylephrine or nitroprusside, at a rate sufficient to increase or decrease, respectively, arterial pressure by 20-30 mmHg, maintained for a period of 60 min. In comparison with a sham control group of rabbits that were infused with the vehicle solution alone, hypertension induced a significant increase in Fos immunoreactivity in the area postrema, the nucleus tractus solitarii, the caudal and intermediate ventrolateral medulla, the lateral parabrachial nucleus and the central nucleus of the amygdala. Double-labelling for tyrosine hydroxylase and Fos immunoreactivity showed that few (approximately 5%) of the Fos-positive neurons in the caudal and intermediate ventrolateral medulla in this group of animals were also positive for tyrosine hydroxylase. Hypotension also produced a significant increase in Fos immunoreactivity in the above regions, as well as in the rostral ventrolateral medulla, the A5 area, the locus coeruleus and subcoeruleus, the paraventricular nucleus, the supraoptic nucleus, the arcuate nucleus and the medial preoptic area. Approximately 65% of neurons in the rostral, intermediate and caudal ventrolateral medulla that expressed Fos following hypotension were also positive for tyrosine hydroxylase. Similarly, in the pons, approximately 75% of Fos-positive cells in the locus coeruleus, subcoeruleus and A5 area were positive for tyrosine hydroxylase. In the hypothalamus, 92% of Fos-positive neurons in the supraoptic nucleus, and 37% of Fos-positive neurons in the paraventricular nucleus, were immunoreactive for vasopressin. Our results demonstrate that hypertension and hypotension induce reproducible and specific patterns of Fos expression in the brainstem and forebrain. The distribution patterns and chemical characteristics of Fos-positive neurons following sustained hypertension or hypotension are significantly different. In particular, hypotension, but not hypertension, caused Fos expression in many tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells within all pontomedullary catecholamine cell groups.
Previous results suggest that the tryptophan metabolite, picolinic acid may have the unusual properties of antagonizing the neurotoxic but not the neuroexcitant effects of another tryptophan metabolite, quinolinic acid in the central nervous system. The present experiments tested this possibility utilizing behavioural and tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemical techniques. In the first series of experiments, rats received injections of relatively high concentrations of 6-hydroxydopamine (12 micrograms in 1 or 2 microliters), quinolinic acid (120 nmol in 0.5 microliters), picolinic acid (480 nmol in 0.5 microliters) or co-treatments (0.5 microliters) with quinolinic (120 nmol) plus picolinic acid (480 nmol) into the region of the substantia nigra. Results revealed that 6-hydroxydopamine and quinolinic acid alone produced a large loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra. Behavioural results for all 6-hydroxydopamine (n = 10) and for some quinolinate-treated rats (n = 5) revealed ipsi- and contraversive circling following amphetamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) and apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.), respectively, consistent with unilateral loss of dopamine cells in the substantia nigra. The remaining quinolinate-treated rats (n = 9) circled ipsiversively following either stimulant suggesting damage to the pars reticulata. Groups treated with picolinic acid alone (n = 6) or co-injected (n = 6) showed no loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in the substantia nigra and no circling response to the stimulants. In the second series of experiments, low concentrations of quinolinic acid (2.5, 5.0, 7.5 nmol), picolinic acid (10, 20, 30 nmol), or the two together (7.5 plus 30 nmol, respectively) were microinjected (0.5 microliter) into the dorsal striatum and circling behaviour evaluated. These results revealed dose-dependent contralateral circling with either quinolinate or picolinate; co-injection of the two tryptophan metabolites also produced contralateral circling. It was concluded that picolinic acid blocks the neurotoxic but not the neuroexcitant effects of quinolinic acid.
Because we believe that macrophage-derived nitric oxide contributes to pathology of demyelinating diseases, we have determined the differential effects of nitric oxide on primary rat glial cells in vitro. Enriched cultures of microglia, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes were treated with S-nitroso,N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine, a nitric oxide-releasing chemical. There was a significantly decreased function of one of the ferrosulfur-containing mitochondrial enzymes after S-nitroso,N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine/nitric oxide treatment in oligodendrocytes and astrocytes compared to microglia, which were much less sensitive to S-nitroso,N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine/nitric oxide at all concentrations. At 0.5 mM S-nitroso,N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine/nitric oxide, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes suffered a 40% loss in succinate dehydrogenase activity, while microglia were unaffected. A control non-ferrosulfur-containing mitochondrial enzyme, isocitrate dehydrogenase, was not affected in any glial cell type. Although the per cent of mitochondrial damage in oligodendrocytes and astrocytes was the same for all concentrations of S-nitroso,N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine/nitric oxide, significant cell death occurred in oligodendrocytes at 1.0 mM; at this concentration there was no significant killing of microglia or astrocytes. Furthermore, at a 0.5 mM concentration of S-nitroso,N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine/nitric oxide, which inhibited mitochondrial respiration but did not kill oligodendrocytes, significant changes in oligodendrocyte morphology (e.g. retraction of processes) occurred. Morphological changes were not seen in microglia and astrocytes at any concentration of S-nitroso,N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine/nitric oxide. In addition, oligodendrocytes were more sensitive to S-nitroso,N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine/nitric oxide-induced single stranded DNA breaks than microglia or astrocytes. The mitochondrial damage was attributable to nitric oxide since N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine had no effect. Oxyhemoglobin, which competitively inhibits toxic effects of nitric oxide, protected these glial cells from mitochondrial damage, single stranded breaks in DNA and cell death in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Once again, oligodendrocytes were less easily rescued from nitric oxide effects by oxyhemoglobin than were astrocytes, suggesting greater vulnerability of the myelin-producing cell to nitric oxide. These findings suggest that there is differential sensitivity of glial cells to nitric oxide. Although oligodendrocytes and astrocytes are equally susceptible to nitric oxide-induced mitochondrial damage, oligodendrocytes are more sensitive to nitric oxide-induced single stranded DNA breaks, morphological changes and cell death. Compared to both oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, microglia, nitric oxide-producing cells, are resistant to nitric oxide-induced damage.
A lesion of the entorhinal cortex produces a loss of more than 80% of the synapses in the outer molecular layer of the hippocampus in the rat. However, this synaptic loss is transient. Beginning a few days after denervation, new synapses are formed, virtually replacing the lost inputs within two months. Synaptic remodelling induced by entorhinal cortex lesion is associated with specific modifications of various neurotransmitters, hormones and growth factors. Many of these substances act at membrane bound-receptors to induce the hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositols generating various inositol phosphates. Some of the key members of this family include inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate and inositol hexakisphosphate which are all associated with the maintenance Ca2+ homeostasis. To investigate the potential roles and/or alterations of inositol phosphates in entorhinal cortex lesions-induced neuronal plasticity, we quantified specific receptor sites for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate and inositol hexakisphosphate using their respective tritiated ligands, at different periods post-lesion corresponding to the degenerative and subsequent reinnervation phases. [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding sites are maximally increased (30%) between two and eight days post-lesion in the hippocampal formation on both sides of the lesion. In the cortex, [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding increased also bilaterally following the lesion. Changes in [3H]inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate binding are delayed and reduced (20% increase) in magnitude compared to these seen for [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding. The maximal peak in [3H]inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate binding is observed between eight and 14 days after the lesion in the hippocampal formation and the cortex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The aim of this study was to assess whether developing cerebral cortex produces diffusible factors that can affect the growth of thalamic cells and, if so, what the role of these factors might be during the formation of thalamocortical connections. We studied interactions between cultured organotypic explants from mice maintained in defined serum-free medium. First, we cultured explants of embryonic dorsolateral thalamus in isolation from any other tissue; after culture, these explants were viewed intact and then sectioned. We estimated the numbers of healthy and pyknotic cells before and after culture, and the rates of mitosis in the explants during culture (using bromodeoxyuridine). Based on these data, we concluded that the majority of cells in the thalamic explants survived, although significant numbers of pyknotic cells did accumulate. Thalamic explants extended either very few or no neurites when cultured alone. We then cultured explants of embryonic thalamus near to explants from other tissues. A gap was always maintained between the explants, and we measured the length and density of neurite outgrowth from each thalamic explant. Slices of embryonic cortex promoted a small but significant increase in the amount of growth from thalamic explants. Postnatal cortex stimulated much more profuse neurite outgrowth; postnatal cerebellum had less of an effect, and postnatal medulla or liver had none. We showed that there was significantly more outgrowth from thalamic explants cultured in medium that had been preconditioned with cortical slices than from thalamic explants cultured in control medium, confirming that diffusible factors were produced by the cortex. The survival and mitotic rates of thalamic cells were unaffected by co-culture with the cortex. We conclude that the developing cortex releases diffusible factors that stimulate the growth of thalamic neurites and that other regions of the brain may also release the same substance(s). The lack of a specific source of thalamic growth promoting factor(s) argues against a role for these factors in guiding thalamic axons to specific targets; indeed, we were unable to demonstrate any chemotropic guidance of thalamic axons towards cortical explants in collagen gels. Since postnatal cortex has a more potent stimulatory effect than prenatal cortex, it seems possible that, in vivo, the cortical-derived factors act mainly on thalamocortical axons that have located their targets and are in the process of arborizing and refining their connections.
The effects of blocking glutamate transmission at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subtype were studied in rats performing a conditioned reaction time motor task. Rats were trained to release a lever after the onset of a visual stimulus within a time limit to obtain food reward. The results showed that the performances of the groups receiving the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists dizocilpine maleate (0.1 mg/kg) injected systemically or DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid at the highest dose tested (5.0 micrograms/microliter/side) injected locally into the striatum changed significantly as compared to controls. The effects of these antagonists, consisting of an increase in the number of lever releases occurring before the visual stimulus onset (&quot;anticipated responses&quot;), were similar to those induced by injecting dopamine into the same striatal location. Both dizocilpine maleate and DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (5.0 micrograms/microliter) reversed the motor deficits, resulting in an increase in the number of lever releases after the time limit (&quot;delayed responses&quot;) that were induced by the D2 dopamine receptor antagonist raclopride. Although these results partly confirm the existence of a functional antagonism between the glutamatergic and the dopaminergic systems in the striatum, opposite findings were obtained with the group that received intrastriatal DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid at the lowest dose (0.5 micrograms/microliter/side). When given alone, 0.5 micrograms/microliter DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid had no behavioural effects, but when jointly administered with dopamine or raclopride, it was found to reverse the effects of dopamine and to potentiate the motor deficits induced by raclopride. These opposite effects on the reaction time task observed after the intrastriatal injection of DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, depending on the dose tested, occurred only after a combined treatment with a dopaminergic agonist or antagonist and suggest that the level of the striatal dopaminergic activity may play a critical role in regulating the glutamate transmission via the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors during the performance of complex sensorimotor tasks of this kind.
Two-color immunofluorescence histochemistry and immunohistochemistry in combination with retrograde tract-tracing techniques were used to examine the relationship of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid (AMPA)-selective glutamate receptor subunits (GluR1, GluR2/3/4c and GluR4) to identified populations of striatal projection neurons and interneurons. The majority of striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons were double-labeled for GluR2/3/4c. These findings were confirmed using calbindin to label matrix projection neurons. In contrast, immunostaining of the GluR1 subunit was not observed to co-localize with any striatal projection neurons. Striatal interneurons immunostained for parvalbumin were also labeled by antibodies directed against the GluR1 subunit. Approximately 50% of parvalbumin neurons also contained GluR2/3/4c. Somatostatin immunoreactivity did not co-localize with either the GluR1 or GluR2/3/4c subunits. GluR4-immunoreactive neurons were not observed in striatum. This study demonstrates that AMPA-selective glutamate receptors are differentially localized on subpopulations of striatal neurons and interneurons. These findings suggest that discrete striatal neuron populations may express different AMPA receptor subunit combinations which may account for their functional specificity.
The functional roles played by metabotropic glutamate receptors in the neostriatum is just beginning to be examined. One possibility, raised by previous studies, is that metabotropic glutamate receptors act to modulate responses mediated by ionotropic glutamate receptors. In the present study, we examined this possibility in a neostriatal brain slice preparation using intracellular recording and iontophoretic techniques. We found that the iontophoretic application of the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist 1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid markedly attenuated both the amplitude and duration of excitatory responses induced by the iontophoretic application of N-methyl-D-aspartate. These inhibitory effects were stereo-selective and relatively long-lasting. The metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid applied either iontophoretically or in the bath prevented the inhibitory effects of 1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid. The inhibitory action of 1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid was specific to N-methyl-D-aspartate, as 1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid had no consistent action on the responses evoked by the iontophoretic application of glutamate, amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoazolepropionic acid or quisqualate. Bath application of 1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid inhibited the evoked depolarizing postsynaptic potentials recorded in neostriatal cells. Thus, activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors may play an important role in modulating N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor function in neostriatal neurons.
The postnatal expression of metabotropic glutamate receptors was studied in rat brain by in situ hybridization and autoradiographic binding techniques. The messenger RNAs encoding five metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes named mGluR1-5 had distinct regional and temporal expression profiles. mGluR1, mGluR2 and mGluR4 messenger RNA expression was low at birth and increased during postnatal development. In contrast, mGluR3 and mGluR5 were highly expressed at birth and decreased during maturation to adult levels of expression. [3H]Glutamate binding competition studies in developing brain disclosed the presence of two types of binding sites with the pharmacological properties of metabotropic glutamate receptors, having high (metabotropic type-1 binding sites; K1 = 8 nM) and low affinity (metabotropic type-2 binding sites; K1 = 50 microM) for quisqualic acid, as in adult rat brain. The densities of metabotropic binding sites changed during development in a complex, regionally specific fashion. Metabotropic type-1 binding sites were present at low levels at birth and gradually increased during the second postnatal week. In the striatum, globus pallidus and cerebellar granule layer, the increase in density of metabotropic type-1 binding sites was transient but persisted in the cerebellar molecular layer. In contrast, metabotropic type-2 binding sites were present at high densities in most regions in the first postnatal week and decreased during the second and third week, particularly in the thalamic reticular nucleus and globus pallidus. Only in the external cortex did both metabotropic type-1 and metabotropic type-2 binding sites increase during development. A striking correspondence between the temporal pattern of expression of specific metabotropic glutamate receptor transcripts and metabotropic binding sites was observed in the reticular nucleus of the thalamus (mGluR3; metabotropic type-2 binding sites) and cerebellum (mGluR1; metabotropic type-1 binding sites) suggesting early translation of these metabotropic glutamate receptor messenger RNAs into receptor proteins. In other regions the relationship between messenger RNA expression and binding sites was less direct: comparison between expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor messenger RNA and binding sites suggests both a pre- and postsynaptic location of some receptor subtypes. These data imply a functional role of mGluR3 and mGluR5 during synaptogenesis and maintenance of adult synapses and of mGluR1, mGluR2 and mGluR4 in mature synaptic transmission.
In order to explore the relative contributions of the different ionotropic excitatory amino acid receptor subtypes to signalling in primary visual cortex, we have mapped their distributions in area 17 of adult ferret cerebral cortex by quantitative in vitro autoradiography. D,L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methoxy-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) and kainate receptors, gating fast, Na(+)-permeable channels, were localized with [3H]dizocilpine maleate ([3H]MK-801). All three radioligands bound to single sites, with KDs of 414 nM [3H]AMPA and [3H]kainate, respectively. Slower-acting N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, which gate the influx of Ca2+ as well as Na+, were localized with ([3H]AMPA), 78 nM ([3H]kainate) and 16 nM ([3H]MK-801), and each receptor subtype displayed a different laminar distribution pattern within area 17. AMPA receptors were concentrated in superficial layers, with intermediate densities in deep layers and lowest levels in layer IV. Kainate receptor levels were high in layers V and VI and low in all other layers. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors were more homogeneously distributed than AMPA or kainate receptors, but were expressed at highest levels in layers I and IV and lowest levels in layers V and VI. The binding site densities found in the layers containing most receptors were Bmax = 2812 fmol/mg for [3H]AMPA, Bmax = 626 fmol/mg for [3H]MK-801 maleate and Bmax = 278 fmol/mg for [3H]kainate. Thus, while AMPA receptors were predominant and kainate receptors least abundant in all cortical layers, a complementary relative distribution of excitatory amino acid receptors was apparent, with AMPA receptor density highest in superficial layers, kainate receptor density highest in inferior layers and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor density highest in the middle granular layer, as well as in layer I. The results indicate that although AMPA receptors are principally involved in excitatory signalling in adult ferret primary visual cortex, kainate receptors in layers V and VI and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in layers I and IV may have particularly important roles in mediating synaptic transmission.
The hippocampal output to the ventral entorhinal area was studied in the guinea-pig by field potential analysis. Perforant path volleys, synaptically elicited by stimulation of dorsal psalterium fibers, were used to obtain activation of the lamellar circuit of the dorsal hippocampal formation and the subsequent activation, through intrahippocampal longitudinal connections, of pyramidal neurons in the ventral hippocampus. The latter activation was obtained by low-frequency (0.1-2.0/s) repetitive dorsal psalterium stimulation. A response occurred in the ventral entorhinal area only following low-frequency (0.1-2.0/s) repetitive stimulation. The ventral entorhinal response occurred both in the medial and lateral divisions of the ventral entorhinal area. It consisted of a negative wave with associated unit firing in all cellular layers of the medial and lateral ventral entorhinal area. The latency of the entorhinal response increased moving from the deep to the superficial layers. These findings suggest the generation of excitatory synaptic effects in temporal sequence in the deep and then in the superficial layers of the entorhinal cortex. The ventral entorhinal response showed longer latency and a higher threshold than the ventral hippocampal response, and was eliminated by interruption of the caudally directed ventral hippocampal projections. These data suggest that the ventral entorhinal response was mediated by projections from the ventral hippocampus. The results show that the ventral hippocampal output evokes excitatory synaptic effects in all cellular layers of the medial and the lateral ventral entorhinal area. The massive involvement of the entorhinal area, together with the widespread distribution of the entorhinal projections, support the idea that the entorhinal cortex represents a crucial link between the hippocampus and the other brain regions.
The presynaptic actions of GABA and (+/-) baclofen on the stratum radiatum in the CA1 region of guinea-pig hippocampal slices were investigated using a modified grease-gap recording technique. D.c. potential shifts were recorded in response to varying concentrations of GABA and (+/-) baclofen. In Ca(2+)-free media containing tetrodotoxin, bath applications of GABA (2.5 microM to 20 mM) produced depolarizations which were concentration-dependent. Maximum depolarization was attained with 10 mM GABA. Superfusion of (+/-) baclofen (0.125-500 microM) produced a concentration-dependent hyperpolarization which peaked at a concentration of 250 microM. The GABA-induced depolarization but not the (+/-) baclofen-induced hyperpolarization was depressed by the GABAA antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxinin. The (+/-) baclofen-induced hyperpolarization but not the GABA-induced depolarization was suppressed by CGP 35,348, a GABAB antagonist. In the presence of bicuculline, GABA (0.5-5.0 mM) occasionally caused a hyperpolarization which could be blocked by CGP 35,348. These results indicate that the primary presynaptic action of GABA on the d.c. potential in the CA1 region of the hippocampus is to produce a GABAA receptor-mediated depolarization, while (+/-) baclofen induces a GABAB receptor-mediated hyperpolarization. The grease-gap d.c. potential recording technique, described in this paper, is expected to be useful in examining changes in the membrane potentials of presynaptic terminals.
By mediating cell-cell interactions, the neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) has been implicated in various events such as axonal pathway formation, neurite outgrowth or synaptic remodelling. One mechanism by which N-CAM could contribute to these events has been proposed to involve modifications of the content of the molecule in polysialic acid. Here we have tested this possibility using an in vitro model of lesion-induced reactive synaptogenesis in hippocampal organotypic cultures. We present evidence that the sprouting reaction triggered by a section of CA3-CA1 connections in these cultures is associated with the expression of the highly sialylated form of N-CAM on regenerating neurites. In addition, we have examined the functional importance of this sialylation mechanism by analysing the effect of treating sectioned cultures with endo-neuraminidase-N which removes the polysialic acid portions of N-CAM. Measurements of the time course of recovery from the lesion, as assessed by the formation of new functional synaptic contacts across the section, showed that removal of the polysialic acid moieties of N-CAM significantly delays the sprouting reaction. The results support the idea that up regulations of highly sialylated forms of N-CAM are of functional importance in neurite sprouting and synapse regeneration in this in vitro model.
Application of N-methyl-D-aspartate on to the dendrites of hippocampal granule cells dramatically decreased prodynorphin messenger RNA levels in the affected cells while increasing proenkephalin messenger RNA levels. Sin-1 molsidomine (an agent which releases nitric oxide) and 8-bromo-cyclic GMP were similarly effective, and the actions of sin-1 molsidomine were blocked by inhibition of cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase. Since, in this region, dynorphins act to inhibit potentiation of synaptic transmission, while enkephalins have excitatory effects, this switch in opioid gene expression is likely to have a prolonged effect on the efficiency of the mossy fibre synapses. In addition, the results demonstrate a powerful role for nitric oxide in the long-term regulation of hippocampal excitability.
Age-related decline of cognition and memory, in humans and other animals, appears to be associated with neuronal loss. Experimental and clinical evidence has shown that the hippocampal formation is one of the brain regions most vulnerable to the ageing process. Because excess of glutamate is neurotoxic to hippocampal neurons, abnormalities in glutamate neurotransmitter function may play a crucial role in neurodegenerative disorders, especially in conjunction with brain ageing. We have used in situ hybridization to study the expression of the two major alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-selective glutamate receptor subunits, involved in the control of calcium permeability in the young adult and aged rat hippocampus. We show that the levels of messenger RNA encoding the AMPA-selective glutamate receptor subunit-1 (GluR1 or GluRA) and AMPA-selective glutamate receptor subunit-2 (GluR2 or GluRB) are highest in the dentate gyrus, followed by the CA1 and CA3 hippocampal subfields. We also show that the levels of both messenger RNAs decrease differentially with age in all subfields of the hippocampus. Finally, the GluR1/GluR2 messenger RNA ratios increase in the aged hippocampus, particularly in the CA3 subfield, suggesting that altered calcium homeostasis may contribute to age-related neuronal death.
Glutamate is a major neurotransmitter in the brain that acts both through fast ionotropic receptors and through slower metabotropic receptors coupled to G proteins. Both receptors are present throughout the somatodendritic domain of neurons as shown by immunohistochemical and patch clamp recording studies. Immunogold labelling revealed a concentration of metabotropic receptors at the edge, but not within the main body of anatomically defined synapses, raising the possibility that ionotropic and metabotropic receptors are segregated. We applied double immunogold labelling to study glutamatergic parallel and climbing fibre synapses in the cerebellar cortex. The ionotropic AMPA type receptors occupy the membrane opposite the release site in the main body of the synaptic junction, whereas the metabotropic receptors are located at the periphery of the same synapses. Furthermore, immunoreactivity for AMPA receptors is at least twice as high in the parallel fibre synapses as in glutamatergic mossy fibre synapses. We suggest that the spatial segregation of ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors permits the differential activation of these receptors according to the amount of glutamate released presynaptically, whereas the different densities of the ionotropic receptor at distinct synapses could allow the same amount of glutamate to evoke fast responses of different magnitude.
The properties of rhythmic low-threshold and multireceptive spinal dorsal horn neurons were determined. Multiple neuron recordings were made via a single electrode in the lumbar spinal cord of pentobarbital-anesthetized or decerebrate, unanesthetized, spinalized rats. The background activity of a total of 223 neurons was analysed: 21.0% of 176 fully characterized neurons were low threshold, 73.3% multireceptive and 5.7% nociceptive-specific neurons. Twenty of 100 neurons tested were driven by antidromic stimulation at the upper cervical cord. To identify and evaluate rhythmic harmonic oscillations in the discharges of spinal dorsal horn neurons during background activity and steady-state noxious heat-evoked responses, interspike interval, autocorrelation and autospectral analysis were performed. The background activity of 99 of the 223 neurons (44.4%) of our sample was rhythmic. The distribution of the fundamental spectral frequencies has a bimodal shape, the first band between 0.5 and 2 Hz and the second between 6 and 13 Hz. Low-threshold and multireceptive neurons had a similar incidence of rhythmicity (54.1 and 43.4%, respectively). Only one of 20 neurons with long ascending projections presented rhythmic background activity. Activation of heat-sensitive nociceptors within the cutaneous receptive fields of the neurons had a strong anti-rhythmic effect in nine of 15 (60%) neurons. No change was observed in the pattern of autospectra of non-rhythmic neurons or low-threshold neurons during noxious stimulation. Twenty-four of 37 (66.6%) rhythmic neurons retained their rhythmic background discharges during reversible cold-block spinalization at the upper thoracic cord. The incidence of neurons with burst-like discharges was highest among multireceptive neurons (98/129, 75.9%) and non-rhythmic neurons (89/124, 71.8%). Thus, rhythmicity exists in sensory neurons of the spinal dorsal horn probably generated within its local neuronal network and partially modulated by supraspinal descending systems. Rhythmicity is depressed by activity in primary afferent nociceptors. The role of rhythmicity for information transfer and neuronal plasticity is discussed.
In order to evaluate the influence of cerebral ischemia on the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor, the alterations of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor binding sites and local cerebral blood flow were examined 6 h after occlusion of the right common carotid artery in the gerbil brain. The autoradiographic method developed in our laboratory enabled us to measure both parameters within the same brain. Animals attaining ischemic scores of more than 5, as assessed 1 h after occlusion, were utilized. The local cerebral blood flow was measured 6 h after occlusion by the [14C]iodoantipyrine method. The inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding sites were evaluated in vitro using [3H]inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate as a specific ligand. The local cerebral blood flow fell below 15 ml/100 g per min in most of the cerebral regions on the occluded side. In contrast, a significant reduction in inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding sites was noted only in the hippocampus CA1 on the occluded side. Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding tended to decrease when the values of local cerebral blood flow were below 20 ml/100 g per min in this region. On the other hand, the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor immunoreactivity in the brain examined with a monoclonal antibody against inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor protein did not reveal any differences between the ischemia and sham groups on both sides, suggesting that the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors may not undergo significant morphological degradation. These findings indicate that the suppression of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding in the hippocampus CA1 may be attributable to a regionally specific perturbation of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate metabolism in this region.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have examined the effects of transient cerebral ischemia on performance of a one-trial passive avoidance task by chicks. Transient forebrain ischemia was induced by bilateral carotid artery occlusion for a period of 10 min. In one experimental group, ischemia was produced prior to training on the avoidance task whereas in the other group ischemic intervention was not made until 3 h after initial training. Sham-operated groups were matched to each of the experimental groups. All four groups were tested for retention of the avoidance response 24 h post-surgery. The sham-operated birds and those receiving post-training ischemia showed good retention of the avoidance response, whereas in birds which received ischemia prior to training there was significant amnesia. Neuronal damage, determined qualitatively using a silver impregnation method, was observed in several forebrain regions including the hippocampus, hyperstriatal regions, paleostriatum primitivum, ventral archistriatum, and lateral corticoid area. Damage was also observed in the Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. The behavioural and anatomical effects of transient forebrain ischemia have not been previously investigated in an avian species and the finding of significant amnesia for a learning task following ischemia is in good agreement with several behavioural studies in mammals.
Orientation tuning of 271 neurons of the cat visual cortex (area 17) was studied with a light bar flashing in the receptive field. Under different conditions, 27-57% of units were found to have double-orientation tuning: they demonstrated the main preferred orientation and an additional preferred orientation. The statistical reliability and reproducibility of additional preferred orientation were shown. The quality of orientation tuning in the second maximum did not differ statistically from the first one. The angle between preferred orientation and additional preferred orientation was either 90 degrees (29% of cases) or an acute one (60.1 +/- 3.1 degrees, 71% of cases). The ratio of discharge frequency in responses to additional preferred orientation and preferred orientation was equal to 0.74 +/- 0.05. Neurons with double-orientation tuning clearly preferred 67 degrees and 157 degrees, while monomodal units preferred 0 degrees and 90 degrees. Probability of the double-tuning increased under bar lengths of near 3 degrees and near 10 degrees and with increase of stimulus/background contrast. At the same time some neurons displayed double-orientation tuning only with relatively low stimulus/background contrast. The proportion of units with double-orientation tuning was lowered by about 1.5-times under general Nembutal narcotization as compared with local anesthesia of the animal. In about one-third of units simultaneous stimulation by two flashing lines crossing in the receptive field center under an angle specific for the cell, evoked a response from 1.5 to four times larger than to the preferred orientation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Axons from the histaminergic neurons of the tuberomammillary nucleus project to both the anterior and tuberal portions of the supraoptic nucleus. Histamine is known to activate vasopressin neurons via a histamine receptor subtype 1 and to increase release of vasopressin, but effects on oxytocin neurons have been previously unexplored. Here we investigated the effects of tuberomammillary nucleus electrical stimulation as well as of histamine antagonists on supraoptic nucleus oxytocin and vasopressin neurons in slices of rat hypothalamus. Electrical stimulation evoked short constant latency (approximately 5 ms), fast (4-6 ms onset to peak) inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in oxytocin neurons and, as shown previously, fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials in vasopressin neurons. These synaptic responses followed paired-pulse stimulus frequencies up to 100 Hz and were, thus, probably reflecting monosynaptic connections. Inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were selectively blocked by histamine receptor subtype 2 antagonists (either cimetidine or famotidine) and by picrotoxin but not by histamine receptor subtype 1 antagonists or bicuculline. Similar synaptic responses to tuberomammillary nucleus stimulation were found in 16 of 16 neurons immunocytochemically identified as oxytocinergic and in seven putative oxytocin neurons. Perifusion of the slice with low chloride medium (4.8 mM) reversed stimulus-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. We conclude that histaminergic neurons monosynaptically contact both oxytocin and vasopressin cells of the supraoptic nucleus and inhibit the former via activation of chloride channels which can be blocked by the histamine receptor subtype 2 antagonists, famotidine and cimetidine.
Recently, we have found that the ventral tegmental area of the rat sends dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic axons, respectively, to the cerebellar cortex and deep cerebellar nuclei [Ikai et al. (1992) Neuroscience 51, 719-728]. In the present study, employing fluorescent retrograde double labeling with Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow, we examined whether individual neurons in the ventral tegmental area of the rat send their axons to both the cerebellum and other brain regions. The neurons projecting to the cerebellar cortex often issued axon collaterals to the cerebral cortical areas, including the prelimbic-anterior cingulate cortices and piriform-entorhinal cortices, but not so frequently to the subcortical regions, including the nucleus accumbens, lateral septum, amygdala, and lateral habenula. On the other hand, the neurons projecting to the deep cerebellar nuclei rarely sent axon collaterals to the cerebral cortical and subcortical regions.
Previous studies in vitro indicate that basic fibroblast growth factor participates in the survival, proliferation and differentiation of immature neural cells, predicting that it may have the same types of roles in vivo. In order to evaluate a possible role of basic fibroblast growth factor in neural development, we have examined its localization in the rodent brain at critical stages of development. We characterized basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity at embryonic days 13 and 18, and postnatal days 1, 4, 6, 10, 20 and 90. Our results showed that basic fibroblast growth factor was transiently expressed by different cellular phenotypes throughout development. At embryonic day 13, basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity was sparsely distributed in various cell phenotypes. At embryonic day 18, the primitive cerebral cortex showed basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity within its emerging laminar structure, including the cortical plate and subplate regions. At postnatal day 1, basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity was mostly concentrated in the hippocampal subfields cornu Ammon 1, cornu Ammon 2 and cornu Ammon 3, and neurons of the medical septum and the vertical limb of the diagonal band nuclei. At postnatal days 4-6, astrocyte-like cells showed basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity for the first time during development. At this stage, basic fibroblast growth factor in the hippocampus was mostly shown within subfields cornu Ammon 2 and cornu Ammon 1. In the medical septum, just a few neuronal profiles were weakly stained, and basic fibroblast growth factor positive astrocytes appeared to accumulate around these basic fibroblast growth factor-stained neurons. At postnatal day 20, the adult pattern of basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity was fully established. Astrocytes throughout the brain expressed basic fibroblast growth factor, and neuronal basic fibroblast growth factor was restricted to particular populations such as cingulate cortex and hippocampus. The cornu Ammon 2 subfield was the main neuronal location for basic fibroblast growth factor in the mature hippocampus. Our results showed that the cellular location of basic fibroblast growth factor changes during development, suggesting that basic fibroblast growth factor has multiple and evolving roles during histogenesis and differentiation of the CNS.
The present study investigates the temporal and spatial changes of the cellular expression of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA and immunoreactivity after a 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion in the nigrostriatal dopamine system. In situ hybridization revealed a sustained (from 4 h to two weeks) and strong (300-400% of control, at the peak intervals) increase of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area ipsilateral to the lesion. A short-lasting increase of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA was observed in he ipsilateral pars reticulata of the substantia nigra (from 4-24 h, 300% of control) and neostriatum (24 h, 180% of control) as well as in the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampus and neocortex (by 4 h, 200% of control). Brightfield microscopy showed an increased number of putative glial cells expressing the basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA signal. Basic fibroblast growth factor immunohistochemistry revealed on control brains the protein in the nuclei of glial cells throughout the forebrain and the midbrain and in the nuclei of neurons of the layer II of the retrosplenial granular cortex, the CA2 region of the hippocampus and the fasciola cinereum as well as in the nuclei of ependymal cells. The injection of 6-hydroxydopamine increased basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity in the nuclei of astrocytes only within the ipsilateral substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. By 2 h after the drug injection, the density of glial basic fibroblast growth factor-immunoreactive profiles was increased in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area. The density, size and intensity of the astroglial basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactive nuclei were increased in the entire substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area at 72 h, and peaked one week after the 6-hydroxydopamine injection. The saline injection promoted a time-dependent increase in the density of the glial basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity but only in the ipsilateral pars compacta of the substantia nigra. In conclusion, the dopamine cell degeneration may give rise to extracellular signals activating the surrounding astroglia, leading to a sustained increased synthesis of astroglial basic fibroblast growth factor, which may exert neuroprotective action and increase repair on the nigrostriatal dopamine system.
Previous studies of rats in our laboratory indicate that a molecule or molecules released by Schwann cells exert survival and growth-promoting effects on mesencephalic dopamine neurons. In the present study, we have begun to investigate the potential for Schwann cell augmentation of host dopamine fiber systems and embryonic dopamine neuron grafts in non-human primates. Ten adult male St Kitts African Green monkeys treated with the dopaminergic neurotoxin 1-methyl 4-phenyl 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine one year previously, but behaviorally asymptomatic, served as hosts for implant studies. A segment of young adult monkey saphenous nerve was collected to serve as an implanted tissue source of Schwann cell-derived growth factors. Nerve was enclosed in a hollow semi-permeable polymer fiber for implantation into the lateral ventricle, with embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue co-grafts containing developing dopamine neurons aimed at nearby locations in the caudate nucleus. Control implants consisted of an empty polymer fiber co-grafted with embryonic ventral mesencephalon. Our morphological observations indicate that while no clear augmentation of the morphology of grafted dopamine neurons attributable to co-grafted nerve was observed, this lack of influence may be related to the spatial separation of the co-grafted tissues. In contrast, some monkeys with nerve segments in the lateral ventricle exhibited increased tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fiber staining in the immediately adjacent lateral septal area and the ventricular wall of the caudate nucleus. This enhancement was not associated with empty polymer implants. Levels of dopamine and its metabolite homovanillic acid derived from tissue punches in the caudate nucleus and septal area support the view that monkeys exhibiting morphological enhancement of host dopamine systems also show biochemical increases in dopamine levels and changes in the direction of normalization of the homovanillic acid/dopamine ratio. Biochemical values from a single septal area tissue punch in one animal were an exception to this rule. This study suggests that while the utility of peripheral nerve as a source of dopamine graft augmentation in non-human primates remains to be demonstrated, grafted nerve has a stimulatory effect on host brain dopamine systems in adult, dopamine-depleted monkeys, and that this morphological effect can be dissociated from previously hypothesized injury-induced regeneration.
&quot;Priming&quot; is a phenomenon of behavioural sensitization observed in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rats following exposure to a dopamine agonist. After priming, a single dose of the D1 agonist SKF 38393 (3 mg/kg) produces contralateral turning, while the same dose is inactive in drug-naive, lesioned animals. The molecular mechanisms of &quot;priming&quot; were investigated here by studying the phosphorylation of dopamine and adenosine 3'-5' monophosphate regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32), a dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein functionally linked to D1 receptors in striatum. Dephospho-form of DARPP-32 were measured by a back-phosphorylation assay. All assays were performed in striata from both lesioned and unlesioned sides. A significant decrease of dephospho-DARPP-32 (27%) was observed in the denervated striatum of primed rats, indicating an increased phosphorylation in vivo of DARPP-32 in response to the D1 agonist. The levels of DARPP-32 protein, as measured by quantitative immunoblotting, remained unchanged in all experimental groups. This study shows that priming is expressed as an increased transduction of the D1 receptor message.
L-Glutamate is the immediate precursor of the inhibitory transmitter GABA, and considered to be supplied from alpha-ketoglutarate through a transamination reaction or from glutamine through a glutaminase reaction. In the present study, the localization of aspartate aminotransferase and glutaminase in GABAergic neurons was investigated in the rat neocortex by a double immunofluorescence method. Immunoreactivities for both soluble and mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferases were detected in more than 90% of GABA-positive neurons, whereas glutaminase immunoreactivity was not found in GABA-positive neurons. All neocortical neurons with soluble aspartate aminotransferase immunoreactivity were immunopositive for GABA, but none for glutaminase. Neurons with mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase immunoreactivity showed either glutaminase or GABA immunoreactivity. Under confocal laser scan microscopy, immunoreactivity for soluble aspartate aminotransferase was observed in many axons and axon terminals showing immunoreactivity for glutamic acid decarboxylase, whereas immunoreactivity for mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase was seen in only a few axons displaying immunoreactivity for glutamic acid decarboxylase. The present results indicate that soluble aspartate aminotransferase is selectively localized to cell bodies and axon terminals of GABAergic non-pyramidal neurons in the cerebral neocortex. This suggests that glutamate is supplied from alpha-ketoglutarate via transamination and works as the immediate precursor for GABA in axon terminals of GABAergic neurons. The absence of glutaminase immunoreactivity in GABAergic neurons indicates that glutamine is a &quot;metabolically remote&quot; precursor for GABA. Mitochondrial aspartate aminotransferase was located in perikarya, rather than in axon terminals of GABAergic neurons, suggesting a transmitter-irrelevant role of this enzyme in neurons.
The Cl- currents activated by GABA via GABAA receptors in rat cerebellum granule cells in culture were studied by whole-cell patch-clamp. These currents were measured at various extracellular pH. The currents activated by 100 microM GABA, both the peak and the steady-state component, increase at acidic pH's and decrease at basic pH's. The transition point being at around 7.7. Interestingly, passing from pH 7.4 to 6.4 the GABA dose-response curve indicates that the increases in the peak current are related to an augmented maximal current. The increases in the steady-state component are mainly due to a higher affinity of the receptors for the neurotransmitter and disappear at saturating [GABA]. The study of the I-V curves for the GABA activated peak Cl- currents at pH 6.4, 7.4 and 8.4 reveals linearity in the latter instance. However, an outward rectification is present at the two more acidic pH's. This fact suggests that the protonation of basic amino acids at the acid pH does involve rectification of Cl- channel conductance. Overall, the data indicate that slight changes in in situ extracellular pH may have profound influences on GABAA receptor function.
Selective excitatory amino acid- and GABAB-receptor antagonists were used to examine the role these receptors play in epileptiform burst discharge elicited by blocking GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition in hippocampal slice cultures of the rat. Application of bicuculline caused a single ictal burst followed by interictal bursting. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, reduced the depolarizing envelope underlying interictal discharge, and accentuated the appearance of concomitant slow oscillatory potentials, which occurred synchronously in all CA3 cells. The non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, 6-nitro-7sulphamoyl-benzo(F) quinoxaline and 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione, blocked interictal bursting at high concentrations, and low concentrations of 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione selectively eliminated the slow oscillations in an all-or-none manner, leaving the depolarizing envelope. No effects of either metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists or of dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel agonists or antagonists on evoked interictal discharge were observed. 6-Cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione-resistant interictal-like discharge could be obtained in the presence of bicuculline when the external Mg2+ concentration was reduced from 1.5-0.5 mM. The GABAB receptor antagonist CGP 35348 prolonged individual evoked interictal bursts, and caused the appearance of spontaneous ictal-like discharges. The implications of these results are discussed with regard to the mechanisms of epileptogenesis and to potential therapeutic intervention.
As seizure propagation within limbic structures is mediated in part by a small area of deep prepiriform cortex (area tempestas), we investigated the role of area tempestas in modulating hippocampal injury induced by systemic kainate administration. Injury was quantitated by counting the numbers of neurons that stained for the 72,000 mol. wt heat shock protein and with acid-fuchsin dye. Status epilepticus induced these markers of neuronal injury in the CA1 and CA3a regions of the hippocampus, thalamus, piriform cortex and the amygdaloid complex. Microinjection of 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid, a competitive antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate subclass of the glutamate receptor, into area tempestas prior to systemic administration of kainate attenuated both heat shock protein induction and acid-fuchsin labeling in CA1 and CA3a pyramidal neurons without reducing the duration of electrographic seizures. Injections of bicuculline, a GABA antagonist, into area tempestas produced hippocampal damage when given with subcytotoxic doses of intravenous kainate. Thus, area tempestas may be a uniquely sensitive anatomical structure involved not just in seizure propagation but also in modulating the extent and pattern of damage induced in hippocampal neurons as a result of prolonged, systemically induced seizures. These effects are due in part to excitatory and inhibitory projections to neurons in area tempestas.
The functional consequences of lesions of the entorhinal cortex of rats were studied by analysing laminar distributions of stimulus induced field potentials in the dentate gyrus with a subsequent current source density analysis. Stimulation of the inner molecular layer elicits large excitatory postsynaptic potentials with small if any population spikes in the stratum granulare both in normal and lesioned animals. In lesioned animals middle molecular layer stimulation causes large excitatory sinks in the stratum moleculare without generation of population spikes in stratum granulare, while the same stimulation in slices from normal animals readily induces population spikes. The current source density analysis revealed a shift of current sinks induced by stimulation of either the inner or the middle molecular layer to common site. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor contribution to the current sink and source was found to be more prominent after middle molecular layer stimulation in comparison to inner molecular layers stimulation in the control group, while such a distinction could not be made in the lesioned group. Activation of mossy fibers did not reveal any significant differences between normal and lesioned animals. Following entorhinal cortex lesion sprouting of remaining afferents (e.g. commissural fibers) into the termination zones of the degenerated perforant path has been reported suggesting a compensatory replacement of excitatory synaptic input. However, persistent transneuronal dendritic alterations of neurons in the dentate gyrus have been observed which might result in altered dentate gyrus function. Our findings suggest that the reorganization process after entorhinal cortex lesion does not lead to full functional compensation of the lost perforant path input, resulting in an altered balance between excitation and inhibition.
Microtubule associated proteins play a central role in the control of axon growth. We have used immunohistochemical techniques to establish which microtubule-associated proteins are present in the rat hindlimb spinal cord, dorsal root ganglia and peripheral nerves during axonal growth during embryogenesis, in adulthood, and during regeneration of crushed sciatic nerves. During embryogenesis microtubule-associated protein-1b and tau are present in all neurons and axons, microtubule-associated protein-2 is present in neurons but not in axons, and there is no microtubule-associated protein-1a. In adults, microtubule-associated protein-1a and microtubule-associated protein-1b are present in all sciatic nerve axons and in motor and dorsal root ganglion neurons. Tau, in its adult form, is present in many fine probably sensory axons, but not in most larger axons, and in motor and sensory neurons. Microtubule-associated protein-2 is present only in neurons. During regeneration the pattern of microtubule-associated protein expression retains the adult pattern. All regenerating axons contain microtubule-associated protein-1a and microtubule-associated protein-1b, none contain microtubule-associated protein-2, and a subset of fine axons contain tau. There is no detectable change in microtubule-associated protein expression by motoneurons. While axons are clearly able to regenerate without either microtubule-associated protein-2 or tau, tau containing axons appear to regenerate faster than those which lack it. It is possible that the failure of neurons to recapitulate the embryonic pattern of microtubule-associated protein expression during regeneration could be a reason why regenerative axon growth is slower and less vigorous than axon growth in embryos.
Temporal lobe epilepsy in both human and rats is associated with a collateral sprouting of hippocampal mossy fibers (i.e. the axons of granule cells). This sprouting generates abnormal recurrent synaptic connections. We previously showed that in the experimental model of temporal lobe epilepsy induced by an intra-amygdaloid injection of kainate, the synaptic remodeling of mossy fibers was preceded by a transient increased expression of alpha-tubulin in granule cells. This suggests that an overproduction of tubulin polymers may be responsible, at least in part, for the elongation and side-branching of mossy fibers, which occurs 12-30 days after seizures. In the present study we show that this increased expression of alpha-tubulin is accompanied by an increased expression of the microtubule-associated proteins MAP2 and TAU. Thus, using in situ hybridization, we observe that MAP2 messenger RNA levels increased in granule cell bodies and dendrites from day 3 to two weeks after kainate treatment. This rise is associated with a concomitant transient increase of MAP2 immunoreactivity in the granule cell dendrites. TAU messenger RNA also increases in granule cell bodies, while TAU immunoreactivity increases in their axons, the mossy fibers. The time course of these changes parallels that of alpha-tubulin, and develops before and during the axonal mossy fiber sprouting. Since MAP2 and TAU are important for the initiation, elongation and stabilization of neurites, we suggest that the overexpression of these proteins via the formation of microtubules may play an important role in the sprouting of mossy fibers in epileptic rats.
Microtubule-associated protein tau is abnormally hyperphosphorylated in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease, and is the major protein subunit of paired helical filaments. There is also a significant pool of non-paired helical filament abnormally phosphorylated tau in Alzheimer's disease brain. In the present study, the site-specific dephosphorylation of this Alzheimer's disease abnormally phosphorylated tau by protein phosphatase-2A was studied and compared with that by protein phosphatase-2B. The dephosphorylation was detected by its interaction with several phosphorylation-dependent antibodies to various abnormal phosphorylation sites. Protein phosphatase-2A was able to dephosphorylate the abnormally phosphorylated tau at Ser-46, Ser-199, Ser-202, Ser-396 and Ser-404, but not at Ser-235 (the amino acids are numbered according to the largest isoform of human tau, tau441). Two major types of protein phosphatase-2A, protein phosphatase-2A1 and -2A2, dephosphorylated the abnormally phosphorylated tau at approximately the same rate. After the abnormally phosphorylated tau was dephosphorylated by protein phosphatase-2A, its relative mobility on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis increased. The dephosphorylation of the abnormal tau by protein phosphatase-2A1 and -2A2 was markedly stimulated by Mn2+. These results suggest that tau dephosphorylation is catalysed by protein phosphatase-2A in addition to protein phosphatase-2B. A deficiency of either protein phosphatase-2A or -2B, or both, may be involved in abnormal phosphorylation of tau in Alzheimer's disease.
The level of expression of somatostatin messenger RNA-containing neurons in human brain was visualized and quantified by in situ hybridization with a 35S-labelled oligonucleotide complementary to amino acids 96-111 of the preprosomatostatin complementary DNA sequence. The analysis was carried out in the frontal and parahippocampal cortices and hippocampus of six age- and post mortem delay-matched Alzheimer's disease and control brains. By northern blot analysis, in frontal cortex samples, 18S rRNA degradation was identical in control and Alzheimer brains and somatostatin messenger RNAs migrated as a single band of 1 kb. By in situ hybridization, specificity was demonstrated by abolition of the signal using either an excess of unlabelled antisense probe or using a labelled sense probe. Somatostatin messenger RNA-containing neurons displayed a similar regional and subregional distribution in control subjects and patients with Alzheimer's disease, being more abundant in the frontal cortex, followed by the hippocampus and the parahippocampal cortex. An overall reduction of labelled cell density was observed in patients with Alzheimer's disease (frontal cortex gray matter:--41%; white matter:--66%; hippocampus:--44%; parahippocampal cortex white matter:--40%). Due to a great variation between brains, this decrease only reached significance in the parahippocampal cortex (-59%, P &lt; 0.05). A significantly lower level of expression of somatostatin messenger RNA per somatostatinergic cell was observed in the hippocampus of Alzheimer's disease patients (-47%, P &lt; 0.05), but not in frontal cortex gray (-17%) and white (-36%) matter and parahippocampal cortex gray (-42%) and white (-29%) matter. These data are in accordance with the distribution of somatostatin cells as visualized by immunohistochemistry in human brain. They indicate that the ability of cortical cells to express somatostatin messenger RNA is partially preserved in Alzheimer disease brains and that the decrease in the amount of somatostatin messenger RNA per cell is restricted to the hippocampal formation.
The present study determined whether molecules normally associated with immune signalling processes, specifically the lymphokines interleukin-1 beta, -2, -3 and -6, can be detected in the human hippocampal formation, and whether their levels are altered in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Interleukin-1 beta, -2, -3 and -6 were measured in post mortem tissues from 14 control neurologically normal subjects, 24 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 17 patients with Parkinson's disease. In order to assess the extent of the cholinergic deficit in the Alzheimer's disease brains, choline acetyltransferase activity in the hippocampal formation was first determined. In the Alzheimer's disease tissues, choline acetyltransferase activity was significantly reduced (by 58%) compared to the control hippocampi, whereas that in the Parkinson's disease hippocampi was not significantly different from control. Using radioimmunoassays with antisera specific for the respective interleukin, marked increases in the content of immunoreactive interleukin-1 beta (99%), interleukin-2 (129%) and interleukin-3 (64%) could be detected in the Alzheimer's, but not the Parkinson's disease hippocampi. Interleukin-6 levels were not significantly different in either group, compared to the control hippocampi. Since striking elevations in various interleukins were detected in the Alzheimer's disease hippocampi, the possibility that concomitant alterations in interleukin receptor sites also occurred was investigated. Using radioligand binding to hippocampal membranes, low levels of interleukin binding were measured in the control hippocampi. In the Alzheimer's tissues, significant elevations in [125I]interleukin-1 beta (by 65%) and [125I]interleukin-2 (by 69%) binding were noted. In contrast, [125I]interleukin-3 binding was not different in the Alzheimer's disease compared to the control tissues. In the hippocampal formation of Parkinson's disease brains, only [125I]interleukin-2 binding was significantly increased (by 80%). In summary, the present results indicate that there is pronounced activation of immune system function, particularly specific immune mediators such as the interleukins, in the hippocampal formation in Alzheimer's disease, and further suggest that stimulation of immune function may be an integral component of the pathological changes that occur in this disease.
Neurogenesis persists in the olfactory bulbs of adult mice, with new cells being generated in the proliferative subependymal layer. Our previous work has shown that unilateral odor deprivation through naris closure leads to a net loss of granule neurons in the ipsilateral (odor-deprived) olfactory bulb, while not affecting the contralateral bulb. Here we used several experimental approaches to determine if this loss of neurons results from reduced neurogenesis, reduced neuronal survival, or both. First, bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry was used to determine the number of S-phase cells in the subependymal layer eight weeks after naris closure. Proliferation was reduced within and just caudal to the odor-deprived bulb compared to the open-side (control) bulb. Second, counts of pyknotic nuclei four weeks after naris closure were used to document a higher rate of cell death on the deprived side. Third, 3H-thymidine autoradiography was used to assess differences in granule cell survival on the two sides. Granule cell precursors were labeled by a single injection of 3H-thymidine eight weeks after naris closure, and the number of surviving labeled granule cells assessed four and 16 weeks later. Granule cell survival was significantly reduced within the odor-deprived bulbs. These data indicate that the loss of granule cells which follows odor deprivation is caused, at least in part, by reduced neurogenesis and reduced survival of these adult-generated neurons.
The serotonergic neurons of the brain stem project widely throughout the central nervous system, and the olfactory bulb is one of the major forebrain targets of the ascending serotonin pathway. According to physiological studies, neurons of the olfactory bulb were found to reduce their spontaneous discharge rates by electrophoretically applied serotonin. However, roles of the bulbar serotonin in the sense of smell remain unanswered. In the present study, using 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, a specific neurotoxin for serotonin, we found that the conditioned rats who learned to avoid a repellent by olfaction lost ability of discrimination by deafferentation of the bulbar serotonergic fibers. Such olfactory dysfunction did not occur in the early stage (three days after injection of the toxin) when the serotonergic fibers disappeared in the bulb, but developed a few weeks later. Interestingly, histological examination revealed marked shrinkage of the bulbar glomerulus which is a major termination site of the bulbopetal serotonergic fibers, and also a synaptic site of olfactory receptor cells and bulbar output neurons. The results indicate that depletion of the serotonergic fibers in the olfactory bulb causes glomerular atrophy and olfactory disturbance in the rat.
Pain arising from deep structures (muscles, joints, viscera) is the type of pain of most clinical relevance and also the type of pain about whose central representation we have the least knowledge. In contrast to cutaneous pain which evokes defensive behaviours, hypertension and tachycardia, the physiological reactions to most deep pain (especially if persistent) usually include quiescence, hypotension, bradycardia and decreased reactivity to the environment. Excitation of neurons within a discrete ventrolateral midbrain periaqueductal gray region evokes a reaction seemingly identical to that evoked by pain arising from deep structures. We report here, using the technique of the noxious stimulus-evoked expression of the immediate-early gene, c-fos, that neurons within this same ventrolateral periaqueductal gray region are selectively activated by a range of deep somatic and visceral nociceptive manipulations. Thus we have identified a specific brain region that both receives convergent, deep somatic and visceral nociceptive input, and which mediates the behavioural and physiological reactions characteristic of most deep pain.
Effects of endothelin-3 on rapid morphological changes and cytoskeletal actin organization of rat cortical cultured astrocytes were examined. In serum-free medium, treatments with 1 mM dibutyryl cAMP and 5 microM cytochalasin B, an inhibitor of actin polymerization, caused astrocytic morphological changes with cytoplasmic retraction (stellation). Concurrent addition of 1 nM endothelin-3 prevented astrocytic stellation by dibutyryl cAMP and cytochalasin B. The inhibition of endothelin-3 on the astrocytic stellation was dose-dependent, where IC50 and maximal effective dose were about 50 pM and 0.1 nM, respectively. Endothelin-1 and sarafotoxin S6b prevented the cytochalasin B-induced stellation with similar potencies to endothelin-3. Endothelin-3 reversed the stellate morphology of cytochalasin B-treated cells. Sixty minutes after addition of endothelin-3, most cytochalasin B-treated astrocytes lost their apparent distinction between cell body and processes. Treatment with dibutyryl cAMP and cytochalasin B decreased actin content in a 0.5% Triton X-100-insoluble fraction (cytoskeletal fraction) of cultured astrocytes. Subsequent treatments with endothelin-3 for 2 h restored the decreased cytoskeletal actin to that of non-treated cells. Rhodamine-phalloidin staining showed that a prominent structure of organized filamentous actin in protoplasmic astrocytes is stress fibers. The astrocytic stress fibers disappeared after treatment with dibutyryl cAMP and cytochalasin B. Endothelin-3 stimulated reorganization of stress fibers both in the dibutyryl cAMP- and the cytochalasin B-treated astrocytes. These results suggest that endothelins are extracellular signals to regulate cytoskeletal actin organization of astrocytes.
The cerebellar cortex is histologically uniform by conventional staining techniques, but contains an elaborate topography. In particular, on the efferent side the cerebellar cortex can be subdivided into multiple parasagittal compartments based upon the selective expression by Purkinje cell subsets of various molecules, for example the polypeptide antigens zebrin I and II, and on the afferent side many mossy fibers terminate as parasagittal bands of terminals. The relationships between mossy fiber terminal fields and Purkinje cell compartments are important for a full understanding of cerebellar structure and function. In this study the locations of spino- and cuneocerebellar mossy fiber terminal fields in lobules II and III of the rat cerebellum are compared to the compartmentation of the Purkinje cells as revealed by using zebrin II immunocytochemistry. Wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase was injected at three different levels in the spinal cord and in the external cuneate nucleus, and the terminal field distributions in lobules II and III of the cerebellar cortex were compared with the Purkinje cell compartmentation. In the anterior lobe, zebrin II immunocytochemistry reveals three prominent, narrow immunoreactive bands of Purkinje cells, P1+ at the midline and P2+ laterally at each side. These are separated and flanked by wide zebrin- compartments (P1- and P2-). There are also less strongly stained P3+ and P4+ bands more laterally. The spinocerebellar terminals in the granular layer are distributed as parasagittally oriented bands. Projections from the lumbar region of the spinal cord terminate in five bands, one at the midline (L1), a second with its medial border midway across P1- and its lateral border at the P2+/P2- interface (L2), and a third extending laterally from midway across P2-. The lateral edge of L3 may align with the P3+/P3- border. The terminal fields labeled by a tracer injection into the thoracic region give a very similar distribution (T1, T2 and T3). The only systematic difference is in T2, which statistical analysis suggests may be broader than L2. In contrast, anterograde tracer injections into the cervical region label synaptic glomeruli scattered throughout the lobule with much weaker or no evidence of banding. The terminal fields of the cuneocerebellar projection have a complementary distribution to those of thoracic and lumbar spinocerebellar terminals. There are two lateral bands, Cu2 and Cu3. Cu2 lies within the Purkinje cell P1-compartment, abutting L1/T1 medially and L2/T2 laterally. Cu3 lies between L2 and L3 within the P2- Purkinje cell compartment. The medial edge of Cu3 is tightly aligned with the P2+/P2- border.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Both tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibres from the mesolimbic dopamine system and amygdala projection fibres from the basolateral nucleus are known to terminate heavily in the nucleus accumbens. Caudal amygdala fibres travelling dorsally via the stria terminalis project densely to the nucleus accumbens shell, especially in the dopamine rich septal hook. The amygdala has been associated with the recognition of emotionally relevant stimuli while the mesolimbic dopamine system is implicated with reward mechanisms. There is behavioural and electrophysiological evidence that the amygdala input to the nucleus accumbens is modulated by the mesolimbic dopamine input, but it is not known how these pathways interact anatomically within the nucleus accumbens. Using a variety of neuroanatomical techniques including anterograde and retrograde tracing, immunocytochemistry and intracellular filling, we have demonstrated convergence of these inputs on to medium-sized spiny neurons. The terminals of the basolateral amygdala projection make asymmetrical synapses predominantly on the heads of spines which also receive on their necks or adjacent dendrites, symmetrical synaptic input from the mesolimbic dopamine system. Some of these neurons have also been identified as projection neurons, possibly to the ventral pallidum. We have shown a synaptic level how dopamine is positioned to modulate excitatory limbic input in the nucleus accumbens.
Nitric oxide appears to mediate the immune functions of macrophages, the influence of endothelial cells on blood vessel relaxation, and also to serve as a neurotransmitter in the central and peripheral nervous system. Macrophage nitric oxide synthase is inducible with massive increases in new nitric oxide synthase protein synthesis following immune stimulation of macrophages. By contrast, endothelial nitric oxide synthase and neuronal nitric oxide synthase are thought to be constitutive with activation induced by calcium entry into cells in the absence of new protein synthesis. Developmental studies showing the transient expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase in embryonic and early postnatal life in rodent spinal motoneurons and cerebral cortical plate neurons (Bredt and Snyder, unpublished observations) implies inducibility of neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Moreover, neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression is greatly enhanced in sensory ganglia following peripheral axotomy. Staining for NADPH diaphorase in spinal motoneurons is greatly increased following ventral root avulsion. In many parts of the Central Nervous System NADPH diaphorase staining reflects nitric oxide synthase. In the present study, we have combined in situ hybridization for neuronal nitric oxide synthase, immunohistochemical staining of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, and NADPH diaphorase staining to establish that neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression is markedly augmented in spinal motoneurons following avulsion. The generality of this effect is evident from augmented staining in nucleus dorsalis following spinal cord transection.
The distribution of NADPH-diaphorase activity in the pancreatic neurons of neonatal, adult and aging rats was investigated using histochemistry. In the neonates, only 40% of the neuronal population showed NADPH-diaphorase labelling, and there was variation in the intensity of labelling ranging from light to heavy staining. In the young and mature adults, 95% of the neurons were labelled for NADPH-diaphorase activity, with most of the neurons being heavily labelled for the enzyme in the older animals. Immediately after birth, the pancreatic neurons found were small clusters of smaller sized cells compared with those observed in the mature adults. Their number reached the adult level by the third month after birth; this was maintained throughout the mature adult phase and subsequently decreased in the aging rats.
NADPH-diaphorase histochemical staining demonstrated a distinct neural group that might synthesize nitric oxide in the lower brainstem of rats. The NADPH-diaphorase stain revealed a Golgi-like network in the dorsomedial spinal trigeminal nucleus oralis and rostrolateral solitary tract nucleus, whereas this network was more dense in the latter nucleus. The distribution of NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons in these areas overlapped with parts of central terminations from the chorda tympani nerve, as demonstrated with transganglionic transport of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated horseradish peroxidase. The number of NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons changed after chorda tympani nerve lesion relative to the contralateral side. The control value (%) was 106.0 +/- 4.9 (mean +/- S.E.M.). One hour after the nerve lesion, the value increased to 115.2 +/- 9.1 (P &gt; 0.05). It then decreased to 83.9 +/- 5.2 two days after the lesion (P &lt; 0.05), and remained at this reduced level for one or two weeks, 83.2 +/- 3.0 (P &lt; 0.01) and 83.7 +/- 2.3 (P &lt; 0.01), respectively. This statistically significant reduction recovered to control level 103.4 +/- 2.9 four weeks after the lesion. These results show that NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons in the lower brainstem could be regulated trans-synaptically by primary afferents, possibly gustatory inputs.
The nucleus accumbens is a major component of the ventral striatum through which most of the limbic affiliated cortical areas gain access to the basal ganglia circuitry. In this study, the organization of the pathways linking the nucleus accumbens to the thalamus, via the substantia nigra pars reticulata, was examined in the rat using anatomical and electrophysiological methods. Use of anterograde and retrograde transport of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase has established that the core of the nucleus accumbens innervates a dorsal region of the substantia nigra pars reticulata which projects to subfields of the mediodorsal and ventral medial thalamic nuclei. These subfields consist of the rostral pole of the mediodorsal nucleus with the exception of its central segment and a region of the ventral medial nucleus, medial to the mammillothalamic tract. Confirming the existence of a nucleus accumbens nigrothalamic link, we have observed that electrical or chemical stimulation of the nucleus accumbens induces an inhibition of the spontaneous discharges of the nigral cells which project to the mediodorsal and ventral medial thalamic nuclei. Finally, the cortical projections of the thalamic subfields involved in the nucleus accumbens nigrothalamic circuit were determined using the anterograde and retrograde axonal transport of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase. These subfields innervate mainly the prelimbic and to a lesser degree the orbital areas of the prefrontal cortex. The present data show that the substantia nigra pars reticulata is a major link between the core of the nucleus accumbens and the prefrontal cortex and provide further evidence for the concept of a parallel architecture in the basal ganglia thalamocortical circuits of the ventral striatum.
Sixty-four patients with Takayasu arteritis, 204 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 53 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and 64 patients with mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) in the Japanese population were typed for HLA class II genes at DNA level. The results suggest that susceptibility to Takayasu arteritis is controlled by HLA-B52-DRB1*1502-DRB5*0102-DQA1*0103-DQB1 *0601-DPA1*02-DPB1*0401 haplotype, because the frequency of that HLA haplotype was increased with statistical significance in the patients as compared with that in the healthy controls. On the other hand, the HLA-DRB1*0405-DQA1*0301-DQB1*0401 haplotype was associated with the susceptibility to RA. Susceptibility to SLE and MCTD are controlled by the HLA-DRB1 *1501-DRB5*0101-DQA1*0102-DQB1*0602 haplotype and the HLA-DRB1*0401-DRB4*0101- DQA1*0301-DQB1*0301, haplotype respectively. These observations clearly indicate the presence of HLA-linked disease susceptibility genes to Takayasu arteritis, RA, SLE and MCTD, and the difference in HLA-linked genetic background between these four diseases.

Motor program updating was studied by asking 2 subjects to modify the accent pattern of rapid finger-tapping sequences during execution. The tap to be accentuated was changed unpredictably in one-third of the trials; on these trials the signal indicating the new accent position was delivered upon the onset of the first tap. The probability of placing the new accent correctly increased when the tap to be accentuated was shifted towards the end of the sequence. The probability of cancelling the initially prepared accent showed a similar pattern. Successful updating of the accent pattern could be achieved without any mistiming of the successive taps. These findings are taken to indicate the existence of a temporal overlap between the execution of the initial part of the sequence and the programming of the later part.
Motor apraxia was assessed in 25 patients with presumed dementia of the Alzheimer type and 23 patients with presumed multi-infarct dementia. Apraxia was common in both groups and was usually only mild. It correlated most strongly with language-related impairments in the Alzheimer group, as has been found in other patient groups, whereas in the group with multi-infarct dementia the pattern of correlations was less clear. It was not strongly related to performance on tests involving constructional praxis or to age in either group. Implications of the findings for clinical assessment are noted.
An antagonist, 21-009, with high affinity for 5-HT1B receptors and some for beta-adrenergic receptors, induces amnesia in the domestic chick when given centrally before training, using a one-trial passive avoidance task. Nonspecific behavioral effects, or effects upon performance at test, almost certainly do not cause the observed amnesia. The 5-HT2 antagonist ketanserin and the 5-HT3 antagonist ICS 205-930, did not have any effects when given before training at the same dose as that at which 21-009 was effective. The unusual pattern of action of 21-009 (sensitivity only at, or around the time of learning, combined with very delayed memory loss) resembles that of certain beta-antagonists, but not others. The results are discussed in terms of both direct action on 5-HT systems involved in memory formation and possible interactions between 5-HT and beta-adrenergic systems.
The effects of excitotoxic damage to both the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) and the ventral hippocampus (VH) on behaviors related to mesolimbic/nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) transmission were investigated in the rat. Locomotor activity in a novel environment, after injection of saline, and after d-amphetamine was assessed 2 and 4 weeks after ibotenic acid lesion of both MPFC and VH in adult rats. In addition, stereotypic behaviors and locomotion after apomorphine were evaluated 8 weeks after the lesion. Locomotor activity was significantly enhanced in all testing conditions in lesioned rats as compared with sham-operated animals, while oral stereotypic behaviors elicited by apomorphine were attenuated possibly because they were eclipsed by excessive locomotion. These data indicate that coexisting lesions of the MPFC and VH in adult rats produce potent and long-lasting effects on behaviors believed to be dependent primarily on the mesolimbic DA system. The profile of changes resembles more closely that observed after excitotoxic lesions of the VH alone rather than that after separate MPFC lesion.
The vomeronasal organs, the receptor organs of the accessory olfactory system, are important in chemical communication. Each organ contains receptor neurons sequestered inside a blind-ending tube with a narrow access duct. Large blood vessels surrounding the vomeronasal lumen act as a pump to draw substances into the lumen, under the control of vasomotor fibers in the nasopalatine nerve. Stimulation of the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion or nasopalatine nerve operates the pump (24) but its schedule of activation in awake behaving animals is unknown. Electrodes, implanted inside the vomeronasal organ capsule of male hamsters, recorded changes in electrical properties accompanying vomeronasal pump activation. Recorded signals were validated by anesthetizing the animals and recording from the same electrodes while driving the pump by nasopalatine nerve stimulation. Recordings in awake behaving animals show that the pump does not operate only in situations where the vomeronasal organ is known to be important. It appears to operate in response to any novel situation where the animal's attention is attracted. The signals recorded suggest that blood vessels are constricted repetitively by bursts of activity in the vasomotor sympathetic nerves each time the pump is triggered, while the underlying level of arousal is reflected in the ongoing sympathetic tone. The low selectivity in operation of the pump may require a greater degree of selectivity in the receptors than previously thought. The ready activation of the pump also suggests that the vomeronasal system may have other functions than the communication of reproductive events.
The effect of horizontal rotation of male rats (70 rpm) on core temperature and spontaneous motor activity levels was examined. In Experiment 1, subjects were chemically labyrinthectomized (VNX) by intratympanic (IT) injections of sodium arsanilate and control rats (VNS) received IT injections of saline. Half of the rats in each group were subsequently rotated and the other half sham rotated. Measurement of body temperature prior to, immediately after, and 20 min following rotation revealed significant (all p &lt; 0.01) reductions in temperature immediately after treatment, and 20 min later, in VNS rats. Sham-rotated VNS and all VNX rats failed to exhibit any significant changes in temperature following treatment. In Experiment 2, motor activity level was monitored in chemically labyrinthectomized (VNX) and control (VNS) rats prior to, and following, horizontal rotation. The VNS rats exhibited large (all p &lt; 0.01) depressions in measures of horizontal and vertical spontaneous motor activity following rotation treatment, whereas VNX rats exhibited similar levels of activity in the pre- and postrotation period. These experiments show that, as in humans, exposing rats to horizontal rotation results in reduction of body temperature and motor activity, and that these physiological and behavioral changes require a functional vestibular system.
Multivariate analyses between conditioned taste aversion (CTA) and radial maze acquisition (RMA) scores and percentages of neuronal dropout within thalamic and telencephalic structures were completed for rats in which overt seizures had been evoked following a single systemic injection of lithium/pilocarpine. Despite multifocal damage, only the amount of damage within the hippocampus (CA1) and the basolateral amygdala was most strongly associated with attenuated CTA, whereas damage within the mediodorsal thalamus was primarily associated with RMA. There was no significant correlation between CTA or RMA. Multiple regression analyses for specific Paxinos and Watson structures and their traditional aggregates supported more precise delineation of neuronal substrates of learning/memory and a multimodal (parallel) model for these processes.

A specialization in nursing seems to be a preoccupation of several professional as a means to improve the professional practical. Specifically, the neuroscience nursing expression makes thought in a possible area which the nurses could develop and specialize themselves. The present report shows some enlightenment on what neuroscience nursing is, the actuation possibilities for the nurses and what could be developed in a specialization course, based in american literature.
Permanent parkinsonism was observed in a man with chronic exposure to the fungicide maneb (manganese ethylene-bis-dithiocarbamate). Symptoms developed at 37 years of age, two years after exposure had ceased. To our knowledge, this is the second report on parkinsonism associated with exposure to maneb. Manganese is a well-known parkinsonigen toxin in humans. More recently, it has been shown that dithiocarbamates can also induce extrapyramidal syndromes. The biochemical effects of manganese and dithiocarbamates are reviewed and their possible neurotoxic mechanisms are discussed. Both of these components may have played a role in this case.
The success of the neurosciences in opening pathways to the understanding of psychotic disorders has led to enormous optimism about solutions to the mysteries of these illnesses. Yet the Holy Grail for this field--the discovery linkage between a chromosomal locus that is linked to a diseased gene--has thus far eluded us, whereas it has been grasped in such disorders as cystic fibrosis, Huntington's disease, and neurofibromatosis. This paper argues that those biological studies that bypass the psychological domain, and have directly attempted to find biochemical measures associated with schizophrenia, probably will not succeed. Seeking direct links from such molar behaviors as psychotic symptoms to molecular events has not worked in the past, and is not likely to work in the future. The approach recommended here focuses on working one's way from the behavioral through the psychological and psychophysiological levels toward the neural, biochemical and molecular levels. Psychology has much strength to contribute in the search for traits that broaden the phenotype of schizophrenia. Examples are given in the study of eye movement abnormalities as aids in the genetic exploration of schizophrenia.
Children with the fetal alcohol syndrome often have ocular anomalies. These include abnormalities of the eyes and adnexa (strabismus, blepharoptosis, epicanthus), as well as intraocular defects (cataract, glaucoma, persistent hyperplastic primary vitreous, retinal and optic nerve anomalies). Based on the clinical results in an ophthalmological study of a group of Swedish children with the fetal alcohol syndrome, in which optic nerve hypoplasia was found in up to one-half of the group, an experimental study was designed in rats pre- and perinatally exposed to alcohol by means of a liquid diet. The optic nerve was seriously affected. Macroglial cells and optic axons were ultrastructurally damaged. The diameter of the optic nerve cross section, glial cell nuclear area, axonal diameter, and the total number of optic axons showed significantly lower values in the alcohol-exposed group than in the controls. In addition, the retina from the alcohol-exposed animals displayed significantly lower values of the retinal thickness and ganglion cell nuclear volume, as compared to the controls. Thus, rats exposed to alcohol in utero developed hypoplasia of the optic nerve similar to the findings in children born to alcoholic mothers. This strongly supports the hypothesis that prenatal alcohol exposure may adversely affect the development of the optic nerve.
A combination of pharmacological, histochemical, immunocytochemical, neurochemical and microscopic techniques has been used to test the hypothesis that smooth muscle contractions caused by palytoxin are primarily a response to toxin-induced release of transmitter from motor nerve terminals. In the anococcygeus, palytoxin caused a dose-dependent contraction; the dose-response curve was particularly steep in the dose range 0.3-100 nM. This part of the response was abolished by phentolamine and absent in the muscles of reserpinized animals. A single, large dose of palytoxin (100 nM) caused a biphasic contraction. Phentolamine blocked the first phase by 50% and the second by &gt; 80%. Transmitter overflow studies showed that the toxin enhanced the release of 3H after loading with 3H-NA, and immunofluorescence showed the loss of adrenergic transmitters from the innervation. In the vas deferens, palytoxin caused a biphasic contraction of the muscle. Phentolamine blocked first phase by &gt; 80% and the second by 47%. Immunofluorescence studies showed that stores of adrenergic transmitter were depleted but stores of NPY were not greatly affected. Indirect evidence suggested that palytoxin did not cause the release of purinergic transmitters. A direct component to the contraction was apparently present in most preparations, but though variable in extent it was usually slight. It is concluded that the contractions of smooth muscle caused by palytoxin are primarily the result of toxin-induced transmitter release.
Recognizing that osmotic pressure is a principal factor controlling antidiuresis, Verney introduced the term 'osmoreceptor' to designate the mysterious cerebral structures that regulate vasopressin release from the posterior pituitary. While hormone secretion from the neurohypophysis is influenced by synaptic inputs from other osmoresponsive neurons, magnocellular neurosecretory cells currently provide our most comprehensive model of signal detection in an osmoreceptor.
Originally identified and defined as a concept in industrial and business communities, technology transfer is now being recognized as an important factor within the scientific research community. A recent study undertaken within the field of UK invertebrate neuroscience research generates several interesting conclusions. In this article, Huw A. Edwards and Elizabeth R.J. Bell discuss the study and its conclusions of a need for increased post-doctoral research mobility, the formation of consortia of research laboratories to apply for funding on an international scale, and the increased interest of the pharmaceutical industry in molecular and cellular techniques developed from fundamental invertebrate research.
The number of neuroscientists in Europe is large enough to match that of the neuroscientific community in North America. However, the degree of cohesiveness in the former is hampered by, among other things, the lack of a common language, the existence of geopolitical boundaries, and the dearth of pan-European funding initiatives. In this article, Wolf Singer, President of the European Neuroscience Association (ENA), discusses these issues and describes how the ENA is changing its organization, in particular the way in which its annual meeting is to be organized, in an effort to counteract the current deficiencies in European neuroscience.
In recent years, studies have suggested that the complexity of eukaryotic gene regulation, with its recurring and interacting motifs of cis and trans-acting regulatory elements, might result in superfluous gene expression. This conclusion is supported by a variety of experimental results that suggest that non-adaptive gene expression might be common. However, with few exceptions, the practical ramifications of unnecessary gene expression for cell biologists have not been addressed directly; this is particularly true for peptidergic neurophysiology, a field that might be plagued more than most with the consequences of this phenomenon. In this article, Chauncey W. Bowers discusses the superfluous expression of neuropeptides in the nervous system in the context of gene regulation extrapolated from studies in Drosophila.
We describe a new technique for stereoscopic observation in transmission electron microscopy, employing tilted illumination. A triple-hole objective aperture is used so that the bright beam can pass through with or without tilt. Stereo views can be acquired by tilting the illumination such that the bright beam passes through a pair of symmetrically arranged apertures alternately. The advantages of this technique as compared to the commonly used method of single-axis tilt are: (i) greater speed, potentially at or close to video rate so that live 3D observation is possible; (ii) elimination of specimen movement associated with stage tilt; and (iii) perspective views corresponding to multiple tilting axes which can be realized by installing more aperture-holes and choosing their positions properly. The main limitation is that the angle of tilt is limited by the extent to which the astigmatism, introduced by beam tilt, can be compensated by the objective lens stigmators.

It has been shown in numerous studies that memory testing can alter presynaptic cholinergic activity within the hippocampus. In the present experiments, the role of the noradrenergic input to the septal cholinergic neurons in the immediate increase in cholinergic activity induced by the first training session of a spatial reference memory task in an 8-arm radial maze was investigated. The effects of bilateral intraseptal injections of noradrenergic drugs on hippocampal sodium-dependent-high-affinity-choline-uptake (SDHACU) were studied in 'resting' animals (basal level) or in 'trained' animals injected 20 min before training and sacrificed immediately after the test. The results showed that: (1) the injection of maprotiline, a noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (0.06 ng/site), induced an increase in hippocampal SDHACU in 'resting' animals, whereas the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist UK 14304 (1.5 ng) significantly reduced the basal level of SDHACU; (2) none of the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonists used (phenoxybenzamine, 10 and 100 ng; BE 2254, 100 and 500 ng; yohimbine, 0.5 and 50 ng) significantly affected the basal level of hippocampal SDHACU, and only the alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist BE 2254 (500 ng) significantly reduced the testing-induced activation of SDHACU. Taken together, these findings suggest that noradrenaline may exert a bimodal regulatory influence on the activity of septo-hippocampal cholinergic neurons. The behavior-induced activation of hippocampal SDHACU could be partly mediated by the stimulation of alpha 1-adrenoceptors, whereas postsynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptors may be important for the maintenance of a tonic inhibition of the steady-state cholinergic activity in the hippocampus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The so called &quot;potentially lost life years&quot; of a population are mostly due to unfavourable lifestyle and lack of health orientation. This could be shown e.g. in view of job-stressors and their consequences for cardio-vascular disease. As important the single risk factor may be, as limited is their impact when we look at the amount of explained variance, mostly only around 10%. On the other hand each examined population includes a larger amount of individuals who will not fall ill in spite of identical stressors as those getting sick. This ability to resist, based on special interior and exterior resources, is now called salutogenesis. It stands opposite to the term pathogenesis. More recent research in that area examines favourable exterior resources such as structures in &quot;social support&quot;, favourable conditions at the work-place, in the family and so on. Other more personality oriented abilities include optimism, hardiness, etc. The founder of the theory on salutogenesis, Aaron Antonovsky, describes a concept of &quot;sense of coherence&quot; including (1.) comprehensibility, (2.) manageability, (3.) meaningfulness. More recent therapeutic concepts are based on these assumptions and have proved to be successful.
A series of benzisoxazole- and benzisothiazole-3-carboxamides has been prepared and tested for potential antipsychotic activity. In general, the compounds showed an affinity for dopamine D2 and serotonin 5HT2A and 5HT1A receptors. Several members of this series have demonstrated activity in animal models predictive of potential antipsychotic activity. In addition, compounds 18, 19, 22, 27, 28, 43, and 44 have also shown a potential for reduced EPS liability as suggested by the ratio of activity seen in mesolimbic-mediated vs nigrostriatal-mediated behavioral assays.
The cerebrovascular actions of bosentan, a novel endothelin antagonist with effects at endothelin ETA and ETB receptors, have been examined in individual pial arterioles on the cortical surface of chloralose-anaesthetised cats. Subarachnoid perivascular microapplication of bosentan (0.3-300 microM) had minimal effect on pial arteriolar calibre. Subarachnoid perivascular microapplication of endothelin (10 nM) effected a marked reduction in pial arteriolar calibre (reduced by 39.2 +/- 2.7% from baseline). This vasomotor effect of topical endothelin could be attenuated either by co-administration of bosentan (IC50 approximately 1 microM) or by the intravenous administration of bosentan (17 mumol/kg). These investigations suggest that bosentan (applied topically or systemically) may be a valuable tool in the elucidation of the functional significance of endothelins in the cerebral circulation in vivo.
Following axotomy of the sciatic nerve in the neonatal rat, there is loss of almost half of the sensory neurones of the lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and a similar number of spinal motoneurones. Consistent with effects in vitro, the neurotrophins BDNF and NT-3 have previously been shown to afford partial rescue of motoneurones at 1 week following axotomy. Using stereological quantitative methods we show here that at the longer time point of 3 weeks, local application of BDNF or NT-3 to the proximal stump of a lesioned sciatic nerve failed to rescue motoneurones (44% and 51% loss, respectively), but provided almost complete rescue of the loss of 41% of DRG neurones seen in L4 and L5 of vehicle-treated control animals.
Recent theoretical studies have proposed that the vestibular commissure is a major component of the horizontal gaze-holding system. In order to test this hypothesis, we injected either bicuculline, a GABA receptor antagonist, or strychnine, a glycine receptor antagonist, into the medial vestibular nucleus of alert cats. The intervestibular connection is indeed inhibitory and mediated by GABA and glycine. As neither bicuculline nor strychnine caused serious deficit of the gaze-holding system, we conclude that the vestibular commissure is not essential for gaze-holding.
Nitric oxide (NO), a short-lived, highly diffusible free radical, is a messenger molecule produced through the conversion of arginine to citrulline by NO synthase (NOS). In the CNS, NO functions as an important neuromodulator. We now report that cerebellar granule cells in culture express the constitutive form of NOS (cNOS). The expression is demonstrated both at the level of RNA, by RNA-specific reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and of protein, by immunostaining and by enzymatic activity. Cerebellar granule cells can thus serve as a tool to study the regulation of expression and activity of cNOS in a defined environment.
Treatment of rat superior cervical ganglion cells in culture for 4 days with an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide corresponding to a partial sequence of the mRNA coding the m1 muscarinic receptor decreased m1 receptor mRNA by 64% without affecting m2 receptor mRNA. [3H]Pirenzepine binding to M1 receptors was decreased by 43%. Intraventricular infusion of this antisense oligodeoxynucleotide reduced muscarinic receptor density in M1 but not M2 receptor-rich brain regions.
In the embryonic zebrafish retina, as in other vertebrates, retinoic acid is synthesized from retinaldehyde by two different dehydrogenases, one localized dorsally, the other primarily ventrally. Early in eye development only the ventral enzyme is present. Citral competitively inhibits the ventral enzyme in vitro and decreases the production of retinoic acid in the ventral retina in vivo. Treatment of neurula-stage zebrafish embryos with citral during the formation of the eye primordia results in eyes lacking a ventral retina. This defect can be partially rescued by retinoic acid. The results demonstrate that synthesis of retinoic acid can be selectively inhibited in vivo and suggest that retinoic acid is necessary for the proper development of the ventral retina.
The embryonic spinal cord is known to be rich in retinoic acid, and several indirect lines of evidence point to a dorsoventral concentration difference of this compound. Previous measurements of dorsoventral retinoic acid levels, however, showed only minor differences. By a combination of microdissection and bioassay techniques, we compared retinoic acid levels with retinaldehyde dehydrogenase levels along spinal cords from early embryonic to postnatal mice. Both parameters vary in parallel, indicating that the principal reason for regional retinoic acid differences in the developing spinal cord is different levels of retinoic acid-generating enzyme. Consistent with previous reports, we observed overall quite high synthesis, decreasing with age, and no dorsoventral difference throughout much of the spinal cord length. In two locations, however, ventral synthesis exceeds dorsal synthesis by several orders of magnitude. These hot spots colocalize with the origins of the limb innervations. They are highest during early stages of limb innervation and disappear slowly postnatally. The synthesis hot spots are likely to create local retinoic acid diffusion halos, which may influence the survival of neurons in the limb regions of the spinal cord and which probably promote innervation of the developing limbs.
The calcium binding proteins parvalbumin and calbindin-D28k were localized immunocytochemically within the lateral geniculate nucleus of adult monkeys at 1-7 months after monocular enucleation. Within the deafferented magno- and parvocellular layers, parvalbumin and calbindin-D28k immunoreactive fibers were depleted at all post-enucleation times. The neuronal staining for parvalbumin was similar in numerical density and intensity between the deafferented and intact layers. In hemispheres examined at 5 and 7 months post-enucleation, parvalbumin-immunoreactive fibers were also lost within the deprived ocular dominance bands in layers IVA, IVC and VI of the visual cortex, suggesting that cellular expression or axonal transport of parvalbumin may be decreased in the deafferented geniculate laminae. While the intact magno- and parvocellular layers contained very few neurons that were immunoreactive for calbindin-D28k, the density of calbindin-D28k-positive neurons increased in these layers after deafferentation. The counts of calbindin-D28k and parvalbumin immunostained neurons were not statistically different at 4-7 months post-enucleation. Because virtually all magno- and parvocellular projection neurons express parvalbumin, many parvalbumin neurons that normally do not contain calbindin-D28k may co-express this in response to injury. The findings suggest that long-term deafferentation imposes additional calcium buffering requirements on lateral geniculate neurons.
The effects of the selective non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK801) and the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGS19755 upon local blood flow (lCBF) and local glucose utilisation (lCGU) were examined in 81 neuroanatomically discrete regions of the conscious rat brain using the [14C]iodoantipyrine and [14C]2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiographic techniques, respectively. Animals received dizocilpine (0.3 mg/kg), CGS19755 (30 mg/kg) or saline vehicle (2 ml/kg) 10 min prior to the initiation of lCGU studies while blood flow determinations were performed in parallel groups of animals 20 min after drug administration. Dizocilpine significantly increased lCGU in 33 of the 81 regions measured (most notably in cortical and subcortical limbic structures and in the basal ganglia) while reducing glucose use in seven brain areas (frontoparietal and somatosensory cortex, and in areas subserving auditory function). In contrast, CGS19755 significantly reduced lCGU use in 39 of the 81 areas examined while increases were observed in only three areas (anterior piriform cortex, substantia nigra pars reticulata, and posterior thalamic nucleus). Following Dizocilpine administration, there was evidence of widespread (64 of the 81 areas studied) increases in lCBF, while blood flow was reduced in the inferior colliculus. Significant increases in lCBF were also noted in 26 brain areas of CGS19755-treated rats while in one area (flocculus) blood flow was reduced. In saline-treated rats there was a close correlation between lCBF and lCGU. Dizocilpine administration was associated with an increase in the overall lCBF:lCGU ratio from 1.56 ml/mumol (in saline-treated rats) to 2.34 ml/mumol. In some brain areas (CA1 subfield of the dorsal hippocampus, somatosensory cortex and nucleus accumbens) there was evidence of focal disturbances in flow-metabolism relationship. While a similar increase in the overall lCBF-lCGU use ratio was evident in CGS19755 treated animals, there was no evidence of focal uncoupling of the flow metabolism relationship in any of the 81 brain areas examined. These data show that whilst both competitive and non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists increased cerebral tissue perfusion beyond that required to meet underlying metabolic demand, focal disturbances in the flow metabolism relationship were observed only in dizocilpine-treated rats.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the anterior hypothalamus is implicated in the temporal organization of circadian rhythms in a variety of physiological, endocrine and behavioral processes. There is a great deal of evidence indicating that aging is characterized by a progressive deterioration of circadian timekeeping. The present study was aimed at investigating whether there are age-related changes in circadian rhythmicity of the vasopressin (VP)-producing neurons in the human SCN. To that end brains obtained at autopsy of 39 subjects, ranging in age from 6 to 91 years, were studied. Subjects were divided into two age groups, viz. 'young subjects' (up to 50 years) and 'elderly subjects' (over 50 years). It is shown that the number of VP-immunoreactive neurons in the human SCN exhibits a marked diurnal oscillation in young, but not in elderly, people. Whereas in young subjects low VP-immunoreactive neuron numbers were found during the night period (22:00-06:00 h) and peak values during the early morning (06:00-10:00 h), the SCN of elderly people showed a reduced amplitude and a tendency for a reversed diurnal pattern with high instead of low values during the night. The findings suggest that the VP synthesis of the human SCN exhibits a circadian rhythm that is disrupted later in life.
We recently demonstrated that reactive astrocytes express NADPH diaphorase activity, a marker for Nitric Oxide Synthase, following transient global ischemia (Neuroscience Letters 154: 125-128). There has been little evidence that astrocytes express Nitric Oxide Synthase or produce NO (nitric oxide) in vivo; although in vitro experiments have shown that cultured astrocytes can produce NO. To determine whether reactive astrocytes express inducible form of NOS (iNOS) in vivo, we studied the pathological changes of rat hippocampus by immunohistochemistry after 10 minutes of transient global ischemia, which results in the selective delayed death of CA1 pyramidal cells and marked gliosis in the CA1 subfield. In the normal hippocampus, astrocytes express neither NADPH diaphorase activity nor iNOS. After ischemia, the temporal and spatial pattern of iNOS, NADPH diaphorase, and GFAP are very similar, indicating that reactive astrocytes express iNOS. Double staining for NADPH diaphorase and GFAP, or iNOS and GFAP confirmed that reactive astrocytes express both NADPH diaphorase activity and iNOS immunoreactivity. These changes were observed three day after ischemia and increased in prominence from one week to one month. The staining pattern of OX42, an antibody that recognizes both microglia and macrophages, is spatially and temporally distinct from the pattern of NADPH diaphorase and iNOS staining. Thus, we conclude that transient global ischemia induces iNOS primarily in reactive astrocytes. This increase in NOS expression and, presumably, NO production by reactive astrocytes may play a role in the process of delayed neuronal death or in the remodeling responses that occur after ischemic damage.
Several recent studies have suggested a critical role for nitric oxide (NO) production in hippocampal LTP and LTD. In this study we show that normal LTP and LTD can be induced in rat hippocampal slices incubated in the NO synthase inhibitor L-NG-nitroarginine (NOArg) (100 microM). A test of NMDA-stimulated cGMP production demonstrated that incubation of slices in 100 microM NOArg effectively inhibited NO synthase. Our results suggest that NO synthase activity may not be required for the generation of LTP or LTD in CA1 of rat hippocampus.
Gangliosides are major components of nerve cell membranes and are especially rich in synaptic areas. In order to evaluate the role of endogenous gangliosides in synapse formation, endoglycoceramidase (EGCase) was used to remove oligosaccharides of gangliosides from the cell surface. We have reported previously that synapse formation between cultured rat cerebral cortical neurons can be estimated by the synchronous oscillation of synaptic activity monitored by fura-2 calcium imaging. Continuous application of endoglycoceramidase (EGCase) together with its activator protein dose-dependently decreased the frequency of synchronous oscillations without any morphological changes in neurons and their neurites. The result suggests that oligosaccharides liberated from glycosphingolipids on cultured cortical cell surface with EGCase are important for synapse formation between cortical neurons.
Neuron-specific enolase (NSE), one of the glycolytic enzymes, is a gamma gamma-isozyme of enolase that is specifically expressed in neurons. Our previous studies demonstrated that NSE promotes survival of rat embryonic neocortical neurons in culture but that the alpha alpha-isozyme (non-neuronal enolase; NNE) has no effect. In this study, we found that a synthetic peptide corresponding to the C-terminal portion of NSE (404-433) also promotes the survival of neocortical neurons. By contrast, a synthetic peptide of the C-terminal portion of NNE (404-433) has no effect on neuronal survival. These findings would be important for further analysis of the neurotrophic mechanism of NSE.
To investigate the role of myotonin-protein kinase (MT-PK) in the pathophysiology of myotonic dystrophy (DM), we developed specific antibodies against synthetic MT-PK peptides. The antibody identified a 53kDa protein in skeletal muscle and recognized decreases in the amount of the protein in both adult and congenital DM patients, compared with amounts in controls and in patients with other muscle diseases. In cardiac muscle, this antibody identified a 62kDa protein, and in brain, both the 53 and 62kDa proteins were detected. These results suggest the presence of tissue-specific isoforms of MT-PK.

The morphological and behavioral effects of neonatal electrothermal lesions of the mediodorsal thalamus on the development of the prefrontal cortex were studied. Lesions of the mediodorsal nucleus (MDT), inflicted on the day of birth, caused no significant changes in prefrontal architecture on day 35. On the other hand, a significant decrease in cortical width (4.7-7.7%) was observed at some places within the lateral and supragenual parts of the prefrontal cortex. However, these local decreases in cortical width were not reflected by a significant decrease of the total volume of the particular prefrontal subareas. In adulthood, rats with neonatal MDT lesions were exposed to an operant delayed alternation task, which is known to depend upon the integrity of the prefrontal cortex, in order to investigate the behavioral consequences of the lesions for prefrontal functioning. The lesions did not impair the rats abilities to learn the spatial delayed alternation task. Neonatally lesioned and control rats scored equally. Given the relatively mild effects of MDT lesioning, thalamic fibers do not seem to play a crucial role, at least not during the postnatal period of prefrontal cortical development. It is discussed whether or not this is a specific characteristic of agranular association cortex, in which the termination of thalamic and cortical afferents overlap in layer III.
The immunosuppressants rapamycin and FK506 bind to the same intracellular protein, the immunophilin FKBP12. The FKB12-FK506 complex interacts with and inhibits the Ca(2+)-activated protein phosphatase calcineurin. The target of the FKBP12-rapamycin complex has not yet been identified. We report that a protein complex containing 245 kDa and 35 kDa components, designated rapamycin and FKBP12 targets 1 and 2 (RAFT1 and RAFT2), interacts with FKBP12 in a rapamycin-dependent manner. Sequences (330 amino acids total) of tryptic peptides derived from the 245 kDa RAFT1 reveal striking homologies to the yeast TOR gene products, which were originally identified by mutations that confer rapamycin resistance in yeast. A RAFT1 cDNA was obtained and found to encode a 289 kDa protein (2549 amino acids) that is 43% and 39% identical to TOR2 and TOR1, respectively. We propose that RAFT1 is the direct target of FKBP12-rapamycin and a mammalian homolog of the TOR proteins.
Synapsin II is an abundant peripheral membrane protein of synaptic vesicles that is expressed exclusively in neuronal cells. Here we report the isolation and characterization of the 5'-terminal region of the murine synapsin II gene. Primer extension and S1 nuclease protection analysis show that synapsin II gene transcription is initiated from a unique site. The synapsin II gene promoter contains no canonical TATA or CAAT boxes but has putative binding sites for the transcription factors Sp1, AP2, and NGFIA. This promoter is embedded in a large G+C-rich domain with characteristics of a CpG island. Transfection experiments using synapsin II-luciferase fusion genes demonstrate that the 5'-flanking sequence functions as a strong promoter in neuronal but not in nonneuronal cells. Deletion analysis reveals the presence of a neuron-specific core promoter (-79 to 153) and, upstream, two positive and one negative regulatory elements. The 5'-terminal region of the murine synapsin I gene was also cloned and sequenced. Although there is no extensive sequence homology between the 5'-flanking regions of the synapsin I and II genes, comparison analysis has identified two regions of homologous sequences, which may be involved in determining neuron specificity of the core promoters of these two genes.
The action of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) on rat neostriatal dopamine (DA) D2 receptors was evaluated in membrane binding experiments. 0.1 nM of CCK-8 increased the Kd value of the D2 agonist [3H]N-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) binding sites by 42%. The CCKB antagonist PD134308 blocked this action. Kinetic analysis demonstrated that this effect of CCK-8 was related to a reduction by 45% of the association rate constant of [3H]NPA. In contrast, 1 nM of CCK-8 decreased the KH and the KL values of DA for the D2 antagonist [3H]raclopride binding sites by 56% and 50%, respectively. Both the CCKA antagonist L364718 and the CCKB antagonist PD134308 blocked this effect. The D1 antagonist SCH23390 counteracted the CCK-8 induced decrease in the KH and the KL values of DA, and allowed 1 nM of CCK-8 to produce a significant increase in the IC50 value of NPA for the [3H]raclopride binding sites. These results indicate that CCK-8 can reduce the affinity of the neostriatal D2 agonist binding sites, but increase the affinity of D2 receptors for DA. D1 receptors may exert a switching role in the modulation of the neostriatal D2 receptors by the CCK receptors.
The expression of several bioactive molecules in magnocellular hypothalamic neurons is modified when the axons of these cells are transected. In this study we have evaluated by means of immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization the effect of hypophysectomy on the expression of nitric oxide synthase (NOS)- and of galanin message-associated peptide (GMAP)-like immunoreactivities (-LIs) as well as on their respective mRNAs in hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory neurons. The results show a transient increase in NOS- and GMAP-LIs in magnocellular neurons of both the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei when compared to normal animals. The maximal increase in staining was observed between 5 and 7 days, and by 14 days NOS-LI was back to normal levels, whereas strong GMAP-LI could still be detected in a few cells. A similar picture was observed for the NOS and GMAP mRNAs. The functional significance of the present findings is unclear, but they indicate a possible role of nitric oxide and GMAP in neurosecretory neurons after injury.
Glibenclamide, a blocker of ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels, was tested on three different types of rat skeletal K+ channels incorporated into bilayers. Glibenclamide (10 microM) blocked a class of KATP channels (unitary conductance of 57 pS in symmetric 150 mM KCl), which were inhibited by ATP. High concentrations of glibenclamide (100 microM) had no effect on either voltage-gated K+ channels (37 pS), or Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels (210 pS). Our results show that glibenclamide, even at high concentrations (100 microM) that may be required for quick action in whole muscle experiments, is a selective and specific blocker of skeletal KATP channels.
The effect of sequential stimulation of different inositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate (IP3)-linked receptors on the functioning of intracellular Ca2+ stores was evaluated in single LAN-1 human neuroblastoma cells by means of fura-2 microfluorimetry. Homologous restimulation both in the absence and in the presence of extracellular Ca2+ with endothelin-1 (ET-1), Lys-bradykinin (BK), and ATP did not elicit an intracellular Ca2+ increase, whereas a [Ca2+]i elevation after carbachol (CCh) re-exposure was obtained only in the presence of extracellular Ca2+. Since thapsigargin and ionomycin, in the absence of extracellular Ca2+, were still able to release Ca2+ after ET-1, BK, and ATP but not after CCh, it can be argued that in the first case the stores were not completely depleted. This evidence was also confirmed by the fact that LAN-1 cells, sequentially exposed in different order to ET-1, BK, ATP, and upon extracellular Ca2+ removal, showed an increase of [Ca2+]i although progressively reduced in magnitude. By contrast, when CCh was perfused as the first agonist, it completely precluded any further Ca2+ mobilization by the other three agonists. In addition, the lack of potentiation of the Ca2+ response when BK and ET-1 were superfused together and the potentiation of Ca2+ response elicited by ET-1 after BK, when the plasma membrane Ca2+ efflux pathways were blocked by lanthanum during the first agonist exposure, indicated that LAN-1 cells can recycle cytoplasmic Ca2+ when exposed to ET-1, BK, ATP but not when exposed to CCh. This inhibitory effect of CCh (perfused for 90 s) on Ca2+ refilling was strictly dependent on the time of receptor occupancy since the exposure to CCh for a shorter period (15 s) produced the same effect on Ca2+ refilling when ET-1, BK, and ATP were perfused, as first agonist, for 90 s. Furthermore, the entity of Ca2+ refilling after 15 s of BK receptor occupancy was similar to that observed after 90 s. This seems to suggest that the receptors for ET-1, BK, and ATP maintain the transductional mechanisms in an activated state for a time shorter than the time of receptor occupancy. This was confirmed by the fact that IP3 levels during a 90-s BK exposure fell to prestimulated value within 30 s, whereas after CCh they reached a sustained plateau phase, after the peak.
This report describes the distribution of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) immunoreactivity in the brain of juvenile chinook salmon. TRH-positive cell bodies are observed in the preoptic region of the diencephalon, in the supracommissural nucleus of the ventral telencephalon, and in the internal cellular layer of the olfactory bulb. Immunoreactive fibers occur in the olfactory bulb, the dorsal and ventral telencephalon and were particularly extensive in hypothalamic regions. TRH-positive fibers also are observed in the optic tectum, posterior pituitary and the brainstem. The cell bodies in the preoptic area reside in the magnocellular preoptic nucleus. The position of these cell bodies along with the location of fibers in the hypothalamus and pituitary is consistent with the role of TRH as a hypothalamic releasing hormone. TRH-positive cell bodies also occur in the supracommissural nucleus of the ventral telencephalon and in the internal cellular layer of the olfactory bulb. The cell bodies in the olfactory bulb may account for some of the fibers in the telencephalon, as there are TRH fibers in the olfactory tracts. The presence of TRH-positive fibers with bouton-like swellings raise the possibility that the TRH peptide may act as a central neurotransmitter of neuromodulator. The results of this study suggest that TRH functions as a modulator of the pituitary activity in salmonids and that TRH is used as a transmitter or modulator in the olfactory system. The presence of TRH-positive somata in the olfactory bulb and ventral telencephalon provides new insights into the comparative anatomy of the salmon telencephalon.
The fiber course of the spinocerebellar tracts in the ventral and lateral funiculi of the cat spinal cord were studied by a new approach, making cordotomies at different spinal levels or lesions of the restiform body followed by injections of HRP or WGA-HRP into the anterior cerebellar lobe. The retrogradely labeled axons showed characteristic distribution patterns related to the level and extent of the lesions. The results show the following. 1) The dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT) originating ipsilaterally from the thoracic and upper lumbar segments ascends in the dorsolateral fasciculus. It undergoes a dorsal shift during its rostral course. The tract is topically arranged and passes through the restiform body. 2) The ventral spinocerebellar tract (VSCT) arising contralaterally from lower thoracic, lumbar, and more caudal segments passes via the ventral funiculus and ascends in the ventrolateral fasciculus. This tract is also topically arranged. It makes a lateral and then a dorsal shift during its ascending course. The main portion of the VSCT enters the cerebellum via the superior cerebellar peduncle. A minor portion originating from the sacrococcygeal region enters via the restiform body. 3) The spinocerebellar fibers originating ipsilaterally from the cervical enlargement ascend in the lateralmost part of the lateral funiculus in the area between the dorsolateral and ventrolateral fasciculi. These fibers form two groups, one passing through the restiform body, the other through the superior cerebellar peduncle. 4) The spinocerebellar fibers originating contralaterally from the central cervical nucleus pass through the ventral funiculus and ascend in the lateralmost part of the lateral funiculus, mainly in the ventrolateral fasciculus. Most of the fibers seem to pass through the superior cerebellar peduncle.
A bilateral photochemically induced thrombotic lesion of rat sensorimotor cortex (approximately 3 mm in diameter and 25 mm3 in volume) is associated with a persistent cognition (learning and memory) deficit, which was evaluated with water maze tasks. The N-dichloroacetylsphingosine derivative of lysoGM1 (LIGA20) administered after the lesion either i.v. or per or reduces the infarct size by 30-40% and attenuates the associated cognition deficits, presumably by limiting the extent of damage of neurons at risk located in the surroundings of the infarcted core (i.e., area penumbra). The LIGA20 protection is dose and time dependent. Maximal protection is afforded by a single dose of LIGA20 of 34 mumol/kg i.v. 1 hr after lesion or by a dose of 270 mumol/kg per os when administered 1 hr and 24 hr after the lesion. The protective effect of LIGA20 can be observed when the drug is administered i.v. up to 6 hr after the lesion. The protective efficacy of the oral administration of LIGA20 is related to its physiochemical properties, which, unlike those of GM1, allow absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. LIGA20 given orally reaches the brain promptly and rapidly inserts into the neuronal membranes. Here, by an unknown molecular mechanism, LIGA20 selectively reduces the pathological amplification of Ca2+ signaling elicited by persistent stimulation of ionotropic glutamate receptors in the area penumbra.
Dye coupling among neurons has been shown to reflect electrotonic coupling. Recent work in retina has revealed that the incidence of coupling is greater when estimated by neurobiotin (NB) transfer than by Lucifer yellow (LY). Several previous studies have shown that the incidence of LY coupling among supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons of lactating rats is 2- to 4-fold higher than is observed in virgin females. We compared the incidence of coupling among SON neurons following simultaneous injections of LY and NB into the same cells in slices from virgin or lactating rats. As seen in previous studies, there were 4-fold more LY-coupled neurons per injection in lactating as compared to virgin rats. Under both conditions, the numbers of NB-coupled neurons per injection were 4-fold greater than was observed for LY; possible mechanisms are discussed. Individual NB-filled neurons were coupled to as many as 10 other cells distributed over a large area of the SON. These results confirm previous findings of more coupling in lactating than virgin SONs, and suggest that both the incidence and spatial extent of interneuronal coupling are greater and thus probably more important functionally than has been heretofore appreciated.
The trisomy 16 mouse is considered to be a model of human trisomy 21 (Down syndrome). Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) from trisomy 16 and diploid control fetuses were cultured in the presence of nerve growth factor (NGF) for 10 days, after which NGF was withdrawn from 50% of the dishes. Withdrawing NGF at 10 days did not affect the survival rate of either trisomy 16 or control neurons. With or without NGF, trisomy 16 neurons had a significantly larger inward current (171%, 163%) and larger inward conductance (156%, 166%), a faster rate of depolarization (219%, 149%), and a shorter duration of the action potential (83%, 81%) than control neurons, indicating that these parameters are determined solely by the trisomic state. In the absence of NGF, the outward conductance was significantly larger (143%), and the rate of repolarization was faster (131%), in trisomy cells compared to controls. Withdrawing NGF resulted in a smaller outward conductance (86%) in control neurons and a larger outward conductance (132%) and faster rate of repolarization (118%) in trisomy neurons, indicating that these parameters are NGF-dependent, and that trisomy and control neurons exhibit a differential sensitivity to NGF. This is the first report of a differential sensitivity of trisomic and control neurons to NGF, and demonstrates significant abnormalities in active electrical membrane properties of trisomic DRG neurons.
To determine whether or not calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) is localized in the ganglion cells in the rat retina, we labeled ganglion cells by injection of Fast blue (FB) into the lateral geniculate nucleus and then stained the retina immunohistochemically with monoclonal antibodies which react specifically with the alpha and beta isoforms of CaM kinase II. Eighty and 90% of the FB-labeled ganglion cells in the ganglion cell layer were immunoreactive with the alpha and beta antibodies, respectively, suggesting that both alpha and beta isoforms of CaM kinase II are expressed in most ganglion cells which project to the lateral geniculate nucleus.
The polyamines spermine, spermidine and putrescine share some basic structural features with L-arginine, the substrate of nitric oxide (NO) synthase. The effects of the polyamines on neuronal NO synthase activity were studied in cytosolic preparations of rat cerebellum and cultured cerebellar granule neurons. Spermine, spermidine and putrescine all inhibited the conversion of [3H]L-arginine to [3H]L-citrulline by NO synthase, with the following rank order of potency: spermine &gt; spermidine &gt; putrescine. These inhibitory effects of the polyamines on [3H]L-citrulline formation were also observed in intact cultured cerebellar granule neurons upon stimulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Evidence was obtained, however, that endogenous polyamines are not involved in regulation of NMDA-stimulated NO synthase activity. Thus, the observed inhibitory effects of exogenous polyamines might not reflect a physiological role in modulating NO generation in neurons.
Recent studies by Diamond and Markham have identified significant correlations between space motion sickness susceptibility and measures of disconjugate torsional eye movements recorded during parabolic flights. These results support an earlier proposal by von Baumgarten and Thumler which hypothesized that an asymmetry of otolith function between the two ears is the cause of space motion sickness. It may be possible to devise experiments that can be performed in the 1 g environment on earth that could identify and quantify the presence of asymmetric otolith function. This paper summarizes the known physiological and anatomical properties of the otolith organs and the properties of the torsional vestibulo-ocular reflex which are relevant to the design of a stimulus to identify otolith asymmetries. A specific stimulus which takes advantage of these properties is proposed.
This study is a report of 34 cases of Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) observed in Bangalore (South India), an endemic area for Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) infection. Virological and immunological findings suggested an antecedent and recent JEV infection in 21/34 patients. Nineteen patients among them showed high levels of JEV-specific IgM antibodies in serum and/or CSF, while the viral antigen could be demonstrated in one case and virus isolation from the CSF was successful in one patient. EMG studies revealed features of predominantly demyelinating neuropathy in 18/25 cases. Comparison of clinical findings, duration of illness and outcome in GBS patients with evidence of JEV infection and those without did not reveal any differences. Pathological findings in one patient corroborated the association of JEV with GBS. We conclude that, JEV infection may predispose to Guillain-Barr syndrome in endemic areas.
Multi-unit sympathetic skin nerve activity (SSA) in the peroneal nerve was recorded together with electrical skin resistance, skin blood flow and (in some subjects) finger blood pressure during sleep in 22 sleep-deprived healthy subjects. The average strength of sympathetic activity in different sleep stages was measured during 5-min periods as the area-under-curve of the integrated neurogram. Stage 2 sleep was reached by 15 subjects, stages 3-4 by nine and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep by six subjects. Non-REM sleep was always associated with an increased skin resistance, which was larger in glabrous than in hairy skin (293 +/- 48 vs. 175 +/- 4% of awake control level, n = 10, P &lt; 0.05). Skin blood flow also increased during sleep, with a mean maximal increase of 397 +/- 79% of the awake control level (n = 11, P &lt; 0.05). In spite of these changes of effector function no significant difference in mean SSA was found between the awake control period and periods of non-REM sleep, but during REM sleep SSA increased with 34% (P &lt; 0.05) compared with the immediately preceding stage 2 period. In stage 2 sleep, K-complexes were associated with bursts of SSA followed by transient changes of skin resistance, blood flow and arterial blood pressure. When both skin resistance and blood flow were recorded within the innervation area of the impaled fascicle, single bursts or short periods of increased SSA could be succeeded by increased skin blood flow without concomitant skin resistance change. This indicates the existence of specific sympathetic vasodilator fibres in the skin. Therefore the unchanged strength of multiunit SSA during non-REM sleep in the face of increases of skin resistance and blood flow may be a consequence of an increased sympathetic vasodilator nerve activity combined with decreases of vasoconstrictor and sudomotor traffic.
As part of a survey to collect data which would be useful in planning a district stroke service we set out to discover what the service users' (patients' and carers') perceptions and knowledge of their illness were. We prospectively identified 164 consecutive patients with acute stroke admitted to hospital. Of the 110 (67%) survivors 65 (59%) patients and 80 (73%) carers completed a semi-structured interview. Most (46, 71%) patients and (68, 85%) carers thought they understood what a stroke was but 14 (22%) patients and 12 (15%) carers did not differentiate between a 'stroke' and a 'heart attack'. Carers were significantly more likely than patients to want know all the details about the patients' condition and treatment, to discuss the risk of recurrence, to receive written information and to join information groups. They were more likely than patients to feel that they had to ask for information, yet they were better able to identify general risk factors for stroke. Many patients and carers want more information and discussion about their illness and treatment during their hospital stay, however, some do not. Therefore information giving must be considered on an individual basis. Information could be delivered by: increasing available literature, voluntary group meetings, Stroke Family Care Officers and audio-visual information packages. The most efficient way of achieving an increased understanding amongst patients and carers needs to be found.
The selective angiotensin (ANG) II antagonists losartan (AT1) and CGP-42112A (AT2) were used to determine the receptor subtype and neuronal pathways that mediate the hypotension and bradycardia produced by 200 fmol of ANG II microinjected into the dorsal medial nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) or dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (dmnX) in anesthetized rats. At dorsal medial NTS sites (0.3 mm below the surface) where L-glutamate microinjections produced maximal decreases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR), ANG II (200 fmol, 50 nl, n = 16) elicited hypotension (-22 +/- 1 mmHg) and bradycardia (-26 +/- 2 beats/min). Although L-glutamate also suppressed respiration, ANG II injections in the medial NTS did not alter respiration. Losartan injected at the medial NTS site caused a dose-dependent reduction of ANG II-induced decreases in MAP and HR. At 2 pmol, the AT1 antagonist attenuated the response to ANG II, whereas 100 pmol abolished the effects of ANG II microinjections. In contrast, the AT2 antagonist CGP-42112A (100 pmol) had no effect on the responses to ANG II. Neither ANG II antagonist altered the cardiovascular effects of L-glutamate injections. Losartan injected into the dmnX blocked hypotension and bradycardia produced by ANG II at that site but did not prevent responses to subsequent ANG II injections in the medial NTS.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

The authors investigated dopamine transporter receptor binding in the post-mortem prefrontal cortex of 13 subjects with histories of cocaine use who had positive blood screens for cocaine at autopsy and 13 comparison subjects with no history of cocaine use and negative blood screens for cocaine at autopsy. Synaptosomes from pulverized prefrontal cortex were assayed with [3H]GBR 12935 for dopamine transporter receptor. There was a 38% decrease in number of binding sites but no change in affinity constants in the cocaine users.
Temporary cessation of blood flow is a necessary aid for certain complex neurosurgical and cardiovascular procedures, and hypothermia is often used to help protect against the deleterious effects of ischemia and anoxia. In an attempt to protect cellular integrity during ultraprofound hypothermia (&lt; 10 degrees C) and complete blood substitution, two new crystalloid-colloid blood substitutes (Hypothermosol-maintenance [HTS-M] and Hypothermosol-purge [HTS-P]) have been evaluated. Using extracorporeal bypass, 14 dogs were totally exsanguinated during cooling using the HTS-P solution, then perfused (40-85 ml/kg/min; mean arterial blood pressure = 25-40 mmHg) with either TS-M (Group I, n = 11), or with HTS-P as controls (Group II, n = 3) for 3 hr at 7 degrees C. During warming, the dogs were autotransfused and observed neurologically and biochemically during recovery. All dogs in Group I recovered and eight have survived long term (12-80 weeks) without apparent neurologic deficits. In contrast, dogs in Group II were more difficult to revive (cardiac resuscitation); two survived long term with delayed neurologic recovery. Evaluation of biochemical parameters showed only a transient and inconsequential elevation in enzymes (e.g., brain, liver, and heart) in Group I compared with the markedly greater elevations in Group II. The faster neurologic recovery of dogs treated with the &quot;intracellular&quot; maintenance solution supports the biochemical data showing the benefits of this type of blood substitute for extending the safe limits of hypothermic cardiac arrest to beyond 3 hr.
Previous work from our laboratory indicated that emergence neophobia is highly correlated with perforant path long-term potentiation (LTP) in rats. In the present study, we examined the relationship between hippocampal and cortical alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors and emergence behavior in rats. Emergence neophobia was assessed in an exploratory task that provided a choice between a novel alley and a familiar nest box. Quantitative autoradiography using radiolabeled ligands specific for the AMPA subclass of glutamate receptors was performed on frozen brain sections. Both [3H]AMPA and [3H]CNQX (6-cyano-7-nitro-[3H]quinoxaline- 2,3-dione, an AMPA receptor antagonist) binding in the dentate gyrus (stratum moleculare), hippocampal area CA1 (stratum radiatum), and the parietal cortex overlying the hippocampus were significantly correlated with emergence behavior. The correlations indicated that neophobic rats, which had longer latencies to enter the novel alley, made fewer entries into the alley, and spent less time in the novel alley during a 10-min test than their neophilic counterparts, had higher levels of AMPA receptor binding. These results suggest that individual differences in specific hippocampal AMPA receptors reflect variability in a specific class of hippocampal-dependent behaviors.
The paper describes a capillary gas chromatographic/mass spectrometric technique to quantitate myo-inositol in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma. A highly abundant fragment ion, m/z 373, for the hexaacetate derivative of myo-inositol was generated by chemical ionization (CI). This ion and the analogous ion of hexadeuterated myo-inositol (the internal standard), m/z 379, were both monitored in the assay. CI was performed with acetonitrile vapor in an ion trap mass spectrometer. Microliter quantities of CSF or plasma were mixed with the internal standard, dried and acetylated. After a post-derivatization clean-up, samples were analyzed on a capillary gas chromatograph interfaced with a Finnigan ion trap. Standard curves constructed for both CSF and plasma were linear and reproducible. Absence of matrix effects and good precision in the results indicate the suitability of the technique for critical assays. Results from the determination of myo-inositol in the CSF and plasma of healthy subjects and those with neurological deficits are reported.
The study of whole-cell currents from ion channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes with conventional two-electrode voltage clamp has two major limitations. First, the large diameter and spherical geometry of oocytes prevent extremely fast solution changes. Second, the internal medium is not controlled, which limits the experimental versatility of the oocyte expression system. For example, because the internal medium is not controlled, endogenous calcium-activated chloride conductances can contaminate currents measured with channels that are permeable to calcium. We describe a new technique that combines vaseline-gap voltage clamp for oocytes with a fast superfusion system. The vaseline-gap procedure is simplified by having the micropipette that monitors voltage serve a dual role as a perfusion micropipette that controls the internal solution. In addition, the technique provides fast external solution changes that are complete in 30-50 ms. We applied the approach to measure the calcium permeability of a muscle and a neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Very fast agonist induced currents were measured without contamination by the secondary activation of calcium-dependent chloride channels.
All mammalian gap junction channels are sensitive to the voltage difference imposed across the junctional membrane, and parameters of voltage sensitivity have been shown to vary according to the gap junction protein that is expressed. For connexin43, the major gap junction protein in the cardiovascular system, in the uterus, and between glial cells in brain, voltage clamp studies have shown that transjunctional voltages (Vj) exceeding +/- 50 mV reduce junctional conductance (gj). However, substantial gj remains at even very large Vj values; this residual voltage-insensitive conductance has been termed gmin. We have explored the mechanism underlying gmin using several cell types in which connexin43 is endogenously expressed as well as in communication-deficient hepatoma cells transfected with cDNA encoding human connexin43. For pairs of transfectants exhibiting series resistance-corrected maximal gj (gmax) values ranging from &lt; 2 to &gt; 90 nS, the ratio gmin/gmax was found to be relatively constant (about 0.4-0.5), indicating that the channels responsible for the voltage-sensitive and -insensitive components of gj are not independent. Single channel studies further revealed that different channel sizes comprise the voltage-sensitive and -insensitive components, and that the open times of the larger, more voltage-sensitive conductance events declined to values near zero at large voltages, despite the high gmin. We conclude that the voltage-insensitive component of gj is ascribable to a voltage-insensitive substate of connexin43 channels rather than to the presence of multiple types of channels in the junctional membrane. These studies thus demonstrate that for certain gap junction channels, closure in response to specific stimuli may be graded, rather than all-or-none.

1. Electrophysiological recordings were made from presumed dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area of rat brain slices. The ability of selective dopamine receptor agonists to hyperpolarize neurones and inhibit cell firing, as well as the ability of dopamine receptor antagonists to block responses to quinpirole were compared. 2. Six dopamine receptor agonists were examined for their ability to hyperpolarize neurones within the substantia nigra pars compacta. Of these, the most potent ligand tested was naxagolide with an EC50 value of 20 nM and estimated maximum of 10 mV. The rank order of agonist potency was naxagolide &gt; quinpirole &gt; apomorphine &gt; dopamine. 3. Quinpirole was more potent at inhibiting cell firing in the substantia nigra pars compacta (pIC50 = 7.65 +/ 0.06, n = 35) than in the ventral tegmental area (pIC50 = 7.24 +/- 0.06, n = 32; P &lt; 0.01, Student's t test). 7-Hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin (7-OH-DPAT), a putative D3 selective agonist, had a comparable potency to quinpirole in both the ventral tegmental area (pIC50 = 7.39 +/- 0.26, n = 4), and substantia nigra pars compacta (pIC50 = 7.71 +/- 0.20; n = 4). 4. The inhibition of cell firing by quinpirole was antagonized by haloperidol, S(-)-sulpiride, clozapine, and ritanserin. S(-)-sulpiride and haloperidol had the highest estimated affinities in the substantia nigra, with pA2 values of 8.97 (slope = 0.85) and 8.20 (slope = 2.09) respectively. The pA2 values for S(-)-sulpiride and haloperidol in the ventral tegmental area were 8.07 (slope = 0.87) and 8.11 (slope = 1.48)respectively. Clozapine had a lower functional affinity than S(-)-sulpiride and haloperidol in both the substantia nigra (pA2 = 6.47, slope = 1.19) and ventral tegmental area (pA2 = 6.53, slope 0.87). Ritanserin,a 5-HT2 receptor antagonist that also binds to D2.u. dopamine receptors, caused a slight but significant shift in the concentration-effect curve to quinpirole with an estimated pKA of 6.97 +/- 0.13(n =4) in the substantia nigra and pKA of 7.12 +/- 0.22 (n =4) in the ventral tegmental area.5. Comparison of these data with the binding affinity for cloned dopamine receptors demonstrates that the responses to quinpirole on dopaminergic neurones in both the A9 (substantia nigra) and A10(ventral tegmental area) brain areas are consistent with the activation of predominantly D2, and not D3 or D4 dopamine receptors. Furthermore, the similarity in functional affinity of antagonists for these receptors suggest that the mesolimbic selectivity of atypical neuroleptics, like clozapine, may be a consequence of their actions on other receptors or their effects elsewhere in the brain.
1. The objective of this study was to characterize the pharmacology of calcium currents in GH4C1 pituitary cells and determine whether activation of heterologously expressed human dopamine receptors can regulate their function. Human D2(short), D3 and D4.2 receptor cDNA's were separately transfected into GH4C1 cells and whole cell calcium currents were recorded by use of nystatin-perforated patch clamp techniques. 2. High-threshold calcium currents were antagonized in a biphasic manner by the dihydropyridine, nisoldipine. The half-maximally effective concentration for each site was 0.2 nM (pIC50 = 9.78 +/- 0.21, n = 4) and 339 nM (pIC50 = 6.47 +/- 0.12, n = 4). The component of current inhibited by 10 nM nisoldipine was also blocked by omega-conotoxin GVIA (30 +/- 9% at 30 nM, n = 6) or by omega-agatoxin IVA (34 +/- 7% at 100 nM, n = 4). 3. Activation of either D2 or D4 receptors by dopamine (10 microM) or quinpirole (0.1 to 10 microM) reduced the peak calcium current by ca. 20% in the majority of cells studied. No inhibition was observed in control or D3 transfected GH4C1 cell lines. 4. The mobilisation of intracellular calcium by thyrotropin releasing hormone in hD4-GH4C1 cells was also studied using Fura-2 AM microspectrofluorimetry. Thyrotropin releasing hormone caused a concentration-dependent increase in calcium mobilisation with an EC50 of 7 nM. D4 receptor activation had no effect upon either basal or hormone-induced [Ca2+]i transients. 5. These results demonstrate that GH4C1 pituitary cells have at least two types of dihydropyridine sensitive high-threshold calcium currents and that like D2 receptors, human D4 receptors can also regulate calcium channel function.
Electrophysiological recordings were made from neurones of the medial habenula (Mhb) in brain slices obtained from guinea-pig, rat and gerbil brain. The selective NK3 agonist, senktide, was used to determine the relative number of NK3-sensitive-neurones in the Mhb of each species. The proportion of neurones responding to NK1 (Sar9Met(O2)11SP) and NK2 (beta Ala8NKA(4-10) agonists was also assessed. All (65/65) of the guinea-pig Mhb neurones tested were excited by the NK3 agonist, but NK1 and NK2 agonists were without effect. NK3 responses in the guinea-pig were not altered by the presence of a selective NK1 antagonist, CP-99,994. NK1, NK2 and NK3 agonists were without effect on Mhb neurones from gerbil brain slices. In agreement with findings from previous studies, a population of rat Mhb neurones responded to NK1 or NK3 agonists alone or were excited by both. These data show that there is a difference in both the number of NK-sensitive neurones and the type of NK response found in the medial habenula of the three species. The high sensitivity to an NK3 agonist, combined with the apparent lack of NK1 and NK2 responses in the guinea-pig Mhb makes this preparation ideal for studies of central NK3-mediated events.
In the CNS, nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated as both a mediator of neurotoxicity and a neuromodulator. The inducible NO synthase (iNOS), thought to mediate toxic effects of NO, has been attributed to glial cells in the CNS. We now report that cerebellar granule cell neurones can be stimulated by lipopolysaccharide and interferon-gamma to express iNOS in vitro, as demonstrated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and fluorescent in situ hybridisation. The expression of both constitutive NO synthase (cNOS) and iNOS by neurones suggests that NO has diverse functions in the brain, and supports the possibility that iNOS plays a role in neuronal damage and inflammation following activation of brain microglia and production of cytokines.
A previous study (Valdes-Sosa and Bobes, 1990) described a negative ERP component evoked by mis-matches in a face-feature matching task, using photographs of real faces. This component could be N400 (or an analogue), elicited by associative priming within a non-linguistic domain: that of face structure. To confirm this it is necessary to demonstrate that semantic/linguistic recoding was not a necessary condition in triggering the negativity. This means falsifying what we call the 'priming by proxy' hypothesis, and locating the triggering mis-match within face structure. In this paper subjects studied artificial schematic faces over several sessions, and 1 week later were presented with a face-feature matching task with simultaneous ERP recording. Since no semantic information or verbal labels were available, eliciting a mis-match negativity with these faces contradicts the 'priming by proxy' hypothesis. In a first experiment, in which the subjects learning was controlled through a face familiarity decision task, no significant mis-match negativity was found. However, in a second experiment in which learning was controlled through a forced-choice face-feature match, a significant mis-match negativity was found in the subsequent recording session. This result supports the idea that a component similar to N400 can be elicited by an associative mis-match restricted to the face-structural domain.
Brains from 5 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) showed a 50%-65% decrease in mRNA levels of the mitochondrial-encoded cytochrome oxidase (COX, a marker of oxidative metabolism) subunits I and III in the middle temporal association neocortex, but not in the primary motor cortex, as compared to 5 control brains. The amount of mitochondrial-encoded 12S rRNA was not altered, nor was the amount of nuclear-encoded lactate dehydrogenase B mRNA (a marker of glycolytic metabolism). These data suggest that the decrease in COX I and III subunits mRNA in affected brain regions may contribute to reduced brain oxidative metabolism in AD.
There have been a number of attempts in the last years to localize the generators of brain electromagnetic activity, considering one current dipole as the source model. Single Dipole Localization (SDL) requires the selection of an optimization algorithm (OA). General aspects related with the selection, implementation and evaluation of some of the OA employed for SDL are discussed in this paper. Specifically the performance of two algorithms, those of Hooke-Jeeves and Levenberg-Marquardt, are tested by simulations. Suggestions for including restrictions to the dipole position and comments about some commonly used measures of the goodness of fit are given. Examples of erroneous implementations of these algorithms are also illustrated. A simple graphic rejection criterion, which can be easily used by inexperienced researchers, is introduced and tested in noisy and noise free simulations.
The avian brain has been one of the most popular subjects in neuroscience. Recent developments and findings related to avian studies from three different fields are described and their significance is discussed. These topics are: 1) paleontological discoveries indicating that birds are the successors of dinosaurs; 2) neuroanatomical findings indicating that there is a general pattern of information processing in the avian brain; and 3) an evolution hypothesis suggesting that the avian brain has neurons corresponding to those of the mammalian neocortex.

Urinary excretion of 2,3-dinor-thromboxane B2 as a marker of in vivo thromboxane A2 (TxA2) biosynthesis was measured in six alcoholics 1 and 14 days after the cessation of heavy drinking using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Six non-alcoholic healthy volunteers served as controls. One day after alcohol withdrawal the excretion of the dinor metabolite was significantly higher (P &lt; 0.01) in the alcoholics (408 +/- 42 pg mg-1 creatinine) than in the controls (180 +/- 30 pg mg-1 creatinine) and was accompanied by a significantly reduced platelet count (103.0 +/- 20.2 x 10(9) l-1 vs. 194.0 +/- 13.9 x 10(9) l-1 in controls; P &lt; 0.01). The metabolite excretion fell then significantly (P &lt; 0.05) to 245 +/- 53 pg mg-1 creatinine 14 days after alcohol withdrawal and this was paralleled by an increase in platelet count to 453.5 +/- 72.0 x 10(9) l-1 (P &lt; 0.05). The present results support the hypothesis that Tx-A2 biosynthesis is increased in early alcohol withdrawal and strongly suggest platelets as a cellular origin of the increased TxA2 formation.

This report describes the influences of fetal serum and gonadotropins on the development and function of chick testicular cells in a culture system that allows long term control of culture conditions. Testis of new born male chicks were dissociated and cultured in different conditions and the production of testosterone measured by RIA. 1. To investigate the effect of serum the cells were wither cultured in a defined medium composed by Dulbecco's modified medium (DMM) plus 0.1% albumin or media containing DMM plus 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS). The presence of serum increased protein content of the cultures, but no differences were found in basal testosterone production. When hCG (2IU/ml) was added to both culture media, the increment in testosterone production hence produced, was greater when cells were cultured in defined medium. 2. Cells were precultured for 24 hr in either defined serum media with or without hCG. The media were then replaced with DMM plus BSA and 1-methyl 3-isobutyl xanthine (IBMX) in the presence or absence of hCG and cells further incubated for 2 hr. Addition of hCG increased testosterone production by cells cultured in defined medium and enhanced its subsequent response to hCG stimulation. Cells cultured in serum medium maintained their ability to respond to hCG, but the addition of this hormone to the medium, abolished the response to further hCG-stimulation. 3. hCG caused a dose-related increased in testosterone production by cells cultured in defined and serum containing media, but concentrations of hCG above 2 IU/ml depressed testosterone production in the latter group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Decreases in metabolic fuel utilization caused by food deprivation, diabetes, or treatment with metabolic inhibitors have been shown to suppress steroid-induced estrous behavior in ovariectomized Syrian hamsters. These same manipulations also caused a decrease in the number of detectable estrogen-receptor immunoreactive (ERIR) cells in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) and the adjacent area lateral to it (VLH) in ovariectomized hamsters. Forty-eight hours of food deprivation or treatment with pharmacological blockers of glycolysis (2-deoxy-D-glucose) and fatty acid oxidation (methyl palmoxirate) decreased the number of detectable ERIR cells in the VMH/VLH. However, neither inhibitor given alone was sufficient to affect the number of detectable ERIR cells in the VMH/VLH, even when given in much higher doses. Therefore, the number of ERIR cells in the VMH/VLH, like steroid-induced estrous behavior, responds only to a combination of glucoprivation and lipoprivation and not to either alone. The effects of metabolic fuel restriction are not due to a general suppression of neural ERIR, because food deprivation or treatment with 2-deoxy-D-glucose and methyl palmoxirate actually increased the number of detectable ERIR cells in the medial preoptic area (mPOA) and had no effect in the nucleus of the solitary tract. Lesions destroying the area postrema (AP) prevented the decrease in ERIR cells in the VMH/VLH and the inhibition of estrous behavior caused by fuel restriction. However, AP lesions did not alter the effects of metabolic inhibitors on ERIR in the mPOA. On the other hand, subdiaphragmatic vagotomy abolished the effects of metabolic inhibitors on mPOA ERIR, but did not affect either lordosis or VMH/VLH ERIR. These results suggest that the suppression of estrous behavior induced by metabolic fuel restriction is at least in part due to a decrease in the number of ERIR neurons in the VMH/VLH. In addition, the estrogen-sensitive neurons in the VMH/VLH and mPOA receive metabolic cues via different neural pathways. The AP, but not vagus nerves, is required for ERIR neurons in the VMH/VLH to detect fuel availability; the vagus nerves, but not the AP, are necessary for estrogen-binding neurons in the mPOA to detect visceral information.
We compared the effectiveness of Ca2+ entering by Na+/Ca2+ exchange with that of Ca2+ entering by channels produced by membrane depolarization with K+ in inducing catecholamine release from bovine adrenal chromaffin cells. The Ca2+ influx through the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger was promoted by reversing the normal inward gradient of Na+ by preincubating the cells with ouabain to increase the intracellular Na+ and then removing Na+ from the external medium. In this way we were able to increase the cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]c) by Na+/Ca2+ exchange to 325 +/- 14 nM, which was similar to the rise in [Ca2+]c observed upon depolarization with 35 mM K+ of cells not treated with ouabain. After incubating the cells with ouabain, K+ depolarization raised the [Ca2+]c to 398 +/- 31 nM, and the recovery of [Ca2+]c to resting levels was significantly slower. Reversal of the Na+ gradient caused an approximately 6-fold increase in the release of noradrenaline or adrenaline, whereas K+ depolarization induced a 12-fold increase in noradrenaline release but only a 9-fold increase in adrenaline release. The ratio of noradrenaline to adrenaline release was 1.24 +/- 0.23 upon reversal of the Na+/Ca2+ exchange, whereas it was 1.83 +/- 0.19 for K+ depolarization. Reversal of the Na+/Ca2+ exchange appeared to be as efficient as membrane depolarization in inducing adrenaline release, in that the relation of [Ca2+]c to adrenaline release was the same in both cases. In contrast, we found that for the same average [Ca2+]c, the Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated channels was much more efficient than the Ca2+ entering through the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger in inducing noradrenaline release from chromaffin cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The expression level of the mRNAs encoding the Flip and Flop versions of the AMPA-selective glutamate receptor subunits A, B, C and D was studied using in situ hybridization in the hippocampus of rats kindled by Schaffer collateral/commissural fibre stimulation. The expression levels of the Flip variant of GluR-A, B and C mRNAs were bilaterally enhanced in the dentate granule neurons of fully kindled animals 24 h after the last seizure. These changes were already observed after the sixth kindling stimulation (preconvulsive-stage), but not after a single afterdischarge. Four weeks after the last seizure, when the animals were still hypersensitive to kindling stimulations, only GluR-A Flip expression was enhanced. These results suggest that kindling epileptogenesis is accompanied by an increased number and enhanced sensitivity of the expressed AMPA type glutamate receptors in the fascia dentata, leading to an enhanced excitatory synaptic transmission which may contribute to the process of kindling epileptogenesis.
Lesions of the central nervous system result in invasion of peripheral phagocytes and/or in situ activation and proliferation of microglia, depending on the direct or indirect nature of the injury. Neurotoxins which are widely used to induce neurodegeneration have been reported to elicit a pure microglial reaction when administered intraventricularly. However, the mechanical lesion at the injection site, although remote from the lesioned area, could give access to blood-derived cells. Therefore, this study compares the phagocytic reaction occurring after a traumatic lesion of the brain causing a breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), or after degeneration of the inferior olivary neurons induced by intraperitoneal administration of 3-acetylpyridine, a process that respects the integrity of the BBB as suggested by the results of intravascular injection of Evans blue. The identification of the macrophages at the lesion site used specific binding of the B4 isolectin from Griffonia simplicifolia, preloading of the peripheral monocytes/macrophages with trypan blue, and characteristic morphological features. In traumatically lesioned rats, the lectin-labeled macrophages were mainly large rounded peripheral cells recruited 1-3 days postlesion, whereas in chemically lesioned rats, the cellular reaction appeared 24-36 h postinjection and peaked between 3 and 12 days before undergoing a slow decline. Lectin binding and morphological characteristics indicated that these small cells were reactive microglia. These results confirm that a brain injury leaving the BBB intact involves essentially the recruitment and/or the proliferation of microglia.
N-ethyl-3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDE) is one of a group of substituted amphetamines which have effects on several serotonergic markers such as tissue levels of serotonin and activity of tryptophan hydroxylase. In this study we have compared its effects on the rat brain with those of p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) using serotonin immunocytochemistry with a primary 5-HT antibody and a secondary avidin-biotin-HRP antibody. Two weeks after multiple (40 mg/kg x 8), but not single, injections of MDE there was a pronounced reduction in the number of serotonin-immunoreactive axons seen. This reduction was most marked in areas innervated extensively by serotonergic axons with varicosities of the fine type (e.g., posterior cerebral cortex and area CA1 of hippocampus). The reduction was quantitatively less than but qualitatively similar to that produced by a single dose of PCA (10 mg/kg). In material from short (3 day) survival animals, a large number of morphologically highly abnormal forms could be seen, suggestive of degenerating axons. A parallel series of sections prepared using tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry showed no differences between saline controls and PCA- or MDE-treated animals. We conclude that multiple systemic injections of MDE reduce the number of serotonin-immunoreactive fibers in the rat brain 2 weeks after treatment.
Surgical closure of an external naris reduces airflow through one side of the nasal cavity. Previous studies using [3H]thymidine autoradiography have demonstrated that rats subjected to the procedure on Postnatal Day 1 (P1) exhibit reduced cellular proliferation in the olfactory mucosa by P30. We investigated cell production at earlier ages to determine (a) when the effect first emerges, and (b) whether septal, dorsal, and lateral regions of the nasal cavity responded similarly. Both short (2-h) and long (30-day) survival groups were tested. Results from the first group indicate that changes in proliferation emerge between P10 and P20, and that the septum is more affected than other regions of the nasal cavity. No differences were observed in the long survival groups, perhaps due to changes in patterns of cell production or death.

The climbing fibre system, one of the two main excitatory inputs to the cerebellar cortex, is anatomically and physiologically well characterized, while the nature of its neurotransmitter is still a matter of debate. We wished to determine whether glutamate-immunoreactive profiles with the morphological characteristics of climbing fibres could be found in the rat cerebellar cortex. For this purpose, a monoclonal 'anti-glutamate' antibody has been used in combination with a sensitive postembedding immunoperoxidase method on semi-thin sections or in combination with a postembedding immunogold method on ultrathin sections. At the light microscopic level, climbing fibres appeared as strongly stained fibrous profiles, chains of interconnected varicosities or heavily labelled dots of various sizes, often in close apposition to principal Purkinje cell dendrites. At the electron microscopic level, certain labelled varicosities or more elongated profiles resembling climbing fibre terminals were in synaptic contact with dendritic spines of Purkinje cells. Quantitative analysis of gold particle densities showed that such elements were about three to four times more heavily labelled than their postsynaptic partners. The results obtained in this study demonstrate that at least a subset of climbing fibres and their terminals contain relatively high levels of glutamate-like immunoreactivity and provide additional evidence for a role of glutamate as transmitter in these cerebellar afferents.


Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an animal autoimmune disease mediated by CD4+ T cells. Analysis of TCR expression revealed that limited TCR elements (V beta 8.2, V alpha 2 or 4) were utilized by myelin basic protein (MBP) specific T cells in mice with H-2u haplotype and Lewis rats. The usage of a particular beta chain complementarity determining region 3 (CDR3) motif has also been shown. However, it remains unclear to what extent these observations can be extrapolated. Here we studied the TCR sequences of MBP 89-101/I-A(s) specific T cell clones derived from SJL/J mice, using the polymerase chain reaction on reverse transcribed mRNA. Although the V beta usage was less restricted than in H-2u mice, they predominantly utilized V beta 17a and expressed LGG or related motifs in the V beta-D beta-J beta junctions. Furthermore, a single alpha chain rearrangement between V alpha 1.1 and J alpha BBM142 with no N region diversity was preferentially used. Concordantly, immunization with a peptide corresponding to the alpha chain CDR3 was found to significantly alter the clinical course of EAE. Comparison of the published TCR junctional regions demonstrates that the CDR3 motifs (LGG in beta chain, CA*R*NY motif in alpha chains) are expressed by other encephalitogenic clones. Notably, the CA*R*NY was conserved in PL/J mice clones that recognize a distinct MBP-MHC determinant. It suggests that an antigen-independent mechanism may contribute to conserving the alpha chain motif. The implications of these observations are discussed.
Temporal processing of durations in the range of seconds or more is cognitively mediated, whereas processing of brief durations below 100 ms appears to be based on brain mechanisms beyond cognitive control. In a series of experiments, applying a single-behavior-multiple-brain-systems strategy, activity of various neurotransmitter systems was pharmacologically changed and effects on temporal information processing were studied. In addition, concomitant changes in different psychological functions, such as cortical arousal, speed of information processing, and memory were measured. This experimental strategy proved to be highly efficient for elucidating mechanisms underlying temporal information processing in humans. Temporal processing of durations in the range of seconds was markedly impaired by pharmacologic agents which induced deterioration of memory functions. On the other hand, temporal processing of brief durations below 100 ms was shown to be largely independent of pharmacologically induced impairment of cognitive functioning, but may rather depend on D2 receptor activity in the basal ganglia.

AtT-20 mouse corticotrope tumor cell lines overexpressing the prohormone convertases PC1 or PC2 were established and used to examine prohormone and prohormone convertase biosynthetic processing. On a molar basis, wild-type AtT-20 cells synthesize about 20% as much PC1 as the endogenous prohormone, proopiomelanocortin (POMC). Kinetic, oligosaccharide, and temperature blockade analyses established that proPC1 is converted to PC1 in the endoplasmic reticulum at a rate independent of the level of PC1 or PC2 expression. In contrast, proPC2 is converted to PC2 primarily in a post-trans-Golgi compartment. PC1 is further shortened from its COOH-terminal end in a post-trans-Golgi compartment in a step that is accelerated at higher levels of PC1 expression, but unaltered by PC2 overexpression. The initial steps in POMC processing are speeded up by overexpression of PC1, and overexpression of PC1 leads to more extensive cleavage of POMC to smaller products. However, even when the rate of PC1 synthesis exceeds that for POMC by 2-fold, PC1 does not cleave the Lys-Lys or Arg-Lys bonds cleaved upon overexpression of PC2.
Plasmalemmal caveolae are a membrane specialization that mediates transcytosis across endothelial cells and the uptake of small molecules and ions by both epithelial and connective tissue cells. Recent findings suggest that caveolae may, in addition, be involved in signal transduction. To better understand the molecular composition of this membrane specialization, we have developed a biochemical method for purifying caveolae from chicken smooth muscle cells. Biochemical and morphological markers indicate that we can obtain approximately 1.5 mg of protein in the caveolae fraction from approximately 100 g of chicken gizzard. Gel electrophoresis shows that there are more than 30 proteins enriched in caveolae relative to the plasma membrane. Among these proteins are: caveolin, a structural molecule of the caveolae coat; multiple, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored membrane proteins; both G alpha and G beta subunits of heterotrimeric GTP-binding protein; and the Ras-related GTP-binding protein, Rap1A/B. The method we have developed will facilitate future studies on the structure and function of caveolae.
Mechanical force regulates gene expression and cell proliferation in a variety of cell types, but the mechanotransducers and signaling mechanisms involved are highly speculative. We studied the fibroblast signaling mechanism that is activated when cells are switched from mechanically stressed to mechanically relaxed conditions, i.e., stress relaxation. Within 10 min after initiation of stress relaxation, we observed a transient 10-20-fold increase in cytoplasmic cyclic AMP (cAMP) and a threefold increase in protein kinase A activity. The increase in cAMP depended on stimulation of adenylyl cyclase rather than inhibition of phosphodiesterase. Generation of cAMP was inhibited by indomethacin, and release of arachidonic acid was found to be an upstream step of the pathway. Activation of signaling also depended on influx of extracellular Ca2+ because addition of EGTA to the incubations at concentrations just sufficient to exceed Ca2+ in the medium inhibited the stress relaxation-dependent increase in free arachidonic acid and cAMP. This inhibition was overcome by adding CaCl2 to the medium. On the other hand, treating fibroblasts in mechanically stressed cultures with the calcium ionophore A23187-stimulated arachidonic acid and cAMP production even without stress relaxation. In summary, our results show that fibroblast stress relaxation results in activation of a Ca(2+)-dependent, adenylyl cyclase signaling pathway. Overall, the effect of stress relaxation on cAMP and PKA levels was equivalent to that observed after treatment of cells with forskolin.
Indirect single- and double-staining immunofluorescence techniques were used to study the serotoninergic, peptidergic and GABAergic innervation of the ventrolateral (Onuf's nucleus) and dorsolateral (innervating intrinsic foot sole muscles) nuclei, located in the S1/S2 segments of the cat spinal cord. The relative density of 5-hydroxytryptamine-, thyrotropin-releasing hormone-, substance P- and gamma-aminobutyric acid-immunoreactive axonal varicosities was similar in both nuclei. The highest relative density was recorded for varicosities immunoreactive to gamma-aminobutyric acid, while those immunoreactive to 5-hydroxytryptamine or thyrotropin-releasing hormone yielded the lowest values. The density of enkephalin-immunoreactive varicosities was higher in the ventrolateral than in the dorsolateral nucleus. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity could be seen in neurons of the ventrolateral and dorsolateral nuclei. Occasionally, calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive axonal fibers were also encountered in these nuclei. Virtually all thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive varicosities in the ventrolateral and dorsolateral nuclei also contained 5-hydroxytryptamine-like immunoreactivity, while a somewhat smaller number of them were co-localized with substance P. About 5-10% of the 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive varicosities were devoid of peptide-like immunoreactivity, and the number of 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive varicosities lacking thyrotropin-releasing hormone-like immunoreactivity was higher in the dorsolateral than in the ventrolateral nucleus. Finally, the free fraction of substance P-immunoreactive varicosities, i.e., those lacking both 5-hydroxytryptamine and thyrotropin-releasing hormone, was about 39% in the ventrolateral and 26% in the dorsolateral nucleus. Spinal cord transection at the lower thoracic level induced a depletion of 5-hydroxytryptamine and thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive fibers from the ventrolateral and dorsolateral nuclei, indicating an exclusive supraspinal origin for these fibers. A reduction in substance P-like immunoreactivity following spinal cord transection alone or spinal cord transection combined with unilateral dorsal rhizotomy was also detected in both nuclei, suggesting a dual origin for substance P-immunoreactive fibers, i.e., both supra- and intraspinal. The decrease in number of substance P-immunoreactive fibers was however smaller than expected from the analysis of the fraction of substance P-immunoreactive fibers co-localized with 5-hydroxytryptamine, indicating thus that the experimental lesions may have triggered a sprouting of substance P-immunoreactive axons originating from spinal cord sources. The distribution of gamma-aminobutyric acid in the ventrolateral and dorsolateral nuclei was not affected by the different lesion paradigms. It is therefore assumed that these inputs are intrinsic to the spinal cord.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
By use of the indirect immunofluorescence technique the distributions of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-, substance P- and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH)-immunoreactive (IR) neurons have been studied in the midline raphe nuclei and nucleus reticularis lateralis of the caudal brainstem (levels P18.3-P8.5; according to Berman (1968), in the cat, after treatment with colchicine. In addition, by use of the double-labelling technique, the coexistence between 5-HT-, substance P- and TRH-like immunoreactivity (LI) in these neurons was analysed. The results show that cell bodies in the midline raphe nuclei and nucleus reticularis lateralis contain 5-HT-, substance P- and TRH-LI. 5-HT-IR cells were more abundant than peptidergic neurons in all areas analysed. Quantitative estimations indicated that the total number of 5-HT-IR cells in the regions studied was about 17 x 10(3), while the corresponding numbers for substance P- and TRH-IR cells were 11 x 10(3) and 12 x 10(3), respectively. From double-labelled sections it was concluded that the vast majority of peptidergic cells also contained 5-HT-LI (87-100%). However, a subpopulation of 5-HT-IR neurons lacked peptide-LI (10-55%). The degree of coexistence varied with the brainstem level, in that neurons at more rostral locations showed a lower incidence of coexistence between 5-HT and peptide(s). The presence of all three compounds in one and the same cell body could also be demonstrated. In summary, 5-HT-, substance P- and TRH-IR cell bodies were encountered in medullary nuclei known to contain neurons with projection to the spinal cord. A high degree of coexistence between the compounds was demonstrated in these nuclei. The obtained results fit well with earlier studies on the patterns of distribution and peptide colocalization of 5-HT fibres in the spinal cord. The existence of biochemically distinct neuronal subpopulations within the 5-HT bulbospinal pathway is discussed.
Between 10% and 15% of infants born in urban America today have been exposed to cocaine in utero. Clinical studies have suggested that impairment of brain growth is the single best marker of significant prenatal cocaine exposure, and postnatal developmental compromise seen in a subset of affected children as a consequence of that exposure. We have developed an animal model, in mice, of prenatal cocaine exposure that has allowed us to dissociate the direct effects of cocaine in altering fetal development from the indirect effects associated with cocaine-induced malnutrition. We find that transplacental cocaine exposure independently impairs fetal brain and body growth and results in behavioral deficits and permanent alterations in neocortical cytoarchitecture in exposed offspring.

The motor cortex includes several areas in the frontal agranular cortex. These areas receive inputs from sensory pathways, motor control structures, other cortical areas, and from &quot;modulatory&quot; pathways. Motor cortical outputs are widely distributed to many other parts of the nervous system and can thereby influence each of the major descending motor control pathways and spinal motor circuitry. The most intensively studied motor areas, the premotor area (PMA), supplementary motor area (SMA), and primary motor cortex (MI), appear to have different roles in movement. PMA is involved in coupling arbitrary cues to motor acts, whereas SMA appears to participate more in internal guidance or planning of movement. While MI has been implicated in control of muscle force or length, more recent data suggest that it encodes higher order parameters, such as movement direction. Two new views of motor cortex are presented. First, it is argued that MI contains functional subdivisions of the face, arm, and leg, and that each subdivision contains a highly overlapping, extensively interconnected and non-topographic internal organization. Second, motor representations can reorganize rapidly as a consequence of experience or peripheral lesions. These changes may arise through modifications in synaptic coupling among motor cortex neurons. These features of motor cortex suggest a role for motor cortex in learning and in performing voluntary movements.
Abstract Stephen M. Kosslyn is Professor of Psychology at Harvard University and an Associate Psychologist in the Department of Neurology at the Massachusetts General Hospital. He received his B.A. in 1970 from UCLA and his Ph.D. from Stanford University in 1974, both in psychology, and taught at Johns Hopkins, Harvard, and Brandeis Universities before joining the Harvard Faculty as Professor of Psychology in 1983. His work focuses on the nature of visual mental imagery and high-level vision, as well as applications of psychological principles to visual display design. He has published over 125 papers on these topics, co-edited five books, and authored or co-authored five books. His books include Image and Mind (1980), Ghosts in the Mind's Machine (1983), Wet Mind: The New Cognitive Neuroscience (with 0. Koenig, 1992), Elements of Graph Design (1994), and Image and Brain: The Resolution of the Imagery Debate (1994). Dr. Kosslyn has received numerous honors, including the National Academy of Sciences Initiatives in Research Award, is currently on the editorial boards of many professional journals, and has served on several National Research Council committees to advise the government on new technologies.
A pilot program was developed as a strategy to increase professional growth on a neuroscience unit. The primary objective of the program was to allow staff nurses to participate in activities that interface with the neuroscience patient population. Nurses could choose an area of interest that related to their unit responsibilities. This experience provided the participants with the unique opportunity to participate in patient care from the perspective of another discipline. The staff were enthusiastic about the experience and shared it eagerly with their peers. Participants' evaluation of the program was overwhelmingly favorable. The data suggest that this program was an effective means of increasing professional growth and staff development.

Serotonin binding protein (SBP) is present in all neurectodermally derived cells that store serotonin (5-HT). Three forms of SBP have been detected (68, 56, and 45 kDa), and antibodies to SBP that interfere with the binding of 5-HT react with each of these proteins. The current experiments test two hypotheses: (a) that the 56- and 45-kDa forms of SBP are produced by posttranslational cleavage of a 68-kDa precursor molecule; and (b) that 45-kDa SBP is a constituent of serotonergic secretory vesicles. Pulse-chase experiments were carried out using medullary thyroid carcinoma cells as a model. These neurectodermally derived cells produce 5-HT and all three forms of SBP. Following pulse labeling for 20 min with L-[35S]methionine, the cells were incubated in the presence of an excess of unlabeled L-methionine for 0, 30, 60, or 90 min at 37 degrees C. Alternatively, the chase was performed under conditions (20 degrees C, inhibition of ATP generation) that delay or stop transport of newly synthesized proteins from the rough endoplasmic reticulum through the Golgi apparatus. Following incubation, the cells were washed and solubilized, and SBP was immunoprecipitated. Radioactive proteins in the immunoprecipitate were electrophoretically resolved and quantified. Immediately after the pulse, each of the three forms of SBP was found to be labeled with 35S. The relative proportions of 35S-labeled 68-, 56-, and 45-kDa SBP remained the same at each interval of chase. These proportions were not changed when the chase was carried out at 20 degrees C or under conditions that blocked the biosynthesis of ATP. These observations suggest that each form of SBP is a primary product of translation, that the smaller forms of SBP are not produced by cleavage from a larger molecule, and that the size of the primary products of translation is not altered by passage to the Golgi apparatus or a post-Golgi compartment. When secretion was induced, 45-kDa SBP, but not 56- or 68-kDa SBP, was released to the medium. When antibodies to 45-kDa SBP were added to the medium at the time secretion was induced, antibody binding sites appeared as patches on the cell surfaces. Because of these sites, cells were lysed when they were stimulated to secrete in the presence of antibodies to 45-kDa SBP and guinea pig complement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Using a brain microdialysis technique, we have shown in the rat that local infusion of a selective and competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, cis-4-phosphonomethyl-2-piperidine carboxylic acid (CGS-19755), into the medial frontal cortex via dialysis tubing caused a concentration-related increase in the extracellular release of dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and homovanillic acid in the cortical region. Coinfusion of a sodium channel blocker, tetrodotoxin, completely inhibited the ability of the NMDA antagonist to augment frontal dopamine metabolism. These findings suggest that dopamine neurons projecting to the frontal cortex might be under a tonic transsynaptic inhibition exerted by excitatory amino acid neurotransmission via the NMDA receptor at the level of dopamine terminal fields.
In rat olfactory bulb, muscarinic and opioid receptor agonists stimulate basal adenylyl cyclase activity in a GTP-dependent and pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. However, in the present study, we show that in the same brain area activation of these receptors causes inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity stimulated by Ca2+ and calmodulin (CaM) and by forskolin (FSK), two direct activators of the catalytic unit of the enzyme. The opioid and muscarinic inhibitions consist of a decrease of the maximal stimulation elicited by either CaM or FSK, without a change in the potency of these agents. [Leu5]-Enkephalin and selective delta- and mu-, but not kappa-, opioid receptor agonists inhibit the FSK stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity with the same potencies displayed in stimulating basal enzyme activity. Similarly, the muscarinic inhibition of FSK-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity shows agonist and antagonist sensitivities similar to those characterizing the muscarinic stimulation of basal enzyme activity. Fluoride stimulation of adenylyl cyclase is not affected by either carbachol or [Leu5]enkephalin. In vivo treatment of olfactory bulb with pertussis toxin prevents both opioid and muscarinic inhibition of Ca2+/CaM- and FSK-stimulated enzyme activities. These results indicate that in rat olfactory bulb delta- and mu-opioid receptors and muscarinic receptors, likely of the M4 subtype, can exert a dual effect on cyclic AMP formation by interacting with pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein(s) and possibly by affecting different molecular forms of adenylyl cyclase.
We have characterized a high-affinity [35S]-glutathione ([35S]GSH) binding site in mouse and human spinal cord. [35S]GSH binding sites in mouse and human spinal cord were observed largely within the gray matter in both the dorsal and ventral horns of spinal cord at cervical, thoracic, and lumbosacral segments. High-affinity [35S]GSH binding was saturable, showing a Bmax of 72 fmol/mg of protein and a KD of 3.0 nM for mouse spinal cord and a Bmax of 52 fmol/mg of protein and a KD of 1.6 nM for human spinal cord. [35S]GSH binding was displaceable by GSH, L-cysteine, and S-hexyl-GSH, but not by glutamate, glycine, or NMDA. These [35S]GSH binding sites exhibited kinetic and saturation characteristics similar to GSH binding sites in rat brain astrocytes. To determine whether [35S]GSH binding sites could be regulated by protein kinase C, we exposed human spinal cord sections to phorbol 12,13-diacetate for 1 h before ligand binding. Phorbol ester treatment increased [35S]GSH binding by approximately 60%, an effect that could be blocked by exposure of spinal cord sections to 1-(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine, a general protein kinase inhibitor. [35S]GSH binding sites in the spinal cord of both species exhibited many of the characteristics of a receptor including saturable binding, high affinity, ligand specificity, and modulation by kinase activity. These data suggest that GSH is a neurotransmitter in the CNS.
Administration of L-DOPA (50 mg/kg) elicits a significant increase in extracellular dopamine in striata of rats treated with the catecholaminergic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine but not in striata of intact rats. To assess the role of dopaminergic nerve terminals in determining the effects of exogenous L-DOPA on extracellular dopamine levels in striatum, we examined the relative contributions of monoamine oxidase A and monoamine oxidase B to the catabolism of dopamine synthesized from exogenous L-DOPA. Extracellular concentrations of dopamine and its catabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, were monitored with in vivo dialysis in striata of intact rats and of rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of striatal dopamine. Clorgyline (2 mg/kg), an inhibitor of monoamine oxidase A, significantly increased dopamine and decreased 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in intact but not in dopamine-depleted striata. Inhibition of monoamine oxidase B with either L-deprenyl (1 mg/kg) or Ro 19-6327 (1 mg/kg) did not significantly affect dopamine or 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in striata of intact or dopamine-depleted rats. In intact rats, administration of clorgyline in conjunction with L-DOPA produced a &gt; 20-fold increase in dopamine and prevented the L-DOPA-induced increase in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. Although both L-deprenyl and Ro 19-6327 administered in combination with L-DOPA elicited a small but significant increase in dopamine, levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid were not affected. In rats pretreated with 6-hydroxydopamine, clorgyline had no significant effect on the increases in dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid elicited by L-DOPA. Furthermore, neither L-deprenyl nor Ro 19-6327 affected L-DOPA-induced increases in dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in dopamine-depleted striata. The present findings indicate that deamination by monoamine oxidase A is the primary mechanism for catabolism of striatal dopamine, both under basal conditions and after administration of exogenous L-DOPA. Loss of dopaminergic terminals eliminates this action of monoamine oxidase A but does not enhance deamination by monoamine oxidase B. These data support a model in which exogenous L-DOPA elicits enhanced extracellular accumulation of dopamine in the dopamine-depleted striatum because some transmitter synthesis occurs at nondopaminergic sites and the dopamine terminals that normally take up and catabolize this pool of transmitter are absent.
The number of synaptic contacts formed by a neuron is known to vary with its surface area. This could be because large neurons are able to establish more synaptic sites, or because those neurons that are able to establish more sites are subsequently able to enlarge. To test between these two possibilities clones of enlarged ommatidia were generated in the retina of the Drosophila mutant gigas, by mitotic recombination following gamma-irradiation in the third-instar larva. The numbers of afferent synaptic contacts formed by the photoreceptor terminals in the first optic neuropil, or lamina, were then counted in the adult. The terminals of mutant photoreceptors were also enlarged, but by varying degrees. The sizes of their profiles in single sections merged with the size distribution of terminals having a wild-type phenotype, lying outside the clone in the same lamina. A perimeter of 6.0 microns for the profiles of receptor terminal in cross section was established as a criterion for distinguishing between normal and mutant phenotypes. The mutant terminals had more presynaptic sites. Because only the gigas terminals are mutant and because they enlarged at a time long before synapse formation occurred in the lamina we may conclude that cell enlargement preceded elevated synaptic number. The increase in synaptic number roughly matched the increased membrane surface of the terminals, so as nearly to preserve a constant areal density of synaptic sites over a 5-fold range in synaptic frequency.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive, adult-onset, neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the death of large motor neurons from the cerebral cortex, brainstem, and spinal cord. The etiology of ALS remains unknown; however, approximately 10% of the cases are familial in nature. In the majority of these families, the mode of transmission is autosomal dominant. Recently, linkage of an autosomal dominant familial ALS (FALS) gene to the locus ALS1 on chromosome 21q was established. In addition, evidence was provided for genetic heterogeneity, with approximately 55% of families most likely linked to chromosome 21. The development of a number of highly informative simple sequence repeat polymorphisms in the region of linkage-21q21 through 21q22.1-has permitted us to confirm both the assignment of ALS1 to 21q and the genetic heterogeneity of FALS. In addition, we have been able to refine the mapping of ALS1, based on recombination events in two of the linked families. Flanking markers for the FALS gene are D21S213 on the centromeric side and D21S219 on the telomeric side. The candidate region is approximately 4 Mb and contains the genes copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD); the fourth member of the class II cytokine receptor family (CRF2-4); and the interferon-alpha receptor (IFNAR).
Five percent of incident patients with MND in Scotland 1989-1990 had a family history of this disease. This paper assesses the demographic and clinical features of this group.
1. Forward reaching movements made during body rotation generate tangential Coriolis forces that are proportional to the cross product of the angular velocity of rotation and the linear velocity of the arm. Coriolis forces are inertial forces that do not involve mechanical contact. Virtually no constant centrifugal forces will be present in the background when motion of the arm generates transient Coriolis forces if the radius of body rotation is small. 2. We measured the trajectories of arm movements made in darkness to a visual target that was extinguished as movement began. The reaching movements were made prerotation, during rotation at 10 rpm in a fully enclosed rotating room, and postrotation. During testing the subject was seated at the center of the room and pointed radially. Neither visual nor tactile feedback about movement accuracy was present. 3. In experiment 1, subjects reached at a fast or slow rate and their hands made contact with a horizontal surface at the end of the reach. Their initial perrotary movements were highly significantly deviated relative to prerotation in both trajectories and end-points in the direction of the transient Coriolis forces that had been generated during the reaches. Despite the absence of visual and tactile feedback about reaching accuracy, all subjects rapidly regained straight movement trajectories and accurate endpoints. Postrotation, transient errors of opposite sign were present for both trajectories and endpoints. 4. In a second experiment the conditions were identical except that subjects pointed just above the location of the extinguished target so that no surface contact was involved. All subjects showed significant initial perrotation deviations of trajectories and endpoints in the direction of the transient Coriolis forces. With repeated reaches the trajectories, as viewed from above, again became straight, but there was only partial restoration of endpoint accuracy, so that subjects reached in a straight line to the wrong place. Aftereffects of opposite sign were transiently present in the postrotary movements. 5. These observations fail to support current equilibrium point models, both alpha and lambda, of movement control. Such theories would not predict endpoint errors under our experimental conditions, in which the Coriolis force is absent at the beginning and end of a movement. Our results indicate that detailed aspects of movement trajectory are being continuously monitored on the basis of proprioceptive feedback in relation to motor commands. Adaptive compensations can be initiated after one perturbation despite the absence of either visual or tactile feedback about movement trajectory and endpoint error. Moreover, movement trajectory and end-point can be remapped independently.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Our goal was to assess whether visual motion signals related to changes in image velocity contribute to pursuit eye movements. We recorded the smooth eye movements evoked by ramp target motion at constant speed. In two different kinds of stimuli, the onset of target motion provided either an abrupt, step change in target velocity or a smooth target acceleration that lasted 125 ms followed by prolonged target motion at constant velocity. We measured the eye acceleration in the first 100 ms of pursuit. Because of the 100-ms latency from the onset of visual stimuli to the onset of smooth eye movement, the eye acceleration in this 100-ms interval provides an estimate of the open-loop response of the visuomotor pathways that drive pursuit. 2. For steps of target velocity, eye acceleration in the first 100 ms of pursuit depended on the &quot;motion onset delay,&quot; defined as the interval between the appearance of the target and the onset of motion. If the motion onset delay was &gt; 100 ms, then the initial eye movement consisted of separable early and late phases of eye acceleration. The early phase dominated eye acceleration in the interval from 0 to 40 ms after pursuit onset and was relatively insensitive to image speed. The late phase dominated eye acceleration in the interval 40-100 ms after the onset of pursuit and had an amplitude that was proportional to image speed. If there was no delay between the appearance of the target and the onset of its motion, then the early component was not seen, and eye acceleration was related to target speed throughout the first 100 ms of pursuit. 3. For step changes of target velocity, the relationship between eye acceleration in the first 40 ms of pursuit and target velocity saturated at target speeds &gt; 10 degrees /s. In contrast, the relationship was nearly linear when eye acceleration was measured in the interval 40-100 ms after the onset of pursuit. We suggest that the first 40 ms of pursuit are driven by a transient visual motion input that is related to the onset of target motion (motion onset transient component) and that the next 60 ms are driven by a sustained visual motion input (image velocity component). 4. When the target accelerated smoothly for 125 ms before moving at constant speed, the initiation of pursuit resembled that evoked by steps of target velocity. However, the latency of pursuit was consistently longer for smooth target accelerations than for steps of target velocity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

Mature sympathetic neurons contain one or more neuropeptides in addition to a classical neurotransmitter. We compared the development of two peptides, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), in rat superior cervical (SCG) and stellate ganglia. NPY immunoreactivity (-IR) was first detected at embryonic day (E) 12.5. It was of similar immunofluorescence intensity in almost all tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-IR cells. In contrast, VIP-IR, of variable fluorescence intensity, appeared at E14.5 in a subset of TH-IR cells in the stellate ganglion but not in SCG. Both peptides were present in bromodeoxyuridine-labeled neuronal precursors as well as neurons. The intensity of NPY immunofluorescence increased until E16.5. Subsequently, while it continued to increase in some neurons, the intensity decreased in others so that at birth approximately 55% of SCG and stellate neurons were NPY-IR. Developmental changes in NPY concentration, determined by radioimmunoassay, were similar in both ganglia, increasing between E14.5 and E16.5 and then decreasing 60% between E16.5 and birth. VIP expression differed from that of NPY. The proportion of VIP-IR cells began to decrease the day after VIP-IR was first detected. Although VIP-IR was present in one-third of E14.5 TH-IR stellate cells, at birth only 2% were VIP-IR. VIP-IR, measured by radioimmunoassay, was uniformly severalfold more concentrated in the stellate than SCG, and its concentration decreased throughout embryonic development, 40% between E14.5 and E16.5 and 95% by birth. In situ hybridization revealed detectable mRNA for both NPY and VIP at E14.5 in stellate ganglion and mRNA for NPY, but not VIP, in SCG. Initially, ganglionic neuropeptide mRNA appeared uniformly distributed but became heterogeneous. Our data indicate that features of the diverse peptidergic phenotypes expressed by sympathetic neurons are present when peptides are first detected while others arise subsequently. The final acquisition of peptidergic phenotypic diversity is complex, entailing both early induction in many cells and subsequent restriction to specific subpopulations.
Using quantitative anatomical techniques, we show that after intraorbital optic nerve transection in adult rats, virtually all retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) survive for 5 d and then die abruptly in large numbers, reducing the RGC population to approximately 50% of normal by day 7 and to less than 10% on day 14. During this period of rapid cell loss, some RGCs show cytochemical alterations indicative of apoptosis (&quot;programmed cell death&quot;), a change not previously categorized after axotomy in adult mammals. With intracranial lesions 8-9 mm from the eye, the onset of cell death is delayed until day 8 and is greater with cut than crush. The demonstration that axotomy results in apoptosis, the long interval between axonal injury and RGC death, and the different time of onset of the massive RGC loss with optic nerve lesions near or far from the eye suggest that axonal interruption triggers a cascade of molecular events whose outcome may be critically dependent on the availability of neuronal trophic support from endogenous or exogenous sources. The role of such molecules in RGC survival and the reversible nature of these injury-induced changes is underscored by the temporary rescue of most RGCs by a single intravitreal injection of brain-derived neurotrophic factor during the first 5 d after intraorbital optic nerve injury (Mansour-Robaey et al., 1994). The delayed pattern of RGC loss observed in the present experiments likely explains such a critical period for effective neurotrophin administration.
We have examined in vitro the morphology and visual response properties of retinal ganglion cells innervating a component of the cat's lateral geniculate nucleus known as the geniculate wing (or retinorecipient zone of the pulvinar). Ganglion cells were first labeled in situ by retrograde transport of fluorescent microspheres from the geniculate wing. Labeled cells were injected intracellular with Lucifer yellow and biocytin in the isolated retina and visualized immunohistochemically. With one exception, stained cells appeared to belong to a single morphological class that corresponded closely to the epsilon cell of earlier descriptions (Leventhal et al., 1980; Rodieck and Watanabe, 1986). They had somas comparable in size to those of beta cells and large, sparse dendritic trees that ramified in the inner (ON) sublayer of the inner plexiform layer. Dendritic fields increased in size with eccentricity, but only within the central retina, and were among the largest so far reported for cat ganglion cells, exceeding those of alpha cells at most eccentricities. Dendritic profiles were typically elliptical with long axes pointing toward the area centralis. Axons were about as thick as those of beta cells and thicker than those of other varieties of non-alpha, non-beta ganglion cells. We recorded extracellularly from microsphere-labeled wing-projecting ganglion cells in a superfused, flattened eyecup preparation. All such cells exhibited sustained responses to standing contrast and had very large, concentric receptive fields with ON-centers and OFF-surrounds. Their response to gratings showed that they have relatively poor spatial resolution and a moderate amount of nonlinearity of spatial summation. These cells thus have many physiological response properties in common with ganglion cells previously termed &quot;on-center tonic W-cells,&quot; &quot;on-center sluggish sustained cells,&quot; and &quot;Q-cells.&quot; These findings indicate that ganglion cells innervating the cat's geniculate wing form a structurally and functionally homogeneous class. Their large dendritic and receptive fields and low-pass spatial frequency tuning suggest that fine spatial resolution is not required for the execution of their functional role(s).
To date, there is little experimental evidence supporting or refuting electrotonic interactions through gap junctions in the generation and/or spread of seizure activity in the mammalian brain. We have studied gap junctional mechanisms in the in vitro calcium-free induced model of epilepsy using electrophysiological and staining techniques in the CA1 area of the hippocampus. Lucifer yellow staining of CA1 pyramidal neurons revealed that dye coupling was increased 2.3 times in hippocampal slices made hyperexcitable by perfusion with calcium-free artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF). Furthermore, multiple neuronal dye coupling (triplets, quintuplets) was observed in these conditions but never in control (standard aCSF). Under conditions that reduce gap junctional conductance (intracellular acidification, octanol, halothane), seizure-like activity was suppressed in the CA1 area in this epilepsy model, whereas increasing gap junctional conductance by intracellular alkalinization increased the frequency and duration of field burst events. Intracellular acidification also reduced dye coupling as well as the frequency of fast prepotentials (electrotonic potentials) without altering neuronal firing frequency. Simultaneous extracellular field and single whole-cell recordings revealed suppression of synchronization between neuronal firing and spontaneous field burst activity during acidification. These observations indicate an apparent increase in electrotonic coupling during calcium-free induced spontaneous rhythmic field burst activity in the CA1 area of the hippocampus and that electrotonic coupling may contribute substantially to the synchronization of neuronal firing underlying seizure-like events.
The distribution of neurons in the rat CNS that synthesize mRNA for the alpha 1A/D and alpha 1B adrenoceptors was revealed by the in situ hybridization method. Forty-eight-mer DNA probes were synthesized to two different and unique regions of both the alpha 1A/D and alpha 1B mRNAs. Tissue sections from all levels of the CNS and some peripheral ganglia were incubated in a hybridization cocktail containing one of these four probes. The two mRNAs were expressed in a discrete and often complementary manner to each other, and identical hybridization patterns were seen for the probes directed against the same mRNA. The alpha 1A/D probes hybridized heavily with neurons in the internal granular and internal plexiform layers of the olfactory bulb, in layers II-V of most areas of the cerebral cortex, and in the lateral aspect of the lateral amygdaloid nucleus, with pyramidal neurons of CA1-CA4 regions, hilar and granular neurons of the dentate gyrus, and neurons in the reticular thalamic nucleus, cranial and spinal motor nuclei, and the inferior olivary nucleus. Light labeling was seen in a variety of other regions in the brain and spinal cord. The alpha 1B probes hybridized heavily with neurons in the mid layers of cerebral cortex and with virtually all neurons in the thalamus, except the reticular and habenular nuclei. In addition, labeling was seen in the lateral and central amygdaloid nuclei, in brainstem and spinal motor nuclei, over most neurons of the dorsal and medullary raphe nuclei and neurons of the intermediolateral cell column in the spinal cord. Light labeling was seen in the septal nucleus, the horizontal limb of the diagonal band, the paraventricular and lateral hypothalamic nuclei, the pontine and medullary reticular formation, and in most laminae in the spinal cord. The patterns of labeling obtained with the alpha 1B probes resemble the labeling seen in previous autoradiographic ligand binding studies utilizing &quot;general&quot; alpha 1 ligands, while the labeling patterns seen with the alpha 1A/D probes do not correspond to any published alpha 1 receptor distribution pattern, indicating that this mRNA likely encodes for a novel adrenoceptor. The present findings further expand the heterogeneity of adrenoceptor mRNAs presented in two accompanying studies (Nicholas et al., 1993a,b). This differential distribution of adrenoceptors subtypes provides a framework for the functional diversity to the apparently widespread, diffuse, and rather homogeneous noradrenergic innervation of the CNS.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is a pentameric complex made up of four types of subunits in the stoichiometry alpha 2 beta gamma delta. These subunits have been shown to be differentially phosphorylated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) protein kinase C, and a protein tyrosine kinase. A variety of studies have suggested that phosphorylation of the AChR in vitro and in vivo regulates the rate of desensitization of the receptor. In this study we have used site-specific mutagenesis and patch-clamp techniques to examine the role of phosphorylation in the regulation of desensitization of the AChR expressed in Xenopus oocytes Expression of wild-type AChR in Xenopus oocytes results in the constitutive phosphorylation of the AChR on the gamma and delta subunits. This phosphorylation is apparently due to the high basal level of PKA in oocytes since a specific peptide inhibitor of PKA completely eliminated phosphorylation of the AChR by oocyte extracts in vitro. The phosphorylation of the AChR in oocytes was not significantly enhanced by forskolin or cAMP analogs or by coexpression with the catalytic subunit of PKA, suggesting that the basal activity of PKA in oocytes is sufficient to phosphorylate the receptor to a high stoichiometry. Using site-specific mutagenesis, the sites of phosphorylation were determined to be serines 353 and 354 on the gamma subunit and serines 361 and 362 on the delta subunit. To examine the functional properties of wild-type and mutant receptors lacking phosphorylation sites, we used patch-clamp techniques to measure the responses of out-side-out patches to repetitive pulses of ACh using a rapid perfusion system. Wild-type and mutant receptors showed rapid concentration-dependent activation and desensitization to applied agonist. The time constant of desensitization of ensemble mean currents ranged from several hundred milliseconds at low ACh concentrations to 100-200 msec at saturating concentrations. The desensitization time constants for mutant receptors lacking all phosphorylation sites were significantly slower than wild-type phosphorylated receptors at all concentrations of ACh tested. In addition, mutant receptors that had the serine residues changed to glutamate residues in order to mimic the negative charge of the phosphorylated serine residue produced receptors that had desensitization rates approaching those of the wild-type phosphorylated receptor. These results provide further support that phosphorylation of the nicotinic ACh receptor regulates rate of desensitization.
A major goal of neuroscience is to identify the neural and cellular mechanisms of behavior and its plasticity. Progress toward this goal has come particularly from work with a small number of tractable model preparations. One of these is the simple neuromuscular circuit consisting of the accessory radula closer (ARC) muscle of the mollusk Aplysia californica and its innervating motor and modulatory neurons. Contraction of the ARC muscle underlies a component of Aplysia feeding behavior, and plasticity of the behavior is in large part due to modulation of the amplitude and duration of the contractions of the muscle by a variety of modulatory neurotransmitters and peptide cotransmitters, among them the small cardioactive peptides (SCPs), myomodulins (MMs), and serotonin (5-HT). We have studied single dissociated ARC muscle fibers in order to determine whether modulation of membrane ion currents in the muscle might underlie these effects. First, we confirmed that the dissociated fibers were functionally intact: just as with the whole ARC muscle, their contractions were potentiated by 5-HT and SCPB and potentiated as well as depressed by MMA, and their cAMP content was greatly elevated by 5-HT, SCPA and SCPB, and to a lesser extent by MMA and MMB. Next, using voltage-clamp techniques, we found that two ion currents present in the fibers were indeed modulated. The fibers possess a dihydropyridine-sensitive, high-threshold &quot;L&quot;-type Ca current. This current was enhanced by the modulators that potentiate ARC-muscle contractions--5-HT, SCPA and SCPB, and MMA and MMB--but not by buccalinA, a modulator that does not act directly on the ARC muscle. All of the potentiating modulators, as well as elevation of cAMP in the fibers by forskolin or a cAMP analog, maximally enhanced the current about twofold and mutually occluded each other's effects. Since the Ca current supplies Ca2+ necessary for contraction of the muscle, the enhancement of the current is a good candidate to be a major mechanism of the potentiation of the contractions. In the following article we report that the modulators also, to different degrees, activate a distinctive K current and thereby depress the contractions. Net potentiation or depression then depends on the balance between the relative strengths of the modulation of the two ion currents.
Current techniques for evaluating animal model nerve regeneration lack accurate, sensitive and reproducible methods to determine neuromuscular function. We have developed a tension transduction apparatus which measures the magnitude of ankle dorsiflexion produced by normal rats during bipolar stimulation of the surgically exposed peroneal nerve. Three groups of animals were used to evaluate the consistency and overall reliability of this apparatus. Within the first group of 4 animals, we determined variability in a single testing period of 8 successive stimulations. The mean normalized standard deviation of dorsiflexion tension produced was 2.9% of the mean. In the second group, comparison of right and left dorsiflexion tension in 8 animals showed a difference of less than 2% (right: 134.2 g; left: 131.6 g), demonstrating that one lower limb can be used as a control for the contralateral limb. In the third group, 12 animals were tested on two separate occasions, 2 months apart, tension production increased 10% (from 122 to 134 g) and corresponded with an average weight increase, per animal, of 100 g (30%) during the 2-month rest period. Despite the increase in weight and strength, the initial procedure had a negative effect upon the maximum tension produced compared to a previously unoperated leg (prior operation: 134 g; no prior operation: 144 g). The reproducibility of data obtainable with this new device allows for its incorporation in future studies, as well as the correlation of such functional data with other current methods of studying nerve regeneration.
Monoamine-activated alpha 2-macroglobulin (alpha 2M) has recently been shown to inhibit the growth and survival of cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain (Liebl and Koo: J Neurosci Res 35:170-182, 1993). The mechanism of this inhibitory effect is believed to involve the regulation of growth factor activities by alpha 2M. The objectives of this study are to determine whether monoamine-activated alpha 2M can inhibit choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity of cholinergic basal forebrain neurons, and whether some common neurotrophins in the CNS can reverse the inhibition. This study demonstrates that both methylamine-activated alpha 2M (MA-alpha 2M) and serotonin-activated alpha 2M (5HT-alpha 2M) can dose-dependently suppress the expression of normal basal levels of ChAT activity in embryonic rat basal forebrain cells in vitro, while normal alpha 2M has little or no effect. As little as 0.35 microM monoamine-activated alpha 2M can suppress the ChAT activity, whereas either nerve growth factor (NGF) or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), but not neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), stimulates ChAT expression of these cells. The addition of either NGF or BDNF to the alpha 2M-suppressed cells can increase ChAT activity back to its normal levels, while NT-3 can not. These results demonstrate that (1) monoamine-activated alpha 2M is a potent non-cytotoxic inhibitor of the ChAT activity in cholinergic basal forebrain neurons, and (2) NGF and BDNF are capable of not only stimulating the ChAT activity but can also specifically reverse the alpha 2M inhibition.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The case is presented of a prepontine arachnoid cyst in a 28-year-old woman. She was treated by craniotomy, stereotactic aspiration, internal shunting, and finally by insertion of a cystoperitoneal shunt. Eight months later she developed an asymptomatic Arnold-Chiari type I malformation. The pathogenesis of this unusual hindbrain herniation is explained on the basis of the differential pressure between two compartments and cephalocranial disproportion.
To clarify the psychiatric liaison issues in Japan, this paper briefly introduces a survey of physician attitudes and practices regarding cancer care in Japan and preliminarily reports on an &quot;active&quot; liaison program developed at one Japanese general hospital. The survey of physicians from 31 teaching hospitals, including all cancer centers, revealed that 56% of physicians do not inform patients of a diagnosis of cancer. Thus, actual psychiatric consultation referrals were very few due to the physician's fear of harming his relationship with the cancer patient. One medical unit, in which about one-quarter of the cancer patients were told their diagnoses by the unit chief physician, showed significantly higher rates of psychiatric consultation after the introduction of an &quot;active&quot; liaison program in that hospital. These results suggest that the liaison program can positively influence the rate of psychiatric consultation referrals for cancer patients when the physician discloses the diagnosis to the patient. Consultation-liaison psychiatry in cancer care is expected to develop in Japan, because most physicians report a trend toward informing patients of their cancer diagnosis.
In rats trained to retain a passive avoidance response or to retrieve a learned task in the radial and water maze tests, a pretreatment with 2-hexyl-3-indoleacetamide (FGIN-1-27) (IC50 57 mumol/kg p.o.) or 4' chlorodiazepam (4'CD) (15 mumol/kg i.p.), two steroidogenic ligands at the mitochondria diazepam-binding inhibitor receptor complex (MDRC), antagonized the performance deficit elicited by dizocilpine (0.3 mumol/kg i.p.), a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist. The 1-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(-1-methyl-propyl)-3-isoquinoline carboxamide (PK-11195), an antagonist at MDRC in vivo, failed to modify the disruptive effect of dizocilpine in the passive avoidance response but reversed the FGIN-1-27- or 4' CD-induced antagonism of dizocilpine behavioral actions. Pretreatment with pregnenolone sulfate (48 mumol/kg i.p.), 3 alpha, 21-dihydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one (THDOC) (15 mumol/kg i.v.) and 3 alpha-hydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one (allopregnanolone) (15 mumol/kg i.v.) also reduced the passive avoidance retention deficit elicited by dizocilpine. The (17-beta)-17-[[bis(1-methylethyl)amino[carbonyl]androstane-3,5-diene-3- carboxylic acid (SKF-105111), a 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor, blocked the antagonism of dizocilpine behavioral actions by pregnenolone sulfate or by FGIN-1-27 but not those caused by THDOC or allopregnanolone either in normal or adrenalectomized-castrated rats. Thus, it is inferred that the amnesic effect of dizocilpine is counteracted by FGIN-1-27, 4'CD and pregnenolone sulfate because of their ability to increase brain accumulation of allopregnanolone.
In order to enhance the entry into cells of L-690,330, a bisphosphonate inhibitor of inositol monophosphatase (IMPase; a key, enzyme in the phosphatidylinositol (Pl) cell signaling pathway), the tetrapivaloyloxymethyl ester prodrug, L-690,488 [tetrapivaloyloxymethyl 1-(4-hydroxyphenoxy)ethane-1,1-bisphosphonate], was synthesized. The effects of L-690,488 were studied in cholinergically (carbachol)-stimulated rat cortical slices and Chinese hamster ovary cells stably transfected with the human muscarinic m1 receptor (m1 CHO cells). The accumulation of [3H]inositol monophosphates or [3H]cytidine monophosphorylphosphatidate ([3H]CMP-PA) after [3H]inositol or [3H]cytidine prelabeling, respectively, and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate mass were measured. In rat cortical slices and m1 CHO cells, the maximum response and time course of accumulation of [3H]inositol monophosphates for L-690,488 and lithium were similar. However, the concentrations of L-690,488 required to produce these effects (EC50 values of 3.7 +/- 0.9 and 1.0 +/- 0.2 microM in cortical slices and m1 CHO cells, respectively) were much lower than with lithium (0.3-1.5 mM). Likewise, the time course and maximum accumulation of [3H] CMP-PA in L-690,488-treated m1 CHO cells was similar to lithium but L-690,488 was again much more potent (EC50 values = 3.5 +/- 0.3 microM and 0.52 +/- 0.03 mM for L-690,488 and lithium, respectively). In addition, L-690,488 attenuated the carbachol-induced elevation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate in m1 CHO cells, an effect reported previously with lithium. These results are all consistent with L-690,488 and lithium both depleting intracellular inositol as a consequence of inhibition of IMPase. That these effects of L-690,488 on the PI cycle are indeed due to inositol depletion is shown by the observation that the effects of L-690,488 on CMP-PA accumulation could be overcome by addition of exogenous myo-inositol (EC50 = 1.7 +/- 0.5 mM). These data show that inhibition of IMPase produces effects on the PI cycle comparable to lithium. As a corollary, the effects of lithium on the PI cycle are therefore consistent with its major mechanism of action being inhibition of IMPase.
The uptake of [3H]dopamine into synaptosomes obtained from the nucleus accumbens, striatum and frontal cortex was evaluated after chronic treatment with cocaine. Cocaine was administered in a concentration of 10 mg/kg, twice a day for 7 days. Fourteen days after the last injection, locomotor activity and [3H] dopamine uptake were evaluated. Base-line locomotor activity was significantly lower (29%) in rats treated chronically with cocaine compared with saline-treated rats. A challenge dose of cocaine (2.5 mg/kg or 5.0 mg/kg) or d-amphetamine (1 mg/kg) produced similar increases in locomotor activity above the corresponding base-line values in both saline- and cocaine-treated rats, indicating that behavioral sensitization had not occurred. Chronic cocaine administration produced a significant decrease in the uptake of [3H]dopamine into the frontal cortex (49%) with no significant differences in the nucleus accumbens or striatum. The decrease in [3H]dopamine uptake in the frontal cortex was due to a decrease in the Vmax with no change in the affinity of [3H]dopamine for the dopamine transporter. No differences were produced in the IC50 values of GBR 12909 or cocaine for [3H] dopamine uptake after chronic cocaine treatment. However, in all three brain regions, the IC50 values for cocaine were significantly greater than the values for GBR 12909. In addition, the IC50 values for GBR 12909 and cocaine in the frontal cortex were significantly greater than values for either compound in the nucleus accumbens or striatum. The administration of methamphetamine, using a similar treatment schedule, produced no changes in [3H]dopamine uptake in any of the three brain areas. These data indicate an inhibition effect of repeated cocaine administration on [3H]dopamine uptake in the frontal cortex of rats.
Postural sway during quiet stance increases if sight of the surroundings is denied. We studied how sensory-motor information about body displacement provided by contact of the index finger with a stationary bar can be used to stabilize balance in the absence of vision. Stabilization equivalent to the contribution conferred by vision was achieved at contact force levels less than 1 N. This value is much below that necessary to provide significant physical stabilization of the body. We interpret our findings in relation to tactile thresholds for motion detection, &quot;precision grip,&quot; and proprioceptive and sensory-motor information about the configuration of the arm to the torso. In conditions allowing higher force levels at the fingertip (5-8 N), subjects assumed a passively stable state to stabilize their stance.
Hibernating pocket mice (Perognathus flavus) were obtained from the Department of Veterinary Medicine, Hokkaido University, in September 1990, and attempted to rear them in National Institute of Neuroscience, NCNP. Rearing of pocket mice was possible under the general conditions used for rearing mice. As a result of random mating of 4 females to 2 males for breeding, gestation was achieved in only one pair of animals, and parturition under artificial rearing conditions was observed for the first time. The animal gave birth to 3 offspring that had no body hair. Their eyes were closed. Each of the offspring weighed about 1.0g. The mean body weight of the females was 6.5g and that of males 5.6g at 3 weeks. Weaning was possible at this age. Subsequently the animals grew rapidly; the body weight was almost equal to that of an adult animal (8.0g) at 5 weeks of age for the females and 7 weeks for the males. The gestation period was estimated to be 26 days. These findings indicate that pocket mice can be bred and reared under general laboratory conditions.
Laboratory matings were attempted to establish breeding colonies of Northern grasshopper mice, Onychomys leucogaster (which were captured in New Mexico, U.S.A.), as experimental animals. The results were as follows. The rate of pregnancy was 75% with cohabitation for more than 30 days, and 4% with cohabitation from 1 to 7 days. Both cases were of monogamous mating. The mean litter size was 3.5 +/- 1.2, with a range of 1 to 6. The rate of weaning was 78.8%. The mean gestation period was 27.4 +/- 2.0 days, with a range of 25 to 31. The gestation period was achieved by the method of confirming sperm from smears. Further, it was possible to breed all year round in a rearing room with fixed temperature and humidity.
We investigated the mode of the 5-HT3-receptor antagonism of 4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzimidazole derivatives, YM060, YM114 (KAE-393), YM-26103-2 and YM-26308-2, against 5-HT-induced transient bradycardia in anesthetized rats. Results were compared with those of ondansetron and granisetron. YM060 (0.03-0.1 microgram/kg, i.v.), YM114 (0.03-0.3 microgram/kg, i.v.), YM-26103-2 (0.01-0.03 microgram/kg, i.v.), YM-26308-2 (0.01-0.03 microgram/kg, i.v.) and granisetron (0.3-3 micrograms/kg, i.v.) displaced the 5-HT dose-response curve to the right, with apparent DR2 values of 0.068, 0.068, 0.019, 0.011 and 0.69 microgram/kg, i.v., respectively. Higher doses of these compounds inhibited 5-HT-induced bradycardia with a reduced maximal response. In contrast, ondansetron displaced the 5-HT dose-response curve to the right without affecting the maximal response. Judged by the apparent DR2 values, YM060, YM114, YM-26103-2 and YM-26308-2 were approximately 13, 13, 50 and 79 times more potent than ondansetron, respectively, whereas granisetron was equipotent to ondansetron. Single i.v. doses of YM060 and granisetron inhibited 5-HT-induced bradycardia significantly longer than ondansetron. Moreover, inhibitory effects of p.o. doses of YM060 (3 micrograms/kg), YM114 (80 micrograms/kg), YM-26103-2 (12 micrograms/kg), YM-26308-2 (5 micrograms/kg) and granisetron (250 micrograms/kg) on the von Bezold-Jarisch reflex lasted for 3-6 hr, whereas ondansetron (700 micrograms/kg, p.o.) antagonized 5-HT3 receptors for only 1 hr. In isolated guinea pig colon, the inhibitory effect of YM-compounds on 5-HT-induced contraction persisted significantly longer than those of ondansetron and granisetron after washout of the bath containing compounds.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Programs of gene activation may underlie long-term adaptive cellular responses to extracellular ligands. We have used a differential cDNA cloning strategy to identify genes that are strongly induced by excitatory stimuli in the adult rat hippocampus. Here, we report the rat cDNA sequence of a zinc-finger transcription factor, Egr3/Pilot, and characterize its regulated mRNA expression in brain. Egr3 mRNA is rapidly and transiently induced in neurons of the hippocampus and cortex by electroconvulsive seizure. mRNA levels peak 2 hr after the seizure and remain elevated for as long as 8 hr. Egr3 mRNA is also rapidly induced in granule cells of the dentate gyrus by synaptic NMDA receptor activation elicited by patterned stimulation of the perforant pathway and by drugs that alter dopamine neurotransmission in the striatum. Basal levels of Egr3 mRNA in the cortex appear to be driven by natural synaptic activity because monocular deprivation rapidly decreases Egr3 mRNA in the deafferented visual cortex. Aspects of the protein structure, sequence-specific DNA binding, transcriptional activity, and regulation of Egr3 are highly similar to another zinc-finger transcription factor, Egr1/zif268. Moreover, we demonstrate colocalization of Egr3 and zif268 mRNAs in neurons of normal and stimulated cortex. Our studies suggest that interactions between these coregulated transcription factors may be important in defining long-term, neuroplastic responses.
In cerebellar long-term depression (LTD), conjunctive stimulation of parallel fiber (PF) and climbing fiber (CF) inputs to a Purkinje neuron result in a selective depression of PF-Purkinje neuron synaptic strength. This system is attractive for the study of neuronal information storage, both because of its duration and because it demonstrates input specificity. The mechanisms underlying input specificity in this system are not known, but they could involve presynaptic alterations, postsynaptic alterations, or some combination of both. To allow for an unambiguous analysis of postsynaptic processes, an LTD induction protocol has been developed using cultured cerebellar cells in which pulses of quisqualate and direct Purkinje neuron depolarization replace PF and CF stimulation, respectively. Input specificity is retained in this reduced system. When multiple, nonoverlapping quisqualate application sites are used, LTD is confined to those sites that are stimulated during depolarization. This property of LTD induction is also preserved under conditions where both spontaneous and evoked neurotransmitter releases are reduced or eliminated, indicating that postsynaptic alterations are sufficient to confer input specificity. Input-specific LTD may also be induced by local application of a protein kinase C (PKC) activator (1-oleoyl-2-acetylglycerol) together with direct Purkinje neuron depolarization, suggesting that input-specific LTD results from the conjunction of a spatially broad Ca signal mediated by Purkinje neuron depolarization, together with a spatially constrained PKC-activating signal mediated by quisqualate application.
The effect of sodium butyrate on membrane phospholipid metabolism in a neonate rat cerebellum derived clonal oligodendrocyte cell line (CB-II) was investigated. Sodium butyrate is an agent known to induce cell differentiation and morphological transformations. A comparison of the in vivo phospholipid labeling patterns obtained by incubating CB-II cells with [3H]choline, [14C]myristic acid or [3H]arachidonic acid indicated that butyrate altered the route of acylation-deacylation in phosphatidylcholine (PC) biosynthesis. Using an in vitro incubation system containing homogenates of CB-II cells, the largest proportion of radioactivity was found in PC, and addition of sodium butyrate resulted in a further increase in the transfer of arachidonic acid to PC, but not to phosphatidylinositol. Similar results were obtained when this in vitro acylation activity was tested using homogenates from sodium butyrate pretreated cells. The butyrate effect was observed regardless of whether or not exogenous lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) was added to the incubation system. Addition of butyrate did not result in a change in the activity of LPC:acyl-CoA (coenzyme A) acyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.23) in CB-II cells upon incubating cell homogenates with [1-14C]arachidonoyl-CoA and LPC. However, when cell homogenates were incubated with [3H]arachidonic acid in the presence of 2.5-10 mM sodium butyrate, arachidonoyl-CoA synthesis was stimulated. A time course study demonstrated that significant stimulation occurred after three minutes. Taken together, the results suggest that in CB-II cells, sodium butyrate stimulates the transfer of arachidonic acid into PC and that this effect is at least partially due to a stimulation of arachidonoyl-CoA ligase (EC 6.2.1.3).
We report on five patients with involuntary eyelid closure, diagnosed as blepharospasm and referred to use for treatment with botulinum A toxin. Synchronous electromyographic (EMG) recording was performed from the levator palpebrae superioris (LP) and the orbicularis oculi (OO) muscles. In the first two cases, EMG registration showed alternating, semirhythmic dystonic activities in both the LP and OO, clinically perceptible as &quot;flickering&quot; of the eyelids. While the eyelids were lowered, one of them also showed involuntary upper eyelid tractions due to dystonic activities of LP. In the third patient, EMG patterns were characterized by a gradual decrease in the level of LP activity, followed by the contraction of OO, which facilitated the return of LP to its tonic activity, termed &quot;postinhibition potentiation&quot; of LP. In the fourth patient, EMG recording showed involuntary inhibition of LP in combination with blepharospasm. Involuntary closure of the eyelids in the fifth patient was caused by short or prolonged periods of involuntary LP inhibition, whereas OO activity remained normal. Our results provide further evidence that LP muscle activities are regulated by burst-tonic motoneurons, and we suggest that these motoneurons, and/or the input signals regulating their activities, can be involved independently in a pathological process. Clinical symptoms are discussed that may be helpful to recognize those cases with LP motor dysfunction, whether or not accompanied by OO activity disorders. Because the term blepharospasm indicates an abnormal motor function of OO, we propose &quot;blepharospasm-plus&quot; to designate those cases with a combined motor dysfunction of LP and OO muscles.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) usually presents as a sporadic disorder of motor neurons. However, familial forms of ALS have been described--autosomal dominant forms (ALS1, ALS3), clinically indistinguishable from the sporadic form, and autosomal recessive forms with early onset and slower progression of symptoms (ALS2). To localize the gene for one of the autosomal recessive forms of ALS, we applied linkage analysis to a large inbred family from Tunisia. A lod score maximum of Zmax = 8.2 at theta = 0.00 was obtained with marker D2S72 located on chromosome 2q33-q35. The fine mapping of this region suggested that the ALS2 locus lies in the 8 cM segment flanked by D2S155 and D2S115.



The effect of aging on the hippocampal formation of the male Brown Norway rat was studied by immunohistochemistry and measurements of the immunoreactive hippocampal cells using stereological techniques. The total estimated number of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) immunoreactive neurons of the CA1-CA2 area did not differ in the 3- and the 36-month-old rat. However, the intensity of the GR immunoreactivity was decreased in the aged animals. A gradual decrease of the immunoreactivity for the mineralocorticoid receptor was also observed in the CA1-CA2 area. In the stratum oriens and the stratum radiatum of the CA1-CA2 area the immunoreactivity for basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) present in the glia was found to be reduced [20,000 +/- 2100 (n = 6)] in the 36-month-old rat vs the 3-month-old rat [28,500 +/- 4500 (n = 4) (*P = 0.05)]. However, there was no difference in the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactive cells of this area in these two age groups. The present findings give evidence that in the Brown Norway rat there is no loss of the neuronal population containing glucocorticoid receptors of the CA1-CA2 area during aging but suggest that aging is characterized by deficits of glially derived growth factors, such as bFGF.
During aging the human brain shows a progressive increase in levels of dolichol, a reduction in levels of ubiquinone, but relatively unchanged concentrations of cholesterol and dolichyl phosphate. In a neurodegenerative disease, Alzheimer's disease, the situation is reversed with decreased levels of dolichol and increased levels of ubiquinone. The concentrations of dolichyl phosphate are also increased, while cholesterol remains unchanged. This study shows that the isoprenoid changes in Alzheimer's disease differ from those occurring during normal aging and that this disease cannot, therefore, be regarded as a result of premature aging. The increase in the sugar carrier dolichyl phosphate may reflect an increased rate of glycosylation in the diseased brain and the increase in the endogenous anti-oxidant ubiquinone an attempt to protect the brain from oxidative stress, for instance induced by lipid peroxidation.

We evaluated the reliability of clinical diagnoses using the recently standardized criteria for the diagnosis of vascular dementia (VaD) developed by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and the Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (AIREN). Two neurologists and two psychiatrists independently reviewed clinical data abstracted from those of 42 demented subjects participating in a longitudinal study of dementia at the University of Pittsburgh. For each patient we abstracted the clinical data on a standardized form. Each physician diagnosed each case according to the NINDS-AIREN criteria, using both clinical information and MRIs. We calculated the interrater agreement for all two-way combinations of clinicians with kappa statistics, which ranged from 0.46 (moderate agreement) to 0.72 (substantial agreement). The moderate reliability observed in this study may be attributable to patient-, clinician-, or criteria-centered sources of variance.
To learn about the carboxy-terminal extent of amyloid beta-protein (A beta) composition of senile plaques (SPs) in the brain affected with Alzheimer's disease (AD), we employed two end-specific monoclonal antibodies as immunocytochemical probes: one is specific for A beta 40, the carboxyl terminus of A beta 1-40, while the other is specific for A beta 42(43). In the AD cortex, all SPs that were labeled with an authentic antibody were A beta 42(43) positive, while only one-third of which, on the average, were A beta 40 positive. There was a strong correlation between A beta 40 positivity and mature plaques. Two familial AD cortices with the mutation of beta-amyloid protein precursor 717 (beta APP717) (Val to Ile) showed a remarkable predominance of A beta 42(43)-positive, A beta 40-negative plaques. Diffuse plaques, representing the earliest stage of A beta deposition, were exclusively positive for A beta 42(43), but completely negative for A beta 40.
Anoxia produces deleterious effects on synaptic transmission in the hippocampal slice preparation. A proposed source of damage is the superoxide radical (.O2-) produced during the earlier period of reoxygenation. The present study tested the effects of a synthetic, catalytic superoxide radical scavenger (EUK-8) on CA1 pyramidal cell responses elicited by electrical stimulation of the Schaffer-commissural pathway after severe anoxic episodes. Following reoxygenation, slices incubated with EUK-8 (50 microM) exhibited significantly better recovery of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) than control slices. In addition, repeated episodes of anoxia produced irreversible loss of synaptic transmission in the majority of control slices (93 +/- 7%, n = 15), compared to a small fraction in EUK-8-incubated slices (27 +/- 12%, n = 15). A thiobarbituric acid (TBA) test was used to assess the effect of EUK-8 on lipid peroxidation elicited in hippocampal slices by acidosis and lactic acid (pH 5.0 and 30 mM lactic acid). Incubation in the presence of EUK-8 totally prevented the increase in lipid peroxidation produced by acidosis and lactic acid in both the incubation medium and the slice homogenates. These results indicate that a superoxide scavenger like EUK-8 prevents damage produced by acidosis and anoxia in hippocampal slices and suggest the possibility of using this type of molecule under various pathological conditions.
The organization of catecholamine-containing axons in the cat lateral cervical nucleus was examined by immunocytochemical methods using a specific tyrosine hydroxylase antiserum. Light microscopic examination revealed numerous tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons and varicosities throughout this nucleus, and some of these structures were found in contact with neuronal cell bodies. Correlated ultrastructural analysis showed that these varicosities were synaptic boutons which formed symmetric synaptic junctions with dendrites and somata. This evidence suggests that catecholamines exert a postsynaptic action upon neurons within the lateral cervical nucleus.
The bands of Fontana, appearing as spirals or irregular light and dark strips crossing the surface of unstretched nerves, are due to the wavy disposition of nerve fibers within the epineural-perineural sheaths. A mean tension of 2.7 +/- 0.23 (S.E.M.) g applied to segments of rat tibial nerves straightens the fibers and unbands the nerves causing them to lengthen by 9.35 +/- 0.89%. The nerves cold-fixed in situ at that point showed the myelinated fibers to be beaded. On relaxation the nerves rebanded and the fibers were no longer beaded. The tension at which unbanding occurred was better determined when the epineural-perineural sheaths were slit longitudinally. Under these conditions, unbanding occurred at a mean tension of 0.59 +/- 0.08 g and the nerves lengthened by 8.56 +/- 0.58%. The lengthening was not statistically different from that seen in sheathed nerves. In preparations with the epineural-perineural sheaths removed, banding was lost with tensions of 0.20 +/- 0.03 g and the nerves lengthened by 12.1 +/- 1.04%. The tensions needed were significantly lower than that for the sheathed and slit-sheath nerve groups. When cold-fixed, when banding was lost, the fibers were seen to be beaded. Banding of the desheathed nerves returned on relaxation of the nerves. However, after tensions of 8 g they showed plasticity in which the ends of the nerves needed to be pushed together to initiate rebanding in comparison to sheathed or sheath-slit nerves which rebanded spontaneously following relaxation after even higher tensions of 40 g. At the highest tensions the nerves remained extended and could not be forcibly rebanded.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
When the nerves are lightly stretched and fixed by freeze-substitution, their fibers show the form-change termed &quot;beading&quot; which consists of a series of undulating constrictions and swellings in the internodes. This form change has not ordinarily been seen in chemically fixed nerves, or when it has, it has been ascribed to a pathological change or an artifact. We now report that beading is also retained in normal nerves when, following a light maintained stretch, they are fixed with aldehydes at a temperature close to 0 degrees C. The degree of beading in single fibers teased from the aldehyde fixed nerves was graded and found to be maximal at 0 degrees C, falling off with increased temperature until, at temperatures above 16 degrees C, most fibers showed no beading or a very mild beading. The fibers of nerves cold-fixed at 0 degrees C displayed the characteristics as freeze-substituted fibers, but with a somewhat smaller number of maximally beaded fibers and an 18% reduction in microtubule numbers in the axons. Desheathing or slitting the sheaths of the nerves before cold-fixation increased the probability of retaining beading. Exposure of stretched nerves to the aldehyde fixative at room temperatures for times as short as 3-5 min before they were cold-fixed showed a diminished degree of beading, indicating that aldehydes can have a deleterious effect on the beading mechanism which we hypothesize to be present in the fiber. This action is distinct from the general cross-linking action of aldehydes.
The subpopulation of myenteric neurons able to synthesize nitric oxide was studied quantitatively in the adult rat, using the NADPH-diaphorase histochemical method on whole-mount preparations of distended distal ileum. The spatial density of NADPH-diaphorase-positive myenteric neurons was 2388 +/- 193/cm2 (S.D.; five rats), comprising about 27% of the nerve cell bodies per ganglion. Most neurons were intensely stained and displayed predominantly a Dogiel type I morphology; about 8% of the labelled nerve cells were ovoid neurons, exhibiting a pale cytoplasmic reaction product. The mean somatic size of all NADPH-diaphorase-positive myenteric neurons was 446 +/- 40 microns2, with a mean nuclear size of 96 +/- 18 microns2 (mean values +/- S.D.; five rats). Such values fell exactly within the range of neuronal sizes of the total myenteric population, marked by means of NADH-diaphorase histochemistry. Therefore, the morphometric analysis did not identify any peculiar cell size feature, characterizing this specific nerve cell subpopulation. Thus, the present study provides quantitative data on the size, density and proportion of those myenteric neurons that may synthesize nitric oxide in the distal ileum of the rat.
An antibody to cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase, purified from rat liver, has been used for the immunohistochemical localization of cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase-like immunoreactivity in the rat central nervous system. The distribution of this immunoreactivity has been confirmed using in situ hybridization with specific cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase antisense DNA probes. Cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase immunoreactivity was detected in neurons and was found in some glial populations. Immunoreactivity and in situ messenger RNA signals were present in many forebrain areas including the olfactory bulb, in the cerebral cortex, caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, hypothalamus, thalamus and hippocampus. Cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase was also detected in the nucleus of the posterior commissure, superior colliculus, intermediate gray layer, periaqueductal gray and in the molecular, Purkinje and granular layers of the cerebellum. In the brain stem, cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase was detected in the substantia nigra, nucleus locus coeruleus and raphe nucleus. Western blotting studies revealed the brain immunoreactive protein has a mol. wt of approximately 72,000, as reported for cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase purified from rat brain microsomes. The distribution of cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase immunoreactivity was compared with the distribution of cells exhibiting NADPH diaphorase activity, which has been established as a histochemical marker for neuronal nitric oxide synthase, an enzyme which has a C-terminus with some structural similarity with cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase and catalyses a complex reaction resulting in the synthesis of nitric oxide from arginine. In general, cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase immunoreactivity and nitric oxide synthase diaphorase activity did not co-localize; however, some neuronal populations did express nitric oxide synthase and exhibit cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase immunoreactivity. Results of immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization experiments suggest cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase is widespread in the rat central nervous system. The distribution pattern of cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase did not match with those of any one neurotransmitter; however, it did coincide with some brain regions known to harbour central catecholaminergic neurons. The general distribution of cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase was similar to the distribution reported for haeme oxygenase 2 and several cytochrome P450 enzymes. It is possible that malfunctions in cytochrome P450 enzyme systems and/or the haeme oxygenase 2 pathways, both of which involve cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase, may have implications in neurodegenerative diseases.
The distribution of manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase, an enzyme that transforms superoxide radicals into hydrogen peroxide, was studied in the human brain post mortem using a sheep polyclonal antiserum raised against the enzyme from liver mitochondria. One band, corresponding to a protein of 22,000 mol. wt was detected in the human brain by western blot analysis. At the light-microscopy level, a punctate immunostaining was observed in the neuropil and in some but not all, glial and neuronal cell bodies. Electron-microscopy revealed that the staining was exclusively confined to the inner mitochondrial membrane. A heterogeneous distribution of manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase was observed in the human brain. In the forebrain, numerous immunostained neurons were detected in the striatum, thalamus, pallidal complex and the nucleus basalis of Meynert. In the cerebellum, only granular and Purkinje cells were immunostained. Various nuclei from the brainstem displayed superoxide dismutase immunoreactivity, including the cranial nerve nuclei, the nucleus supratrochlearis, the red nucleus, the substantia nigra, the nucleus cuneiformis and subcuneiformis, the nucleus parabigeminal, the nucleus centralis superior, the nucleus supraspinalis, the nucleus of the medullae oblongata and the gigantocellularis nucleus. Large pyramidal neurons containing superoxide dismutase were detected in the CA subsectors, the hilus of the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex. Smaller immunostained neurons were also observed in layers I, IV and VI of all cortical regions studied. The distribution of immunostained glial cells was more limited, and restricted to the internal and external capsules, the hypothalamus, the red nucleus, the pyramidal white matter and surrounding areas, the cerebral cortex and the sub-ependymal layer, the alveus and the stratum oriens of the hippocampus. This heterogeneous but not ubiquitous distribution of cells expressing manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase suggests that not all cells in the human brain are protected to the same extent against the deleterious effects of superoxide.
Calbindin and the more recently identified protein calretinin are structurally related calcium-binding proteins having a broad distribution in the brain. Recent evidence supports a neuroprotective role for calbindin in regulating calcium homeostasis during periods of heightened Ca2+ influx. It is not known if calretinin might have a similar function. We investigated if calretinin-containing neurons have a survival advantage in rat neocortical cultures treated with a calcium ionophore or excitatory amino acids. Neuronal cultures were challenged with the calcium ionophore A23187 at different concentrations to produce a broad range of cell death. Cell loss was quantified for both the calretinin immunopositive and the calretinin immunonegative populations of neurons. We found that 3 h after exposure to 2 microM A23187 there was a 48% loss of the calretinin immunonegative population of neurons whereas the calretinin immunopositive set of neurons was reduced by only 18%. Calretinin positive neurons were still relatively spared after treatment with 3 microM A23187. The ionophore had no cytotoxic effect when calcium ions were removed from the extracellular medium. We also studied glutamate excitotoxicity by treating the neuronal cultures with the excitatory amino acids glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate or kainate for 5 min and examining survival three hours later. We found again that calretinin-containing neurons were relatively spared after exposure to the excitatory amino acids; at doses of N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate that produced a 32-40% loss of calretinin immunonegative neurons, only 2-10% of calretinin immunopositive neurons died. Similar results were obtained for glutamate. These results demonstrate that neurons containing calretinin are better able to survive disturbances in calcium homeostasis than cells not containing this calcium-binding protein. The fact that this effect was observed with ionophore treatment, as well as excitatory amino acids, suggests that neither the density nor distribution of glutamate receptors on the different cell types was a factor in determining selective vulnerability. We hypothesize that the neuroprotective effect of calretinin is due to the buffering capacities of the protein in a manner analogous to that suggested for calbindin.
In mice carrying the weaver mutation there is a spontaneous degeneration of dopaminergic neurons that is heterogeneous among cell groups: nigrostriatal neurons are more affected than mesolimbic neurons, while involvement of the mesocortical system is controversial. We questioned whether the pattern of cell loss in mesencephalon and fiber depletion in telencephalon could be related to the differential content of Calbindin-D28k in dopaminergic cells. The mesencephalon of seven-month-old mutants was serially sectioned and alternate series were immunostained with tyrosine hydroxylase and Calbindin-D28k. Cell counts indicated a 40% loss for the ensemble of dopamine mesencephalic neurons. However, double-immunostained preparations revealed that this cell loss was restricted to the neurons that lacked Calbindin-D28k, which were reduced by 72%, while the dopaminergic neurons containing Calbindin-D28k were completely spared. Calbindin-D28k was present in both the cytoplasm and nucleus of the dopaminergic cells. This nuclear localization was confirmed at the ultrastructural level. In the telencephalon of weaver mutants, areas receiving projections from the Calbindin-D28k-positive dopaminergic neurons, such as the cerebral cortex, contained normal densities of fibers, while areas harboring projections from the non-Calbindin-D28k dopaminergic neurons, such as the dorsal striatum, had reduced amounts of fibers. The vulnerability pattern in the mesencephalon of weaver mutants bears similarities to that described in idiopathic Parkinson's disease or in N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced Parkinsonism: Calbindin-D28k may thus delimit a group of dopaminergic neurons resistant to cell death in different conditions. On the other hand, the vulnerability pattern of dopaminergic fibers in weaver differs from that of Parkinson's disease, since there is a complete sparing of the dopaminergic mesocortical projection in weaver, contrasting with the damage of these projections in Parkinson's disease.
The rat substantia nigra zona reticulata contains a high density of binding sites for glibenclamide, an adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium channel inhibitor, but the precise location of glibenclamide binding sites within this area has not previously been examined. By combining neurochemical lesion and autoradiographical studies we have shown that high affinity [3H]glibenclamide binding sites are located on striatonigral terminals. Unilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine into the medial forebrain bundle or of quinolinic acid into the striatum were performed in anaesthetized adult rats to lesion the nigrostriatal and striatonigral pathways respectively. Autoradiography was performed on coronal sections of midbrain with [3H]glibenclamide, [3H]YM-09151-2 (dopamine D2 receptor antagonist) and [3H]SCH 23390 (dopamine D1 receptor antagonist) at three rostrocaudal levels of the substantia nigra. Under the conditions of the incubation [3H]glibenclamide binds primarily to the high affinity site. Following the 6-hydroxydopamine nigrostriatal lesion, D2 receptor binding was reduced (by up to 67%) on the lesioned side at all three levels of the substantia nigra whereas D1 receptor and glibenclamide binding were not significantly affected. In contrast, following striatonigral pathway lesion with quinolinic acid D2 receptor binding was unchanged on the lesioned side, but both D1 receptor and glibenclamide binding were reduced at all three levels (by up to 85% and 63% in the area of maximum lesion, respectively). In adjacent sections, the pattern of D1 binding loss was closely paralleled by the loss of glibenclamide binding. These results demonstrate that the high affinity glibenclamide binding sites of the substantia nigra zona reticulata are, at least in part, located on the terminals of striatonigral projection neurons.
Dopamine D2 receptors were inactivated by N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2,-dihydroxy-quinoline (EEDQ) (6 mg/kg i.p.). The reduction in dopamine receptors was monitored by quantitative receptor autoradiography using [125I]iodosulpiride or [3H]raclopride as radioligands. Pretreatment of male rats with haloperidol (0.3-3 mumol/kg i.p.) produced a dose-related, complete protection against the decrease in [125I]iodosulpiride binding induced by EEDQ in the dorsal and ventral striata and in all cortical areas examined. Raclopride (0.25-10 mumol/kg i.p.) produced the same pattern of effect as haloperidol but had a weaker effect. In contrast, remoxipride (1-40 mumol/kg i.p. or s.c.) only produced a partial protection against the dopamine D2 receptor inactivation by EEDQ. The results in the EEDQ test were related to the potency to block d-amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion and the ability to induce bar-test catalepsy in the rat. The potencies in the behavioural tests were found to correspond to the in vivo occupancy for dopamine D2 receptors as evaluated by the EEDQ-induced decrease in D2 binding. However, remoxipride differed from both haloperidol and raclopride by showing a much reduced occupancy of dopamine D2 receptors at doses with behaviourally equipotent effects. The results support earlier suggestions that remoxipride in vivo may act on a subpopulation of dopamine D2 receptors.
Excitotoxic striatal lesions induced by quinolinic acid, a model for Huntington's disease, were used to test for neuroprotective actions of nerve growth factor on striatal cholinergic and GABAergic neurons. Expressions of the trkA receptor for nerve growth factor, choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase were analysed by messenger RNA in situ hybridization in adult rats following quinolinic acid lesion (150 nmol) and daily striatal administration of nerve growth factor (1 microgram) or control protein (cytochrome C) for one week. One week after toxin administration, the numbers of cells expressing trkA or choline acetyltransferase messenger RNAs were decreased when compared with unlesioned animals. Moreover, the surviving cells showed a strong down-regulation of these messenger RNAs as deduced from grain count analysis of sections processed for emulsion autoradiography. Daily intrastriatal nerve growth factor administration for one week completely prevented the reduction in the number of cells expressing either of the two markers. Nerve growth factor treatment increased the cellular expression of choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA three times above control levels and restored the levels of trk A messenger RNA expression to control levels. In contrast to the protective effects on cholinergic cells, nerve growth factor treatment failed to attenuate the quinolinic acid-induced decrease in glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA levels. Optical density measurements of the entire striatum on autoradiographs of brain sections from quinolinic acid-lesioned animals revealed a reduction of the glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA-specific hybridization signal, which was unaltered by infusion of nerve growth factor or control protein. Our findings strongly suggest that in both the intact and the quinolinic acid-lesioned adult rat striatum, nerve growth factor action is confined to trk A-expressing cholinergic neurons. Striatal glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA-expressing GABAergic neurons which degenerate in Huntington's disease are not responsive to nerve growth factor.
We have previously isolated a full-length cDNA clone encoding rat TrkC, a member of the Trk family of tyrosine kinase receptors, that specifically mediates biological responses to neurotrophin-3. Here, we report the identification of five major trkC transcripts in the adult and developing rat and mouse brain suggesting the presence of several TrkC receptors. Northern blot hybridizations revealed that three of these trkC transcripts (of 14, 3.9 and 4.8 kb) were poly(A)+ messenger RNAs, while the two others, of shorter size (1.1 and 0.7 kb), were poly(A)- messenger RNAs. All transcripts were expressed in 11 brain regions but poly(A)- messenger RNAs were found at much higher levels than poly(A)+ messenger RNAs in the cerebellum. Hybridization with five oligonucleotide and two complementary DNA probes, corresponding to different parts of the full-length trkC complementary DNA, revealed that the two poly(A)- transcripts may encode for receptors truncated in their extracellular and kinase intracellular domains. During ontogeny, poly(A)- trkC messenger RNAs were found at low amounts at prenatal and early postnatal ages with a drastic increase in the cerebellum at postnatal day 30. No poly(A)- transcript was identified for the trk B gene. In situ hybridization revealed that trkC messenger RNAs are expressed both in granular and Purkinje cells in the cerebellum. Northern blot on RNA extracted from mice mutant strains with degeneration of either granular or both granular and Purkinje cells suggested that poly(A)- and poly(A)+ trkC messenger RNAs are expressed within the same cells. We have demonstrated the existence of several trkC transcripts that differ both by their size and polyadenylation. This phenomenon could be of physiological relevance in regulating TrkC functions. To the best of our knowledge, this is an original feature for a mammalian gene expression. Studies focused on poly(A)- messenger RNAs could give rise to the identification of other genes expressed in a similar fashion.
Kynurenate is an endogenous antagonist of the ionotropic glutamate receptors. It is synthesized from kynurenine, a tryptophan metabolite, and a significant increase in its brain concentration could be useful in pathological situations. We attempted to increase its neosynthesis by modifying kynurenine catabolism. Several kynurenine analogues were synthesized and tested as inhibitors of kynurenine hydroxylase (E.C.1.14.13.9) and of kynureninase (E.C.3.7.1.3), the two enzymes which catalyse the conversion of kynurenine to excitotoxin quinolinate. Among these analogues we observed that nicotinylalanine, a compound whose pharmacological properties have previously been reported, had an IC50 of 900 +/- 180 microM as inhibitor of kynurenine hydroxylase and of 800 +/- 120 microM as inhibitor of kynureninase. In the search for more potent molecules we noticed that meta-nitrobenzoylalanine had an IC50 of 0.9 +/- 0.1 microM as inhibitor of kynurenine hydroxylase and of 100 +/- 12 microM as inhibitor of kynureninase. When administered to rats meta-nitrobenzoylalanine (400 mg/kg) significantly increased the concentration of kynurenine (up to 10 times) and kynurenate (up to five times) in the brain. Similar results were obtained in the blood and in the liver. Furthermore meta-nitrobenzoylalanine increased in a dose dependent, long lasting (up to 13 times and up to 4 h) manner the concentration of kynurenate in the hippocampal extracellular fluid, as evaluated with a microdialysis technique. This increase was associated with a decrease in the locomotor activity and with protection from maximal electroshock-induced seizures in rats or from audiogenic seizures in DBA/2 mice. The conclusions drawn from the present study are: (i) meta-nitrobenzoylalanine is a potent inhibitor of kynurenine hydroxylase also affecting kynureninase; (ii) the inhibition of these enzymes causes a significant increase in the brain extracellular concentration of kynurenate; (iii) this increase is associated with sedative and anticonvulsant actions, suggesting a functional antagonism of the excitatory amino acid receptors.
To identify potential sites of synaptic modification of intrinsic cortical circuits, the contribution of the N-methyl-D-aspartate type of glutamate receptors to field potentials evoked in horizontal and oblique intracortical pathways was examined in rat motor cortex slice preparations. Presumably monosynaptic, short latency responses with a prominent negativity (-0.4 to -2.0 mV) were recorded in both superficial (across layer III) and deep (across layer V) horizontal pathways at a distance of approximately equal to 500 microns lateral to electrical stimulation sites and in oblique V-III pathway (-0.3 to -1.6 mV). Bath application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (100 microM) reversibly decreased field potentials. Although decreases were observed in all components of the waveform, the most pronounced effect was on the late phase of the response. D,L-2-Amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid produced on average a 22% decrease in area, 12% in initial slope and 11% in peak amplitude of responses. Combined application of 100 microM D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitro- or 6,7-dinitro-quinoxaline-2,3- dione (10-20 microM), eliminated all but a small, early and presumably non-synaptic response. In 18 of 23 cases, the relative contribution of the D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid-sensitive component was unrelated to field potential magnitude, suggesting that this component is present in all fiber classes. It is concluded that glutamate is the major transmitter of horizontal connections of layers II/III and layer V, as well as in the oblique V-III pathway. While most glutamatergic transmission is relayed by other glutamate receptor subtypes, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation contributes a small but consistent part of ordinary transmission in each of these pathways in vitro. The results further suggest that a potential for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic modification exists in intrinsic horizontal pathways of both superficial and deep layers of rat motor cortex.
The development and plasticity of axons and dendrites in mammalian neurons may depend on the presence and phosphorylation state of cytoskeletal proteins, including certain microtubule-associated proteins. One of these proteins, microtubule-associated protein 1B, is modified by different protein kinases, which give rise to two major types of phosphorylated isoforms. The distribution of these isoforms in cultured hippocampal neurons has been studied using antibodies to specific phosphorylation-sensitive epitopes. Mode I-phosphorylated MAP1B is largely restricted to developing axonal processes, particularly at their distal regions including their growth cones where no mode I-dephosphorylated MAP1B is present. Axonal maturation is accompanied by dephosphorylation of MAP1B at mode I sites. Thus, mode I-phosphorylated MAP1B may be a marker for axonal growth. In contrast, mode II-phosphorylated MAP1B is abundant in the axonal and somatodendritic compartments, and no increased dephosphorylation occurs during maturation. These results are compatible with a role for the mode I phosphorylation of MAP1B (which might be catalysed by proline-directed protein kinases) in supporting a rapid axonal-specific growth mechanism and a more general role for the mode II phosphorylation of MAP1B (which seems to be catalysed by casein kinase II) in controlling axonal and dendritic growth and remodeling.
The dentate gyrus of the rat produces new granule neurons well into adulthood. In the adult, newly born granule neurons migrate from the hilus to the granule cell layer, receive synaptic input, extend axons into the mossy fiber pathway, and express a neuronal marker. No previous studies have identified factors that regulate neuronal birth in the adult dentate gyrus. In order to determine whether glucocorticoids control neurogenesis in the adult dentate gyrus, the effects of adrenal steroid manipulations on neuronal birth were assessed using [3H]thymidine autoradiography and immunohistochemistry for the neuronal marker neuron specific enolase. Acute treatment with corticosterone produced a significant decrease in the density of [3H]thymidine-labeled cells in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. In contrast, removal of endogenous adrenal steroids stimulated increased neuronal birth; adrenalectomy resulted in a significant increase in the number of neuron specific enolase-immunoreactive [3H]thymidine labeled cells in the granule cell layer compared to sham operation. Replacement of corticosterone to adrenalectomized rats after [3H]thymidine injection did not substantially alter the increase in neurogenesis observed following adrenalectomy, even though this replacement protects cells from adrenalectomy-induced cell death. These results indicate that the rate of neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the adult rat is dependent upon the levels of circulating adrenal steroids.
The vesicles of postganglionic sympathetic axons store both noradrenaline and ATP. The theory of noradrenaline-ATP co-transmission implies that both compounds are released by nerve action potentials and elicit postjunctional effects. Many properties of postjunctional responses support the theory. However, neural release of ATP has been difficult to detect biochemically: by far the major part of the overflow of ATP from intact tissues upon sympathetic nerve stimulation comes from non-neural elements, especially smooth muscle and endothelial cells. Here we describe a parallel electrically evoked overflow of [3H]noradrenaline and endogenous ATP from cultured chick sympathetic neurons. The overflow was abolished by tetrodotoxin, omega-conotoxin and withdrawal of Ca2+, was increased by tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine, and was not changed by prazosin or suramin. The results demonstrate directly the action potential-evoked, Ca(2+)-dependent and presumably vesicular and exocytotic release of ATP from postganglionic sympathetic neurons. They support the co-transmitter theory and suggest that cultured sympathetic neurons are a preparation in which noradrenaline-ATP co-release can be examined free from postjunctional components.
Windup--the gradual increase of the response--of dorsal horn neurons to repeated activation of primary afferents is an elementary form of short-term plasticity that may mediate central sensitization to pain. In deep dorsal horn neurons of the turtle spinal cord in vitro we report windup of the response to repeated depolarizing current pulses as well as to repeated stimulation of the ipsilateral dorsal root. We found both forms of windup to be mediated by a depolarizing potential produced by increasing activation of postsynaptic L-type Ca2+ channels. These results suggest a central role for intrinsic postsynaptic properties in nociceptive plasticity and for L-type Ca2+ channels as a promising target for therapeutic intervention.
This study examined the effects of systemic treatments with dizocilpine maleate alone or in combination with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons on the number and staining intensity of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons in the rat striatum. In the combined condition, short-term and long-term treatments with dizocilpine maleate were started 19 days and 12 days after the lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, respectively. As reported previously, the unilateral dopaminergic lesion elicited an increase in both the number and staining intensity of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons in the ipsilateral striatum. Short-term treatment with dizocilpine maleate at the dose of 0.2 mg/kg (four injections, 6 h apart, sacrifice 2 h after the final dose), which by itself did not modify neuropeptide Y immunostaining, totally suppressed the effect of the dopaminergic deafferentation on the number of neuropeptide Y-positive neurons but not that on the intraneuronal amount of labelling. When administered twice a day for eight days at the same dose of 0.2 mg/kg, dizocilpine maleate by itself elicited an increase in the number of neuropeptide Y-immunodetectable cells, paradoxically concomitant with a decrease in the levels of intraneuronal labelling. After combination of this treatment with unilateral lesion of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway, the changes related to either the dizocilpine maleate treatment or the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion totally disappeared, so that the number and staining intensity of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons in that condition did not differ from control values.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The ventrolateral striatum has been shown to specifically contribute to expression of psychostimulant-induced orofacial stereotypies. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with bilateral cannulae directed at one of eight striatal subareas, and were injected with saline or amphetamine (20 micrograms/0.5 microliter/side) in a counterbalanced order. Behaviors were observed and scored using a time-sampling procedure. In the middle ventrolateral striatum, amphetamine injections produced intense stereotypy, primarily consisting of bar biting, non-injurious self-biting and repetitive paw-to-mouth movements, while having no effect on locomotion or rearing. Amphetamine injections 2 mm medial or 1 mm dorsal produced no oral stereotypy, while injections 1 mm rostral or caudal to the effective site produced only low levels of stereotypy. Injections into the surrounding sites, particularly in the ventromedial region, also had stimulatory effects on locomotion and rearing. In a separate experiment, animals were given either unilateral or bilateral injection of amphetamine into the ventrolateral striatum. The unilateral injection produced stereotypy half as intense as that observed with bilateral injections. These results suggest that the ventrolateral striatum is a discrete neuroanatomical region which is primarily responsible for expression of psychostimulant-induced orofacial stereotypies, and which is likely to be the striatal region controlling normal oral motor function. Further investigation of this area may provide valuable insights concerning the etiology and treatment of orofacial dyskinesias associated with basal ganglia dysfunction.
The specific binding of [3H]neurotensin, [3H]substance P, [3H]D-Ala2-D-Leu5-enkephalin (delta receptors) and [3H]-Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-(NMe)Phe-Gly-ol (mu receptors) were studied in membrane preparations of caudate nucleus, putamen, globus pallidus and substantia nigra from patients with Parkinson's disease and from age-matched controls. The density of neurotensin receptors was decreased in globus pallidus (lateral and medial segments) in parkinsonian brain. Substance P receptors were reduced in the putamen (anterior and posterior) and in lateral globus pallidus in Parkinson's disease. There was a reduction in the density of opioid receptors in posterior putamen and in mu receptors in caudate nucleus and putamen (anterior and posterior). No differences in neuropeptide receptor binding were observed in substantia nigra from parkinsonian brains compared with control subjects. The reductions in neuropeptide receptor density were less marked than the decrease in caudate and putamen content of dopamine and its metabolites. This suggests that neuropeptide receptors are only partially localized to striatal dopamine terminals.
The cellular localization of binding sites for the gastrointestinal peptides [3H]cholecystokinin and [125I]bombesin as well as the cholecystokininB-antagonist [3H]L-365,260 was investigated in explant cultures of rat cortex, cerebellum, brainstem and spinal cord using autoradiographic techniques. Many neurons in cortical, brainstem and spinal cord cultures revealed intense labelling of the radioligands whereas cerebellar neurons showed only little binding. In addition to neurons, binding sites for these peptides were also observed on astrocytes. Labelling of glial cells in cerebellar cultures was usually weaker than in the other CNS areas studied, suggesting a certain specialization of astrocytes in various brain regions. By means of combined immunohistochemical and autoradiographic techniques it was demonstrated that many neurons and astrocytes which expressed binding sites for [3H]cholecystokinin, [3H]L-365,260 and [125I]bombesin were also immunostained by the monoclonal muscarinic receptor antibody M 35 providing evidence for a co-localization of peptidergic and cholinergic receptors on the membrane of these cells. Our autoradiographic findings suggesting the presence of receptors for cholecystokinin and bombesin on astrocytes are supported by electrophysiological studies demonstrating that both peptides induce a hyperpolarization of glial cells.
Potassium depolarization can increase the intracellular ionized calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) of cultured astrocytes, but it is not known if astrocytes that have matured in the intact CNS also exhibit voltage-dependent [Ca2+]i signalling. To address this issue, fluorometric measurements of [Ca2+]i were obtained from astrocytes acutely isolated from young adult rat hippocampus. In control artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing 5 mM [K+]o, average resting [Ca2+]i was 195 nM. Elevation of [K+]o to 50 mM caused [Ca2+]i to increase 150 nM to 1 microM above resting levels. The threshold [K+]o necessary to evoke an elevation in [Ca2+]i was 20-25 mM, and the magnitude of the [Ca2+]i signal grew progressively with increasing [K+]o (up to 50 mM). These [Ca2+]i increases were blocked completely by removal of external Ca2+, and markedly suppressed by the calcium channel blockers verapamil (30 microM and greater) and Co2+ (1 mM). Neither reversal of Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange, nor Ca(2+)-activated Ca2+ release, nor Ca2+ influx through stretch-activated channels contributed to the [Ca2+]i increase. These results suggest that [K+]o-evoked [Ca2+]i signals are mediated by influx through voltage-gated calcium channels. In contrast to results from cultured astrocytes and acutely isolated neurons, these [Ca2+]i increases were insensitive to dihydropyridine compounds. We conclude that increases in interstitial [K+], observed in situ during several pathological conditions, trigger voltage-dependent [Ca2+]i signals in astroglial cells. This may constitute an important form of neuron-to-glial communication.
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive dementia characterized by pronounced degeneration of certain populations of neurons in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of the brain. One theory is that glutamate receptor-mediated toxicity plays a role in cell loss associated with Alzheimer's disease. We used in situ hybridization to examine GluR1, GluR2, and GluR3 messengerRNAs (encoding alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid/kainate receptor subunits) in sections of autopsy samples of Alzheimer's disease brains and age-, sex-, and post-mortem delay-matched brains from non-demented (control) subjects. GluR1 and GluR2 exhibited a heterogeneous distribution in control brain. GluR1 was expressed in granule cells of the dentate gyrus, in pyramidal cells of the CA1 and CA3 hippocampal subfields and in neurons of the subiculum and entorhinal cortex. GluR2 mRNA was at high density in the dentate gyrus and in CA3, but was at low density in CA1, subiculum, and entorhinal cortex. GluR3 hybridization was at very low levels but selectively localized to the dentate gyrus and CA3. In cerebellum, GluR1 was found in granule and Purkinje cell layers. In sections from Alzheimer's disease brain, a high degree of intersubject variability was observed: some samples showed markedly reduced GluR1 mRNA levels in dentate gyrus, CA1 and CA3 relative to controls; others showed no changes. Microscopic observation of emulsion-dipped sections revealed that the reduction of GluR1 seen in the dentate gyrus and CA3 of some Alzheimer's disease subjects was not due to cell loss.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Both glucocorticoids and serotonin have been implicated in the regulation of mood and neuroendocrine control. In this study we have examined the effects of the psychomotor stimulant, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine on corticosteroid and 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subtype gene expression within the hippocampal formation using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Animals were injected subcutaneously with 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (20 mg/kg) twice daily for four days. Two weeks following this dosage regimen, shown to markedly reduce 5-hydroxytryptamine terminals, both glucocorticoid receptor and mineralocorticoid receptor messenger RNA expression were significantly decreased (30-47% fall) in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus and pyramidal cells of CA1-CA4 fields of Ammon's horn, but not in parietal cortex neurons. In the same rats, 5-hydroxytryptamine1C receptor messenger RNA expression was significantly increased in CA3 pyramidal neurons (133% rise), but neither 5-hydroxytryptamine1A or 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptor messenger RNA levels were altered in any dorsal hippocampal subfield. 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine treatment was associated with modest hypersecretion of coricosterone during the diurnal nadir, without other peripheral evidence of chronic glucocorticoid excess (unchanged thymic and adrenal weights and corticosterone-binding globulin levels). These results emphasize the importance of the serotonergic innervation in maintaining hippocampal corticosteroid receptor gene expression. It is suggested that 5-hydroxytryptamine1C receptors may be involved in mediating the effects of serotonin on hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor and mineralocorticoid receptor expression and perhaps mood.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the nature of the effect of pertussis toxin on the responsiveness of two potentially distinct subgroups of postsynaptic serotonin1A (5-HT1A) receptors of rat hippocampus CA3 pyramidal neurons: those located at the level of the cell body, which can be activated by microiontophoretically-applied 5-HT1A receptor agonists, and those located on dendrites, which can be activated by endogenous serotonin released by the stimulation of the ascending serotoninergic pathway. The former receptors (denoted as extrasynaptic) have been previously demonstrated to be sensitive to pertussis toxin, whereas the latter (denoted as intrasynaptic) have been shown to be pertussis toxin-insensitive. Rats treated with the 5-HT1A receptor agonists flesinoxan or BMY 42568 were used to determine whether tonic activation of extrasynaptic 5-HT1A receptors would prevent their inactivation by pertussis toxin. A pretreatment with p-chlorophenylalanine was used to determine whether a serotonin depletion would render the intrasynaptic 5-HT1A receptors sensitive to pertussis toxin. The responsiveness of CA3 pyramidal neurons to the suppressant effects of microiontophoretically-applied serotonin, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamin)-tetralin, baclofen and GABA or to endogenously-released serotonin, elicited by the stimulation of the ascending serotoninergic pathway, was studied one to 10 days after the intrahippocampal injection of pertussis toxin. When compared to control saline-treated rats, the treatments with flesinoxan (5 mg/kg/day, s.c.) and BMY 42568 (5 mg/kg/day, s.c.) delivered for 14 days by osmotic minipumps, starting three days prior to the injection of pertussis toxin, significantly attenuated the effect of pertussis toxin on the responsiveness of CA3 pyramidal neurons to microiontophoretic applications of serotonin and 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin, as well as baclofen, an agonist of GABAB receptors, which share the same G proteins with 5-HT1A receptors. The two-day pretreatment with p-chlorophenylalanine (350 mg/kg/day, i.p.) did not render the intrasynaptic 5-HT1A receptors sensitive to pertussis toxin, as indicated by the unchanged efficacy of the stimulation of the ascending serotonin pathway in the suppressing the firing activity of CA3 dorsal hippocampus pyramidal neurons. Our results suggest that the sustained activation of extrasynaptic 5-HT1A receptors prevents the pertussis toxin-induced ADP ribosylation of G protein alpha subunit, and thereby protects an amount of G proteins sufficient to maintain the function, not only of 5-HT1A, but also of GABAB receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Overexpression of the proto-oncogene bcl-2 blocks programmed cell death in sympathetic and sensory neurons that normally die after the withdrawal of neurotrophic factors. The role of endogenous bcl-2 in the development and function of the peripheral and central nervous system is, however, not known. We have found that low levels of bcl-2 messenger RNA are widely distributed in the adult and developing rat brain. In situ hybridization localized bcl-2 messenger RNA in mitral cells of the olfactory bulb, granule and pyramidal neurons of hippocampus, pontine nuclei, cerebellar granule neurons, and in ependymal cells in adult rat brain. bcl-2 messenger RNA levels were higher in late prenatal development than in postnatal and adult brain. High levels of bcl-2 messenger RNA were expressed in the neuroepithelium and in the cortical plate in prenatal cortex. During postnatal development the distribution of the message resembled that found in adult brain. We have also tested the hypothesis that induction of bcl-2 messenger RNA expression might be part of the survival-promoting action of neurotrophic factors. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which supports survival of cultured cerebellar granule neurons, failed to influence the levels of bcl-2 messenger RNA in these cultures.
Flies acquire information about self-rotation via Coriolis forces detected by their moving halteres. Information processing in the haltere system was analysed by exploiting the method of simulating rotational stimuli by vibrating the fly's body and simultaneously observing compensatory head and wing reactions. Although the force acting on one haltere contains Coriolis terms for rotations about three orthogonal axes, the one-haltered fly has only two measuring axes which are coded in lateral force components. A fly with two halteres has two vertical measuring axes and two horizontal axes, the latter spanning an angle of about 120 degrees. Thus, three-dimensional turning information is acquired by bilateral computation in a highly non-orthogonal system. In the stimulus velocity range up to 1000 degrees/s, comparison of intact and one-haltered flies demonstrates that for the head roll reaction the inputs from both halteres are summated, whereas for the pitch reaction the summated inputs are modified by bilateral inhibition. This non-linear operation results in uniform gains and axis fidelity for all stimulus directions in the case of the head reaction. Response saturation at high velocities takes place after the bilateral summation. The functional consequences of non-orthogonality in the dipteran haltere system is apparently superior sensitivity for pitch compared to roll. Minimization of the &quot;area of confusion&quot;, an argument for orthogonality, seems to be of minor importance. The non-orthogonality necessitates a transformation from covariant projections to contravariant motor components. In tensor theory of the vestibulo-ocular reflex of vertebrates, this is widely assumed to be a linear operation performed by a metric tensor. The fly's solution is a linear tensor operation supplemented by a non-linear bilateral inhibition for the pitch reaction.
Severe mutations within the norpA gene of Drosophila abolish the photoreceptor potential and render the fly blind by deleting phospholipase C, an essential component of the phototransduction pathway. To study the membrane association of phospholipase C, we have utilized biochemical assays of phospholipase C activity, which predominant measurable phospholipase C activity in head homogenates has been shown to be encoded by norpA, as well as antisera generated against the major gene product of norpA to examine its subcellular distribution before and during phototransduction. We find that both phospholipase C activity and the norpA protein are predominantly associated with membrane fractions in heads of both light- and dark-adapted flies. Moreover, phospholipase C activity as well as norpA protein can be easily extracted from membrane preparations of light- or dark-adapted flies using high salt, indicating that the norpA protein is peripherally localized on the membrane. These data suggest that the norpA encoded phospholipase C of Drosophila is a permanent peripheral membrane protein. If this is indeed the case, then it would mean that the reversible redistribution of phospholipase C from the cytosol to the membrane, as observed in epidermal growth factor receptor stimulation of mammalian phospholipase C gamma, is not a universal mechanism utilized by all types of phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C.
The morphological and biochemical changes were studied in adult Sprague-Dawley rats after hemisection at the L3 spinal cord level. After survival periods of one, two and three months, fluorescent tracers, FluoroGold or rhodamine B, were implanted into the dorsal white columns of these rats at the positions of the corticospinal tract below the lesion. Following uptake of the tracer, the rats were killed and the motor cortices and spinal cords of both control and hemisected rats were analysed for positively labelled neurons. The highest number of labelled cells were found two months after hemisection. They were present in both sides of the cortices, particularly in the contralateral cortex, and also in the gray matter of the spinal cord above the hemisection. A few rats which were subjected to complete transection of the spinal cord also showed labelling of neurons in the motor cortex two months after lesion. The Protargol silver technique and the [3H]choline uptake study confirmed the presence of nerve fibres traversing the lesion site in the hemisected spinal cord. Furthermore, when the rats that had been hemisected two months earlier were subjected to a second cut at the same site, chromatolytic neurons were observed in the spinal cord as well as in the motor cortices of both sides. The hemisected rats demonstrated limited recovery in limb movement. The evidence of this study clearly shows that sprouting of nerve fibres has occurred in the lesioned adult rat spinal cord.
The dentate gyrus in rat hippocampal slices produces spontaneous, prolonged bursts of population spikes (i.e. prolonged field bursts) when [Ca2+]0 is lowered (0-0.5 mM) and [K+]0 is concurrently elevated (9-11 mM). In this investigation we examined whether the dentate gyrus could also generate spontaneous field bursts in relatively &quot;normal&quot; (i.e. nominal 1.3 mM) or only moderately decreased [Ca2+]0 (i.e. nominal 0.9 mM). In 1.3 mM [Ca2+]0, no prolonged field bursts occurred spontaneously in the dentate gyrus when [K+]0 was raised as high as 12 mM. Prolonged field bursts were generated, however, when [K+]0 was further increased to 13-15 mM. Similar bursts could be generated at [K+]0 within the &quot;physiological ceiling level&quot; observed in vivo during seizure activity (i.e. 11-12 mM) if: (i) the bath [Ca2+] was reduced to 0.9 mM; or (ii) the GABA type A-receptor antagonist bicuculline was added in the presence of &quot;normal&quot; (1.3 mM) [Ca2+]0. Adding both the N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (50-100 microM) and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (50-100 microM), respectively, did not block the occurrence of the field bursts. The bursts generated in 1.3 mM [Ca2+]0, 12 mM [K+]0, bicuculline, (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione could, however, be reversibly depressed or blocked if [Ca2+]0a was raised to 2.0 mM.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The organization of neuropeptide Y-containing profiles in the dorsal horn of cat lumbosacral spinal cord was examined in an immunocytochemical study employing a specific antiserum against neuropeptide Y. Light-microscopic inspection revealed heavy concentrations of immunoreactive axons and varicosities within the superficial layers of the dorsal horn (laminae I and II) and only low to moderate numbers of positive terminals in the deeper layers (laminae III-VI). Neuropeptide-Y immunoreactivity in the superficial laminae occurred primarily as single punctate terminals, although in sagittal sections long rostrocaudally orientated fibres were also found. Immunoreactive fibres in the deeper layers were usually long and beaded. Two-hundred and eight neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive profiles throughout laminae I-VI were examined through serial sections with the electron microscope, and the overwhelming majority (n = 194) was confirmed to be axon terminals, most of which (95%) formed synaptic junctions. These terminals were packed with small irregularly shaped agranular vesicles, together with a number of large dense-core vesicles. Immunoreactivity was homogeneously scattered throughout the cytoplasm, and was also associated with the dense-core vesicles. A few neuropeptide Y-containing profiles (n = 14) were difficult to classify but they could have been vesicle-containing dendrites. The postsynaptic targets of neuropeptide Y-positive terminals were similar throughout each dorsal horn lamina. Most frequently, neuropeptide Y-positive boutons formed axodendritic and axosomatic synaptic junctions (range = 64% of synapses in laminae V/VI to 83% in lamina III). A smaller proportion of synapses were found upon other axon terminals and in laminae I-III the postsynaptic axon terminals were sometimes the central boutons of glomeruli. A number of terminals, especially those in lamina II, formed multiple synapses which often comprised a triadic arrangement. These findings suggest that neuropeptide Y regulates spinal sensory transmission through both a postsynaptic action upon dorsal horn neurons and a presynaptic action upon primary afferent terminals.
The amphibian Xenopus laevis is able to adapt the colour of its skin to the light intensity of the background, by releasing alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone from the pars intermedia of the hypophysis. In this control various inhibitory (dopamine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, neuropeptide Y, noradrenaline) and stimulatory (thyrotropin-releasing hormone and corticotropin-releasing hormone) neural factors are involved. Dopamine, gamma-aminobutyric acid and neuropeptide Y are present in suprachiasmatic neurons and co-exist in synaptic contacts on the melanotrope cells in the pars intermedia, whereas noradrenaline occurs in the locus coeruleus and noradrenaline-containing fibres innervate the pars intermedia. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone and corticotropin-releasing hormone occur in axon terminals in the pars nervosa. In the present study, the neuronal origins of these factors have been identified using axonal tract tracing. Application of the tracers 1,1'dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3' tetramethyl indocarbocyanine and horseradish peroxidase into the pars intermedia resulted in labelled neurons in two brain areas, which were immunocytochemically identified as the suprachiasmatic nucleus and the locus coeruleus, indicating that these areas are involved in neural inhibition of the melanotrope cells. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone and corticotropin-releasing hormone were demonstrated immunocytochemically in the magnocellular nucleus. This area appeared to be labelled upon tracer application into the pars nervosa. This finding is in line with the idea that corticotropin-releasing hormone and thyrotropin-releasing hormone stimulate melanotrope cell activity after diffusion from the neural lobe to the pars intermedia. After anterograde filling of the optic nerve with horseradish peroxidase, labelled axons were traced up to the suprachiasmatic area where they showed to be in contact with suprachiasmatic neurons. These neurons showed a positive reaction with anti-neuropeptide Y and the same held for staining with anti-tyrosine hydroxylase. It is suggested that a retino-suprachiasmatic pathway is involved in the control of the melanotrope cells during the process of background adaptation.
The patterns of projections from the hamster suprachiasmatic nucleus, retrochiasmatic area and subpraventricular hypothalamic zone were examined using anterograde tracing with the plant lectin, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. Suprachiasmatic nucleus efferents comprise four major fiber groups: (i) an anterior projection to the ventral lateral septum, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and anterior paraventricular thalmus; (ii) a periventricular hypothalamic projection extending from the preoptic region to the premammillary area; (iii) a lateral thalamic projection to the intergeniculate leaflet and ventral lateral geniculate; and (iv) a posterior projection to the posterior paraventricular thalamus, precommissural nucleus and olivary pretectal nucleus. The retrochiasmatic area showed a similar projection pattern with several major exceptions. There are projections to endopiriform cortex, fundus striati, ventral pallidum, horizontal limb of the nucleus of the diagonal band and three separate routes to the amygdala. There are also projections laterally with fibers of the supraoptic commissures, which enter the superior thalamic radiation and innervate the caudal dorsomedial thalamic nuclei. Other fibers traveling with the commissures terminate in the ventral zona incerta. The subparaventricular zone projects to most targets of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, but not to the intergeniculate leaflet. There is a substantial input to both the subparaventricular zone and retrochiasmatic area from the suprachiasmatic nucleus, but little apparent reciprocity. There is extensive overlap of suprachiasmatic nuclei and retrochiasmatic efferents, and between retrochiasmatic and known medial amygdaloid efferents. The anatomical information is discussed in the context of circadian rhythm regulation, photoperiodism and chemosensory pathways controlling male hamster reproductive behavior.
Single-channel currents produced by alpha-latrotoxin from the black widow spider venom were recorded on Xenopus oocytes injected with rat brain messenger RNA fraction of 7-8 kb. Single-channel conductance varied from 3 pS to 200 pS and sublevels of similar conductance were observed at both normal and high external concentration of Ca2+. Currents reversed at 0 mV, and the channels were permeable to Ca2+, Na+ and K+ indicating non-selective cation channel produced by the toxin. Ca2+ stabilized the channel mainly at one conducting sublevel. Studies of channel kinetics indicated that openings co-operated into groups of bursts. Within these groups the histograms of closed and open times showed two exponentials with mean times near 1.5 ms and 20 ms for the closed time histogram and 85 ms and 300 ms for the open time histogram at -40 mV. Open times increased with membrane hyperpolarization while closed times did not. Open probability was near 0.8 and slightly increased with hyperpolarization. Elevation of external Ca2+ or toxin concentration promoted the appearance of groups of burst openings while within these groups, the single-channel conductance, the reversal potential and channel kinetics did not depend on Ca2+ or toxin concentration. On the basis of the experimental results, the kinetic mechanism of toxin action has been proposed. The data strongly suggest that alpha-latrotoxin molecules are cation channels associated into clusters that insert into the membrane after binding to the receptor located at active zones of synaptic transmission. Binding and synchronization of channel openings in a cluster are promoted by Ca2+. Influx of Ca2+ through this near permanently open cation channel seems to induce intensive synaptic vesicle fusion and massive neurotransmitter release.
GABAergic neurons in laminae I-III of the spinal dorsal horn may contain one or more of the following compounds: glycine, acetylcholine, neuropeptide Y, enkephalin, nitric oxide synthase or parvalbumin. Although the pattern of co-localization of some of these compounds is understood, it is not known which types of GABAergic neurons contain parvalbumin, or whether nitric oxide synthase coexists with peptides, acetylcholine or parvalbumin in any of these neurons, and in this study we have used immunocytochemistry and enzyme histochemistry to resolve these issues. Parvalbumin-immunoreactivity was restricted to those GABA-immunoreactive neurons that also showed glycine-immunoreactivity and was not co-localized with neuropeptide Y-immunoreactivity or NADPH diaphorase activity. By combining NADPH diaphorase histochemistry with immunocytochemistry with an antiserum to nitric oxide synthase, we were able to show that NADPH diaphorase activity was a reliable marker for nitric oxide synthase in the spinal cord. Neurons that possess GABA- but not glycine-immunoreactivity may contain neuropeptide Y, enkephalin, acetylcholine or NADPH diaphorase, and all of the cholinergic neurons appear to contain NADPH diaphorase. By combining immunofluorescent detection of neuropeptide Y or enkephalin with NADPH diaphorase histochemistry, we showed that peptide-immunoreactivity did not coexist with NADPH diaphorase. This suggests that neither of these peptides coexists with nitric oxide synthase or with acetylcholine in neurons in the superficial dorsal horn. Several phenotypically distinct groups of GABA-immunoreactive neuron can therefore be identified in laminae I-III of the dorsal horn, and these may represent different functional types of inhibitory neuron.
We investigated the putative role of nitric oxide in the expression of neuronal injury following both transient severe forebrain ischemia (CA1 neuronal injury) and transient or permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (neocortical pannecrosis). Using the four-vessel occlusion model and increasing doses of N-omega-nitro-L-arginine, 2-40 mg/kg, we were unable to demonstrate any reduction in the percentage of CA1 cells injured following 10 min of transient severe forebrain ischemia followed by seven days of reperfusion. Higher doses proved toxic insofar as they increased the mortality following the ischemic insult. Saline-treated animals (n = 8) had 77 +/- 10% CA1 injury while those treated with 2 mg/kg of nitro-arginine i.v. had 80 +/- 7% (n = 7), and those with 10 mg/kg i.v. had 78 +/- 11% (n = 8). Two of five rats given 20 mg/kg i.v., three of eight given 40 mg/kg i.v., and two of six given 10 mg/kg i.v. followed by 3 x 10 mg/kg i.p., died. Of those treated with high-dose nitro-arginine and which survived ischemia and seven days' reperfusion, no significant reduction in CA1 injury was detected. Wistar rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats treated with either saline or nitro-arginine i.v. were exposed to 2 h of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 22 h of reperfusion. There were seven animals in each group. Wistars treated with saline had 198 +/- 67 mm3 (mean +/- S.D.) of neocortical infarction, and those treated with 10 m/kg of nitro-arginine i.v. had 199 +/- 93 mm3. Spontaneously hypertensive rats, transiently ischemic, treated with saline had 164 +/- 25 mm3 of infarct volume, while those treated with 2 mg/kg i.v. had 151 +/- 53 mm3, and those treated with 10 mg/kg i.v. had 145 +/- 29 mm3. Animals treated with 40 mg/kg i.v. had a nonsignificantly larger mean infarct volume (191 +/- 81 mm3). High dose nitro-arginine caused an increase in hypertension in the spontaneously hypertensive rats and increased the severity of focal ischemia as measured by intra-ischemic regional cerebral blood flows. A final group of seven spontaneously hypertensive rats underwent permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion and repeated dosing with N-omega-nitro-L-arginine i.p. In these animals an infarct volume of 234 +/- 60 mm3 was observed, which was again not statistically different from saline-treated controls (208 +/- 43 mm3, n = 7).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
This double-blind case-control study on hand-arm vibration syndrome was sponsored by the Society of Occupation Medicine Golden Jubilee Travelling Scholarship Committee in 1987. It involved collaborative work between the author and the Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki, Finland. The procedure consisted of administration of a questionnaire, clinical examination of subjects in the study group and depth-sense esthesiometry for all subjects including the controls. Of 34 subjects admitted to the study, 14 out of 15 patients were positively diagnosed as suffering from the syndrome and one out of 19 in the control group had a false positive result. The study showed that the new esthesiometer, although not totally objective, could be regarded as an effective tool for the diagnosis of hand-arm vibration syndrome in clinical and field studies.
A linker insertion mutagenesis strategy was developed to probe functional subdomains of the RIIA Na+ channel alpha-subunit. We describe mutations within the first two repeat domains that provide new functional information for three segments of the channel structure. 1. The insertion of two alanine residues within the short peptide segment joining helices S4 and S5 in domain II had two effects: a depolarizing shift of steady-state activation and reduced single-channel currents. These results suggest that the peptide segment following the S4 voltage sensor is involved in the activation process and is facing the ion pore. 2. An insertion immediately N-terminal to the proposed transmembrane helix S1 in domain II shifted the steady-state activation in the depolarizing direction, suggesting a functional role in channel gating. 3. Insertions in the large, cytoplasmic loop between domains I and II affect two channel functions: inactivation and protein kinase A modulation. These results demonstrate that the linker insertion approach can provide novel insights into the structure-function relationships of large, multi-domain ion channel proteins.
The effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (NAME), a potent inhibitor of nitric oxide (NO) synthase, injected into different brain areas on penile erection and yawning induced by apomorphine or oxytocin was studied in male rats. The compound was found to be able to prevent the above behavioral responses dose dependently when injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), but not in the caudate nucleus, medial septum, preoptic area, and the CA1 field of the hippocampus. When injected in the PVN, 5 micrograms of NAME induced a 30% reduction of apomorphine and oxytocin responses, while 20 micrograms induced an almost complete reduction. The effect of NAME seems to be related to the inhibition of guanylate cyclase secondary to the prevention of NO formation, because a dose-dependent reduction of apomorphine and oxytocin responses was obtained also with the inhibitor of guanylate cyclase methylene blue injected intracerebroventricularly (100-400 micrograms ICV), but not into the PVN. The results provide further support for a neurotransmitter role of central NO in the control of penile erection and yawning.
In addition to neuromodulation, endogenous opioids also serve as growth factors. To investigate the possible involvement of opioid peptides in the renewal of epithelium, mice were given systemic injections of the opioid antagonist, naltrexone (NTX) (10 mg/kg). Disruption of opioid-receptor interaction by NTX resulted in an elevation (43-150% from control levels) of the number of basal epithelial cells undergoing DNA synthesis in the tip, dorsal, and ventral surfaces of the tongue. This stimulatory effect lasted up to 8 h following drug exposure, and was recorded at 1700 h but not 0700 h. These results are the first indication that endogenous opioids function in cellular renewal processes, and do so in a circadian rhythm-dependent manner.
BALB/c mice were unilaterally implanted with a guide cannula, the tip of which was positioned 1.5 mm above either the lateral hypothalamus (LH) the medial hypothalamus (MH), the mesencephalic central gray area (CG), or either the dorsal (DRF) or ventral parts (VRF) of the reticular formation. On each day of the experimental period a stainless steel injection cannula was inserted into these brain structures to compare the self-administration of two doses of morphine (5 ng or 50 ng), using a spatial discrimination task in a Y-maze. At the dose of 5 ng, LH-, MH-, CG-, and VRF-injected mice all showed a regular self-administration response. At the dose of 50 ng, a discrimination between the reinforced arm and the neutral arm of the Y-maze was observed in LH-, MH-, and VRF-injected mice. Animals of the MH group exhibited the highest level of discrimination performance. At this dose, long injection latencies (&gt; 15 min) were recorded in the CG group, which constrained us to reduce the number of daily trials from 10 to 4. In these modified conditions, CG animals clearly self-injected the dose of 50 ng of morphine. Subcutaneous injections of naloxone (4 mg/kg) reduced the number of self-administrations of morphine at each of the four responding structures. Marked signs of physical dependence (escape attempts) were observed in the four groups but with a higher frequency in CG and MH animals. When the injections of naloxone were suspended, a regular self-administration reappeared.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recent demonstrations of transferrin (TF) mRNA in placental tissue raised the possibility that the placenta may serve as an extra-hepatic source of this iron-binding protein during development. In this study, we first confirmed these findings using cRNA probes for TF, and then adapted the TF reverse haemolytic plaque assay for use with rat placental cells to identify the location and functional characteristics of cells secreting this product. We found TF releasing cells in placentae (day 19-21) with greater proportions present in cultures from basal than labyrinth zone regions. These cells appeared quite stable as evidenced by observations that fresh populations and 24, 48 and 72 h cultures from the same placental regions all contained similar percentages of secretors. The rate of TF plaque formation was greatly enhanced in the presence of tumour necrosis factor (0.1 ng/ml) for basal zone and yolk sac cells, but not for labyrinth zone cells, suggesting a potent but regionally specific modulation of TF release. When taken together, these findings demonstrate clearly that TF is released from cells of the placenta. Moreover, the regional differences in frequency and modulation of these cells suggests that the release of placental TF is a dynamic and carefully controlled process.
Using 23 multiplex pedigrees we tested for linkage between schizophrenia and a microsatellite polymorphism for the D5 dopamine receptor gene (DRD5). Assuming autosomal dominant inheritance and a maximum penetrance of 0.6, an overall lod score of -4.54 was derived at 0% recombination. For recessive transmission the summary lod score was -8.37 at 0% recombination. These data suggest that mutations of the D5 dopamine receptor gene are unlikely to be of major etiological importance in the pathogeneses of schizophrenia in the families studied. However, our study does not exclude the D5 dopamine receptor gene as a candidate gene for schizophrenia because some of our families were not informative for linkage and because of the likelihood of genetic heterogeneity.
Microneurography is a valuable and safe method for direct intraneural recording of sympathetic nerve activity to muscle and skin in humans. The technique and its application for the study of autonomic function will be briefly discussed. The regulation of muscle sympathetic nerve activity will be focused in different clinical situations and or stimuli, such as: essential hypertension, mineralocorticoid induced hypertension, exercise mental arithmetic stress, cold pressor test, hyperinsulinemia, oral alcohol ingestion.

The neurotoxic effects of methamphetamine (METH) on striatal dopaminergic neurons have been hypothesized to be mediated by excess dopamine (DA) release. In addition, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists block METH-induced DA depletions. This suggests that glutamate also mediates the toxic effects of METH. The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that DA and glutamate efflux contribute to METH-induced neurotoxicity. In vivo microdialysis in rats was used to measure extracellular concentrations of striatal DA and glutamate following 3 injections of METH (10 mg/kg, i.p.), each injection given 2 hours apart. One week following the dialysis experiment, rats were sacrificed and the ventral lateral striata were assayed for DA content. Glutamate concentrations in the dialysate increased by over 4-fold after the third METH injection. In these same animals, striatal DA tissue content was significantly depleted. In separate groups of rats, pretreatment with haloperidol (2 mg/kg at the first METH injection) significantly increased METH-induced DA efflux. The haloperidol pretreatment attenuated the extracellular increase in glutamate produced by METH and blocked subsequent neurotoxicity to DA neurons. In contrast, pretreatment with the DA uptake blocker, GBR-12909 (10 mg/kg, 30 min before each METH injection) significantly attenuated the increased DA release produced by METH but did not change glutamate efflux. However, pretreatment with GBR-12909 did protect against the tissue content depletion of DA in the striatum. Based on these findings, it appears that increased DA and glutamate release in the striatum are important and possibly interact in the development of METH-induced neurotoxicity.
In this study we examined the selectivity of dopamine (DA) for rat striatal DA D1 and D2 receptors. In a Krebs-HEPES buffer, the Ki values of DA for D1 binding sites (labelled with [3H]SCH23390) and D2 binding sites (labelled with [3H]spiroperidol) in striatal membranes amounted to about 30 and 0.3 microM, respectively. However, the EC50s of DA (3 microM) and the DA releasing drug amphetamine (1 microM) were identical considering D1 receptor-stimulated and D2 receptor-inhibited adenylate cyclase activity in superfused striatal slices. Moreover, these EC50 values were also obtained studying DA- and amphetamine-induced D2 receptor activation, resulting in inhibition of the electrically evoked release of [14C]acetylcholine from the slices. Therefore, with regard to the apparent affinity of exogenous and endogenous DA for D1 and D2 receptors in rat striatal slices, the ligand-receptor binding data appeared to be misleading. Thus, our data show that in rat striatal slices DA has an identical apparent affinity towards functional D1 and D2 receptors, which is particularly intriguing in view of the very high receptor selectivity of synthetic D1 and D2 receptor agonists for these functional receptors in superfused brain slices as predicted on the basis of binding assays. This may have important implications for our understanding of central DA neurotransmission. For instance, since the inhibitory effect of opioid and muscarinic receptor activation on adenylate cyclase activity has been shown to be inversely related to the degree of DA D2 receptor activation, the degree of activation of D1 and D2 receptors by released DA is suggested to act as a functional gate allowing distinct neurotransmitters to play a role in striatal neurotransmission.
Radioligand binding assay conditions were established for the selective labeling of sigma-1 and sigma-2 sites in membrane homogenates of rat brain. Selective sigma-1 assays were conducted using 5 nM(+)[3H]SKF-10,047 in the presence of 300 nM dizocilpine (MK-801). Selective sigma-2 assays were conducted using 5 nM [3H]DTG in the presence of 1 microM (+)SKF-10,047. Distributions of sigma-1 and sigma-2 binding among brain regions were found to differ. While the brain stem yields the highest level of sigma-1 binding, it yields among the lowest levels of sigma-2 binding. The reverse is true in hippocampal membranes. Different ontogenetic patterns were also observed. Sigma-2 binding decreases substantially during brain development, whereas sigma-1 binding does not vary significantly. Patterns of distribution among subcellular fractions of rat brain homogenates were found to be similar. Both sigma-1 and sigma-2 sites are most enriched in microsomal fractions, and neither is enriched in synaptosomal or mitochondrial fractions. The present results suggest that sigma-1 and sigma-2 sites are distinct entities; they do not appear to be located on a common macromolecule, and they do not represent two different affinity states of a single type of binding site. While the precise subcellular locations of sigma-1 and sigma-2 sites remain to be determined, we conclude that localization of either type of binding site to synaptic regions of plasma membrane or to mitochondria is highly unlikely.
Chronic ethanol treatment (CET) produces a permanent reduction in hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP). The CET produced reduction of LTP can be eliminated acutely by pharmacological blockade of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergicA synaptic transmission with the specific antagonist, bicuculline methiodide. Since LTP induction is normally modulated by activation of GABAergic synaptic transmission, we hypothesized that CET reduced LTP by enhancing either postsynaptic GABAA channel function or GABA release from presynaptic terminals. In the present study, we examined the long term effects of CET on GABAA channel function by measuring the efficacy of GABA to stimulate and bicuculline to antagonize GABA-stimulated 36Cl- uptake in hippocampal and cortical membrane preparations. CET did not affect basal uptake of chloride or the efficacy of either GABA or bicuculline at the GABAA channel. We next measured the long term effects of CET on basal and stimulated GABA release. When basal and electrically-stimulated [3H]GABA release were measured in superfused hippocampal slices, stimulated release was increased by 30% in CET rats. Basal release was unaffected. Thus it appears that CET may be reducing LTP by enhancing plasticity-related GABA release from presynaptic terminals.
Neurological sensitization has been proposed as a model for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) (Lipper et al., 1986; van der Kolk, 1987; Friedman, 1988; Post et al., 1988, 1994; Charney et al., 1993). Laboratory paradigms in which repeated exposure to a discrete stimulus is associated with progressive intensification of a neurophysiologic, behavioral, or pharmacologic response has many parallels with the sequence of events that precipitates PTSD. Investigators with other clinical interests have also been attracted to sensitization models. Specifically, Bell and associates (1992) have proposed that olfactory-limbic kindling is a very good model for understanding the etiology of multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) syndrome. A number of articles in this volume have addressed the goodness-of-fit between this model and MCS. My major assignment is to review laboratory data and clinical observations pertinent to sensitization models of PTSD. I will show that although there are intriguing parallels between the two phenomena, one must have great respect for the complexity and polymorphism of both sensitization and PTSD before grasping for simplistic theoretical conclusions. Secondly, I will address the following question; if both PTSD and MCS can be understood as sensitization phenomena, are PTSD patients at greater risk to develop MCS and vice versa? This article is divided into four sections: a) a description of three distinct sensitization phenomena; b) a description of the symptoms of PTSD; c) a review of the applicability of sensitization models to the clinical phenomenology of PTSD; and d) a review of the hypothesis that PTSD patients might be more vulnerable to MCS.

Among many controversies in visual neuroscience is whether visual imagery of objects, scenes and living beings is based upon contributions of the early visual areas or depends on hierarchical higher visual areas only, and whether the cortical areas subserving visual imagery are identical to those underlying visual perception. These questions are important for furthering our understanding of vision, since areas active in visual imagery might tell us how the visual cortex represents objects, scenes and living beings. Here, P.E. Roland and B. Gulys present their hypothesis, based on experimental evidence in man and primates, that the visual areas subserving visual imagery are parieto-occipital and temporo-occipital visual association areas, and that these areas form only a subset of the visual areas engaged in perception. This hypothesis is consistent with the view that objects, scenes and living beings are represented, stored and re-evoked outside the domain of the primary visual cortex and its immediate neighbours.
Scintillating screens made by coating a thin metal foil with a layer of phosphor appear to be attractive for transmission electron microscopy applications. We report here the brightness and resolution in the voltage range of 100-400 kV of such a screen made of a 10 microns layer of P20 phosphor on a 2 microns Al foil. Both brightness and resolution are superior to that of a screen made by coating a glass plate with a similar layer of phosphor. An exciting property of such a device is that its resolution improves slightly at higher voltages. This, combined with its excellent resistivity to radiation damage and stability under the electron beam, makes it a good candidate for high-voltage applications.
Ocular following responses induced by brief movements of the visual scene were examined in monkeys for their dependence on disparity in the peripheral field. A random dot pattern was projected onto a tangent screen and partitioned into central and peripheral regions. Test stimuli were velocity steps applied in the central region, while stimuli in the periphery were stationary. The visual images in the central region were seen always in the plane of the screen, while stimuli in the periphery could be seen in front, behind, or in the plane of the screen (achieved by a system of polarizing filters). Initial ocular following responses were larger when the peripheral stimuli were presented with an uncrossed disparity than without disparity. On the other hand, responses were smaller when the peripheral stimuli were presented with crossed disparity (&lt; 5.0 deg) than without disparity. The result is consistent with the idea that ocular following responses are dependent on the perceived viewing distance.
Postembedding immunocytochemistry was used to determine the retinal distribution of the amino acid glutamine, and characterize amino acid signatures in the avian retinal ganglion cell layer. Glutamine is a potential precursor of glutamate and some glutamatergic neurons may use this amino acid to sustain production of glutamate for neurotransmission. Ganglion cells, cells in the inner nuclear layer, and some photoreceptors exhibited glutamine immunoreactivity of varying intensity. Ganglion cells demonstrated the highest level of immunoreactivity which indicates either slow glutamine turnover or active maintenance of a large standing glutamine pool relative to other glutamatergic neurons. Mller's cells in the avian retina are involved in glutamate uptake and carbon recycling by the rapid conversion of glutamate to glutamine, thus explaining the low glutamate and high glutamine immunoreactivity found throughout Mller's cells. Most chicken retinal ganglion cells are glutamate (E) and glutamine (Q) immunoreactive but display diverse signatures with presumed functional subsets of cells displaying admixtures of E and Q with GABA (gamma) and/or glycine (G). The four major ganglion cell signatures are (1) EQ; (2) EQ gamma; (3) EQG; and (4) EQ gamma G.
The role of visual factors in dyslexia has been a long-standing source of controversy. Recent research has suggested that there may be a deficit of the transient visual subsystem in dyslexia. The evidence for this hypothesis comes principally from investigations of spatial and temporal contrast sensitivity and visual persistence. This evidence is reviewed and it is noted that previous work has never applied two of these purported &quot;tests of transient function&quot; to the same subject group. The hypothesised transient system deficit in dyslexia was investigated in a study comparing 43 control with 39 dyslexic children who were matched for age, sex, and intelligence. Comprehensive psychometric and optometric data were obtained, including visual acuities and refractive errors. The spatial contrast sensitivity function was determined in such a way as to investigate further the findings of Lovegrove, Martin, Bowling, Blackwood, Badcock and Paxton [(1982) Neuropsychology, 20, 309-315] and Martin and Lovegrove [(1984) Neuropsychologia, 22, 73-77]. It might be expected, from the work of Merigan and Maunsell [(1990) Neuroscience, 5, 347-352], that a better test of magno-cellular function would be to investigate the modulation threshold for a virtually uniform field that was flickering sinusoidally at 10 Hz. This temporal contrast sensitivity was studied in a similar way to Brannan and Williams [(1988) Clinical Vision Sciences, 3, 137-142]. A non-verbal simulated reading visual search task was used to investigate the effect of any visual deficits on a test that was, in its low-level visual requirements, similar to reading. The following factors were found to be significantly associated with dyslexia: reduced visual acuity, impaired flicker detection at 10 Hz, reduced low spatial frequency contrast sensitivity, and slightly slower performance at a simulated reading visual search task. The two alleged &quot;tests of transient function&quot; were only weakly correlated with one another (r = 0.183), suggesting that these variables do not measure the same function. Much of the dyslexic group's slightly slower performance at the simulated reading task could be accounted for by the psychometric variable of visual sequential memory. Like reading, the simulated reading task requires the accurate perception of sequential characters. Hence, it seems unlikely that the low-level visual deficits in the dyslexic group were major causes of their poor reading performance. Alternative explanations for the results are discussed.
A model network of spiking neurons with lateral connections was used to simulate short-term receptive field (RF) changes by removal of afferent input in the primary visual system. Several possible mechanisms for the dynamic RFs were explored and the simulation results were compared with experimental results obtained by Pettet and Gilbert [(1992) Proceedings of the National Academy of Science, U.S.A., 89, 8366-8370]. We found that appropriate input stimuli could induce a shift in the balance between modeled cortical lateral excitation and inhibition and in doing so cause RF expansion. Synaptic plasticity was neither necessary nor appropriate for short-term RF changes. An inhibition dominant network with neural adaptation successfully simulated Pettet and Gilbert's experiment of RF expansion and its reversibility induced by an &quot;artificial scotoma&quot;. RF expansions induced by lesions were also explored with the model.
Refractive index distribution in the teleost crystalline lens was measured with a nondestructive method in freshly excised lenses of the African teleost fish Haplochromis burtoni. Independently, spherical aberration was measured in a parallel set of lenses. The measured refractive index profiles show a continual decrease of refractive index from the center to the surface of the lens. The H. burtoni lens is of high optical quality and slightly overcorrected for spherical aberration. Details of the small residual spherical aberration were accurately predicted by ray-tracing model calculations based on the measured refractive index profile. The refractive index profile and the spherical aberration both show more complex characteristics than suggested by earlier measurements and lens models.
Fish were reared in 6 conditions: broad spectrum white light, total darkness, scotopic illumination, and 3 monochromatic colors matched to the absorption spectra of the three cone types to study the influence of the light regime on the regulation of eye growth in the African cichlid fish Haplochromis burtoni. Fish reared in total darkness showed high variability in naso-temporal diameter and axial length of the eye. Animals reared in darkness and in scotopic illumination had significantly larger eyes relative to lens size in comparison to fish reared in white light. Eye size and shape was nearly identical in fish reared in monochromatic and in white light. Because of overlap in the absorption spectra of the three cone types of H. burtoni it could not be resolved whether the regulatory mechanism receives input from all three cone types or only from the green (523 nm) sensitive cones. It is clear from our results, however, that neither the blue (455 nm) nor the yellow sensitive (562 nm) cones alone are responsible for eye size regulation. It seems equally unlikely that all three cone types have to act in concert for normal growth of the eye.
There is considerable evidence supporting the view that the accessory optic system (AOS) and the closely associated nucleus of the optic tract (NOT) provide visual signals used in the control of optokinetic nystagmus (OKN). In frontal-eyed animals such as the cat and primate, the high degree of overlap in the visual fields of each eye, along with a substantial projection from the visual cortex, gives rise to an increased incidence of binocularly responsive neurons in the AOS. In previous studies, my collaborators and I have shown that visual cortical input to the AOS mediates ipsilateral eye responses and high speed tuning, and can function independently of the contralateral eye. However, beyond fairly gross assessments such as these, the binocular interactions of AOS cells have not been subject to detailed examination. The present study set out to determine whether the responses of binocular cells in the dorsal terminal nucleus (DTN) of the AOS are sensitive to horizontal retinal disparity. Single units were recorded from the DTN of anaesthetized, paralysed cats. A large random-dot pattern was moved under computer control at a constant velocity in the preferred and non-preferred direction. Convergent and divergent disparities were generated by deviating the visual axis of the contralateral (dominant) eye using wedge prisms. The responses of DTN units fell into three categories: (1) cells showing tuned excitatory responses (29% or 7 cells) consisting of a marked facilitation for a single or a limited range of disparities; (2) cells broadly tuned for inhibition (25% or 6 cells); and (3) cells relatively insensitive to disparity (46% or 11 cells), showing a relatively flat response profile across the entire range of disparity conditions, or cells without clear tuning. In summary, this study demonstrates that some AOS cells are sensitive to positional disparity and, therefore, this system may provide signals which specify the plane of motion for ocular stabilization. Some of these results have been presented in brief form [Grasse (1991a) Society of Neuroscience Abstracts, 17, 1380].
Severity-of-illness scales have been proven to be valuable in assessing clinical outcomes and several risk scores have been used to evaluate neonatal illness severity. At present, we use nursery Neurobiologic Risk Score (NBRS) to evaluate the short term outcome of preterm newborns and their correlation to length of stay and morbidity. The NBRS was determined at the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) of Changhua Christian Hospital in 183 preterm infants with birth weight &lt; 2500 gm, gestational age &lt; 37 weeks and age less than 7 days between July 1991 and June 1992. The NBRS correlates significantly with the birth weight and gestational age (p &lt; 0.0001), it is also a significant predictor of NICU mortality (r = 0.68, p &lt; 0.0001) and morbidity (Bronchopulmonary dysplasia, BPD: r = 0.46, p &lt; 0.0001; Retinopathy of prematurity, ROP: r = 0.20, p &lt; 0.01), there is also a significant correlation with the length of stay (r = 0.53, p &lt; 0.0001). We created a revised NBRS, it is also a significant predictor of NICU mortality and morbidity which are independent of birth weight. Further validation of revised NBRS in prediction of NICU mortality &amp; morbidity is needed.
A newly isolated interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) immunoreactive molecule, &quot;neuronal IFN-gamma&quot;, and recombinant lymphocyte-derived IFN-gamma were injected intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) through a previously implanted cannula into adult male rats during both the light and the dark phases of the light/dark cycle. The two molecules caused a reduction in both frequency and duration of rearing and locomotion during the dark, but not the light, phase. A molecule isolated from Trypanosoma brucei brucei, a parasite of the same subspecies of trypanosomes which causes African sleeping sickness, can induce production and release of IFN-gamma and &quot;neuronal IFN-gamma&quot; from lymphocytes and neurons, respectively. I.c.v. injection of this factor also reduced rearing during the dark period, but to a less extent. Thus, &quot;neuronal IFN-gamma&quot; appears to have effects on animal behaviour in common with lymphocyte-derived IFN-gamma. This study highlights the potential role of these cytokines in behaviour disturbances.
As differential gene expression governs the progression of development into senescence, we attempted to define the genes that are selectively expressed during postnatal brain development. A cDNA fragment selectively expressed in neonatal rat brain was identified by differential display and used to screen a cDNA library prepared from the same mRNA sample. The full length cDNA, neuronatin, was 1195bp long and coded for a novel protein of 81 amino acids. The cDNA detected an mRNA species of similar size that was highly expressed in rat neonatal and human fetal brain. The deduced protein exhibited a hydrophobic N-terminal and hydrophilic C-terminal, suggesting that it is membrane bound and might function in signal transduction. The selective expression of this novel mRNA in late fetal and early postnatal brain development, and loss of expression in adulthood and senescence, suggests that downregulation of neuronatin may be involved in terminal brain differentiation.
Several benzoquinoid ansamycins, e.g., herbimycin A and geldanamycin, have been widely used as inhibitors of tyrosine kinases. We recently reported that exposure to herbimycin A and several analogs depletes the erbB2 gene product p185 in human breast cancer cells. In order to explore the mechanism of this specific degradation of p185, a biologically active ansamycin incorporating a photoaffinity label was synthesized. This compound, CP202509, specifically bound to a 100 kD protein (p100) in intact SKBr3 cells and in fibroblasts transfected with the c-erbB2 or v-src oncogenes. Binding of other ansamycin analogs to p100, as measured indirectly by their ability to inhibit CP202509 binding, correlated with their ability to lower p185 protein and phosphotyrosine in SKBr3 cells. These results suggest that the ansamycins may deplete tyrosine kinases through binding to this protein.
Steering a car requires visual information from the changing pattern of the road ahead. There are many theories about what features a driver might use, and recent attempts to engineer self-steering vehicles have sharpened interest in the mechanisms involved. However, there is little direct information linking steering performance to the driver's direction of gaze. We have made simultaneous recordings of steering-wheel angle and drivers' gaze direction during a series of drives along a tortuous road. We found that drivers rely particularly on the 'tangent point' on the inside of each curve, seeking this point 1-2 s before each bend and returning to it throughout the bend. The direction of this point relative to the car's heading predicts the curvature of the road ahead, and we examine the way this information is used.
Anti-peptide antibodies were generated against amino acid sequences of intracellular and extracellular portions of the native proteins for the cloned rat D1A and D3 dopamine receptor subtypes in order to determine the cellular distribution of these specific forms in the brain. These polyclonal antisera exhibited high specific titers, assessed by ELISA and immunofluorescent detection of functional recombinant receptor proteins expressed in stably transfected Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. Central nervous system (CNS) areas of the male rat were examined using standard immunofluorescent methods in fresh frozen tissues. This paradigm detected D1A-like and D3-like dopamine receptor staining primarily in larger-sized neurons throughout layers 3 and 5 of the cortex, in medium-diameter somata of the striatum, and in the densely packed cells of the olfactory tubercle and hippocampal formation. More attenuated immunoreactivity for both dopamine receptor subtypes was noted in the substantia nigra, not associated with perikarya. Differences in cellular staining patterns and intensity were evident between the D1A-like and D3-like dopamine receptor subtypes. Equivalent morphological elements exhibited dopamine receptor expression following incubation using antisera generated against either extracellular or intracellular epitopes of either the D1A or D3 native proteins. Dopamine receptor immunoreactivity could not be detected in the cerebellum at equivalent antisera dilutions used to discriminate cellular staining patterns within the forebrain. Fluorescent-labeled latex microspheres were infused into the substantia nigra terminal fields to retrogradely identify the cell bodies of the striatonigral projection system. This paradigm showed that 80% of striatonigral neurons expressed D1A-like receptors, while 65% demonstrated D3-like dopamine receptor staining. This distribution for the D1A-like and D3-like receptor subtypes suggests that overlap may occur in the expression of the receptors in the striatonigral neuron population. Our previous results localizing cellular D2-like receptor expression patterns in this projection system of the rat neostriatum implies that all three of these dopamine receptor subtypes may be co-expressed in this efferent system.
The vasopressin (VP) innervation of the human locus coeruleus (LC) was immunocytochemically investigated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and non-demented controls. A dense innervation of VP fibers was present throughout the entire rostro-caudal length of the LC in both, controls and AD-patients. The VP immunoreactivity was confined to fibers; no signs of cell body staining could be found. Comparison of five non-demented control subjects and five AD patients on fifteen different levels throughout the LC revealed that the VP innervation of this nucleus remained intact in AD, even in the rostral part of the LC, which is the most affected region with respect to neuronal loss.
Changes in voltage dependent calcium currents in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal slice during ethanol withdrawal were studied using an alcohol withdrawal seizure prone mouse strain (WSP) and compared to a withdrawal-resistant strain (WSR). There was a significant increase in the high voltage activated calcium currents during the withdrawal period in the WSP strain, while those of the resistant strain showed no significant enhancement. These results suggest that an increase in calcium currents is one factor involved in the alcohol withdrawal hyperexcitability of the prone strain observed in vivo.
Administration of methamphetamine (MA) induces degeneration of dopaminergic nerve terminals and astrogliosis, such as hypertrophy and an increase in apparent number, in the neostriatum. In this experiment adult rats were treated with MA (10 mg/kg, i.p.) 4 times in one day at 2 h intervals. Amfonelic acid (AFA), a dopamine reuptake inhibitor, was administered (20 mg/kg, i.p.) at the same time the last MA dose was given. Three days later, dopaminergic terminals and astrocytes were examined immunohistochemically and the contents of striatal dopamine and its metabolites were analyzed by HPLC. The results showed that MA-induced the typical depletion of dopaminergic terminals, reduction of dopamine content and astrogliosis in the neostriatum. AFA treatment completely prevented the effects of MA on the dopaminergic system, both morphologically and biochemically. However, the reaction of astrocytes remained in the region where the most severe depletion of dopaminergic terminals was seen in MA treated animals (ventral-lateral portion of neostriatum). The results support the concept that the dopamine transporter is involved in MA-induced dopaminergic nerve terminal degeneration. The results also indicate that blocking the dopamine transporter cannot completely prevent the reaction of astrocytes in the neostriatum, which indicates that the astrocytic reaction can be induced by factors other than degeneration of dopaminergic terminals in this region. Based on these and other data, it is hypothesized that MA may cause degeneration of corticostriatal glutamate pathways and this effect may be responsible for the astrogliosis in MA-AFA treated animals.
To explore the role of the protooncogene bcl-2 in the prevention of programmed cell death in the nervous system, we investigated its expression in mouse neural cells in primary culture. The 26 kDa protein product, Bcl-2, was detected by immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting in cultured neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, but the immunoreactivity of microglial cells was not detectable by immunoblotting. The subcellular distribution of Bcl-2 was similar between in vivo (brain) and in vitro (culture) and between cultured neurons and astrocytes, while the content was higher in astrocytes than in neurons. The substantial expression of bcl-2 in primary cultured brain cells suggests that it has some physiological control in the brain over programmed cell death, which may be exerted not only in neurons but also in some glial cells such as astrocytes.
In previous work, we suggested that there were differences in vasoregulation between dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and the endoneurium of peripheral nerve trunks. To investigate sympathetic control of both microvessel beds, we compared local perfusion in the sciatic nerve endoneurium and lumbar DRG of adult Sprague-Dawley rats treated from neonatal day 5 with guanethidine monosulfate to induce adrenergic sympathectomy. Control rats were injected with normal saline. Local blood flow and microvascular resistance were measured using microelectrodes sensitive to the clearance of hydrogen. Guanethidine-sympathectomized rats had higher sciatic endoneurial blood flow and lower endoneurial microvascular resistance than saline-injected controls. In contrast, DRG blood flow was not increased by sympathectomy and was comparable to control values despite the hypotension induced by sympathectomy. The results suggest that sympathetic control of local blood flow and may be less apparent in DRG than endoneurium and that local autoregulation may protect DRG from hypotension.
The effect of (-)-nicotine on the spontaneous release of [3H]gamma-aminobutyric acid ([3H]GABA) was studied in vitro in rat substantia nigra (SN) and globus pallidus (GP) slices. In both structures, nicotine (10(-4) M) elicited a transient increase of [3H]GABA release lasting no more than 2.5 min. At the peak of the effect, a 18.5% and 25% increase of [3H]GABA was observed in GP and SN slices, respectively. At lower concentration (10(-5) M), nicotine produced a small but significant transient increase (+8%) in GP slices whereas this concentration was ineffective in SN slices. Pempidine (10(-5) M) totally antagonized the 10(-4) M nicotine-induced effect in SN and GP. The increase of [3H]GABA release elicited by 10(-4) M nicotine was abolished when Ca2+ concentration in the superfusion medium was lowered from 2.4 to 0.4 mM. To investigate a possible dopaminergic (DA) link in the response, we examined the sensitivity of the nicotine-induced effect to DA D1 (SCH23390) and D2 (sulpiride) receptor antagonists. In SN, SCH23390 (10(-6) M) abolished the 10(-4) M nicotine-induced effect. In GP, sulpiride (10(-5) M) failed to modify the response. Moreover, SCH23390 partially reversed the nicotine-induced effect (-37%) in GP. Taken together these results indicate that nicotine differentially modulate the [3H]GABA release in SN and GP. In SN, the nicotine-induced [3H]GABA release appears to be mediated by DA neurons. In GP, only a part of the nicotinic response involved a DA link. A possible direct stimulation of nicotinic receptors localized on striato-pallidal terminals is discussed.
Spontaneous eye movements were recorded before and after a microinjection (0.1-0.2 microliter) of either APV (an NMDA receptor antagonist) or NBQX (a non-NMDA receptor antagonist) into the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi (NPH) of the alert cat. A unilateral injection of APV caused bilateral failure of the horizontal gaze-holding system: in the light, each saccade was followed by a post-saccadic drift. A unilateral injection of NBQX caused no sign of gaze-holding failure; in the light, spontaneous eye movements were unaffected; in complete darkness, a nystagmus with linear slow phases directed towards the injected side was observed. We conclude that NMDA receptors of the NPH neurones are involved in the gaze-holding system.
Modulation of A2a adenosine receptor (A2aAR) expression by adenosine agonists was studied in cultured PC12 cell lines. Exposure of A2aAR agonists such as 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA) or CGS-21680 caused a transient increase followed by a decrease of A2aAR mRNA in PC12 cells in 10 h. This was followed by a gradual recovery to control levels by approximately 24 h. These changes were blocked by an adenosine receptor antagonist, xanthine amine congener. Forskolin also induced similar changes in the level of A2aAR mRNA. In addition, A2aAR numbers of PC12 cell membranes were significantly decreased during the NECA-exposure. These results suggest that A2aAR gene expression in PC12 cells is regulated by activation of A2aAR via a mechanism involving the second messenger, cAMP.
A stepwise increase in extracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]o) can evoke insulin release from pancreatic islets in the absence of secretagogues. We have investigated the ionic mechanism underlying this secretory response by recording intracellular free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) from single mouse islets of Langerhans using ratiometric fura-2 microfluorometry. In the presence of 11 mM glucose, the [Ca2+]i undergoes fast oscillations associated with bursting electrical activity. Nifedipine (10 microM) suppressed these oscillations and markedly lowered the [Ca2+]i. Raising the [Ca2+]o from 2.56 to 12.8 mM in the continued presence of 11 mM glucose and nifedipine evoked pronounced [Ca2+]i rises of variable amplitude and time course. This effect was dose-dependent (EC50 = 3.6 mM) and remained essentially unchanged in the absence of glucose or in the presence of 3 mM glucose and nifedipine, conditions where beta-cells are hyperpolarized by approximately -25 mV. Depleting the acetylcholine-mobilizable internal Ca2+ pools by repetitively challenging the islets with acetylcholine in the absence of Ca2+ actually potentiated the standard high Ca2+ responses. The latter were strongly reduced by millimolar concentrations of Ni2+ (70% reduction at 3 mM) and by diphenylamine-2-carboxylate (DPC; IC50 = 145 microM), a blocker of nonselective cation channels. The standard high Ca2+ responses were relatively insensitive to the glycolytic inhibitor mannoheptulose. It is proposed that the high Ca(2+)-evoked [Ca2+]i responses are primarily accounted for by Ca2+ influx through dihydropyridine- and voltage-insensitive, nonselective cation channels. These channels do not appear to be under the control of glucose metabolism. Although their function is unknown, they may be essential to supplying the beta-cells with Ca2+ in the absence of stimulatory levels of fuel secretagogues.
Rat brain IIA sodium channel alpha-subunits were expressed in Xenopus oocytes, and the sodium currents were measured by intracellular voltage clamping with large agarose-tipped electrodes and by excised membrane patch-clamp recording to separate and characterize the properties of the fast and slow channel gating modes. The currents showed biexponential inactivation properties with fast and slow phases that could be isolated as distinct gating modes through differences in their inactivation properties. At holding potentials more negative than -55 mV, fast mode currents inactivated within a few milliseconds of depolarization, and could be distinguished by their rapid recovery from inactivation. Single sodium channels in the fast mode opened early after depolarization and rarely showed re-openings. At holding potentials positive to -55 mV, fast mode currents were inactivated, revealing slow mode currents which had slower activation and inactivation kinetics and showed sustained single channel activity during depolarizing pulses. The steady-state voltage dependencies of fast and slow mode activation were very similar. In contrast, slow mode inactivation occurred at potentials 27 mV more positive than fast mode inactivation. The slow mode appears to be due to destabilization of a voltage-insensitive conformation of the channel. The fast gating process dominated at high current levels, perhaps due to alpha-subunit interactions.
We present data for a patient, GY, with a right hemianopia caused by traumatic damage to the left occipital cortex. Previous studies have established that this patient has residual vision which enables him to detect and localize transient stimuli presented to his 'blind' hemifield. We have now examined spectral responses associated with this residual vision by using two-colour incremental threshold methods to measure II-spectral functions, and a white light background to examine spectral data for 'colour-opponent' characteristics. We report that both methods yield normal spectral response characteristics for GY's 'blind' hemifield. We have also investigated the patient's ability to identify, verbally, coloured stimuli presented to his 'blind' hemifield, and found that, in 'forced choice' experiments, he achieves a high proportion of correct responses to large stimuli. The patient reported that in threshold detection measurements his responses were based on the presence or absence of a percept associated with transient light stimulation of the 'blind' hemifield (residual vision), whereas colour naming was achieved without conscious perception of colour ('blindsight').
Mutations in DNA underlie carcinogenesis, inherited pathology, and aging and are generally thought to be introduced during meiosis and mitosis. Here we report that in post-mitotic neurons specific frameshift mutations occur at high frequency. These mutations were identified in vasopressin transcripts in magnocellular neurons of the homozygous Brattleboro rat and predominantly consist of a GA deletion in GAGAG motifs. Immunocytochemistry provides evidence for similar events in wild-type rats. However, the diseased state of the Brattleboro rat, resulting in a permanent activation of vasopressin neurons, enhanced the mutational rate. These data reveal hitherto unrecognized somatic mutations in nondividing neurons.

Free intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i, Ca2+ currents, and excitatory amino acid (EAA) currents were studied in spinal neurons cultured in low (4.5 mM) and high (25 mM) extracellular potassium. When challenged with lethal concentrations of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or kainate, neurons cultured in 25 mM K+ exhibited markedly attenuated Ca2+ currents and [Ca2+]i responses, and survived the EAA challenge more readily than controls. Surprisingly, NMDA and Kainate currents remained comparable between neurons grown in high- and low K+. The disparity between the observed [Ca2+]i increases and EAA currents suggests that chronic depolarization induces a fundamental alteration in intracellular Ca2+ handling. This phenomenon may provide clues for the development of neuroprotective strategies against excitotoxin excess.
We tested the hypothesis that a single systemic injection of 380 mg/kg of the muscarinic agonist pilocarpine would produce more diffuse and severe seizure-induced brain damage than a single injection of lithium (3 mEq/kg) followed 4 h later by &lt; 1/10 the dosage of pilocarpine. The hypothesis was not supported; the pattern of quantitative brain damage 50-60 days after the seizures were elicited by either treatment was comparable within the limits of measurement error. Within the diencephalon and subcortical telencephalon the same structures were either damaged in a similar quantitative manner or were spared. Only five of the 119 damaged structures exhibited statistically significant treatment differences at P &lt; 0.01. The results are compatible with the explanation that lithium may enhance the excitotoxic effects of subsequent muscarinic stimulation.
The relative contribution of the NMDA/glycine allosteric site and non-NMDA (AMPA) types of glutamate receptor to the acute and tonic phases of the behavioural nociceptive response to formalin has been studied in the rat. The AMPA receptor selective antagonist NBQX preferentially inhibited the acute phase indicating that AMPA receptors may be involved in mediating fast acute nociceptive transmission in the dorsal horn. In contrast, the strychnine-insensitive glycine site partial agonist (+)-HA-966 and the NMDA competitive antagonist CGS 19755 preferentially attenuated the tonic nociceptive phase. However, none of these compounds exhibited anti-inflammatory properties. Thus, both NMDA and non-NMDA antagonists can selectively block changes in neuronal excitability while tissue injury in the receptive field continues to evolve.
Eye movements were recorded in alert cats after injections into one of the medial vestibular nuclei (MVN) either of a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist or of a non-NMDA antagonist. A gaze-holding failure was caused by the NMDA antagonist when it was injected into the central part of the MVN but not when it was injected into the rostral part of that nucleus. By contrast, injections of the non-NMDA-receptor antagonist into the MVN did not cause any sign of gaze-holding failure. We conclude that the NMDA receptors located in the central part of the MVN are involved in the gaze-holding system.
The occurrence of persistent effects of chronic neonatal exposure to the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine was investigated by determination of tissue concentrations of monoamines and metabolites and in vivo overflow of noradrenaline and its metabolites, in various rat brain regions during adulthood. Rat pups were treated with clonidine from postnatal day 10-20 and all measurements were carried out between postnatal day 40 and 58. Tissue concentrations of monoamines and metabolites of the early clonidine-treated rats did not differ significantly from the control group. A challenge with yohimbine did not reveal altered responses of monoaminergic systems, except for the failure of an increased serotonergic activity in the medulla pons. In vivo microdialysis measurements revealed an elevated basal extracellular noradrenaline level in amygdala, but not in frontal cortex and hippocampus. Pharmacological challenge in vivo with idazoxan did not reveal differences between clonidine- and saline-exposed rats. These results confirm previous findings that continuous activation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors during a particular period of rat brain development may result in long-lasting but small changes in monoaminergic activity. However, these alterations are not very consistent and may depend on the parameter chosen to reflect monoaminergic activity and are not revealed more clearly by activating (challenging) the noradrenaline system with alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists.
The development of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) neurons was determined in the human suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of 43 subjects ranging from 27 weeks of gestation to 30 years of age using immunocytochemistry and morphometry. VIP neurons were first observed at 31 weeks of gestation in the ventrolateral part of the SCN. From 3 months postnatally onwards, VIP positive neurons were observed in some subjects in the centromedial part of the SCN. The centromedial type of VIP staining became a constant finding only at 19 years of age, at term the SCN was still very immature. Only in a few subjects some VIP neurons stained in the ventrolateral SCN and their number and nuclear diameter was small. Postnatally the number of VIP neurons increased gradually until around 3 years of age adult values were reached. After the age of 10 a clear sex difference in the number of VIP neurons was found: males having on average twice as many VIP neurons in the SCN as females. The adult VIP cell numbers in the SCN amounted only 35% of those found earlier for vasopressin. The present data do not support a particular role for VIP neurons in those rhythms that are already present in early development, e.g., of the temperature rhythm in prematures of around 30 weeks gestational age. Our observations in this and earlier papers as well as animal studies do suggest though a possible role for VIP neurons in the SCN in sexual dimorphic functions such as reproduction and sexual behavior.
We raised specific antibodies to the pleiotrophin and the midkine gene product, which comprise a novel heparin-binding growth factor family. Immunocytochemistry using these antibodies revealed that both proteins were strongly expressed in the developing cerebral cortex in the rat in distinct fashion. The midkine gene product was primarily detected in the embryonic period and was not observed in the postnatal cerebral cortex, whereas pleiotrophin was most intense in the early postnatal period, in addition to being present the embryonic period. Pleiotrophin was also localized in the adult cerebral cortex, albeit with much less intensity than in the embryonic and early postnatal period. These temporal patterns were consistent with those of the mRNA expression. The ultrastructural localization of both factors showed markedly similar profiles; immunopositive substances were primarily associated with the cell surface and were found preferentially in the regions where cell migration and neurite outgrowth take place, implying that this family functions primarily in developmental events mediated by cell-cell contact. The present results suggest that the midkine gene product and pleiotrophin are differentially involved in cortical development at different stages.
Dystrophin is purified as a complex with several proteins from the digitonin-solubilized muscle cell membrane. Most of dystrophin-associated proteins (DAPs) are assumed to form a large oligomeric transmembranous glycoprotein complex on the sarcolemma and link dystrophin with a basement membrane protein, laminin. In the present study, we found that the purified dystrophin-DAP complex was dissociated into several groups by n-octyl-beta-D-glucoside treatment. In particular, we found that the glycoprotein complex stated above was dissociated into two distinct groups: one composed of 156DAG and 43DAG (A3a) and the other composed of 50DAG, 35DAG and A3b. We confirmed by crosslinking and immunoaffinity chromatography that these two groups existed in a complexes. We thus concluded that the glycoprotein complex consists of these two subcomplexes. Furthermore, A3b and 43DAG, which had been formerly treated simply as the 43DAG doublets due to their similar electrophoretic mobilities in SDS/PAGE, were shown to be present in two different subcomplexes. Based on the analyses by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, peptide mapping and immunoblotting, we concluded that A3b is a novel DAP different from 43DAG.
Alfa-trinositol (or D-myo-inositol 1,2,6-trisphosphate) was recently found to, e.g., inhibit agonist-induced vasoconstriction and display antiinflammatory properties. However, its mechanism of action is unknown, although effects on Ca2+ fluxes, perhaps by interfering with endogenous inositol phosphate(s), have been suggested. Here we describe the existence of specific [3H]alpha-trinositol binding sites and compare these with binding sites for naturally occurring inositol phosphates. For this purpose we developed a tritiated analog of alpha-trinositol and used it in a centrifugation binding assay on extensively washed membranes from rat tissues. The degree of specific [3H] alpha-trinositol binding was markedly increased as a result of the many wash steps, indicating the existence of endogenous binding inhibitor(s). A single population of [3H] alpha-trinositol binding sites, displaying a KD of 159 nM and a Bmax of 71 pmol/mg protein, was present in cardiac membranes assayed at pH 7.4. Similar binding site densities were detected also in liver &gt; lung &gt; brain. The relative density of [3H] alpha-trinositol sites in cardiac membranes was 8-fold higher than [3H]Ins(1,4,5)P3 but 2-fold and 4-fold lower than [3H]Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 and [3H]InsP6 binding sites, respectively. Competition binding studies indicated the ability of Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 and InsP6, but not Ins(1,4,5)P3, to potently displace [3H] alpha-trinositol binding. Conversely, unlabelled alpha-trinositol showed relatively low potency vs. [3H]InsP6, but the novel inositol phosphate was virtually equipotent with Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 in inhibiting [3H]Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 binding. Finally, analyses of binding at different pH and ionic conditions revealed differences between alpha-trinositol and the three other previously studied inositol phosphates, although distinct similarities between alpha-trinositol and Ins(1,3,4,5)P4 were again observed.
We examined the effects of imipramine on the increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) induced by elevated K+ in cultured neurons of rat cortex. Imipramine (100 nM-200 microM) produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of [Ca2+]i increases induced by 25 mM K+ with an IC50 value of 32 microM. Imipramine had no effect on resting [Ca2+]i levels. When the cells were incubated with imipramine in the presence of a voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channel (VSCC) blocker, either nicardipine (10 microM), verapamil (10 microM), or omega-conotoxin GVIA (1 microM), the combinations of imipramine and each blocker resulted in an additive inhibition of 25 mM K(+)-induced [Ca2+]i increases. The IC50 values were 44, 29 and 24 microM, respectively, which were similar to those found when incubating the cells with imipramine alone. The presence or the absence of imipramine (30 microM) in an incubation with Bay K 8644 (100 nM), a VSCC agonist, showed similar potentiation of the [Ca2+]i increases induced by 15 mM K+ (66 and 52%, respectively). On the other hand, when the cells were incubated with imipramine in the presence of Ni2+ (300 microM) or La3+ (0.3 microM), inorganic Ca(2+)-channel blockers, the IC50 values of inhibition of 25 mM K(+)-induced [Ca2+]i increases were much lower than with imipramine alone (3.2 and 16 microM, respectively). However, incubations with Ni2+ combined with nicardipine or verapamil resulted in an additive inhibition of 25 mM K(+)-induced [Ca2+]i increases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous experiments have demonstrated that stimulation of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) of the rat decreases arterial blood pressure and heart rate. The present studies were designed to examine the role of cholinergic mechanisms in the NTS in the tonic regulation of arterial pressure and the baroreceptor reflex. Atropine injected into the NTS of chloralose-anesthetized rats produced a dose-dependent inhibition of cardiovascular responses elicited by injection of acetylcholine into the same site; 240 pmol atropine eliminated acetylcholine-evoked responses. Atropine also increased arterial blood pressure but only at higher doses. Even larger doses of atropine were required to alter cardiovascular responses elicited by electrical stimulation of the aortic depressor nerve. Methylatropine injected into the NTS also blocked acetylcholine-evoked responses but, in contrast to the actions of atropine, did not increase arterial pressure in the dose range required to block acetylcholine-evoked responses. Furthermore, a dose of methylatropine (1 nmol) capable of blocking acetylcholine-evoked cardiovascular responses did not alter aortic depressor nerve-evoked cardiovascular responses. This lack of an effect of methylatropine on arterial pressure and aortic depressor nerve-evoked responses was not due to limited diffusion of the drug within the NTS since 1 nmol methylatropine completely blocked acetylcholine-evoked responses even when injected 0.5 mm distant from the site of acetylcholine injection. These results suggest that cholinergic mechanisms in the NTS are not involved in the tonic regulation of cardiovascular function or the baroreceptor reflex. Furthermore, these results highlight the importance of characterizing doses of drugs used in microinjection studies.
Neuronal activity results in long term cellular changes that underlie normal brain development and synaptic plasticity. To examine the molecular basis of activity-dependent plasticity, we have used differential cloning techniques to identify genes that are rapidly induced in brain neurons by synaptic activity. Here we describe an inducible novel member of the Ras family of small GTP-binding proteins we have termed Rheb. rheb mRNA is rapidly and transiently induced in hippocampal granule cells by seizures and by NMDA-dependent synaptic activity in the long term potentiation paradigm. The predicted amino acid sequence of Rheb is most closely homologous to yeast Ras1 and human Rap2. The putative GTP binding regions are highly conserved. A bacterial fusion protein of Rheb binds GTP and exhibits intrinsic GTPase activity. Like Ha-Ras, the carboxylterminal sequence encodes a CAAX box that is predicted to signal post-translational farnesylation and to target Rheb to specific membranes. rheb mRNA is expressed at comparatively high levels in normal adult cortex as well as a number of peripheral tissues, including lung and intestine. In the developing brain, rheb mRNA is expressed at relatively high levels in embryonic day 19 cortical plate, and expression remains at stable levels throughout the remainder of prenatal and postnatal development. Its close homology with ras and its rapid inducibility by receptor-dependent synaptic activity suggest that rheb may play an important role in long term activity-dependent neuronal responses.
When the sympathetic nerves that innervate rat sweat glands reach their targets, they are induced to switch from using norepinephrine as their neurotransmitter to acetylcholine. Catecholamines (such as norepinephrine) released by nerves growing to the sweat gland induce this phenotypic conversion by stimulating production of a cholinergic differentiation factor [sweat gland factor (SGF)] by gland cells. Here, culture of gland cells with sympathetic, but not sensory, neurons induced SGF production. Blockage of alpha 1- or beta-adrenergic receptors prevented acquisition of the cholinergic phenotype in sympathetic neurons co-cultured with sweat glands, and sweat glands from sympathectomized animals lacked SGF. Thus, reciprocal instructive interactions, mediated in part by small molecule neurotransmitters, direct the development of this synapse.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF), a potent lipid mediator generated in cell injury and in the inflammatory and immune responses, promotes transcriptional activation of several primary response genes. TIS10/PGS-2 is a primary response gene encoding the inducible form of prostaglandin synthase. The inductive effects of PAF and retinoic acid (RA), alone and in combination, were studied with the regulatory region of TIS10/PGS-2 transfected into an exponentially growing glioblastoma-neuroblastoma NG108-15 hybrid in the human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma or in the NIH 3T3 cell. RA alone exhibited only a small inductive effect. However, in the presence of RA (100 nM), a PAF-dependent (1-50 nM) synergistic activation of luciferase reporter constructs driven by regulatory regions of the TIS10/PGS-2 gene was found. The hetrazepine BN-50730, an antagonist selective for intracellular PAF binding sites, inhibited PAF and RA induction of luciferase from the TIS10/PGS-2 promoter. Thus, the intracellular PAF binding site is involved in TIS10/PGS-2 expression. Induction is rapid, suggesting that the combination of PAF and RA activates a preexisting latent transcription factor(s). Deletion studies restrict the major PAF and RA cis-acting response element of the TIS10/PGS-2 gene to a 70-nucleotide sequence as an intracellular inducer of TIS10/PGS-2 expression. The synergistic effect of RA and PAF represents an unusual convergence of nuclear signaling pathways by which, through the modulation of preexisting transcription factors, specific gene expression can be upregulated. PAF-dependent induction of TIS10/PGS-2 expression may play a role in cell injury, differentiation, inflammation, and immune responses.

Microinfusion of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) into the ventral tegmental area enhances the release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens, a major target of midbrain dopamine neurons. We examined the synaptic basis for 5-HT modulation of neurons in the ventral tegmental area which either (i) project to the nucleus accumbens or (ii) contain the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker of dopamine neurons in this brain region. In the first study, immunoperoxidase labeling of 5-HT in the ventral tegmental area was combined with retrograde transport of gold particles following unilateral injections of the tracer into the nucleus accumbens of adult rats. The gold particles had been previously coupled to wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to inactive horseradish peroxidase. Gold particles were enlarged for visualization using a silver enhancement procedure. By brightfield microscopy, retrogradely labeled neurons contained black punctate granules within their perikarya and proximal processes. The labeled cells were scattered ipsilateral to the injection within the paranigral and parabrachial subdivisions of the ventral tegmental area. Both regions also contained 5-HT immunoreactive varicosities. By electron microscopy, irrespective of the ventral tegmental subdivision, 5-HT labeling was seen primarily in unmyelinated axons and axon terminals. The terminals contained small, clear and large dense core vesicles and ranged from 0.3 micron to 1.4 microns in cross-sectional diameter. 22% (n = 250) of the axon terminals containing 5-HT immunoreactivity formed synaptic contacts with neurons containing the retrograde label. Of these 5-HT terminals, 16% formed asymmetric type contacts and 6% formed symmetric junctions on the retrogradely labeled neurons. The remaining 5-HT terminals were either apposed to (but lacked recognized synapses on) perikarya and large dendrites containing the retrogradely transported protein-gold tracer or contacted unlabeled neurons. In the second set of experiments combining immunoperoxidase of 5-HT and immunogold silver for tyrosine hydroxylase, 32% (n = 250) of the 5-HT-labeled terminals formed synaptic junctions with perikarya or dendrites containing tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. Of these 5-HT terminals, 23% formed asymmetric type junctions. The remainder were either symmetric or lacked recognized membrane densities. The prominence of asymmetric junctions formed by 5-HT-labeled terminals on neurons projecting to the nucleus accumbens and those containing tyrosine hydroxylase in the ventral tegmental area suggests a cellular basis for serotonergic excitation of mesoaccumbens dopamine neurons. Additionally, the multiplicity of junctions formed by 5-HT terminals on targets with or without retrograde labeling or tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity is consistent with known diverse physiological actions of 5-HT in the tegmental area.
Extensive synaptic and neuritic alterations in the neocortex and limbic system are characteristically found in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, it is not known how early in the development of the disease these alterations occur. For the present study, we compared the synaptic and neuritic alterations among cases classified clinically and neuropathologically as early, mild and advanced AD. In early AD there was a 20% loss of synaptophysin-immunoreactive presynaptic terminals in the outer molecular layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus (but not in the neocortex and entorhinal cortex), accompanied by increased amyloid precursor protein (APP) and Alz50 immunoreactivity in hippocampal and entorhinal cortex pyramidal neurons. These results suggest that abnormal neuronal expression of APP and cytoskeletal proteins in early stages might be involved in the mechanisms of synaptic pathology in AD.
The effect of Schaffer collateral/commissural fiber kindling on the expression levels of GABAA receptor beta 1, beta 2 and beta 3 subunit mRNA in the pyramidal and granular neurons of the rat dorsal hippocampus was studied, using semi-quantitative in situ hybridization. In pyramidal neurons of CA1 and CA3, only small changes (10-15%) were found. In dentate granule neurons, the expression level of GABAA R-beta 3 mRNA was significantly, enhanced, bilaterally, in animals that were partial or fully kindled. At long-term, 4 weeks after the last convulsion no significant changes were found in pyramidal or granular neurons.
Aggregation of acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) on skeletal muscle fibers is thought to be mediated by the basal lamina protein agrin. Structural similarities shared by agrin and laminin suggested that the laminin receptor dystroglycan-alpha, part of a dystrophin-receptor complex, might also bind agrin. We show here that dystroglycan-alpha and dystrophin-related protein (DRP/utrophin) are concentrated within AChR aggregates in cultures of C2 myotubes and that agrin binds specifically to dystroglycan-alpha in in vitro assays. This binding is calcium dependent and is inhibited by monoclonal antibody (MAb) IIH6 against dystroglycan-alpha, heparin, and laminin, but not by fibronectin. In S27 cells, which do not aggregate AChRs spontaneously, agrin and laminin binding to dystroglycan-alpha are dramatically decreased. Moreover, MAb IIH6 significantly inhibits agrin-induced AChR aggregation on C2 cells. We conclude that dystroglycan-alpha is an agrin-binding protein and part of a dystrophin-receptor complex involved in AChR aggregation.
Certain populations of dorsal root ganglion cells upregulate galanin (GAL) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) after peripheral axotomy. Less is known of the functional properties of the neurones reacting in this way. The primary sensory mesencephalic trigeminal (Me5) neurones are considered to have purely proprioceptive functions. In this study immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization have been used to investigate the expression of NPY and GAL in Me5 neurones after peripheral axotomy. Both methods revealed a transient upregulation of GAL and NPY in Me5 neurones which was first observed 3 days postoperatively, peaking at 1 and 2 weeks and then being reduced. The results show that proprioceptive neurones may upregulate these peptides as a consequence of injury.
Membrane fluidity in human erythrocytes was measured by a spin label method using an electron spin resonance spectrometer in healthy volunteers after ingestion of alcohol (1.5 ml of whisky/kg body weight). Fluidity in the lipid bilayer closer to the hydrophilic face decreased at 30 min and 90 min, and fluidity in the hydrophobic core decreased at 90 min after ingestion of alcohol. In the same experiment, the level of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances in the serum decreased 30 min after ingestion of alcohol, and the triglyceride level increased and free fatty acid level decreased, and serum superoxide dismutase activity increased 150 min after ingestion. Furthermore, membrane fluidity in human erythrocytes was examined in patients with alcohol dependence syndrome who had not any alcohol for about 26 months. Erythrocyte membrane fluidity of patients with alcohol dependence syndrome was not different from that of healthy controls. However, erythrocyte membrane fluidity of the lipid bilayer closer to the hydrophilic face increased in patients who had concomitant liver cirrhosis compared with those who did not. These results suggest that alcohol affects temporal change of membrane fluidity in human erythrocytes.
The effects of exposure to low levels of dioxins in infants (intrauterine and via breast milk) were studied. In a group of 35 babies, specially selected, laboratory tests were performed in cord blood and in blood sampled at 7 days and 11 weeks of age. The outcome of these laboratory tests was related to dioxin concentrations in milk fat and cumulative dioxin intake. At 11 weeks of age, alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activities in plasma were significantly related to cumulative dioxin intake. A significant negative relation was found between platelet count and cumulative dioxin intake. The results of this study suggest that exposure to background levels of dioxins, both intrauterine and via breast milk, may have effects in newborns.

The objective of this study is to characterize the temporal fluctuation of the axial blood flow velocity (BFV) at the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Biological observables such as BFV present complex oscillations. The irregularity of physiological systems may be assessed by fractal analysis by computing the fractal dimension (D gamma) and the corresponding temporal correlation (r gamma). The BFV at the MCA was registered with transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD) in four adult volunteers. As fractal processes are assumed to have no absolute time scale, two time scales were compared. The digitized signal was averaged respectively at 1-s intervals and for each heart beat. D gamma and r gamma were determined using relative dispersion analysis. The results were D gamma = 1.24 +/- 0.09 and r gamma = 0.45 +/- 0.19 (mean +/- SD) for the 1-s based time scale and D(r) = 1.17 +/- 0.09 and r gamma = 0.57 +/- 0.20 for the heart-beat scale. We conclude that the temporal heterogeneity of the BFV at the MCA in the normal human has fractal properties. Fractal analysis of TCD data may become useful in clinical diagnosis because loss of complexity in physiological systems has been linked to senescence or disease conditions. Wide variations of the so called normal values of BFV measured by TCD have been reported. The physiological BFV fluctuations may explain, in part, the variability of values recorded during routine TCD diagnostic examinations. Our observations may also be of value for understanding the interaction of the vascular endothelium and the blood flow stream (shear stress).
Histamine (HA) is a biogenic amine involved in the regulation of neurovegetative, cognitive, neuroendocrine and neuroimmune functions in the central nervous system (CNS). A bidirectional interaction between the CNS and the neuroimmune system has been demonstrated in recent years. However, data concerning brain HA-cytokine interactions are scarce. In this study we have evaluated tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) levels in the posterior hypothalamic region (PHR) and hippocampus (HP) of rats with: (a) bilateral ibotenic acid neurotoxic lesions in histaminergic neurons located in the PHR (I); (b) saline injections in the PHR (S); and (c) sham operation (C), two weeks after neurosurgery. The bilateral disruption of PHR HA neurons with ibotenic acid decreased TNF-alpha levels in the PHR with respect to sham-operated (C), but not saline-injected (S), rats. In contrast, hippocampal TNF-alpha concentrations were higher in lesioned rats (I) than in C and S animals. Our results indicate that the neurotoxic destruction of HA neurons decreases TNF-alpha synthesis in the hypothalamus while enhancing TNF-alpha production in the hippocampus, suggesting that neuronal HA might be involved in the regulation of the brain TNF-alpha system.
Recent findings have indicated that certain hydroxyl groups of peptides have enhanced intrinsic chemical reactivity and can be O-acylated by N-hydroxysuccinimide esters of biotin. Analytical procedures are described for the identification of O-acylated derivatives of seryl, threonyl, and tyrosyl residues after reaction with the N-hydroxysuccinimide ester of biotin containing the extended spacer arm 6-aminohexanoic acid. The identification and chemical characterization of O-biotinylated residues included amino acid analysis, peptide sequence determination, and mass spectrometric analysis. The application of these analytical procedures provided unequivocal identification of O-biotinylated residues for a number of peptides investigated. In a separate study, we also show that O-biotinylated amino-terminal seryl residues occurring after proteolysis of peptides or proteins can rapidly undergo an O--&gt;N acyl shift resulting in blockage of sequence analysis by the Edman degradation procedure.

Ceramide is ubiquitously present in plasma membranes and plays a pivotal role in metabolism of sphingolipids. In addition, ceramide and its hydrolytic product, sphingosine, may have important roles as second messengers for cell function and survival. Ceramide is hydrolyzed by both acid and alkaline ceramidase. In this investigation, saposin D was found to stimulate the acid, but not the alkaline, ceramidase. With a crude membrane enzyme preparation, the stimulation was about fourfold. Saposin D is one of four saposins (sphingolipid activator proteins) that are derived from a single precursor protein, prosaposin. Saposins, A, B, and C had no significant effect on ceramidase activity. A kinetic study showed that the stimulation by saposin D was caused by decreasing its Km value for ceramide without a significant change in its Vmax value. A binding study demonstrated that saposin D, as well as saposins A, B, and C, binds to ceramide at neutral pH but not at acidic pH. Preliminary evidence suggests that partially purified acid ceramidase contains bound saposin D. These findings suggest that saposin D facilitates acid ceramidase activity primarily by interaction with the enzyme. The function of saposin D as a modulator of ceramide concentration in vivo has been suggested by the accumulation of ceramide in tissues of patients with total saposin deficiency.
The clinical implications of depression in the context of rheumatoid arthritis are described. An overview of the diagnostic criteria for depression is provided, with specific focus on major depression and the associated subtypes. The neurobiological literature on major depression is briefly reviewed and the implications of the depression literature for the care of persons with rheumatoid arthritis are discussed.
In order to assess patient satisfaction with the Neurophysiology Services within our department, we undertook a pilot study using a simple questionnaire designed by staff members (MAHB and ABB). Patients were approached after their tests (nerve conduction tests (NCTs), electromyography (EMG) and electroencephalography (EEG)) were completed, by staff not involved in the testing. 31 patients were approached and all completed the questionnaire. None reported being inconvenienced by an undue waiting time. All felt that adequate information about the test had been provided, that their personal comfort and feelings were considered, and that they were adequately informed of the time and place at which the test results would be available. 61% considered their overall treatment excellent, the remainder good. To date, increased departmental awareness has resulted in staff participation in program evaluation, design of an outcomes hierarchy for the department, redesigning the patients' waiting area and, overall, a more active participation in quality assurance. We see this pilot study as a baseline for future more in-depth client and staff evaluations thereby promoting quality performance improvement.

A brief description of the setup of an inexpensive densitometric analysis system is provided. This system uses a software package and scanner that can be obtained for a total of less than $1000 and that can be operated by any Macintosh computer, including a MacPlus. In the event that a scanner is already available, the software itself can be obtained for approximately $399. Several comparisons are presented of data obtained with this system, data obtained by other analytical methods and data obtained with more expensive, dedicated densitometric systems. These comparisons demonstrate the usefulness and accuracy of this system.
1. Electrophysiological recordings from rat ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) in vitro have been used to compare the effects of novel chemical entities on CCKB receptor activation in the rat central nervous system. 2. Twenty compounds from three different chemical series were evaluated for their ability to reduce pentagastrin-induced increases in action potential firing rate. 3. All twenty compounds studies were found to be CCKB antagonists, with equilibrium constants spanning a concentration-range of several orders of magnitude. The rank order for their ability to block pentagastrin responses correlated well with values obtained for their relative affinities for the mouse cortex CCKB binding site. 4. It is concluded that the VMH preparation provides a good functional correlate to binding assays in the rodent central nervous system for a structurally diverse series of CCKB antagonists.
1. The effects of benzodiazepines on cholecystokinin (CCK) responses produced following activation of CCKB receptors by pentagastrin in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) or CCKA receptors by CCK-8S in the dorsal raphe of the rat brain in vitro have been investigated. 2. The benzodiazepine agonist, flurazepam, at high concentrations, blocked pentagastrin-induced excitations in the rat VMH yielding an equilibrium constant (Ke) value of 12.5 microM. 3. In the rat dorsal raphe, where activation of CCKA receptors leads to neuronal depolarization, flurazepam also produced a weak block of the CCK response. 4. Flurazepam blocked CCK responses but not carbachol-induced excitations of VMH neurones. The inhibition of CCK responses by flurazepam was not blocked by the benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil. 5. These data suggest that flurazepam is a weak antagonist at central CCKB receptors. 6. At central CCKA receptors, flurazepam blocked CCK-8S responses but the inhibition was not competitive, with a reduction in the peak CCK-8S obtainable in the presence of flurazepam. These results suggest that flurazepam acts at a site other than the CCKA receptor itself to block CCK responses in the dorsal raphe.
Four experiments examined the effects of inhibition of return on endogenously generated and visually guided saccades. In Experiments 1-3, subjects responded to a peripheral target by making either a prosaccade (toward the target) or an antisaccade (toward the field opposite the target). Prior to the appearance of the target, one of the two equiprobable target locations was activated by presenting a peripheral precue (Experiments 1 and 2), or by executing an endogenous saccade in response to a central precue (Experiment 3). In Experiment 1, the eyes remained fixed when the cue appeared; in Experiment 2 subjects made a saccade to the peripheral cue, and returned their eyes to the centre before the target appeared. In both experiments, saccade latencies were longer for targets appearing at the precued location for both prosaccade and antisaccade tasks. In Experiment 3, saccade latencies were longer for targets appearing at the precued location only in the prosaccade task; no effect of the precue was obtained in the antisaccade task. These results suggest that endogenously generated saccades activate both an inhibition of target detection and a motor alternation bias. Experiment 4 showed that inhibition of return generated by a peripheral precue increased the latency for a subsequent endogenous saccade (from a central, arrow target) toward the precued location. Inhibition of return may affect perceptual processing and also produce a motor alternation bias dependent upon whether it is activated exogenously or endogenously.
Calcium release in response to the activation of muscarinic M1 and histamine H1 receptors was studied in single N1E-115 cells using Fura-2 imaging. The objective was to relate changes in the kinetics of Ca release with reductions in functional receptor density resulting from receptor desensitization. Calcium release increased and its time course accelerated with increasing carbachol concentration with an EC50 = 96 +/- 8 microM. This value is similar to the binding KD (100 microM) and the similarity shows that the activation of calcium release is limited by the number of muscarinic receptors. In contrast, the EC50 for Ca release in response to histamine is 4.0 +/- 0.7 microM while the binding KD is 8.3 microM and, therefore, H1 receptors appear to be in approximately 2-fold excess over the minimum number necessary to fully engage the Ca release mechanism. Functional surface receptor number was assayed in the population of cells by counting the total number of cells responding to agonist. A 5 min exposure to 1 mM carbachol caused 12% of cells to lose their ability to respond to carbachol, with no change in their response to histamine. Interpolating from the dose-response curve taken before desensitization, this is equivalent to an average 23% reduction in the number of muscarinic receptors. In individual cells the latency to Ca release is dose-dependent in the absence of excess receptors. The loss of functional receptors was therefore estimated from the increase in latency after desensitization, and varied from 5-48% of receptors (22 +/- 18%). Muscarinic desensitization did not depend on IP3-evoked Ca release, Ca entry, protein kinase C, NO, or cGMP. We conclude that in a population, the number of cells responding and in single cells, the latency to Ca release can serve as measures of functional receptor density.
1. This paper was written at a moment when the dependence liability of nicotine, the psychoactive component from tobacco, was the center of a dispute between the tobacco manufacturing companies and the scientific community (Nowak, 1994a-c). Without being comprehensive, it tries to summarize evidence compiled from several disciplines within neuroscience demonstrating that nicotine produces a true psychiatric disease, behaviorally expressed as dependence to the drug (American Psychiatric Association, 1994). Nicotine dependence has a biological substratum defined as &quot;neuroadaptation to nicotine.&quot; 2. The first part of the article defines terms such as &quot;abuse,&quot; &quot;tolerance,&quot; &quot;dependence,&quot; and &quot;withdrawal.&quot; It discusses clinical and experimental facts at the whole-organism level, showing that animals and humans will seek and self-administer nicotine because of its rewarding properties. 3. The second part discusses the neurobiological basis of neuroadaptation to nicotine. It presents information on neuroanatomical circuits which may be involved in nicotine-related brain disorders, such as the mesocorticolimbic pathway and the basal forebrain-frontal cortex pathway. It also discusses work from several laboratories, including our own, that support the notion of a molecular basis for neuroadaptative changes induced by nicotine in the brain of a chronic smoker. 4. Although still under experimental scrutiny, the hallmark of neuroadaptation to nicotine is up-regulation of nicotinic receptors, possibly due to nicotine-induced desensitization of their function (Marks et al., 1983; Schwartz and Kellar, 1985). A correlation between these plastic changes and the behavioral data obtained from animal and human experiments is still needed to understand dependence to nicotine fully.
In the present study, the radioreceptor binding method was used to determine the changes of IP3 content in rat brain and dorsal spinal cord of high frequency (100 Hz) electroacupuncture (EA) analgesia and EA tolerance rat. The control levels of IP3 in rat brain (less cerebellum and cortex) and dorsal spinal cord were 6.3 +/- 0.78 pmol/mg protein and 3.4 +/- 0.60 pmol/mg protein, respectively. The results showed that IP3 in brain increased gradually within 45 min after stimulation in EA analgesia rat. Meanwhile, the dorsal spinal cord IP3 content decreased significantly 15 min, 30 min after EA stimulation and recovered to control level 45 min after EA stimulation. In EA tolerance rat, IP3 contents markedly increased in brain. And IP3 content in the spinal cord also increased dramatically within 30 min, but decreased rapidly to control level 45 min after EA stimulation. The IP3 level in EA tolerance rat brain and spinal cord was much higher than that in EA analgesia rat (P &lt; 0.01). The studies first reported that high frequency (100 Hz) EA may be linked to PI system in its signal transduction pathways.
Connexin43 is the major gap protein in the heart and cardiovascular system. Single channel recordings of human connexin43 gap junction channels exogenously expressed in transfected SKHep1 cells demonstrate two discrete classes of channel events, with unitary conductances of predominantly 60 to 70 and 90 to 100 pS when recorded with an internal solution containing CsCl as the major current-carrying ionic species and at moderate transjunctional voltages (&lt; 60 mV). Human connexin43 expressed in SKHep1 cells displays multiple electrophoretic mobilities (apparent M(r), approximately 41 to 45 kD) when resolved in Western blots. Treatment of connexin43 from these cells with alkaline phosphatase collapses the bands into a single 41-kD species; application of alkaline phosphatase to the cell interior through patch pipettes yields channels that are predominantly of the larger unitary conductance. The smaller 60- to 70-pS unitary conductance values correspond to the most common channel size seen in cultured rat cardiac myocytes; these channels were more frequently observed after treatment with the phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid, which was shown to increase phosphorylation of human connexin43 in these cells under similar conditions. Exposure to the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine shifted the proportion of events toward the largest unitary conductance and resulted in decreased phosphorylation of human connexin43 in seryl residues in these cells. Thus, the unitary conductance of human connexin43 gap junction channels covaries with the phosphorylation state of the protein. This change in unitary conductance appears to be a unique effect of phosphorylation on gap junction channels, since it has not been observed for other ion channels that have thus far been evaluated.

Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a synaptic enhancement that follows brief, high-frequency electrical stimulation in the hippocampus and neocortex. Recent evidence suggests that induction of LTP may require, in addition to postsynaptic Ca2+ entry, activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors and the generation of diffusible intercellular messengers. A new form of synaptic plasticity, homosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) has also recently been documented, which, like LTP, requires Ca2+ entry through the NMDA receptor. Current work suggests that this LTD is a reversal of LTP, and vice versa, and that the mechanisms of LTP and LTD may converge at the level of specific phosphoproteins.
The recent findings that glutamate receptors are phosphorylated and functionally modulated by protein kinases has provided evidence that phosphorylation of these receptors may play a critical role in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity.
In the past year, important advances have been made in the understanding of quantal neurotransmission at central synapses. These include new statistical tests for the significance of quantal peaks in synaptic amplitude histograms, greater understanding of possible sources of quantal variance, and new attempts to undertake a rigorous quantal analysis of neurotransmission.
In an open study, 14 alcohol-dependent male patients were treated with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) Zimelidine, 200 mg daily, for six months. They were given psychosocial therapy before and during the study. The number of days of alcohol intake was statistically significantly reduced from a mean of 14 days per month before to 1-5 days during drug treatment. No effect was observed on the amount of daily alcohol intake on drinking days. No tolerance to the effect of Zimelidine was observed during the study. The findings suggest an effect of combined psychosocial support with SSRI treatment that seems to be of clinical significance.
We examined soleus H-reflex recruitment in 30 controls and 33 patients with spinal cord lesions and spastic spinal paresis. H-reflex gain and threshold were determined from recruitment curves after normalization of stimulus intensity as a multiple of the current for a threshold M-response. Reflex gain was expressed as the mean slope of the H-reflex recruitment curve up to the half-maximal response size. Up to this point the curve follows an almost linear trajectory and will mainly reflect Ia afferent stimulation. This slope had a large variability but was clearly correlated with the H/M ratio. The mean gain was equal in controls and patients. The relation between H- and M-thresholds was expressed as a ratio which had a lower mean value in the patients. Though both H- and M-thresholds may be influenced by peripheral factors, this lower ratio suggests an increase in spinal motoneuron excitability in patients.
To characterize the dependencies of event-related potentials (ERPs) in lower vertebrates and brain levels upon recent history and sequences of stimuli, trains of flashes were delivered at various frequencies to unanesthetized rays while recording in optic tectum and telencephalon. ERPs to repetitive stimuli cannot be understood in terms of simple refractoriness and recovery. Processes must be invoked such as simultaneous excitation and suppression, facilitation and its opposite, rebound and induced rhythms, each with development and decay times and non-linearities. Some of these processes are uncovered by omitting a stimulus from a train. Omitted stimulus potentials (OSPs) act as though the brain expects a stimulus within 5-7 msec of the interstimulus interval (ISI) of the train. Very few ISIs suffice. The effect upon visual evoked potential (VEP) form and duration of the number of stimuli in short trains, before the steady state response (SSR) is established, is complex. Alternation of the amplitude of successive VEPs (1 large every 2 VEPs, 1 in 3, 1 in 4) is one indication of complexities in the SSR. OSPs also alternate. A single extra stimulus interpolated into a regular train causes distinct effects according to its position. Sharp discontinuities in these effects appear with &lt; 5 msec shifts. Total power of the SSR decreases with stimulation frequency but there is a large peak of increased power at 7 Hz and another at 12 Hz. Induced rhythms are a labile, late phase of OSPs as well as of rested VEPs and of the off response to a long light pulse. Jittered ISI experiments show that the apparent expectation of the OSP is little affected and that the intervals in the last few hundred milliseconds are most influential. The OSP studied here (ISI &lt; 0.5 s) is quite different from that so far studied in human subjects (ISI &gt; 1 sec). We predict further similarities when each taxon is tested in the other ISI range. A major category of response characteristics, besides sensitivity, receptive fields and recovery times, is dependence upon recent history of iterative events, including intervals, delays omissions and perhaps multiple facilitating and forgetting time constants. The variables examined parametrically in this study are only some of those available. Such dynamical characteristics are important neglected properties of afferent systems at each level.
The monoclonal antibody (mAb) PC3.1 recognizes a subset of neurons distributed in the infragranular layers of the lateral neocortex of the rat. Immunoaffinity chromatography with mAb PC3.1 showed that this antibody specifically binds a peptide epitope on a 29 kDa protein named latexin. To study the molecular details of the protein, we isolated four independent cDNA clones for latexin from cDNA libraries of the rat cerebral cortex and whole brain using the amino acid sequences of latexin fragments. Analysis of these cDNA clones showed that the predicted primary structure of latexin consists of 223 amino acids, and has no strict homology to any sequences so far known. Western and Northern blots demonstrated that the latexin and its mRNA were expressed predominantly in neural tissues with some expression in non-neural tissues. The gene that encodes latexin in the rat appeared to have homologues in other mammalian species and in the chick. In situ hybridization showed that latexin mRNA is synthesized in a subset of neurons in the lateral but not the dorsal neocortex, and that the distribution profile of these neurons is quite similar to that of neurons expressing latexin. These results indicate that latexin is a novel class of neuronal protein which represents intracortical regionality, and suggest that the regional specification of the neocortex involves selective parcellation of neurons which express a particular gene.
Trophic factors are expressed by neurons throughout several areas of the CNS. We studied the mRNA expression of a member of the neurotrophin family, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and of the two receptor transcripts, full-length trkB and truncated trkB in single intraocular cortex cerebri grafts and in double cortex cerebri grafts. All single as well as double intraocular cortex grafts grew well, reaching a maximal size 4 weeks postgrafting. BDNF mRNA was moderately expressed in neurons in all intraocular grafts and significantly increased compared to that in adult rat cortex. Truncated trkB mRNA was strongly expressed in neurons and glia, while full-length trkB mRNA was moderately expressed only in neurons in the intraocular cortical grafts. The expression of the two trkB transcripts in the grafted cortex did not differ from that of adult rat cortex. No difference in the expression of mRNAs for full-length or truncated trkB was found between single grafts grown for 4 or 8 weeks or between single and double grafts. Similarly, no difference in expression of BDNF mRNA in single grafts grown for 4 or 8 weeks was detected. However, BDNF mRNA levels were significantly lower in grafts which were placed in close contact with previously grafted cortex in the eye chamber. Moreover, contact with a second graft led to downregulation of BDNF mRNA in the first graft.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
GABA receptors are distributed widely throughout the central nervous system on a variety of cell types. It has become increasingly clear that astrocytes, both in cell culture and tissue slices, express abundant GABAA receptors. In astrocytes, GABA activates Cl(-)-specific channels that are modulated by barbiturates and benzodiazepines; however, the neuronal inverse agonist methyl-4-ethyl-6, 7-dimethoxy-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate enhances the current in a subpopulation of astrocytes. The properties of astrocytic GABAA receptors, therefore, are remarkably similar to their neuronal counterparts, with only a few pharmacological exceptions. In stellate glial cells of the pituitary pars intermedia, GABA released from neuronal terminals activates postsynaptic potentials directly. The physiological significance of astrocytic GABAA-receptor activation remains unknown, but it may be involved in extracellular ion homeostasis and pH regulation. At present, there is considerably less evidence for the presence of GABAB receptors on astrocytes. The data that have emerged, however, indicate a prominent role for second-messenger regulation by this receptor.
The memory performances of rats receiving a reversible inactivation of either the medial septum or one side of the ventral hippocampus were compared in a radial arm maze task allowing the assessment of both working and reference memory. After pre-surgery training, rats were chronically equipped with bilateral cannulae into the ventral hippocampus and a single cannula into the medial septum. Following post-surgery retraining, animals received a series of test trials during which they received saline or lidocaine injections in either the medial septum or one side of the ventral hippocampus. Lidocaine injections in either structure resulted in both reference and working memory deficits. However, animals were more impaired after septal injections than after unilateral hippocampal injections. This result suggests that the septo-hippocampal formation acts as a functionally homogeneous structure essential for spatial processing.
High-cost, high-volume specialty programs such as orthopedics and neurosciences find themselves in a position of evaluating the costs and in some cases the appropriateness of medical practices in response to payer scrutiny and provider selection processes. Orthopedics and neurosciences programs are at a stage of development analogous to that of cardiovascular care several years ago. Many of the same trends have come into play, such as payer &quot;carve-outs&quot; for orthopedic services, payer selection of centers of excellence based on cost and quality, reduction of Medicare reimbursement, greater use of high-cost technology, the decline of profitability due to &quot;older, sicker, and tougher&quot; patients, and the recent emergence of national orthopedic specialty networks oriented to national contracts for care. In an era in which payers demand value on both sides of the cost-plus-quality equation, programs are challenged to maximize the return on a patient population rife with &quot;no-win&quot; situations. In the orthopedic service line these include a high proportion of Medicare patients and chronic conditions such as workers' compensation medical back cases or repetitive motion injuries, which can be elusive to diagnose and expensive to treat. Many hospitals continue to lose money on joint replacement surgeries, the largest-volume orthopedic inpatient service, primarily because of the high Medicare population and the cost of implants. Neuroservices, while still relatively well reimbursed, face a rising proportion of Medicare payments as patients live longer and develop chronic, degenerative conditions. Inpatient days are decreasing due to payer pressures to limit hospital stays and to shift inpatient care to outpatient services. Some hospitals &quot;have lost interest in (the orthopedic) service line during the last five years because of recent trends in orthopedic-related inpatient volume and payment.&quot; But by managing costs strategically, both the neurosciences and orthopedics service lines can provide substantial revenue as well as the opportunity to achieve a &quot;center of excellence&quot; competitive position in a managed care environment. This Special Report outlines the process and advantages of managing costs and quality of care strategically, that is, in a manner which helps these programs meet internal cost and clinical goals while responding to market situations. The hospital, physicians, and patients all benefit as costs are reduced, quality is enhanced, and the service line's competitive position is strengthened.
It was the purpose of the present study to evaluate glutamate-stimulated phosphatidylinositol metabolism in primary mixed astrocyte/neuron and neuron-enriched cortical cultures through different stages of development in vitro. Glutamate (0-200 microM) stimulated inositol phosphate accumulation in a concentration-dependent fashion at 6, 13 and 20 days in vitro. Pure astrocyte cultures exhibited glutamate-stimulated phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis only at high concentrations (100-400 microM), indicating that these cells contribute little to the overall inositol phosphate accumulation measured in mixed neuronal cultures treated with low glutamate concentrations. Comparison of mixed neuronal cultures with and without antimitotic treatment revealed that increasing astrocyte number suppressed glutamate-stimulated responses, presumably via glutamate uptake. In contrast to previous reports, glutamate-stimulated inositol phosphate accumulation, when expressed as a function of cell number, increased with increasing days in vitro.
In this paper statistical resampling techniques are used to support the presence of an equiangular first principal component in EEG log spectra and therefore the existence of a global scale factor in EEG recordings. the Log transformed spectra from a normal sample (n = 211, age 5-97) were analyzed. To reach this conclusion a method for estimating the scale factor is introduced. It is also shown that this factor remains constant in each individual for all derivations and frequencies and across functional states. The contribution of this scale factor to the overall variance of the normal EEG reaches 42% of the total variance of age corrected data. Part of the variance of the scale factor exhibits age dependency. Scale factor correction of EEG spectra data improves the diagnostic accuracy for detecting pathological EEG spectra from an almost random level (Area under the ROC curve = .6) to .84.

In an earlier study, the authors found that severely motion sick individuals could be greatly relieved of their symptoms by intramuscular injections of promethazine (50 mg) or scopolamine (.5 mg). Comparable 50-mg injections of promethazine also have been found effective in alleviating symptoms of space motion sickness. The concern has risen, however, that such drugs may delay or retard the acquisition of adaptation to stressful environments. In the current study, we controlled arousal using a mental arithmetic task and precisely equated the exposure history (number of head movements during rotation) of a placebo, control group and an experimental group who had received promethazine. No differences in total adaptation or in rates of adaptation were present between the two groups. Another experimental group also received promethazine and was allowed to make as many head movements as they could, before reaching nausea, up to 800. This group showed a greater level of adaptation than the placebo group. These results suggest a strategy for dealing with space motion sickness that is described.
Two part-task preflight adaptation trainers (PATs) are being developed at the NASA Johnson Space Center to preadapt astronauts to novel sensory stimulus conditions similar to those present in microgravity to facilitate adaptation to microgravity and readaptation to Earth. This activity is a major component of a general effort to develop countermeasures aimed at minimizing sensory and sensorimotor disturbances and Space Motion Sickness (SMS) associated with adaptation to microgravity and readaptation to Earth. Design principles for the development of the two trainers are discussed, along with a detailed description of both devices. In addition, a summary of four ground-based investigations using one of the trainers to determine the extent to which various novel sensory stimulus conditions produce changes in compensatory eye movement responses, postural equilibrium, motion sickness symptoms, and electrogastric responses are presented. Finally, a brief description of the general concept of dual-adapted states that underly the development of the PATs, and ongoing and future operational and basic research activities is presented.
Postflight orthostatic intolerance has been identified as a serious biomedical problem associated with long-duration exposure to microgravity in space. High priority has been given to the development of countermeasures for this disorder that are both effective and practical. A considerable body of clinical research has demonstrated that people can be taught to increase their own blood pressure voluntarily, and that this is an effective treatment for chronic orthostatic intolerance in paralyzed patients. The current pilot study was designed to examine the feasibility of adding training in control of blood pressure to an existing preflight training program designed to facilitate astronaut adaptation to microgravity. Using an operant conditioning procedure, autogenic-feedback training (AFT), three men and two women participated in four to nine training (15-30-minute) sessions. At the end of training, the average increase in systolic and diastolic pressure, as well as mean arterial pressures, that the subjects made ranged between 20 and 50 mm Hg under both supine and 45 degrees head-up tilt conditions. These findings indicate that AFT may be a useful alternative treatment or supplement to existing approaches for preventing postflight orthostatic intolerance. Furthermore, the use of operant conditioning methods for training cardiovascular responses may contribute to the general understanding of the mechanisms of orthostatic intolerance.
Current knowledge of the neurobiology of social anxiety and social phobia is reviewed within the framework of chemical models of anxiety. Preliminary evidence for noradrenergic, serotonergic, and adenosinergic systems in the neurobiology of social phobia is presented and discussed within the context of medical model versus continuum theories of anxiety. The clinical and theoretical implications of a hypothesized linkage between anxiety disorders and hypothalamic-growth hormone dysfunction are presented. The author recommends that additional research strategies be developed to examine growth patterns and the function of growth hormone and other growth factors in children and adults with anxiety disorders; moreover, the rationale for additional longitudinal investigations of children with growth hormone deficiency short stature and psychosocial short stature is presented. It is hypothesized that individuals with growth hormone deficiency may be at high risk for the development of anxiety disorders.
In a video matching-to-sample task, we examined the effects of stimulus novelty on hemispheric specialization in 6 baboons (Papio papio). After familiarization with a set of 8 composite stimuli, baboons were tested with either familiar stimuli paired in a novel way, novel stimuli composed of familiar elements, or novel stimuli differing in structure from the previous stimuli. Analyses focused on visual field differences between initial and later trials in each condition. The findings reflected shorter left than right visual half-field response times for initial but not for terminal trials. With regard to accuracy, scores were smaller for the initial trials than for the later ones, but there was no significant difference between left and right visual half-fields. Overall, this study suggests that hemispheric lateralization changes with practice and that the right hemisphere of the baboon plays a critical role in the processing of novelty.


To record three-dimensional coordinates of the joints from normal human subjects during locomotion, we used a digital motion analysis system (ELITE). Recordings were obtained under several different conditions, which included normal walking and stepping over obstacles. Principal component analysis was used to analyze coordinate data after conversion of the data to segmental angles. This technique gave a stable summary of the redundancy in gait kinematic data in the form of reduced variables (principal components). By modeling the shapes of the phase plots of reduced variables (distortion analysis) and using a limited number of model parameters, good resolution was obtained between subtly different conditions. Hence, it was possible to accurately resolve small distributed changes in gait patterns within subjects. These methods seem particularly suited to longitudinal studies in which relevant movement features are not known a priori. Assumptions and neurophysiological applications are discussed.
The concept of a motor program has been used to interpret a diverse range of empirical findings related to preparation and initiation of voluntary movement. In the absence of an underlying mechanism, its exploratory power has been limited to that of an analogy with running a stored computer program. We argue that the theory of cortical cell assemblies suggests a possible neural mechanism for motor programming. According to this view, a motor program may be conceptualized as a cell assembly, which is stored in the form of strengthened synaptic connections between cortical pyramidal neurons. These connections determine which combinations of corticospinal neurons are activated when the cell assembly is ignited. The dynamics of cell assembly ignition are considered in relation to the problem of serial order. These considerations lead to a plausible neural mechanism for the programming of movements and movement sequences that is compatible with the effects of precue information and sequence length on reaction times. Anatomical and physiological guidelines for future quantitative models of cortical cell assemblies are suggested. By taking into account the parallel re-entrant loops between the cerebral cortex and basal ganglia, the theory of cortical cell assemblies suggests a mechanism for motor plans that involve longer sequences. The suggested model is compared with other existing neural network models for motor programming.

While the majority of sympathetic neurons are noradrenergic, a minority population are cholinergic. At least one population of cholinergic sympathetic neurons arises during development by a target-dependent conversion from an initial noradrenergic phenotype. Evidence for retrograde specification has been obtained from transplantation studies in which sympathetic neurons that normally express a noradrenergic phenotype throughout life were induced to innervate sweat glands, a target normally innervated by cholinergic sympathetic neurons. This was accomplished by transplanting footpad skin containing sweat gland primordia from early postnatal donor rats to the hairy skin region of host rats. The sympathetic neurons innervating the novel target decreased their expression of noradrenergic traits and developed choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity. In addition, many sweat gland-associated fibers acquired acetylcholinesterase (AChE) staining and VIP immunoreactivity. These studies indicate that sympathetic neurons in vivo alter their neurotransmitter phenotype in response to novel environmental signals and that sweat glands play a critical role in the cholinergic and peptidergic differentiation of the sympathetic neurons that innervate them. The sweat gland-derived cholinergic differentiation factor is distinct from leukemia inhibitory factor and ciliary neurotrophic factor, two well-characterized cytokines that alter the neurotransmitter properties of cultured sympathetic neurons in a similar fashion. Recent studies indicate that anterograde signalling is also important for the establishment of functional synapses in this system. We have found that the production of cholinergic differentiation activity by sweat glands requires sympathetic innervation, and the acquisition and maintenance of secretory competence by sweat glands depends upon functional cholinergic innervation.
Using expression cloning, and more recently using polymerase chain reaction cloning approaches, a family of rat N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit cDNAs has been described (NR1, NR2A, NR2B, NR2C, and NR2D). Here we report cloning and sequencing of cDNAs encoding isoforms of the human NR1 subunit (NR1a, NR1d, and NR1e) that differ at their C-terminal end as a result of alternative splicing and also of a cDNA encoding the human NR2A subunit. The deduced amino acid sequences of the human NR1 subunit isoforms differed from the published rat NR1 subunit sequences at only eight positions, all of which were N-terminal to the alternatively spliced domains. The human NR2A subunit deduced amino acid sequence differed from the published rat NR2A subunit sequence at 81 of the 1,464 amino acids, with most of the substitutions being located in the C-terminal half of the subunit. The gene for NR2A has been localised to human chromosome 16. We also report the expression and pharmacological characterisation of recombinant human NR1a/NR2A heteromeric receptors in Xenopus oocytes. These receptors had EC50 values of 2.14 and 2.05 microM for glutamate and glycine, respectively, and an IC50 of 46.8 microM for Mg2+. Responses were antagonised by D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, L-689,560, pH 6.3, zinc, and MK-801. No modulatory effect was observed on application of ifenprodil, confirming previous observations with rat NR1 + NR2A recombinant receptors.
We describe a group of 14 patients aged 8-38 years at presentation who had one or more sudden transient attacks of bilateral blindness. Eight patients described bilateral blindness as their only symptom whereas six others experienced some mild associated symptoms. Visual loss always developed within seconds and attacks were often precipitated by exercise, stress, or postural change. Of 13 patients available for review, none suffered a major vascular event during a mean follow up of 10 years. When adolescents and young adults present with transient bilateral blindness, investigations are unlikely to reveal a cause and the long-term prognosis appears benign.

1. Field potential recordings were used in rat motor cortex (MI) slice preparations to investigate the potential for activity-dependent modifications in the effectiveness of synaptic connections formed by layer II/III horizontal projections. 2. Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic efficacy in MI horizontal pathways could be produced at short (0.5 mm) and long (1.0 mm) distances by theta burst stimulation (TBS), but only during local, transient application of the gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA) receptor antagonist, bicuculline methiodide (bic) immediately before TBS. Mean increase of the field potential amplitude measured 25-35 min after LTP induction ranged between 24 and 34%. Cooperative effects of conjoint TBS of two horizontal pathways on LTP induction were observed. 3. These results demonstrate that persistent changes in the functional interactions of cortical neurons can arise by activity-dependent mechanisms within the local horizontal connections and suggest a likely mechanism to recognize cortical representation patterns.
1. We studied response properties of neurons in the superior temporal sulcus (STS) of behaving monkeys that discharged during brief, sudden movements of a large-field visual stimulus, eliciting ocular following. Most neurons responded to movements of a large-field visual stimulus with directional selectivity, preferring high stimulus speeds. Neurons were mostly recorded in the medial superior temporal area (MST) (187/250) and the middle temporal area (MT) (57/250). Further response properties were studied in the MST neurons. 2. Response latencies were measured when a large-field random dot pattern was moved in the preferred direction and preferred speed for each neuron. Eighty percent (120/150) of the neurons were activated &lt; 50 ms after the onset of the stimulus motion. In most cases (89%, 134/150), increased firing rates started before the eye movements, with 59% (88/150) starting &gt; 10 ms before the eye movements. 3. The relationship between the latency of neuronal responses and that of eye movements was studied in 59 neurons by changing the stimulus speed systematically (10-160 degrees/s). The latencies of both neuronal and ocular responses decreased as stimulus speed increased. As a result, the time difference between the response latencies for neuronal and ocular responses varied little with changes in stimulus speed. 4. Blurring of the random dot pattern, by interposing a sheet of ground glass, increased the latency of both neuronal responses and eye movements. 5. With the use of a check pattern instead of random dots, both neuronal and ocular responses began to decrease rapidly when the temporal frequency of the visual stimulus exceeded 20 Hz. At 40 Hz the neurons showed a distinctive burst-and-pause firing pattern, and the eye movements showed signs of oscillation. 6. The response properties of the MST neurons during ocular following were similar to those of the dorsolateral pontine nucleus (DLPN) neurons, reported previously. Our results indicate that the MST neurons may provide visual information to the DLPN neurons and may play a role in eliciting ocular following. 7. Responses during smooth-pursuit eye movement were studied in 55 MST neurons. Each of these neurons responded to the moving large-field visual stimulus, which elicited ocular following, and 40 of these neurons were activated during smooth pursuit in the dark. Response latencies during smooth pursuit were long in those neurons having different directional preferences during smooth pursuit and ocular following but were short for those having the same directional preferences during smooth pursuit and ocular following.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Trophic factors may function as one of the epigenic signals responsible for the proliferation, growth, migration, and differentiation of neurons and glia during embryogenesis. The present study reports that basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) at high concentrations (10-100 ng/ml) is a mitogen for embryonic spinal cord cells that have already committed to a neuronal pathway and are expressing neuronal phenotypes (neuroblasts). Neuroblasts proliferate with a doubling time of 2.5 d. To characterize the nature of cells proliferating in response to bFGF, we have established long-term cultures of neuroblasts that can be passaged, freeze thawed, and recultured. In cultures the proportion of astrocytes remained the same, indicating limited survival and proliferation of these cells in response to bFGF. These results indicate that bFGF has mitogenic effects preferably on neuroblasts. The morphological and biochemical characterizations of the neuronal populations present in the long-term neuroblast cultures are presented here. The presence of cholinergic and GABAergic neurons in the cultures was established by immunocytochemical analysis. The cultures contain a small number of motoneurons as judged by their immunostaining with ChAT, low-affinity NGF receptor (LNGFR), and large size. Among all other growth factors tested for their mitogenic effects on embryonic spinal cord cells in culture, only epidermal growth factor (EGF) showed such effects, but to a lesser degree. The proliferative nature of neuroblasts has made it possible to transduce the Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase (LacZ) gene stably into these cells in vitro using a retroviral vector. The transfected cells expressing the foreign gene can be passaged, freeze thawed, and recultured without the loss of transgenes. The ability to transduce foreign genes stably into these cells permits implantation of these cells in the spinal cord to study cellular and biochemical behaviors and gene expression in defined neuronal populations in in vivo environments.
The purpose of this study was to examine the functional organization of motor cortices in the human brain involved in reaching and visuomotor learning. All subjects were asked to learn the positions of seven circular targets projected on a screen. Each time the targets were turned off, they were required to close their eyes and keep them closed, and, after a delay, to point to the center of the targets in a prescribed order using their right hand. The regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured with 15O-butanol and positron emission tomography in 20 subjects during a rest state, an initial learning stage, and a later learning stage. Ten subjects constituted the reaching group in which rCBF was measured during actual reaching; the 10 other subjects constituted the preparation group in which rCBF was measured in the delay period between target exposure and actual reaching. Individual subtraction images (each stage minus rest) were calculated and transformed into a standard size and shape brain image by the adjustable computerized brain atlas and averaged, after which significant changes of rCBF were identified. In all reaching and preparation for reaching phases, cortical fields were activated in the left primary motor area (M1) and the left premotor area (PMA). Within M1, fields active in the delay phases were adjacent to the fields active only during actual reaching movements. During the course of learning, additional fields of activity appeared in both M1 and PMA. The results indicate that three types of fields occur in M1 and PMA: (1) fields directly engaged in the efferent control of peripheral muscle contraction, (2) fields engaged in preparatory activity for reaching, and (3) fields appearing after learning of the task has taken place.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) specifically enhances and maintains the expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and somatostatin (SOM) in cultured neocortical neurons (Nawa et al., 1993). In this article, we examined its effects in vivo on neuropeptide expression in various brain regions by injecting BDNF into the cerebroventricle of newborn rats. Repeated administration (2x) of BDNF increased contents of NPY-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI) and substance P (SP)-LI most markedly in the anterior neocortex by 11- and 24-fold, respectively, in comparison to values in the animals receiving control injection. A smaller but significant increase was also observed in immunoreactivity for somatostatin (SOM), enkephalin (ENK), and cholecystokinin (CCK). mRNA for NPY, SP, and SOM was similarly upregulated in the anterior neocortex, suggesting that BDNF enhances peptide synthesis rather than inhibiting peptide release or degradation. Among the brain regions examined, however, peptidergic responses to BDNF were different with respect to their spatial distribution and time course. Induction of SP-LI, NPY-LI, and SOM-LI around the injection site was most pronounced in cortical layers II/III, layers IV-VI, and layer VI, respectively. Peptidergic immunoreactivity was also enhanced in other brain regions ipsilateral to the injection site, for example, NPY-LI in the hippocampus, thalamic nuclei, and striatum, and SOM-LI in the striatum. A single injection of BDNF elevated SP-LI to a plateau level within 12 hr while NPY-LI and SOM-LI reached maximum levels at 48 hr, and then all returned to control levels at 68 hr. In contrast, the same dose of NGF had no influences on the neuropeptide levels at 48 hr. These observations suggest that BDNF regulates the development of neuropeptide expression in the CNS in a plastic manner.
In order to determine the presence of synaptic connectivity between fibres originating from a specific source and neurones with a known morphology and known fibre projection, we have introduced a method for electron microscopy that combines three techniques: retrograde fluorescent tracing, anterograde tracing using biotinylated dextran-amine and intracellular injection of Lucifer Yellow (LY) in lightly fixed brain slices. Neurones in the rat entorhinal cortex that project to the infralimbic cortex and that might be in synaptic contact with fibres originating in the dorsal subiculum served as a model. After surgical application of the tracers and a survival period enabling transport, the brain was fixed and vibratome slices 300 microns thick were prepared in which retrogradely labelled cells were intracellularly injected with LY. This substance and the transported biotinylated dextran-amine were converted into different electron-dense labels. First, LY immunocytochemistry was conducted, then followed by silver-gold enhancement of the immunoprecipitate. Subsequently, the tissue sections were treated with an avidin-biotin-horseradish peroxidase complex and subjected to a diaminobenzidine-peroxide reaction. This protocol resulted in labelling of biotinylated dextran-amine-positive fibres and terminals that could easily be differentiated from the LY-positive neuronal elements and also showed well preserved ultrastructural detail.
The advent of microcomputers has brought about a revolution in the computing power available to the average user. Image analysis is a very resource-intensive process, making great demands on computing power, memory, and display capabilities of most computers. Thus, in the past, dedicated, single-use hardware and software had to be custom made for environments requiring image analysis. We present here an easy-to-use image analysis protocol available to most users with a Macintosh II series computer and access to IMAGE (a public domain image analysis program). The protocol allows for semi-quantitation of silver grains over cells used in the interpretation of in-situ hybridization results. We show that the method provides a quick and reliable means of counting grains over mRNA-positive cells in an automated fashion. We also provide evidence that the method can be used to detect differences between experimental treatments.
Investigation into the use of osmotic therapy for ICP reduction began in 1919. Mannitol is the osmotic agent currently in use. Mannitol's effectiveness in reducing ICP has been shown. Osmotic therapy using mannitol reduces ICP by mechanisms that remain unclear. Mannitol is thought to decrease brain volume by decreasing overall water content, to reduce blood volume by vasoconstriction and to reduce CSF volume by decreasing water content. Mannitol may also improve cerebral perfusion by decreasing viscosity or altering red blood cell rheology. Lastly, mannitol may exert a protective effect against biochemical injury. The most common complications of therapy are fluid and electrolyte imbalances, cardiopulmonary edema and rebound cerebral edema. Nursing care of the patient receiving mannitol requires vigilant monitoring of electrolytes and overall fluid balance, and observation for the development of cardiopulmonary complications in addition to neurologic assessment.
Prior to institution of case management Mr. G would have remained on the neuroscience acute care unit until nursing home placement could be arranged, a process which often took a year because of the severe shortage of Medicaid beds in South Carolina. Because case managers collaborated to identify and resolve the problem, the outcome for those such as Mr. G has changed. Case management facilitates movement of patients with complex problems from acute care to successful community reentry in a cost-effective manner.
Diffuse axonal injury (DAI) occurs in 30% of all fatal head injuries. DAI is identified on autopsy as microscopic lesions that commonly appear in the splenium of the corpus callosum, rostral brainstem and frontal and temporal lobes of the cerebrum. Clinical presentation of severe DAI includes patients with no lucid interval and decorticate or decerebrate posturing. Diagnostic studies describe concurrent pathologic anatomy associated with DAI. The most common mechanism for DAI is motor vehicle accidents. The neuroscience nurse needs to have an understanding of DAI anatomy and physiology, including the differences and similarities in the clinical presentation and neurologic functional outcome in both adult and pediatric populations.
Exposure of individual purified neurofilament (NF) proteins to AlCl3 alters their electrophoretic properties in a time- and concentration-dependent manner, as visualized by their failure to migrate into SDS gels. Co-incubation of purified high (NF-H) and middle (NF-M) but not low (NF-L) molecular weight NF subunits prevents this AlCl3-induced alteration in electrophoretic migration. This latter finding suggested that specific interactions between NF-H and NF-M other than filament formation influenced their interaction with AlCl3. Co-incubation of the 160 kDa alpha-chymotryptic cleavage product of NF-H (corresponding to the highly phosphorylated C-terminal sidearm domain) with native NF-M prevented alteration in subunit electrophoretic migration by AlCl3. By contrast, intact, dephosphorylated NF-H subunits were unable to prevent AlCl3-induced alteration of native NF-M electrophoretic migration. Taken together, these findings suggest that phosphate-dependent interactions between the sidearm extensions of NF-H and NF-M diminish the ability of AlCl3 to associate with either subunit in a manner that alters their electrophoretic migration. This interaction of NF-H and NF-M sidearms is SDS-sensitive, while AlCl3-induced alteration in electrophoretic migration of individual subunits is SDS-resistant. Addition of SDS to mixtures of NF-H and NF-M subunits disrupted the protective effect, and promoted AlCl3-induced alterations in subunit electrophoretic migration. These findings support and extend the current hypothesis that the ability of aluminum to interact with NF subunits is a function of subunit phosphorylation, assembly, and extent of neurofilament-neurofilament cross-linking.
The case is described of a granular cell tumor of the pituitary stalk in a 40-year-old woman with secondary amenorrhea. A computerized tomography scan showed a large contrast-enhancing mass, and T1-weighted magnetic resonance images demonstrated a tumor isointense to the brain parenchyma with nonhomogeneous enhancement after intravenous administration of gadolinium diethylenetriamine penta-acetic acid. Histopathological examination, especially immunocytochemical and electron microscopic studies, showed elements supporting an astrocytic origin for this type of tumor, a hypothesis advanced by many authors but still controversial.

Intracerebroventricular injection of the D-forms of alanine (Ala; 2-200 micrograms/rat) and serine (Ser; 20-2000 micrograms/rat) caused a dose-dependent inhibition of the ability of 10 mg/kg of phencyclidine (PCP; given i.p.) to increase automatically quantitated locomotor counts and cumulated scores of locomotion, stereotypy and ataxia for 90 min after PCP administration. D-Ala and D-Ser were found to be more potent than the corresponding L-isomers in attenuating the PCP-induction of these behavioral abnormalities. Although L-, but not D-Ser, at moderate doses (400 micrograms/rat) produced a slight decrease in cumulative ataxia scores after a 10-mg/kg PCP administration, D-, but not L-Ser, reduced the behavioral scores at large doses (more than 1000 micrograms/rat). Similarly, bilateral i.c.v. infusion of D-Ala (140 micrograms/rat) reduced the increasing effects of a lower dose of PCP (5 mg/kg i.p.) on locomotion, stereotypy and ataxia scores, whereas the L-form of Ala (140 micrograms/rat) lacked the inhibitory influence. The stereo-selectivity of the antagonism by Ala and Ser of PCP-induced abnormal behavior parallels that of the potencies of these amino acids as agonists for the strychnine-insensitive glycine site linked to the N-methyl-D-aspartate type excitatory amino acid receptor. Furthermore, the decreasing effects of D-Ala (200 micrograms/rat i.c.v.) and D-Ser (2000 micrograms/rat i.c.v.) on PCP-induced hyperactivity were antagonized by i.c.v. application of 5,7-dichlorokynurenate and 7-chlorokynurenate which are selective antagonists of the glycine modulatory site.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

In adrenal cortex and other steroidogenic tissues including glial cells, the conversion of cholesterol into pregnenolone is catalyzed by the cytochrome P450scc located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. A complex mechanism operative in regulating cholesterol access to P450scc limits the rate of pregnenolone biosynthesis. Participating in this mechanism are DBI (diazepam binding inhibitor), an endogenous peptide that is highly expressed in steroidogenic cells and some of the DBI processing products including DBI 17-50 (TTN). DBI and TTN activate steroidogenesis by binding to a specific receptor located in the outer mitochondrial membrane, termed mitochondrial DBI receptor complex (MDRC). MDRC is a hetero-oligomeric protein: only the subunit that includes the DBI and benzodiazepine (BZD) recognition sites has been cloned. Several 2-aryl-3-indoleacetamide derivatives (FGIN-1-X) with highly selective affinity (nM) for MDRC were synthesized which can stimulate steroidogenesis in mitochondrial preparations. These compounds stimulate adrenal cortex steroidogenesis in hypophysectomized rats but not in intact animals. Moreover, this steroidogenesis is inhibited by the isoquinoline carboxamide derivative PK 11195, a specific high affinity ligand for MDRC with a low intrinsic steroidogenic activity. Some of the FGIN-1-X derivatives stimulate brain pregnenolone accumulation in adrenalectomized-castrated rats. The FGIN-1-X derivatives that increase brain pregnenolone content, elicit antineophobic activity and antagonize punished behavior in the Vogel conflict test in rats. These actions of FGIN-1-X are resistant to inhibition by flumazenil, a specific inhibitor of BZD action in GABAA receptors but are antagonized by PK 11195, a specific blocker of the steroidogenesis activation via MDRC stimulation. It is postulated that the pharmacological action of FGIN-1-X depends on a positive modulation of the GABA action on GABAA receptors mediated by the stimulation of brain neurosteroid production.

Brain levels of free fatty acids (FFA) and diacylglycerols (DAG) rise rapidly with the onset of seizures, reflecting activation of phospholipases A2 (PLA2) and C (PLC), respectively. However, the ictal/interictal accumulation of FFA attenuates as recurrent seizures continue. To assess the role of neuronal activity in stimulating PLA2 and C, we compared FFA and DAG in rat cerebral cortex during recurrent ictal periods as a function of associated levels of interictal activity. Pentobarbital-anesthetized rats were paralyzed, ventilated with 30% O2 and subjected to periodic pentylenetetrazol seizures at intervals of 5 min. Animals were killed with focused-microwave irradiation during either the 3rd or 15th seizure. The rise in cortical FFA levels during early seizures for 20:4, 22:6, and 18:0 was 3.6-, 2.5-, and 2.2-fold greater, respectively, when adjacent interictal activity was intense as compared to weak activity. During late seizures, this difference dropped to 2.2-fold for 20:4, the only FFA that showed a significantly higher value between robust versus weak interictal activity. In contrast, accumulation of DAG during early and late seizures was observed only when adjacent interictal activity was high. These results indicate that the cortical accumulation of FFA and DAG during ictal periods of similar intensity and duration depends upon the electrocortical activity during adjacent interictal periods.

Recent findings have led to the concept that transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) contributes to the neuroendocrine regulation of female puberty by stimulating the release of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neurohormone controlling sexual development. It was postulated that this effect is mediated by epidermal growth factor receptors (EGFR) and that EGFR may not be located on LHRH neurons, so that TGF alpha-induced LHRH release would require an intermediate cell-to-cell interaction, presumably of glial-neuronal nature. The present study was undertaken to characterize the presence of EGFR in rat hypothalamus and to determine if changes in EGFR gene expression and EGFR protein occur at the time of puberty. RNA blot hybridization demonstrated that the hypothalamus expresses all mRNA species known to encode EGFR. RNase protection assays revealed that alternative splicing of the EGFR primary mRNA transcript occurs in the hypothalamus and produces a predominant transcript encoding the full-length EGFR and a much less abundant, shorter mRNA encoding a truncated, and presumably secreted form of EGFR. EGFR-like immunoreactive material was found in several hypothalamic regions including the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, supraoptic, suprachiasmatic, and paraventricular nuclei, ependymal cells lining the third ventricle, some astrocytes associated with blood vessels, astrocytes of the pial surface, and tanycytes and glial cells of the median eminence (ME). Low levels of EGFR mRNA were detected by hybridization histochemistry in cells of the same areas containing EGFR-like immunoreactivity. Double-immunohistochemistry revealed that even though LHRH neurons are in close proximity to EGFR-positive cells, they do not contain EGFR. In the ME, EGFR-immunonegative LHRH nerve terminals tightly coexist with EGFR-positive cells, presumably tanycytes and glial astrocytes. EGFR mRNA levels measured by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assay (RT-PCR) in the ME-arcuate nucleus region at the time of puberty decreased in the morning of the first proestrus, i.e., preceding the first preovulatory surge of gonadotropins, and rebounded at the time of the surge. Functional EGFR protein levels, detected by the ability of the receptor to autophosphorylate in response to ligand or divalent antibody-induced activation, changed in a similar manner at the time of puberty. No such changes were observed in the cerebellum, a brain region irrelevant to neuroendocrine reproductive control. These results demonstrate the existence of EGF receptors in the prepubertal female rat hypothalamus and suggest that changes in EGFR gene expression and biologically active EGFR protein contributes to the neuroendocrine process underlying the first preovulatory surge of gonadotropins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Polymerase chain reaction techniques and medium stringency library screening were used to isolate a rat cDNA (&quot;H218&quot;) which encodes a novel guanine nucleotide-binding protein coupled receptor homolog (&quot;pH218&quot;). Northern analysis revealed that brain H218 mRNA is preferentially expressed during embryogenesis. In addition, H218 mRNA is expressed in all developing tissues and rodent cell lines examined with highest levels detected in primitive, transformed cells. H218 mRNA expression in cell lines is rapidly increased by a tumor promoter and rapidly decreased by a differentiation-inducing growth factor. Finally, all of the sequence motifs characteristic of Src homology 2 domains are present in pH218 but in a unique arrangement. We conclude that pH218 may function as a growth factor receptor.

The issue of &quot;axonal&quot; Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) remains controversial. Supportive evidence comes from pathological examination of peripheral nerves in 4 extreme cases of GBS 17-29 days after onset which showed severe axonal degeneration without inflammatory-demyelination. It has been suggested that inflammatory-demyelination may have been missed. This is difficult to disprove but it seems unlikely, given the known correlation between the severity of axonal degeneration and inflammation/demyelination in the experimental model of GBS, experimental allergic neuritis (EAN). Electrically inexcitable nerves in GBS may reflect axonal degeneration, terminal demyelination or both. This finding proved to be a sign of poor prognosis in 19 of 27 (70%) patients, although a good outcome occurred in some cases.
Muscarine stimulated a concentration-dependent accumulation of [3H]inositol phosphates in bovine adrenal medullary cells preloaded with [3H]inositol. This muscarinic activation of inositol phospholipid metabolism was fully inhibited by the sigma-ligand 1,3-di-o-tolylguanidine (DTG) with an IC50 of approximately 45 microM. Higher concentrations (100 microM) of (+) N-allylnormetazocine (SKF-10047) also partially inhibited this response. A concentration of DTG sufficient to fully inhibit the muscarinic response also produced a significant partial inhibition of [3H]inositol phosphate accumulation in response to histamine but not to angiotensin II. These data demonstrate that sigma-compounds inhibit agonist-stimulated inositol phospholipid metabolism in bovine adrenal medullary cells, with a degree of selectivity towards the muscarinic response.
The effects of chronic haloperidol administration on the accumulation of inositol phosphates were examined in rat brain slices pre-labeled with [3H]myo-inositol and incubated with various dopaminergic drugs. Rats were treated with haloperidol-decanoate or its vehicle (sesame oil) for two, four or six weeks. Dopamine and the selective D1 agonist, SKF38393, induced a significant increase in lithium-dependent accumulation of [3H]inositol monophosphate (IP1) in the frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum of vehicle-treated animals, while the selective D2 agonist quinpirole did not show any effect on IP1 accumulation. The actions of dopamine and SKF38393 were blocked by the D1 antagonist, SCH23390, but not by the D2 antagonist, spiperone, in all three brain regions. Haloperidol treatment did not affect basal phosphoinositide turnover in the three brain regions. Four or six weeks of haloperidol treatment significantly decreased dopamine-induced IP1 accumulation in the striatum (by 30% and 25%, respectively), but not in the frontal cortex and the hippocampus. Four weeks of treatment with haloperidol significantly decreased IP1 levels in the striatal slices when measured in the presence of quinpirole. However, the accumulation of IP1 measured in the presence of SKF38393 was not significantly altered after haloperidol treatment. The loss of dopamine-sensitive IP accumulation was not observed in the presence of spiperone after haloperidol treatment. The number, but not the affinity, of [3H]sulpiride binding sites in the striatum was significantly increased (by 34-46%) after chronic haloperidol treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Confocal laser scanning imaging was used to reconstruct the three-dimensional distribution of the aggregates of olfactory receptor axons terminating within individual glomeruli in the rabbit main olfactory bulb. Two monoclonal antibodies, R2D5 and R4B12, were used to mark selectively the olfactory receptor axons. Thick coronal sections (100-200 microns in thickness) through the bulb were labeled with either of the antibodies, and then serial optical sectioning was performed to reconstruct three-dimensional optic images of the labeled axons in the glomeruli. The results revealed an intricate internal structure of the glomeruli with a mesh-like arrangement of bundles of terminal olfactory axons. Developmental study showed that primitive glomeruli lacking the internal structure of the adult form first appear in the 22-day embryo and that the characteristic internal structure of the glomeruli develops mainly during postnatal days. The confocal laser scanning image method together with specific molecular markers provides a simple tool for the three-dimensional analysis of the glomerular structure.

Significant advances have been made in understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying seizure disorders and the actions of antiepileptic drugs. Agents with new mechanisms of action or enhanced activity via known mechanisms might provide improved seizure control or more selective therapy for specific epilepsies. Gabapentin is a new antiepileptic drug that is structurally similar to the neurotransmitter GABA and the endogenous amino acid L-leucine. The mechanism of action of gabapentin is not fully understood, but its distinct profile of anticonvulsant activity in animal seizure models and its lack of activity at many drug binding sites associated with other antiepileptic drugs indicate that its mechanism of action is novel.
The effect of sulphated cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8S) on immediate early gene expression in the rat CNS was investigated using the technique of in situ hybridization. A rapid and transient induction of c-fos, NGFI-A and NGFI-B (nerve growth factor-induced genes A and B) mRNA was demonstrated in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), area postrema (AP), hypothalamic paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei, and central nucleus of the amygdala, following peripheral administration of CCK-8S (1-100 micrograms/kg i.p.). In contrast, levels of c-jun, junB and junD mRNA were unaffected by the peptide. The closely related decapeptide, caerulein (50 micrograms/kg i.p.), induced the same pattern of IEG expression as CCK-8S, whereas the desulphated octapeptide, CCK-8DS (50 micrograms/kg i.p.), had no effect on levels of mRNA for any IEG studied. Expression of IEG mRNA in these areas was suppressed by bilateral subdiaphragmatic vagotomy, and by pretreatment with the selective CCKA receptor antagonist, devazepide (0.1 and 1 mg/kg i.p.). In contrast, CCK-8S induction of IEG mRNA was not blocked by pretreatment with the selective CCKB receptor antagonist, CI-988 (1 or 10 mg/kg i.p.). In addition, the selective CCKB receptor agonists, CCK-4 (50 micrograms/kg i.p.) or pentagastrin (2 mg/kg i.p.), failed to induce IEG expression in any of the areas studied. These results suggest that systemic CCK-8S primarily acts via CCKA receptors on vagal afferents to stimulate IEG mRNA expression in the rat CNS.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)-like immunoreactive (IR) fibers were investigated ontogenically in the mouse cerebellum. CRF-IR was detected in the climbing fiber and mossy fibers as in other species. In addition, CRF-IR dense fiber plexuses were detected from postnatal day (PD) 2 to 9, in the developing Purkinje cell layer of the vermal lobules, paraflocculus, flocculus and crus 1 ansiform lobule, gradually forming a pericellular nest around the Purkinje cell somata. Immunoelectron-microscopical analysis showed that dense fibers made synaptic contacts with the Purkinje cell somata on PD 7. In the lobules mentioned above, CRF-IR dense fibers showed parasagittal banded patterns. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-IR showed similar fiber bands at these stages. Interestingly, these two patterns of peptidergic fiber bands were complementary in distribution. From around PD 9, CRF-IR fibers lost the immunoreactive dots in the Purkinje cell layer. Immunoreactivity at this stage was observed in the axons projecting to the molecular layer, and thin CRF-IR fibers began to appear in the neighboring area. Numerous typical climbing fiber-like CRF-IR fibers were found throughout the cerebellar cortex from PD 16 to adult. The inferior olivary complex (the origin of climbing fibers) appears to be the origin of these dense fiber plexuses as CRF-IR cells were already present from PD 2 in the dorsal cap nucleus, beta subnucleus and caudomedial part of the accessory olivary nucleus. No neurons containing both CRF and CGRP immunoreactivities were observed. These results suggest that CGRP- and CRF-IR developing climbing fibers innervate different compartments of Purkinje cells, especially in the vestibular cerebellar cortex in mice. Furthermore, CRF-IR fibers gradually changed to become typical climbing fibers, while CGRP-IR disappeared altogether.
The response to postganglionic nerve crush and Ricinus toxin administration by the ciliary neurons of the quail ciliary ganglion was investigated at the ultrastructural level. The toxin was either applied at the crush site on the postganglionic nerves or injected into the anterior eye chamber without any other operative intervention. Crush of postganglionic nerves without toxin administration and saline injection into the anterior eye chamber served as controls for the two toxin administration procedures. Postganglionic nerve crush caused a distinct chromatolytic reaction, accompanied by massive detachment of the preganglionic axon terminals from the ciliary neurons and loss of most of the synapses, both chemical and electrical. This process does not induce cell death and is reversible. Saline injection in the anterior eye chamber caused a moderate retrograde reaction in some of the ciliary neurons, presumably as a consequence of paracentesis. The changes consisted mainly of an increase of perikaryal neurofilaments with, at most, a minor detachment of the preganglionic boutons from a small portion of the cell body at the nuclear pole. Ricinus toxin administration induced neuronal degeneration following a pattern common to both delivery modes. The degenerative process consisted of disruption and detachment of polyribosomes from the rough endoplasmic reticulum, an increase of smooth cisterns and tubules, a dramatic increase of neurofilament bundles, compartmentalization of the cytoplasmic organelles and, finally, karyorrhexis and cell lysis. The final stages of Ricinus toxin degeneration involve a progressive accumulation of extracellular flocculo-filamentous material and cell lysis. After administration of Ricinus toxin to the crush site, ricin-affected neurons showed withdrawal of the preganglionic boutons from a portion of the ciliary neuron, especially at the nuclear pole. After Ricinus toxin injection into the anterior eye chamber, however, the bouton shell surrounding the affected ciliary neurons remained intact in the early stages of degeneration. Detachment of the preganglionic terminals and disruption of the cell junctions, therefore, is the consequence of nerve crush and not of the toxin itself. This study demonstrated that quail ciliary neurons are a suitable model for experimental neuropathology and neurotoxicology.
The localization and distribution of the protooncogene c-fos were studied immunohistochemically in the retina of human fetuses ranging in age from 15 to 40 weeks of gestation. The highest levels of immunoreactivity were observed in the retinae of younger fetuses, decreasing in intensity with increasing age. At 15 weeks of gestation intense immunoreactivity was observed in the inner nuclear layer while the photoreceptor cells exhibited moderate staining. At 26 weeks of gestation, immunoreactivity in the inner nuclear layer was reduced. The ganglion cells, amacrine cells and photoreceptor cells showed moderate immunopositivity throughout the 26-40 weeks period. The role of c-fos in development is discussed in the light of its other known functions.
Evidence for fibroblast growth factor receptors in the central nervous system has only been obtained using autoradiographic localization of fibroblast growth factor binding sites and messenger RNA. To clarify those neuronal functions that are regulated by fibroblast growth factor receptors, we have localized immunocytochemically the fibroblast growth factor receptor protein in bovine retina, a neural tissue of well-defined structure and function. The extracellular domain of the gene product referred to as fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 was expressed genetically in bacteria to obtain a polyclonal antibody. Positive staining was confined almost exclusively to the synaptic and optic fiber layers. Such a specific association suggests a role for this receptor in modulation of synaptic terminals and ganglion cell axons of the optic nerve, especially with respect to glutamate release.
Interferon-gamma when given intraperitoneally by single daily injection into one-day-old rats upregulated the expression of major histocompatibility complex class I antigen on ramified microglial cells in cerebral cortex and induced the expression of major histocompatibility complex class II antigen both on amoeboid and ramified microglial cells present in corpus callosum and cerebral cortex, respectively. In rats receiving single daily injections of interferon-gamma over a period of three consecutive days and killed at the age of seven days, the endothelium exhibited a moderate to weak immunoreaction for major histocompatibility complex class I antigen as detected with the monoclonal antibody OX-18. The immunoreactivity of major histocompatibility complex class I antigen on amoeboid microglial cells was comparable to that of control rats. On the other hand, it was remarkably enhanced on ramified microglial cells and was further intensified with four or six injections of interferon-gamma. In the latter, the endothelial cells also showed a stronger immunoreactivity with OX-18. In rats given three successive injections of interferon-gamma and killed at the age of seven days, 7.5% of amoeboid microglial cells in corpus callosum were induced to exhibit major histocompatibility complex class II antigen as detected with OX-6. An upsurge of the amoeboid microglial cells with major histocompatibility complex class II antigen amounting to about 40% was observed following four and six injections of interferon-gamma. A minimum of four successive injections of interferon-gamma were needed to elicit the expression of major histocompatibility complex class II antigen on ramified microglial cells in cerebral cortex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A novel autoradiographic method to identify individual neurons responding to neurotransmitter stimulation with increased phosphoinositide turnover is described. When phosphoinositide-coupled receptors are activated, phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate is hydrolysed by phospholipase C generating the two second messengers, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol. During prolonged receptor stimulation, both second messengers are actively recycled to maintain the effective intracellular levels of agonist-sensitive phosphoinositides. Lithium ions inhibit this recycling pathway by blocking the recovery of free inositol from inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate thus leading to the accumulation of phosphatidyl cytidine monophosphate, a membrane bound molecule which is the activated precursor of the synthesis of phosphoinositides. Therefore, addition of excess myo-inositol reverts the effects of lithium inhibition. Thus, taking advantage of this fact and using [3H]cytidine as precursor, phosphatidyl [3H]cytidine monophosphate accumulation was induced in rat neocortical and hippocampal slices after muscarinic or metabotropic glutamate receptor stimulation. The labelled slices were then fixed, dehydrated and embedded in Durcupan resin. Semithin sections (1 micron thick) were cut and exposed to autoradiographic emulsion for several weeks. Biochemical analysis of the incorporation of [3H]cytidine into the chloroform extracted (containing lipids) and the alkali-solubilized (containing nucleic acids and proteins) fractions were carried out in parallel with morphological studies. The stimulation of both receptor types induced labelling of neurons in neocortex and hippocampus. In labelled cells silver grains were characteristically observed over the cytoplasm surrounding the nucleus and main dendritic processes. The anatomical location and distribution of labelled cells as well as the levels of response obtained in both brain regions studied, was found to be receptor specific. Inclusion of 30 mM myo-inositol in the incubation media reversed completely both the accumulation of phosphatidyl [3H]cytidine monophosphate and the labelling of cells, thus demonstrating that the label detected autoradiographically corresponds to phosphatidyl [3H]cytidine monophosphate. It is concluded that the method is sensitive and specific, allowing identification of individual neurons in both neocortical and hippocampal slices and after stimulation of both muscarinic and metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes. The method may open a new means to study the phosphoinositide second messenger signalling pathway and the cells in which it takes place.
Type I and type II brain corticosteroid receptors are regulated by adrenal hormones as well as being under neural control. Recent studies have indicated that neurotransmitters such as serotonin and noradrenaline are also involved in the regulation of corticosteroid receptors. In a previous study, we showed that dopamine also modulates activity of the corticosteroid receptor system. In the present study, we examined the roles of the dopamine D1 and D2 receptor subtypes in the regulation of corticosteroid receptors. Adrenalectomized rats whose corticosterone levels were maintained within normal limits by corticosterone replacement implants, were injected intraperitoneally with the D1 agonist SKF 38393 or the D2 agonist LY 171555. Corticosteroid receptors were assayed in the ventral striatum and hippocampus. We have shown that the D1 agonist SKF 38393 decreased type II receptor affinity in both regions, whereas the D2 agonist LY 171555 had no effects. The results show that the influence of the dopaminergic system on corticosteroid receptors appears to be mediated by D1 receptors.
SCG10 is a developmentally regulated, growth-associated protein (GAP) that was isolated as a neuronal marker of the neural crest. It was recently found that SCG10 shares an amino acid sequence similarity with a phosphoprotein named stathmin or p19 of which phosphorylation is induced by nerve growth factor and vasoactive intestinal peptide in PC12 cells and striatal neurons, respectively. While expression of SCG10 messenger RNA dramatically decreases during postnatal development, significant levels of expression still persist into adulthood. To examine possible roles of SCG10 in the adult brain, we examined the distribution of messenger RNAs encoding SCG10 and p19/stathmin as well as GAP-43 in adult rat brain sections by northern blot, RNase protection and in situ hybridization. SCG10 transcripts are found at high levels in long-distance projecting neurons and neurons with extensive dendritic arbors, while p19/stathmin messenger RNA was weakly distributed over most brain areas. Both messenger RNAs are expressed in neuronal subpopulations but not in glia, although the overall distribution of the transcripts of these two structurally related genes is distinct. The spatial and temporal expression profiles of SCG10 messenger RNA is comparable to that of GAP-43, another neuronal GAP, in the developing nervous system, however the expression of SCG10 messenger RNA in the adult brain is distinct from that of GAP-43, especially in the hippocampus and brain stem, where the dentate granule cells and sensory and motor neurons of brainstem express SCG10 but not GAP-43. These results suggest that SCG10 may have a unique role in the neuronal growth-response of subsets of mature neurons, and that SCG10 plays a stathmin-like function at nerve terminals, to which it may be rapidly transported by means of membrane attachment due to a hydrophobic domain present in SCG10 but not in p19/stathmin. This suggests that SCG10 may play a role in structural plasticity in the adult brain.
The structural and functional consequences of a local thermolesion were examined in rat neocortex with electrophysiological in vitro techniques and immunocytochemistry. Age-matched untreated and sham-operated animals served as controls and were analysed in the same way. The lesions consisted of a core of coagulated tissue 2-3 mm in diameter and reached ventrally into the deep cortical layers. After two days reactive astrocytes and after nine days a dense gliosis were observed in the immediate vicinity. Modifications in the intrinsic membrane characteristics and the synaptic network properties were investigated with intra- and extracellular recording techniques after survival times of one to eight days. Neurons recorded in the surrounding of lesions in neocortical slices revealed a significantly more depolarized resting membrane potential and a higher neuronal input resistance. In comparison to cells in control slices, maximal discharge rates to injection of depolarizing current pulses of neurons close to a focal lesion were not significantly altered and intrinsic burst firing was never observed. However, between postlesion days 1 and 5, neurons in the surroundings of lesions showed a transient increase in synaptic excitability. This hyperactivity was most clearly pronounced at a distance of 2-3 mm from the centre of the lesion (i.e. about 1-1.5 mm away from the lesion border) and characterized by long-duration field potential responses and multiphasic long-lasting excitatory postsynaptic potentials to orthodromic stimulation of the afferent input. This lesion-induced hyperexcitability was associated with a significant reduction in the peak conductance of the Cl(-)-dependent fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential and the K(+)-dependent long-latency inhibitory postsynaptic potential, suggesting that the intracortical GABAergic system was functionally impaired. The decrease in synaptic inhibition was associated with prolonged N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated activity, which could be reversibly blocked by D-amino-phosphonovaleric acid. In addition, neurons recorded in the vicinity of the lesion responded to an orthodromic synaptic stimulus with a long-lasting burst. The lesion-induced disturbance in the balance between the excitatory and inhibitory system may not only have profound influences on the mechanisms of intracortical information processing, but may also lead to the expression of epileptiform activity and long-term functional deficits.
With advancing age, clusters of unusual granules appear in the brains of C57BL/6 (B6) mice. At the light, confocal laser and electron microscopic levels, the granules represent aggregations of fibrillar material often associated with astrocytes. The fibrillar material is largely free of normal organelles and has been located within astrocytic somata and processes, although in many cases the material is found in the neuropil and is surrounded by a discontinuous membrane. The deposits occur predominantly in hippocampus, but also in piriform cortex, cerebellum and less frequently in some other brain regions. They become evident about six months of age and increase markedly in both number and size thereafter. Incidence of the deposits varies greatly among inbred mouse strains. At six to 12 months of age, granules are abundant in male and female B6, and are absent in BALB/c, CBA, DBA/2 and A mice. In hybrid strains with a B6 background the deposits are also present and thus appear to manifest dominant genetic heritability. Similar granular structures have been described in adult brains of the senescence accelerated mouse and have been noted, albeit very rarely, in aged mice from other strains. While immunostaining of the granules with several polyclonal antisera was found by preabsorption with antigens to be non-specific, immunolabeling with monoclonal antibodies to heparan sulfate proteoglycan core protein and to laminin suggest these or related molecules as components of the fibrillar material. The presence of glycosaminoglycans is supported by staining with periodic acid-Schiff and Gomori's methenamine silver methods. The functional significance of the murine deposits is not yet clear. The deposits do not represent senile plaques with beta-amyloid deposition, but they might mimic the deposition of extracellular matrix molecules that is hypothesized to be a precursor condition for plaque formation and cerebral amyloidosis. Furthermore, the genetic differences in the incidence of the fibrillar deposits has potential to model aspects of familial neurodegenerative diseases.
The entorhinal cortex plays an important role in learning and memory, and it has been implicated as a site of dysfunction in some neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. The organization of many components of the neural circuitry of this region, including dopaminergic afferents, has not been studied in detail. Using immunohistochemical techniques, we examined the density and laminar distribution of axons immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis, in the entorhinal cortex of eight control human brains. The density of tyrosine hydroxylase-containing axons decreased from rostral to caudal regions of entorhinal cortex. In addition, there was a prominent medial to lateral gradient of increasing fiber density. This gradient extended into the adjacent transentorhinal cortex, which contained the highest density of labeled axons of the regions studied. The laminar distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase-containing fibers also differed among the subdivisions of the entorhinal cortex. A bilaminar pattern of labeled axons in layers deep I-superficial II and in deep layer VI was present in the intermediate and caudal subdivisions of entorhinal cortex. In contrast, the olfactory and rostral subdivisions, as well as portions of the transentorhinal region, contained a trilaminar pattern, with a high density of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons in layers deep I-superficial II, deep III-IV and deep VI. In addition, radially-oriented bands of labeled fibers were observed extending between deep layer I and layer III, particularly in the rostral subdivision of the entorhinal cortex. In summary, tyrosine hydroxylase-containing afferents to the human entorhinal cortex are distributed in a characteristic regional and laminar pattern, and the lateral regions of the entorhinal cortex and the adjacent transentorhinal cortex are particularly densely innervated. These data contribute to the understanding of the normal circuitry of the human entorhinal cortex, and are of potential relevance to the pathophysiology of certain neuropsychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia.

We constructed three recombinant vectors derived from the herpes simplex virus type 1 mutant tsK, each of which contained a different transgene under the control of the herpes simplex virus type 1 immediate early 3 promoter inserted into the thymidine kinase locus: the prokaryotic enzymes beta-galactosidase and chloramphenicol acetyl transferase, and a fusion gene consisting of human tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases linked to the last exon of Thy-1, which encodes for a glycosyl-phosphatidyl-inositol membrane anchor. Infection of postmitotic neocortical and hippocampal neurons in low-density primary cultures with these vectors, achieved reliable expression of all three foreign gene products in various neocortical cell types, e.g. pyramidal neurons, non-pyramidal neurons, and glial cells. The percentage of neurons expressing transgenes ranged from 1 to 46% depending on the multiplicity of infection (highest assayed = 5); the percentage of glial cells expressing transgenes ranged from 0.5 to 98% (highest multiplicity assayed = 3.4). Expression of transgenes could be detected for up to three days in approximately 20% of neurons infected at a multiplicity of infection of 1. Infection of neurons with tk K-derived recombinant vectors inhibited their protein synthesis by 40-50% at a multiplicity of infection of 10, but no effect was observed at a multiplicity of infection of 1. Infection of glial cells with the same vectors at a multiplicity of infection of 1 inhibited protein synthesis by more than 90%. Analysis of neuronal viability at different times post-infection indicated that more than 98% of neurons expressing transgenes 48 h post-infection were viable. Thus, low-density neuronal cultures can be used to assess the efficiency of herpes simplex virus type 1-derived gene transfer vectors and transgene expression in developing cortical postmitotic cells, before and after they establish polarity. In addition, we show that two cytoplasmic enzymes, beta-galactosidase and chloramphenicol acetyl transferase, are able to diffuse freely in the cytoplasm reaching even growth cones in young neurons, while the chimeric protein tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases/Thy-1 is correctly targeted to the plasma membrane via a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol anchor. This model system should be useful for investigation of cellular and molecular aspects of the development and establishment of neuronal polarity, as well as for analysis of signals involved in protein targeting in postmitotic neurons.
Neuronal injury induced by the excessive release of endogenous Zn2+ at central glutamatergic synapses may contribute to the pathogenesis of epileptic brain damage. We explored the possibility that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors might be involved in Zn2+ neurotoxicity. Exposure of murine cortical cell cultures to 300-1000 microM concentrations of Zn2+ for 15 min resulted in widespread neuronal degeneration, accompanied by the release of lactate dehydrogenase to the bathing medium. Both non-competitive and competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists attenuated this degeneration. However, the participation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in Zn2+ neurotoxicity was atypical. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ attenuated N-methyl-D-aspartate neurotoxicity but potentiated Zn2+ neurotoxicity, whereas increasing extracellular Ca2+ potentiated N-methyl-D-aspartate neurotoxicity but attenuated Zn2+ neurotoxicity. Furthermore, the nature of the antagonism of Zn2+ neurotoxicity induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists was qualitatively different from that seen with other N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated events. The block of Zn2+ neurotoxicity induced by the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist MK-801 was better overcome by increasing Zn2+ concentration than the block induced by the competitive antagonists D-aminophosphonovalerate and CGS-19755. We hypothesize that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-gated channels contribute to Zn2+ toxicity by providing a route of Zn2+ influx into neurons. Consistent with this idea, intracellular Zn2+ visualized by the fluorescent Zn2+ chelator, N-(6-methoxy-8-quinolyl)-p-toluenesulfonamide, rose during Zn2+ exposure; this rise was increased by N-methyl-D-aspartate and reduced by either N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists or high Ca2+.2+ in neuronal cell homeostasis.
The discrete localization of D3 receptors in the nucleus accumbens and subjacent islands of Calleja bears a close resemblance to the dopamine-sensitive anticonvulsant site in the anteroventral striatum. To determine if these D3 receptors were capable of attenuating limbic motor seizures induced by pilocarpine, dopamine agonists with preferential or non-selective D3 affinity were injected stereotaxically into these limbic brain regions of the rat via indwelling cannulae prior to pilocarpine challenge. Reliable clonic seizures were obtained by administering the proconvulsive dopamine D1 agonist SKF 38393 (10 mg/kg i.p.) followed by a subconvulsant dose of pilocarpine (280-300 mg/kg i.p.). Bilateral intra-accumbens pretreatment with the D3 &gt; D2 agonist RU 24213 (0.2 pmol-7 nmol) significantly delayed the onset of seizures, with a minimum effective dose of 2 pmol, without altering their frequency or severity. The more selective D3 agonist LY 171555 (0.2 pmol-7.8 nmol) was less potent, and only attenuated pilocarpine-induced seizures at a dose (500 pmol) that would have stimulated accumbens D2 receptors as well. Intra-accumbens injections of the highly potent and selective D3 agonist 7-OH-DPAT (20 pmol to 7 nmol) afforded no protection against pilocarpine-induced seizures. Apomorphine, a mixed D1/D2/D3 agonist, delayed seizure onset at 100-500 pmol, but not at higher doses. RU 24213, LY 171555 and 7-OH-DPAT were all modestly anticonvulsant when microinjected into the islands of Calleja at D2/D3 unselective doses. These data support the notion that dopamine systems limit seizure propagation through the limbic forebrain, but suggest this protective effect is mediated by D2 rather than D3 receptors.
The aim of this study was to find out if clearance of noradrenaline released from sympathetic nerve terminals in rat isolated tail artery is a physiological variable and if so, to determine its role for the noradrenaline-mediated neurogenic contraction. The per pulse release of noradrenaline induced by electrical nerve stimulation and the fluctuations of the level of noradrenaline at the receptors driving the contractions were assessed from the electrochemically determined noradrenaline oxidation current at a carbon fibre electrode at the surface of the artery. Both were compared with the noradrenaline-mediated neurogenic contraction. The effects on these parameters of cocaine or desipramine, or of corticosterone, were used to assess the relative roles of neuronal and extraneuronal uptake, respectively. The effects of cocaine or desipramine, which enhance the noradrenaline level at the receptors by blocking neuronal reuptake, were compared with those of yohimbine, presumed to act exclusively by enhancing the per pulse release of noradrenaline. The results seem to support the following tentative conclusions. Clearance of released noradrenaline occurs by neuronal uptake and diffusion, while extraneuronal uptake is negligible. The noradrenaline-induced neurogenic contraction is mediated via adrenoceptors on cells near the plane of the nerve plexus; the excitation spreads from these cells throughout the syncytium. The contractile response to exogenous noradrenaline may also be mediated via receptors on the innervated key cells. Reuptake of noradrenaline into the releasing varicosities, i.e. in &quot;active junctions&quot;, is highly efficient for single quanta but rapidly saturated by repeated release, while reuptake of noradrenaline in the &quot;surround&quot; of active junctions is probably rarely saturated and more independent of nerve activity. Saturation of the transporter by repeated release of quanta from the same varicosity and the consequent accumulation of &quot;residual&quot; noradrenaline and increased diffusion out of the junction and recruitment of noradrenaline receptors in the surround may be the cause of the rapid growth of the contraction during a high frequency train. Diffusion of released noradrenaline away from the postjunctional receptors is restricted by a local nerve activity-dependent buffering mechanism which, in spite of fading of the per pulse release, helps maintain the noradrenaline concentration at the receptors and the contraction during long high-frequency trains. Reactivation of the clearance mechanisms upon cessation of nerve activity accelerates the relaxation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A truncated form of the human trkB gene has been cloned and sequenced. This gene is related to the trk family of tyrosine kinases, the products of which act as receptors for the neurotrophins. Of these, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and mammalian neurotrophin-4 are the known ligands for the TrkB receptor. Catalytic and non-catalytic (or truncated) forms of the trkB gene have been cloned for rat and mouse. In this study, using in situ hybridization, we describe the distribution of trkB messenger RNA in fetal and adult human brain.
A primary neuronal culture was prepared from the ventral mesencephalon, centered on the A8, A9 and A10 dopaminergic nuclei of the embryonic day 14 rat, and studied from 12 h to 28 days. At 12 h after plating, and before cell death ensued, 95% of the cells stained positive for neuron specific enolase; 20% for tyrosine hydroxylase; 5% for vimentin and &lt; 0.1% for glial fibrillary acidic protein. In the presence of the mitotic inhibitor cytosine arabinoside (2.0 microM), neuronal growth and survival were surprisingly normal up to the ninth day in culture, but deteriorated rapidly thereafter. In the absence of a mitotic inhibitor, and in the presence of proliferating but non-confluent glia, the tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons that survived to the 10th day, had retracted neurites and a rounded soma, suggesting an inhibition of cell development. Those tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons that survived this adverse phase of development tended to produce elaborate neuritic profiles after the 11th day, coincident with confluence of the astrocyte monolayer at the 12th day. By the 21st day in culture, and persisting up to the 28th day, 60% (61 +/- 10, n = 20) of the surviving neurons stained positive for tyrosine hydroxylase. When plated on an established, ventral mesencephalic monolayer of astrocytes, at the seventh day in culture, neuritic growth and branching of the tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons were greater, compared with similar neurons grown on poly-D-lysine, and the signs of arrested development (retraction of neurites and rounded soma) seen at the 10th day after plating on poly-D-lysine, were not observed. We conclude that in the primary culture studied, and under the experimental conditions used, the survival of dopaminergic neurons was independent of glia during the first nine days, and critically dependent on glia thereafter. The resurgence of growth of dopaminergic neurons after 10 days in vitro, and their subsequent selective survival in culture, suggest that confluent type-1 astrocytes produce factors that act selectively on the dopaminergic neuronal phenotype. The successful identification of these dopaminergic-specific, neurotrophic factors could lead to an increased understanding of the etiology of Parkinson's disease, and suggest new directions for therapeutic intervention.
Microinjection of L-glutamate into a subregion of the gigantocellular nucleus of the rat medulla oblongata significantly lowers arterial pressure. This vasodepressor area, the gigantocellular depressor area, is topographically distinct from other vasoactive areas of the medulla. We sought to determine the efferent projections of the gigantocellular depressor area and compare these to the efferent projections of sympathoexcitatory neurons within the rostral ventrolateral medulla. The anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin was deposited into sites in the gigantocellular depressor area or rostral ventrolateral medulla (pressor area) functionally defined as vasodepressor or vasopressor by microinjections of L-glutamate. Following Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin injections into the gigantocellular depressor area, labeled punctuate fibers were seen bilaterally within distinct areas of a number of autonomic regions including the nuclei of the solitary tract, subcoeruleus area, parabrachial complex, the medial medullary reticular formation of the medulla and pons, and laminae 7 and 10 of the thoracic spinal cord. Following deposits into the rostral ventrolateral medulla (pressor area), labeled fibers were seen in many of these same autonomic nuclei; however, efferents from the gigantocellular depressor area to the nucleus of the solitary tract, the parabrachial complex and the reticular formation were medial to rostral ventrolateral medulla (pressor area) efferents to these same areas. These data indicate that neurons within the gigantocellular depressor area and the rostral ventrolateral medulla (pressor area) project to autonomic nuclei throughout the central nervous system and further suggest a heterogeneity of function with regard to autonomic control both within the reticular formation and its efferent targets. In addition, these data support the view that the gigantocellular depressor area may be a novel reticulospinal sympathoinhibitory area.
In model membranes, arachidonic acid and diacylglycerol have been proposed to synergistically induce a membrane-inserted, constitutively active form of protein kinase C. We have investigated the effects of these lipid protein kinase C activators on synaptic efficacy in the Schaffer collateral input to CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells. Arachidonic acid (5 microM) perfusion combined with repetitive afferent stimulation had no consistent effect on field excitatory postsynaptic potentials recorded in stratum radiatum, while treatment with a cell-permeable diglyceride, oleoyl-acetylglycerol (5 micrograms/ml), followed by stimulation, led to a short-term potentiation. By contrast, the combination of oleoyl-acetylglycerol and arachidonic acid gave rise to a long-lasting non-decremental potentiation of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials. The induction of potentiation was &quot;activity dependent&quot;, as there was either no significant effect or there was a measurable depression when repetitive synaptic stimulation was omitted. Furthermore, consistent with a protein kinase C-dependent process, the potentiation was blocked by the kinase inhibitors H-7 and staurosporine. The results suggest that relatively low concentrations of arachidonic acid and diacylglycerol work synergistically through protein kinase C to persistently enhance synaptic transmission. This synergy has the makings of an associative (Hebbian) device for long-term potentiation induction operating at the second messenger level.
The localization of neuropeptide Y and somatostatin in the retina of six prenatal human specimens was determined by the utilization of light microscopic immunoperoxidase and immunofluorescence methods. The age of the prenatal fetuses ranged from 15 to 40 weeks of gestation. At 15 weeks, round or pear-shaped neuropeptide Y-immunopositive cells were observed in the inner nuclear layer and somatostatin immunoreactivity was only detected in the ganglion cell layer. Positive neuropeptide Y ganglion cells were observed by 17 weeks of gestation and by 28 weeks neuropeptide Y-immunopositive cells were demonstrated in the ganglion cell layer and inner nuclear layer. At 26-28 weeks, neuropeptide Y-immunopositive cells exhibited approximately the same shape as at 15 weeks of gestation, but the appearance of one or two processes was detected extending from the somata. By 38-40 weeks of gestation, neuropeptide Y-immunopositive cells were detected in the ganglion cell layer, inner nuclear layer and an immunopositive fibrous configuration in the inner plexiform layer. During this same period (38-40 weeks), somatostatin-positive cells were located in the ganglion cell layer, inner nuclear layer and the inner segments layers. Due to the difficulty of obtaining fetal materials, the exact time of initiation in the expression of neuropeptide Y and somatostatin is presently hard to delineate; however, it is safe to state that the peptides appear early in development.
The olfactory bulbs of young and adult normal rats and of colchicine-treated rats and of some other species were analysed for the presence of neuropeptide Y and neuropeptide Y messenger RNA, using immunohistochemistry at the light- and electron-microscopic levels and with in situ hybridization. In the rat and mouse, but not in monkey and guinea-pig, neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity and neuropeptide Y messenger RNA were observed in ensheathing cells in the olfactory nerve layer of the olfactory bulb and within nerve bundles in the olfactory mucosa. Double staining experiments revealed that neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was often present in a restricted compartment, mainly the Golgi apparatus, of S-100 protein-positive ensheathing cells. After colchicine treatment a different distribution of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity and neuropeptide Y messenger RNA was observed. Thus, in the outer olfactory nerve layer both neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity and neuropeptide Y messenger RNA disappeared, whereas in the inner part messenger RNA levels remained high and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was observed in many granule-like structures distributed diffusely in the cytoplasm. The present findings suggest that neuropeptide Y may be involved in the control of regeneration, growth and/or guiding of the axons of the olfactory sensory neurons, the only mammalian neurons known to have a continuous renewal and growth during adult life.
Female mice form a memory to the pheromones of the mating male, during a critical period after mating. Previous experiments have shown that this memory is located in the accessory olfactory bulb and most likely involves changes at the mitral/granule cell reciprocal synapse. Memory formation can be prevented by local infusions of a non-selective ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonist. However, selective antagonism of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors during the critical period did not disrupt the memory. The present study shows that memory formation is not prevented by local infusions of the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Thus, it appears that the formation of a memory to the mating male can occur via both N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent and independent mechanisms. Far from preventing memory formation, local infusions of 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione resulted in the formation of a non-selective &quot;memory&quot; to unfamiliar male pheromones. In addition, local infusions of 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione during pheromonal exposure alone resulted in memory formation without mating having occurred. These results suggest that activity via N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors might be more effective in promoting the synaptic changes underlying memory formation, than activity via AMPA/kainate receptors.
Long-term potentiation, a tetanic stimulation-evoked, persistent increase in synaptic efficiency, is the most extensively studied form of synaptic plasticity. Intracellular correlates of long-term potentiation have been analysed in mammalian hippocampus and cortex, but not in bird cortical analogues. We present here studies on long-term potentiation in slices of the chick forebrain area mediorostral neostriatum-hyperstriatum complex which receives thalamic afferents and is relevant for auditory filial imprinting. Following afferent tetanic stimulation, population spike potentiation was extracellularly recorded in 25% of the tested neurons for longer than 40 min. Using intracellular recordings, the membrane potential, the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials, the latency between the test stimulus and the evoked action potentials, and the cellular excitability (excitatory postsynaptic potential-spike relationship) were found to change after the tetanus. A long-term depression following the tetanus was also seen in some units in this area. Furthermore, the mechanisms underlying long-term potentiation were investigated. A large depolarization of resting membrane potential (approx. 36 mV) was characteristic after the tetanic stimulation. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels are necessary for induction of this depolarization, as well as for long-term potentiation, as demonstrated by the effect of DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. After intracellular recordings, the cells were injected with Lucifer Yellow. The combination of electrophysiological characterization and morphological identification suggested that the potentiation came chiefly from type I neurons, which have the largest soma among the neuron types in this area and up to eight dendrites. The results demonstrate that the recognized major phenomena of long-term potentiation are found in an auditory imprinting-relevant area of the chick forebrain, and that this potentiation is dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels. It is noteworthy that behavioural imprinting was previously shown to induce a reduction of up to 47% of the spine frequency of type I neurons and a growth of the remaining spine synapses, all resembling a synaptic selection process. Therefore, the intriguing possibility emerges that mechanisms underlying long-term potentiation are instrumental for this selection process, which involves regressive and proliferative morphological changes.
Cat behavioural states of attentive fixation on a target are associated with episodes of electrocortical rhythms at 40 Hz (&quot;beta rhythms&quot;) in the parietal cortex. Previous field potential studies indicate that the nucleus posterior pars medialis of the thalamus displays this particular rhythmic activity. We investigated single units of the nucleus posterior pars medialis and its surrounding nuclei to assess their participation in the cortical beta rhythms. Only a small proportion of thalamic cells underwent changes in their firing pattern during beta episodes. &quot;Beta-related cells&quot; were localized in the nucleus posterior pars medialis or its immediate vicinity; no such beta-related cells were found in other regions of the lateral thalamus. Some beta-related cells showed a one-spike to one-wave relationship (&quot;homorhythmicity&quot;), while others displayed a prolonged decrease or a suppression of their firing throughout each beta episode (&quot;pause cells&quot;). For comparison, neurons in the same thalamic area were also recorded during sleep episodes with slow waves and spindles: there was no correlation between spindles and cell firing. Thus, the nucleus posterior pars medialis thalamic nucleus contains cells whose firing is correlated with the beta rhythms. No such correlation was found with sleep spindles.
Acetylcholine released from the cerebral cortex was collected using microdialysis while stimulating the region of the pedunculopontine tegmentum in urethane-anesthetized rats. Electrical stimulation in the form of short trains of pulses delivered once per minute produced a 350% increase in acetylcholine release and a desynchronization of the electroencephalogram, as measured by relative power in the 20-45 Hz range (low-voltage fast activity). Perfusion of the region of cholinergic neurons believed to be responsible for the cortical release of acetylcholine, the nucleus basalis magnocellularis, was carried out using a second microdialysis probe. Exposure of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis to blockers of neural activity (tetrodotoxin or procaine) or to blockers of synaptic transmission (calcium-free solution plus magnesium or cobalt) produced a substantial decrease in the release of acetylcholine and desynchronization evoked by brainstem stimulation. Exposure of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis to the glutamate antagonist, kynurenate, resulted in a decrease in evoked acetylcholine release and electroencephalogram desynchronization similar in magnitude to that produced by nonspecific blockers, whereas application of muscarinic or nicotinic cholinergic blockers to the nucleus basalis magnocellularis did not reduce acetylcholine release or electroencephalogram desynchronization. Application of tetrodotoxin to the collection site in the cortex abolished the stimulation-evoked acetylcholine release, but not the low baseline release indicating that cholinergic nucleus basalis magnocellularis neurons have a low spontaneous firing rate in urethane-anesthetized animals. The results of this study suggest that the major excitatory input to the cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis from the pedunculopontine tegmentum is via glutamatergic and not cholinergic synapses.
The main aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of local perfusion with the tridecapeptide neurotensin on extracellular GABA and dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens of the halothane-anaesthetized rat, using in vivo microdialysis. In an initial set of characterization studies we examined the Na+ dependence of neurotransmitter release by local perfusion with ouabain, veratridine and tetrodotoxin. Local perfusion with the Na+ ATPase inhibitor ouabain (10 microM) or the Na+ channel agonist veratridine (20 microM) perfused into the nucleus accumbens increased both extracellular GABA and dopamine levels. The Na+ channel antagonist tetrodotoxin (1 microM) consistently decreased (24% of basal) dopamine levels, while even at 10 microM it did not affect GABA. However, tetrodotoxin (10 microM) abolished the veratridine-induced increase in both GABA and dopamine, demonstrating that Na(+)-dependent neuronal activity is involved in this release mechanism. In a second set of experiments a hypothesis for a functional link between neurotensin, dopamine and GABA in the medial nucleus accumbens was tested. Towards this aim, the effects of local perfusion with a high 1 microM concentration of neurotensin into the nucleus accumbens increased both GABA (210% of basal value) and dopamine (145% of basal) release. However, a low (10 nM) concentration of neurotensin again increased GABA release (160% of basal), but decreased that of dopamine (75% of basal value). Furthermore, the local perfusion with the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline abolished the neurotensin (10 nM) induced inhibition of dopamine release without affecting the increase in GABA release. These findings suggest that neurotensin modulates both GABA and dopamine neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The opiod system is implicated in mediating the effects produced upon administration of gamma-hydroxybutyrate. Gamma-hydroxybutyrate occurs endogenously in the mammalian brain, and is most probably involved in the regulation of some basic brain functions, particularly those concerning the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway, which is closely linked to the expression of enkephalins in the striatum. In the present study, in vivo microdialysis was used to examine the basic characteristics of methionine-enkephalin (met-enkephalin) release in the striatum of Wistar rats, using a high performance radioimmunoassay. Administration of gamma-hydroxybutyrate to the rats induced a dose-dependent decrease in the extracellular release of met-enkephalin. In parallel, a dose- and time-dependent gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced accumulation of met-enkephalin in striatum was observed. These two phenomena (tissue accumulation and inhibition of release) were blocked by NCS-382, a gamma-hydroxybutyrate receptor antagonist. The striatal met-enkephalin accumulation does not seem to be exclusively due to the inhibition of its release. Thus, a gamma-hydroxybutyrate mediating effect on met-enkephalin synthesis is suggested, most probably occurring via functional modulation of striatal dopamine synthesis and release. To understand the role of this dopaminergic mechanism, unilateral lesions of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway were carried out. In gamma-hydroxybutyrate-treated rats, striata exhibited a similar increase in met-enkephalin content. In untreated rats, only the lesioned striatum showed an identical increase in met-enkephalin levels. Thus, striatal met-enkephalin accumulation could be attributed to the suppression of the dopaminergic impulse flow, due to gamma-hydroxybutyrate or to the action of 6-hydroxydopamine. In the extracellular spaces (microdialysis experiments), gamma-hydroxybutyrate administration induced identical modifications of met-enkephalin release in lesioned or non-lesioned striata. These modifications could be reproduced by peripheral or striatal administration of sulpiride, a D2/D3 antagonist. From a functional point of view, the dopaminergic D2 receptor blockade or the gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced inhibition of dopamine release could be considered to induce similar results, with identical consequences on striatal met-enkephalin accumulation and release. These results suggest that gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced modifications in met-enkephalin release, presumably potentiated by 6-hydroxydopamine treatment, act via a functional modification of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway.
Amyloid deposits in Alzheimer's disease, Down's syndrome and aged brain are composed largely of A beta protein, which is generated by proteolytic processing of beta-amyloid precursor protein. Proteases responsible for liberating the A beta protein from the precursor have not yet been identified. Here, we examined the ability of cathepsin G, a chymotrypsin-like protease, to cleave two protease substrates: (i) a fluorogenic hexapeptide, whose sequence spans the cleavage site in the precursor for generating the A beta NH2-terminus, and (ii) recombinant human beta-amyloid precursor protein purified from a baculovirus expression system. Unlike two other members of the chymotrypsin family, cathepsin G readily degraded the hexapeptide. Furthermore, cathepsin G cleaved the beta-amyloid precursor protein to generate several breakdown products, including a prominent 11,500 mol. wt fragment immunoreactive with antibodies directed against the COOH-terminus of the protein. This COOH-terminal fragment co-migrated using two-dimensional isoelectric focusing/sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with C-100, a recombinant COOH-terminal segment of the beta-amyloid precursor, whose NH2-terminus is one residue upstream of the NH2-terminus of the A beta domain. We also examined the localization of cathepsin G in human brain. The distribution of cathepsin G-containing cells was examined by immunohistochemistry in the temporal cortex of both Alzheimer's and aged control samples. Cathepsin G-like immunoreactivity was contained specifically within neutrophils. As visualized by double-labeling with antibodies to cathepsin G and Factor VIII, neutrophils were most frequently found within meningeal or cortical blood vessels. In addition, occasional neutrophils could be identified without an apparent vascular surround, in the brain parenchyma. By simultaneous labeling with antibodies to cathepsin G and A beta protein, neutrophils were also sometimes found associated with both parenchymal and vessel amyloid deposits; however, these associations were rare. These findings indicate that cathepsin G is capable of cleaving the beta-amyloid precursor protein to liberate the free NH2-terminus of the A beta protein and may have access to areas where this material is deposited in Alzheimer's disease. However, since there is no physical association between neutrophils and deposited amyloid and no increase in the number of neutrophils in an Alzheimer's brain, cathepsin G seems to be an unlikely mediator of amyloid deposition in this disease.
The brain is a dynamic system that is non-linear at multiple levels of analysis. Characterization of its non-linear dynamics is fundamental to our understanding of brain function. Identifying families of attractors in phase space analysis, an approach which has proven valuable in describing non-linear mechanical and electrical systems, can prove valuable in describing a range of behaviors and associated neural activity including sensory and motor repertoires. Additionally, transitions between attractors may serve as useful descriptors for analysing state changes in neurons and neural ensembles. Recent observations of synchronous neural activity, and the emerging capability to record the spatiotemporal dynamics of neural activity by voltage-sensitive dyes and electrode arrays, provide opportunities for observing the population dynamics of neural ensembles within a dynamic systems context. New developments in the experimental physics of complex systems, such as the control of chaotic systems, selection of attractors, attractor switching and transient states, can be a source of powerful new analytical tools and insights into the dynamics of neural systems.
Electrophysiological and anatomical studies were carried out in parallel to investigate the ability of lateral geniculate body neurons to regenerate axons damaged by the removal of the primary visual cortex and to innervate graft neurons functionally after transplantation of fetal neocortical tissue to a lesion cavity in the brain of adult rats. In electrophysiological experiments neurons of a large portion of the transplants (14/35) displayed visual responses with characteristics resembling closely those of normal primary visual cortex; these transplants also displayed a different degree of restoration of topographically organized visual field representations on them. To demonstrate anatomical regeneration of inputs from the host lateral geniculate body to the graft, injections of FluoroGold were made before grafting into the intact visual cortex for retrograde labeling of the lateral geniculate body neurons. After completion of the microelectrode recordings from the transplants a second dye, Bisbenzimide, was injected into the transplants. The rats with transplants whose neurons displayed responses to visual stimulations contained in the lateral geniculate body neurons with FluoroGold-labeled cytoplasm and Bisbenzimide-labeled nuclei. The presence of double-labeled neurons suggests that the same neurons, the axons of which have terminated in area 17 of the cortex, innervated the transplants functionally through the regeneration of damaged axons.
Changes in the levels of enkephalin and substance P messenger RNA expression were examined in the striatum following dopamine depletion resulting from unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the substantia nigra. In response to striatal dopamine depletion, the levels of enkephalin messenger RNA were elevated, whereas substance P messenger RNA was decreased within all regions of the striatum. Examination of the striatal peptide messenger RNAs between one and 21 days after the injection of 6-hydroxydopamine revealed a temporal dissociation between changes in enkephalin and substance P messenger RNAs. Within one day of the 6-hydroxydopamine injection, substance P messenger RNA was significantly decreased by 30% at all levels of the striatum. This decrease was maintained for up to 21 days after the lesion. In contrast, striatal enkephalin messenger RNA was not significantly elevated until three days following the injection of 6-hydroxydopamine, after which there was a gradual increase up to 21 days. In order to correlate alterations in peptide messenger RNA expression with 6-hydroxydopamine-induced changes in striatal dopamine innervation, tissue punches from the striatum were examined for dopamine content at one, two, three and seven days after the lesion. One day after the lesion, striatal dopamine levels were significantly increased by 47%. In contrast, within two days tissue dopamine content was reduced by 77% compared to control levels. A further decrease of 90% or more was observed at three and seven days after the lesion. Taken together, these data demonstrate a temporal dissociation between changes in enkephalin and substance P messenger RNA levels following 6-hydroxydopamine-induced striatal dopamine depletions. This temporal dissociation may reflect a differential response of enkephalin and substance P messenger RNAs to alterations in dopamine release and subsequent receptor activation.
We recently reported the use of a chronic dialytic delivery system for intrastriatal administration of quinolinic acid in the rat. This system produces neurodegeneration with some characteristics similar to post mortem brain tissue from Huntington's disease patients, including reduced cytochrome oxidase staining, a decreased number of Nissl-stained neurons, and relative sparing of striatal NADPH-diaphorase containing neurons. The present findings show that chronic dialytic delivery of quinolinic acid also produces a Huntington's disease-like pattern of reduced calbindin and parvalbumin perikaryal immunoreactivity that is reversed in rats allowed four to eight weeks' recovery after cessation of quinolinic acid. Furthermore, cytochrome oxidase staining and the number of Nissl-stained cells were unchanged in the region of transient calbindin and parvalbumin immunoreactive perikaryal staining alterations. These results suggest that changes in calbindin and parvalbumin perikaryal immunoreactivity provide a relatively sensitive measure of quinolinic acid induced neurotoxicity. The reversible nature of reduced perikaryal immunoreactivity suggests a premorbid state of neurotoxicity, possibly marked by cellular redistribution of calbindin and parvalbumin.
Antibody microprobes bearing antibodies to the carboxy-terminus of rat galanin were inserted into the spinal cords of anaesthetized normal rats and those in which ankle inflammation had been induced by the unilateral subcutaneous injection of Freund's adjuvant four to six days previously. In normal rats, a basal presence of immunoreactive galanin was detected in the dorsal horn. Similar levels of immunoreactive galanin were found in the dorsal horn of both sides of the spinal cord in animals with unilateral ankle inflammation. Flexing the ankle or compressing the foot in normal rats failed to alter levels of immunoreactive galanin detected by microprobes. In animals with ankle inflammation, prolonged periods of ankle flexion did release immunoreactive galanin in the ipsilateral dorsal horn. Subsequent noxious ankle compression in these animals did not increase but rather decreased immunoreactive galanin in the dorsal horn to below basal levels. The reason for this decrease is unknown but it may represent an inhibition of release or a depletion of spinal stores of galanin.
The commissural connections of the periaqueductal gray matter were investigated by light and electron microscopy by using the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin and the retrograde tracer horseradish peroxidase. In the first group of seven animals (1-7), single injections of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin were performed iontophoretically (4.5 microA for 30 min) into various subdivisions of the periaqueductal gray matter. On light microscopic examination, injection sites were characterized by several immunolabeled neurons of different sizes and morphology, with the cytoplasm, nucleus and neuronal processes intensely stained. Many labeled fibers turned from injection sites toward all contralateral periaqueductal gray matter subdivisions, but anterograde labeling was densest in the regions homotopic to those injected. Commissural fibers bore along their course many en passant boutons of different sizes and morphology, and gave off spine-like processes, at the end of which one terminal bouton was observed. Labeled fibers branched into numerous collaterals which ended in a terminal array of 10-20 en passant and en grappe boutons. At the electron microscopic level, commissural axons were observed in close proximity to the cytoplasmic membranes of cells. Axon terminals formed symmetric or asymmetric synapses mainly on dendritic shafts of neurons and rarely on vesicle-containing profiles. Horseradish peroxidase experiments were carried out in four cats (1-4). The tracer was injected iontophoretically into different regions of the periaqueductal gray matter of three cats (1-3). Retrogradely labeled neurons giving rise to commissural connections had a morphology similar to that of polygonal, triangular and fusiform cells described in previous Golgi studies. The perikaryal cross-sectional area of commissural neurons was smaller than that of neurons projecting outside the periaqueductal gray matter (mean value of commissural neurons 149.77 microns 2 vs 261.19 microns 2 for projecting neurons), which were retrogradely labeled by pressure-injecting horseradish peroxidase into several targets of periaqueductal gray matter (4). Moreover, since the distribution of sizes of the two populations of the periaqueductal gray matter overlapped in the range of 90-300 microns 2, a considerable number of projecting neurons were as small as commissural neurons. The present results suggest that commissural fibers could reciprocally connect zones of the periaqueductal gray matter with similar functions, and originate from small and medium-sized neurons, some of which are also projecting neurons.
The origin and distribution of cerebral perivascular nerves containing nitric oxide, a short-acting messenger or neurotransmitter, have been studied in the rat by histochemistry for reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase activity, a specific marker for neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Positively stained nerve fibers were distributed throughout the major vessels of the cerebral arteries, though the fiber density was higher in the anterior circulation, including the circle of Willis, than in the posterior arteries. Examination using axonal transport methods indicated that nitric oxide-containing neurons in the sphenopalatine ganglion innervate the cerebral arteries bilaterally. Nitric oxide synthase in these ganglionic cells often co-existed with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. The anatomical information obtained is discussed in terms of non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic neuronal transmission in the cerebral arteries.
We exposed murine basal forebrain neuronal cultures for 24 h to defined concentrations of N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate, and assessed the resultant degeneration of the cholinergic neuronal subpopulation, as identified by choline acetyltransferase immunocytochemistry and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Cholinergic neurons, representing about 0.5% of the total neuronal population, were atypically vulnerable to excitotoxins. Compared to most basal forebrain neurons, they were more vulnerable to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate/kainate receptor-mediated injury and slightly less vulnerable to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated injury. The present findings provide quantitative demonstration of a mechanism that preferentially injures basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, and may thus suggest candidate factors pertaining to their loss in disease states like Alzheimer's disease.
The morphology and distribution of perikarya positive for choline acetyltransferase, somatostatin, calcium binding protein (calbindin D28K) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase were surveyed in the human striatum. Choline acetyltransferase and somatostatin antibodies labeled separate populations of large striatal interneurons. Somatostatin immunoreactivity and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (nitric oxide synthase) activity were completely co-localized. Calbindin antibody identified two distinct groups of striatal neurons: (1) numerous medium-sized, lightly stained neurons, probably analogous to striatopallidal projection neurons in the rat, and (2) much less numerous, large, darkly stained neurons. Half of the latter group, but none of the former, were also nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase-positive. Somatostatin-positive and medium-sized, calbindin-positive neurons were more numerous in the caudate nucleus than in the putamen or ventral striatum. By contrast, large calbindin-immunoreactive neurons were more frequently encountered in the putamen. Choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons were evenly distributed across striatal components. In aged control subjects, the size of large, darkly stained calbindin-positive neurons was reduced relative to young subjects. Aging had no effect on somatostatin-, medium-sized calbindin-, or choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons. However, in histologically confirmed cases of Alzheimer's disease, there was a selective, 75% loss of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive perikarya from the ventral striatum, but not from the dorsal striatum, compared to aged controls. Furthermore, the remaining cholinergic neurons in the ventral striatum of Alzheimer's disease cases were significantly smaller than similar neurons in controls. These results indicate that various striatal components which have been shown to differ in their anatomical connectivity and functional specialization, also differ in their neurochemical signatures. The specific and marked loss of choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons from the ventral striatum in Alzheimer's disease is consistent with the characteristic cholinergic and 'limbic' pathology in this disease.
The neurophysiology and neuroanatomy of the thalamus have been extensively studied in a variety of species and sensory systems. The identity of the neurotransmitter(s) which mediate the excitation from ascending sensory afferents on to thalamic relay neurons is, however, still unclear, although it appears to be a substance which is a ligand for excitatory amino acid receptors, as the responses of ventrobasal thalamus neurons to natural stimulation of somatosensory afferents arising from the mustachial vibrissae of the rat are mediated by ionotropic excitatory amino acid receptors, when stimulation is performed using an air-jet directed at the vibrissa receptor field. In an effort to determine the transmitter of these sensory afferents, we have attempted to detect the release of amino acids in the ventrobasal thalamus in vivo upon such stimuli. We have thus used a similar natural stimulation protocol, together with push-pull perfusion and recording in the ventrobasal thalamus, and we describe the release of the amino acid, arginine, in this brain area following physiological stimulation of afferents. Furthermore, we show that application of L-arginine on to thalamic relay neurons can facilitate sensory synaptic transmission, possibly via the synthesis of the diffusable messenger, free radical gas, nitric oxide. This may represent a novel, local positive-feedback, modulatory system which could enhance the responsiveness of thalamic neurons to sensory input.
Two subtypes (alpha 1A and alpha 1B) of alpha 1-adrenoceptors have been defined on the basis of radioligand binding studies with 2-(2,6-dimethoxyphenoxyethyl)-1,4-benzodioxane (WB4101). In contrast, functional studies with blood vessels have proposed another subclassification, where the alpha 1-adrenoceptors can be classified into putative two (alpha 1H and alpha 1L) or three (alpha 1H, alpha 1L and alpha 1N) subtypes. The present study was performed to elucidate the effects of repeated treatment with electroconvulsive shock (ECS) or imipramine on the subtypes of alpha 1-adrenoceptors. The density of the alpha 1H binding sites (including alpha 1A and alpha 1B binding sites) in the frontal cortex was increased by repeated treatment with ECS but decreased by imipramine. These treatments did not change the density of alpha 1L binding sites. These results indicated that repeated treatment with ECS and imipramine had different effects on the alpha 1H binding sites in the rat frontal cortex. In addition, the effects of antipsychotic drugs, antidepressant drugs and calcium channel antagonists on [3H]prazosin binding were studied. The order of inhibition of [3H]prazosin binding was: antipsychotic drugs (1.4-4.2 nM) &gt; antidepressant drugs (69-116 nM) &gt; calcium channel antagonists. The calcium channel antagonists, verapamil (720 nM), diltiazem (4.3 microM) and nicardipine (75 microM) were weakly bound. These results suggested that the antimanic effects of calcium channel antagonists were not associated with inhibition of alpha 1-adrenoceptors.
The timing of the appearance of leptomeningeal glioneuronal heterotopia (LGH) and its immunohistochemical development were examined on autopsied brains ranging from 12 to 43 weeks of postmenstrual age. LGH appeared at 20 weeks postmenstrual age and its incidence gradually increased until 28-31 weeks. All patients with trisomy 13 who were older than 34 weeks postmenstrual age had LGH. Glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive glial processes appeared earlier in the subpial layer of brainstems in patients with trisomy 13 than in the controls without LGH, and protruded along the perforating vessels into the leptomeninges; therefore, LGH may be formed from the midfetal period and develop with an increase of subpial glial processes along perforating vessels.
Clinical features, magnetic resonance, and biochemical studies are reported in 7 children with pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) deficiency. These findings confirm the diverse clinical presentation of this condition, although neurological abnormalities are consistent features. Imaging results are also varied. Six of the children were investigated with proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy and lactate was demonstrated in brain in all patients. Regional variation in the lactate signal was observed in those patients in whom 2 regions were examined. Advances in molecular genetics have provided some explanations for the clinical variation in pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency.

Recent research indicates that neglect can be temporarily, but only partially, ameliorated by activating the contralateral hemisphere via caloric stimulation and other techniques. In this study, we evaluated whether caloric stimulation could be used to manipulate visual-imagery processes in normal subjects. 11 normal subjects participated in a quantitative visual-imagery task while undergoing caloric stimulation. Neither side of report nor ear of caloric stimulation affected performance. Possible reasons for this negative result are reviewed.
Differential hemispheric contributions to the perceptual phenomenon known as the McGurk effect were examined in normal subjects, 1 callosotomy patient, and 4 patients with intractable epilepsy. Twenty-five right-handed subjects were more likely to demonstrate an influence of a mouthed word on identification of a dubbed acoustic word when the speaker's face was lateralized to the LVF as compared with the RVF. In contrast, display of printed response alternatives in the RVF elicited a greater percentage of McGurk responses than display in the LVF. Visual field differences were absent in a group of 15 left-handed subjects. These results suggest that in right-handers, the two hemispheres may make distinct contributions to the McGurk effect. The callosotomy patient demonstrated reliable McGurk effects, but at a lower rate than the normal subjects and the epileptic control subjects. These data support the view that both the right and left hemisphere can make significant contributions to the McGurk effect.
Previous evidence indicated that physostigmine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, facilitated lordosis behavior when administered intraventricularly to cycling female rats on proestrus prior to the onset of natural sexual receptivity, but not when administered to rats on mid-diestrus or diestrus II. In the present experiments, intraventricular infusion of physostigmine (10 micrograms bilaterally) facilitated lordosis on mid-diestrus and diestrus II if females were primed with two injections of estradiol (0.2, 0.1, or 0.05 micrograms) administered 20 h and 32 h prior to infusion of physostigmine. Despite unequal levels of endogenous progesterone, physostigmine facilitated lordosis equally on mid-diestrus and diestrus II following estradiol priming. Finally, intraventricular infusion of the muscarinic receptor blocker scopolamine (20 micrograms bilaterally) reduced the incidence of lordosis in females that displayed lordosis on mid-diestrus following estrogen priming. Results confirm that cholinergic mechanisms influence sexual behavior displayed by cycling female rats. Data further indicate that sufficient estrogen stimulation is necessary for cholinergic neurons to facilitate lordosis. However, progesterone does not play a major role in the regulation of lordosis by cholinergic systems.
Rapid eye movement sleep deprivation (REMd) is a potent stressor in the rat. Behavioral abnormalities are among the earliest overt symptoms of REMd, the mechanisms for which remain largely unknown. The phenomena of hyperphagia and weight loss that are associated with REMd may contribute to its later morbidity; however, little is known about the onset of these phenomena or the neurotransmitter mechanisms that are involved. The aim of this study was to determine whether the earliest effects of REMd on consumatory behavior in the rat and its performance in the swimming cylinder of Porsolt are related to changes in norepinephrine (NE) concentrations in the cerebral cortex and selected areas of the hypothalamus. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups (n = 6): the REMd group resided in a water tank on 6.5-cm diameter pedestals for 96 h; the tank control (TC) group resided in the water tank on 15-cm pedestals for 96 h; the cage controls (CC) remained in their home cages for the duration of the study. In the first series of experiments, body weights and caloric intake were recorded daily, along with the performance of all animals in the swimming cylinder of Porsolt. In the second series of experiments, body weights and caloric intake were recorded, but the Porsolt test was not employed and the brains were dissected after 96 h for NE analysis by HPLC. It was observed that the REMd group had lower immobility times (p &lt; 0.05) in the Porsolt test after only 24 h, compared to groups TC and CC.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

(S)- and (R)-[11C]nicotine were synthesized by methylation of (S)- and (R)-nornicotine using [11C]methyl iodide. Following their intravenous injection in tracer doses to smoking and nonsmoking healthy males the radioactivity in arterial blood showed a sharp peak at about 1 min followed by a plateau level for the remaining 50 min of recording. Uptake in the brain, as measured by positron emission tomography (PET), was rapid with a peak at 5 min followed by a steady decline towards the end of the measurement. The regional distribution of radioactivity followed essentially the distribution of gray matter with high uptake in the cortex, the thalamus and the basal ganglia and low uptake in the pons, cerebellum and white matter. Levels of the labelled natural enantiomer, (S)-[11C]nicotine, were higher than those of the synthetic enantiomer, (R)-[11C]nicotine, particularly in the smokers. The time-activity curves of (S)-[11C]nicotine uptake were not changed by co-administration of 1.0 mg of unlabelled nicotine with the labelled nicotine. Similarly administration of unlabelled nicotine at the peak of radioactivity, 6 min following (S)-[11C]nicotine, had no effect on the time-activity curves. Thus essential criteria for visualizing receptor binding with the PET technique could not be fulfilled. Calculation of kinetic constants using a two-compartment model gave values indicating that the brain uptake of [11C]nicotine is mainly determined by the cerebral blood flow, extraction of the tracer over the blood-brain barrier and unspecific binding. Thus 11C-labelled nicotine does not seem to be a suitable tracer for PET studies of nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the human brain.
The effect of 10 weeks' specific abdominal strength training (resisted trunk rotations) on intra-abdominal pressure was investigated in 10 healthy males. Isometric rotational force, trunk flexor and extensor torque and intra-abdominal pressure were measured as well as intra-abdominal pressure responses to Valsalva manoeuvres, maximal pulsed pressures, drop jumps and trunk perturbations. The rotational strength increased 29.7% after training without significant change in intra-abdominal pressure. The isometric flexor strength did not change, while the extensor strength increased 11.0%. Valsalva and pulsed pressures increased 11.6 and 9.2%, respectively. The rate of intra-abdominal pressure development during pulsed pressures, drop jumps and trunk perturbations increased after training. The level of intra-abdominal pressure during the latter two tasks remained unchanged. It is concluded that an increase in strength of the trunk rotators with training improves the ability to generate higher levels of voluntarily induced intra-abdominal pressure and increases the rate of intra-abdominal pressure development during functional situations.
Short forms of the WAIS-R provide a relatively quick screen of an individual's general cognitive ability. This study attempted to measure the merit of three WAIS-R short forms developed by Kaufman (1990) in a group of 114 chronic schizophrenic patients. The results suggest that the four-subtest short form provided the most reliable estimation of Full Scale IQ. The implications of these findings for research screening of schizophrenic patients is discussed.
An unusual case of fatal suicidal craniocerebral penetrating injury due to a nail gun is described. The victim, a 52 year old joiner experienced in the use of nail drivers, shot himself just above the forehead in the midline, driving the nail through his hypothalamus and midbrain. Death was delayed by nearly 24 hours.




The aim of the present study was to investigate, using in vivo dialysis, the existence of muscarinic and nicotinic receptors controlling acetylcholine release in the cortex of freely behaving rats. Various muscarinic receptor antagonists, including the nonselective blocker atropine, and a variety of M2 drugs (AF-DX116, AF-DX384, AQ-RA 741) potently stimulated, in a concentration-dependent manner, the in vivo release of acetylcholine in the rat cortex. The effects of all these antagonists were long lasting. The nature of these putative muscarinic autoreceptors is likely of the pharmacologically defined M2 subtype on the basis of the high potency of the antagonists of the AF-DX series and the variability and shorter duration of action of the effects of the prototypic M1 blocker, pirenzepine. 4-DAMP, a purported M3 blocker, also potently stimulated in vivo cortical acetylcholine release, but this likely relates to its now established, rather limited selectivity for any given muscarinic receptor subtypes. Peripheral and central injections of nicotine also induced the in vivo release of acetylcholine in the rat cortex, albeit with a lower potency and shorter duration of action than muscarinic antagonists. Interestingly, the combination of a muscarinic antagonist, such as atropine, AF-DX 116, or AF-DX384, in the presence of nicotine, induced tremendous releases of cortical acetylcholine up to 8- to 10-fold over basal values. This is clearly more than a simply additive effect, and it reveals the great capacity of cortical cholinergic nerve terminals to synthesize and release acetylcholine. Optimal pharmacological manipulations of these putative muscarinic and nicotinic autoreceptors could thus be useful in disorders in which the activity of cholinergic inputs is decreased, such as in Alzheimer's disease.
Previous work in our laboratory has demonstrated that memory formation, a behavioral process thought to be at least in part attributed to hippocampal functioning, is severely attenuated following 5 months of chronic ethanol treatment (CET) and 2 months of recovery from CET. Additionally, 48 h following CET, a well-recognized physiological correlate of memory formation, long-term potentiation (LTP), is reduced in the hippocampus. We hypothesized that the reduction in LTP may in part contribute to the behavioral deficit in memory formation, which is a permanent consequence of CET. In order for the reduction of LTP to be involved with the permanent deficit in memory acquisition, it too must be present following a prolonged period of ethanol abstinence. The present study examined the permanent effect of CET on LTP. Animals were fed a nutritionally complete, ethanol containing diet for 28 weeks and then allowed a 5-7 month abstinence period. A control group was fed the same diet except sucrose was isocalorically substituted for ethanol. Neurophysiological methods measured the capacity of synaptic connections onto CA1 pyramidal cells to support LTP in response to a variety of conditioning trains. The magnitude of LTP was reduced in CET animals as compared with pair-fed controls. LTP induction is mediated by activation of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex and is modulated by activation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic synaptic transmission. The effect of CET on LTP magnitude may be due to effects on the NMDA-induced induction itself or on the GABAergic modulation of induction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Almost no information is available concerning the link between clinical effects of dopamine D2 receptor agonists in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) and the extent of D2 receptor occupancy in the brain. Therefore, we investigated the possible correlation between administration of behaviorally active doses of the selective D2 agonist LY 171555 and in vivo D2 receptor occupancy in the unilateral 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine(MPTP)-lesioned rhesus monkey model of PD. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with the D2 receptor antagonist [123I]IBZM (iodobenzamide) as radioligand was used to estimate the receptor occupancy. The MPTP-lesioned monkeys consistently showed signs of unilateral parkinsonism. LY 171555 (0.01 or 0.3 mg/kg) significantly increased contralateral rotation (away from the lesion), being most effective at the lower dose. In the MPTP-lesioned monkeys [123I]IBZM activity in the left (lesioned) striatum was significantly higher as compared to that in the right striatum. Only upon administration of 0.3 mg/kg LY 171555 a significant amount of receptor occupancy by LY 171555, as measured with [123I]IBZM SPECT, at both lesioned and non-lesioned side, was detected. Using D2 receptor mediated inhibition of the evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine from rat striatal tissue as a functional model, we showed that the lack of effect with 0.01 mg/kg LY 171555 was not due to non-competitive interaction between LY 171555 and IBZM at the D2 receptor. We conclude that the D2 antagonist [123I]IBZM is not a suitable SPECT ligand to study the relationship between behavioral effects of the selective D2 agonist LY 171555 in unilaterally MPTP-lesioned monkeys and the D2 receptor occupancy in vivo in this animal model of PD.
Ultrastructural immunocytochemical identification of transmitters in afferent terminals and targets of individual physiologically characterized neurons is essential for understanding the complex circuitry within the mammalian neocortex. For this type of analysis, we examined the utility of combining in vivo intracellular recording and biocytin injections with silver intensified 1 nm immunogold labeling of GABA and the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). These transmitters are found to local neurons and afferents known to prominently modulate the activity of pyramidal neurons in the neocortex. Individual neurons were physiologically characterized and filled with biocytin in the frontal cortex of anesthetized rats. The brains were then preserved by vascular perfusion with aldehydes. Single vibratome sections through the recording site were reacted (1) for immunoperoxidase detection of biocytin and (2) for immunogold labeling of GABA or TH. Dually labeled sections were processed for light microscopy or embedded in plastic for electron microscopy. The dense peroxidase product for biocytin was detected in pyramidal neurons. These were located in superficial as well as deep cortical laminae, and were readily distinguished from immunogold silver labeling. GABA labeled terminals formed symmetric synapses with larger biocytin filled dendrites, whereas the TH labeled terminals contacted distal dendrites and spines. Peroxidase labeling for biocytin also was seen in a few axon terminals forming synapses with unlabeled and with GABA immunoreactive dendrites. These results suggest that single pyramidal neurons of the rat frontal cortex receive dual input from both GABA and catecholamine terminals. Additionally, this study demonstrates the usefulness of silver enhancement of 1 nm colloidal gold prior to plastic embedding for electron microscopic detection of neurotransmitters within afferents and targets of neurons physiologically characterized in vivo.

In vivo relative corneal transmittance was estimated using Tan's [(1971) Vision in the ultraviolet, thesis, University of Utrecht, The Netherlands] data on scotopic spectral sensitivity in aphakic eyes. This was combined with in vitro corneal transmittance data and in vivo light scattering data to arrive at absolute data. All data combined, the following function (no age dependence is found) resulted: log(transmittance) = -0.016-c*lambda-4 (lambda = wavelength in nm, lambda &gt; 310 nm). c = 85*10(8) nm4 for direct transmittance (acceptance angle of the order of 1 deg) and c = 21*10(8) nm4 for total transmittance (acceptance angle close to 180 deg).
Our studies have been directed to the identification of local, naturally-occurring molecules that support substantia nigra (SN) dopaminergic (DA) neuron survival. We have previously demonstrated that local Type I astrocytes selectively increase the dopaminergic population [30,31]. However, the mechanism of action remains to be defined. To determine whether survival is elicited through diffusible agents, Type I astrocyte conditioned medium (CM) was tested on SN dissociates. After 7 days of exposure to CM, DA neuronal integrity was monitored immunocytochemically with antibody to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the DA biosynthetic enzyme, or by TH catalytic assay. CM increased TH+ cell number greater than 2-fold, suggesting that a soluble factor(s) promoted neuron survival. Neurons cultured in serum free medium (SFM) are known to contain few, but detectable numbers of glia [34]. To examine whether CM affected neurons directly, or indirectly through glia, glial populations were stained with antibody against the glial marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). We employed several approaches to define the potential role of glia. Initially, CM was compared to basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), a glial mitogen that reportedly enhances nigral DA neuron survival. bFGF enhanced TH activity in our system, as well, but the effect was blocked by the mitotic inhibitor 5-fluorodeoxyuridine (FDUR), which kills dividing glia. In parallel studies CM increased enzyme activity and TH cell number in cultures exhibiting GFAP+ cells. To define the role of these glial cells in the CM effect, we completely eliminated astrocytes in CM-treated cultures employing alpha-aminoadipic acid (AA; 10-30 microM), a specific gliotoxin. At a concentration of AA that eliminated detectable GFAP+ cells, CM continued to elicit a significant increase in TH cell number. These data suggest that, in contrast to effects of bFGF, the DA neurotrophic activity in CM acts directly on nigral neurons to enhance survival.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is found in motoneurons of the mammalian spinal cord, including motoneurons of the androgen-dependent spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) of the mouse. Motoneurons of the SNB innervate the bulbocavernosus (BC), a striated muscle involved in penile reflexes. CGRP is though to be a trophic factor produced by motoneurons to regulate the expression of the acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular junction. In rats, the number of SNB motoneurons containing CGRP is increased by gonadal steroids. This regulation appears to rely on an activity-dependent factor produced by the BC muscle. The purpose of the present study was to examine, using immunohistochemistry, the steroid dependence of CGRP in the SNB of male house mice. Genotypic differences in the steroid regulation of CGRP immunoreactivity were examined in three strains of mice that differ in their behavioral sensitivity to castration. The results demonstrate that castration reduces the number of CGRP-positive SNB motoneurons in mice. The magnitude of the change in CGRP in response to castration and the length of time required following castration to alter CGRP were dependent on genotype. Interestingly, the effect of castration in mice, to reduce the number of CGRP-immunoreactive SNB motoneurons, is opposite in direction from the increase in CGRP SNB motoneurons observed in rats observed following castration. These experiments suggest that androgens may alter neuromuscular junction function of mouse SNB by regulating the production of CGRP in a species-specific, genotypically dependent fashion.
The benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil (2.5-20 mg/kg i.p.) increased acetylcholine (ACh) release by up to 85% in the hippocampus of freely moving rats. In contrast, the benzodiazepine receptor full agonist diazepam (2.5-10 mg/kg i.p.) decreased ACh release up to a maximum of 45% in the same brain area. Injection of flumazenil (10 pmol) or diazepam (10 pmol) into the medial septum increased (95%) or reduced (50%), respectively, ACh release in the hippocampus. The maximum effect produced by those drugs was of the same magnitude as that observed after systemic injection. The changes in hippocampal cholinergic function elicited by activation and blockade of benzodiazepine receptors in the medial septum may thus play a crucial role in the alterations of the cognitive processes elicited by benzodiazepine receptor ligands.
The orphan receptor chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor I (COUP-TF I) fully prevented not only the activation of the oxytocin gene by retinoic acid and thyroid hormone but also completely repressed the estrogen-dependent stimulation in transfected P19 EC cells. DNase I footprinting showed that the COUP-TF I protein bound to the 5'-flanking region of the oxytocin gene at the site of the distal composite hormone response element, which mediates the responses to estrogen, retinoic acid, and thyroid hormone. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay using this composite hormone response element as probe showed that COUP-TF I and the estrogen receptor competed for binding but did not form a heterodimer. The binding by COUP-TF I was stronger than the binding of the estrogen receptor. Thus, the mechanism of repression involves occupancy of integrated binding sites. By mutagenesis of the composite hormone response element, the COUP-TF I binding site and the estrogen response element could be separated, resulting in functional dissociation of the repressive action of COUP-TF I and the induction by estrogen. The results show that repression of gene expression by COUP-TF I is not limited to receptors that act through heterodimerization but also extends to the homodimer-forming estrogen receptor in a context-dependent manner. This interaction between COUP-TF I and the estrogen receptor may provide a physiological mechanism of selective antagonism of gene regulation by estrogens.
Cultures derived from a malignant glioma (U-87 MG) were treated with 3 mM dibutyryl cAMP. The treatment resulted in morphological differentiation of the cultures and a decrease in cell proliferation. Biochemically, dibutyryl cAMP treatment caused a general reduction in the concentration of neutral glycosphingolipids in the U-87 MG cells. The concentration of individual neutral glycosphingolipids in the untreated cells was 1.8- to 3.0-fold higher than in cells treated for 72 h with 3 mM dibutyryl cAMP. Cells were labeled with [3H]galactose to monitor synthesis of the neutral glycosphingolipids. Decreased synthesis was noted in cells treated with dibutyryl cAMP as compared with untreated cells as indicated by decreased uptake of [3H]galactose label. The ganglioside composition of the cells was essentially unchanged after dibutyryl cAMP treatment.
We have cloned cDNA encoding a G-protein beta subunit from the central nervous system (CNS) of the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. The deduced protein is very homologous to other metazoan beta subunits. Thus, the Lymnaea CNS can be used as a model system to study beta gamma subunits in their native setting since its large neurons can be manipulated and studied relatively easily in vivo.
We show here electroretinograms (ERGs) recorded from freely moving rats during sleep and wakefulness. Bilateral ERGs were evoked by flashes delivered through a light-emitting diode implanted under the skin above one eye and recorded through electrodes inside each orbit near the optic nerve. Additional electrodes over each visual cortex monitored the brain waves and collected flash-evoked cortical potentials to compare with the ERGs. Connections to the stimulating and recording instruments through a plug on the head made data collection possible at any time without physically disturbing the animal. The three major findings are (i) the ERG amplitude during slow-wave sleep can be 2 or more times that of the waking response; (ii) the ERG patterns in slow-wave and REM sleep are different; and (iii) the sleep-related ERG changes closely mimic those taking place at the same time in the responses evoked from the visual cortex. We conclude that the mechanisms that alter the visual cortical-evoked responses during sleep operate also and similarly at the retinal level.
In brains of higher vertebrates, the functional segregation of local areas that differ in their anatomy and physiology contrasts sharply with their global integration during perception and behavior. In this paper, we introduce a measure, called neural complexity (CN), that captures the interplay between these two fundamental aspects of brain organization. We express functional segregation within a neural system in terms of the relative statistical independence of small subsets of the system and functional integration in terms of significant deviations from independence of large subsets. CN is then obtained from estimates of the average deviation from statistical independence for subsets of increasing size. CN is shown to be high when functional segregation coexists with integration and to be low when the components of a system are either completely independent (segregated) or completely dependent (integrated). We apply this complexity measure in computer simulations of cortical areas to examine how some basic principles of neuroanatomical organization constrain brain dynamics. We show that the connectivity patterns of the cerebral cortex, such as a high density of connections, strong local connectivity organizing cells into neuronal groups, patchiness in the connectivity among neuronal groups, and prevalent reciprocal connections, are associated with high values of CN. The approach outlined here may prove useful in analyzing complexity in other biological domains such as gene regulation and embryogenesis.
We have isolated and analyzed a cDNA from the central nervous system of the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis encoding a putative receptor, which might be a natural hybrid between two different classes of receptor proteins. Preceded by a signal peptide, two types of repeated sequences are present in the N-terminal part of the protein. The first repeat displays a high sequence similarity to the extracellular binding domains of the low density lipoprotein receptor, which binds and internalizes cholesterol-containing apolipoproteins. The second repeat and the C-terminal part of the Lymnaea receptor are very similar to regions of a specific class of guanine nucleotide-binding protein-coupled receptors, the mammalian glycoprotein hormone receptors. The mRNA encoding the receptor is predominantly expressed in a small number of neurons within the central nervous system and to a lesser extent in the heart.
Previous electrophysiological experiments have documented the response of neurons in the adult rat somatic sensory (&quot;barrel&quot;) cortex to whisker movement after normal experience and after periods of experience with all but two whiskers trimmed close to the face (whisker &quot;pairing&quot;). To better understand how the barrel cortex adapts to changes in the flow of sensory activity, we have developed a computational model of a single representative barrel cell based on the Bienenstock, Cooper, and Munro (BCM) theory of synaptic plasticity. The hallmark of the BCM theory is the dynamic synaptic modification threshold, theta M, which dictates whether a neuron's activity at any given instant will lead to strengthening or weakening of the synapses impinging on it. The threshold theta M is proportional to the neuron's activity averaged over some recent past. Whisker pairing was simulated by setting input activities of the cell to the noise level, except for two inputs that represented untrimmed whiskers. Initially low levels of cell activity, resulting from whisker trimming, led to low values for theta M. As certain synaptic weights potentiated, due to the activity of the paired inputs, the values of theta M increased and after some time their mean reached an asymptotic value. This saturation of theta M led to the depression of some inputs that were originally potentiated. The changes in cell response generated by the model replicated those observed in in vivo experiments. Previously, the BCM theory has explained salient features of developmental experience-dependent plasticity in kitten visual cortex. Our results suggest that the idea of a dynamic synaptic modification threshold, theta M, is general enough to explain plasticity in different species, in different sensory systems, and at different stages of brain maturity.
A single i.c.v. injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in mice resulted in a biphasic increase in lipid peroxidation as assayed by the level of thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances (TBARS). An increase in Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity was temporally related with the first peak of TBARS but remained unchanged during the second TBARS peak. This suggests that a free radical species other than O2- may be involved in the late onset increase in TBARS. The level of Cu/Zn-SOD mRNA did not immediately reflect the change in Cu/Zn-SOD activity but rather increased gradually reaching significantly higher levels only 8 weeks after i.c.v. an injection of 6-OHDA. This increase in Cu/Zn-SOD mRNA likely occurs in response to a consumption of intrinsic SOD. Thus, short- and long-term increases in lipid peroxidation likely occur by different mechanisms and studies of both are needed to elucidate the neurodegenerative process.
When beta-amyloid-(1-40) is added to PC12 cells, there is an increase in choline conductance that is proportional to the beta-amyloid concentration. If a similar effect occurs in cholinergic brain cells of Alzheimer's disease patients, the intracellular choline concentration would be reduced, leading to a decrease in the production of acetylcholine. This could explain the reduced level of acetylcholine that has been found in post-mortem brain tissue of Alzheimer's disease patients.
Information on the transmembrane signaling events and subsequent biochemical processes initiated by ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) receptor activation in neurons is lacking. SH-SY5Y cells, a human neuroblastoma cell line expressing CNTF receptors, were used to study metabolic changes associated with functional ligand-receptor interactions. Real-time measurements quantifying the rate of extracellular acidification by SH-SY5Y cells (a measure of metabolic activity) were made using a silicon-based cytosensor. Application of recombinant human CNTF (rhCNTF) to resting SH-SY5Y cells increased their acidification rate in a concentration and time-dependent manner with an apparent EC50 of 60 ng/ml. Pretreatment of cells with phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC) prevented the CNTF, but not an NGF-stimulated increase in acidification rate. Collectively, these results demonstrate that: (1) SH-SY5Y cells express functional CNTF receptors; and (2) the initial signal transduction mechanism activated by the CNTF receptor in SH-SY5Y cells is distinct from that activated by the NGF receptor; however, both may ultimately stimulate the same downstream biochemical messengers to increase cellular metabolism.
Incubation of rat skeletal muscle mitochondria with the nitric oxide generator, S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) reversibly inhibited oxygen utilisation with all substrates tested. The visible absorption spectra of the inhibited mitochondria showed that cytochromes c+c1, b and a+a3 were reduced, indicating a block at the distal end of the respiratory chain. Analysis of the respiratory chain enzyme activities in the presence of GSNO localised the site of inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase alone. These results indicate that nitric oxide is capable of rapidly and reversibly inhibiting the mitochondrial respiratory chain and may be implicated in the cytotoxic effects of nitric oxide in the CNS and other tissues.
When a photochemically-induced infarct was produced in the right cortex of rats, tissue water content was increased markedly 4 and 24 h later (control: 79.00 +/- 0.08% ischaemia, 24 h: 82.96 +/- 0.15%). The left cortex was unaffected. Chlormethiazole (200 mg/kg i.p.) injection 5 min after onset of ischaemia decreased the oedema (ischaemia/chlormethiazole, 24 h: 82.16 +/- 0.21%, P &lt; 0.01). At 24 h, ischaemic tissue Na+ content was increased (61%) and the K+ content decreased (9%). The Na+/K+ ratio therefore increased significantly (P &lt; 0.001), a change that was diminished by chlormethiazole administration (P &lt; 0.02). Chlormethiazole (1 mM), unlike furosemide (5 mM), did not reduce swelling of C6 glioma cells in hypotonic medium. The data suggest that chlormethiazole decreases oedema in this stroke model because of its neuroprotective properties and not because of an effect on anion transport.
The actions of serotonin (5-HT) on synaptic responses in Purkinje cells were examined using the whole-cell voltage-clamp recording from thin slices of the rat cerebellum. Focal stimulation within the molecular layer elicited synaptic responses: (1) inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) that were completely blocked by bicuculline; (2) excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) that were antagonized by CNQX; and (3) combination of IPSC and EPSC. Application of 5-HT (3-30 microM) increased the amplitude of the stimulation-evoked IPSCs but did not significantly affect the EPSCs. The frequency and the mean amplitude of spontaneous IPSCs were increased in the presence of 5-HT. Neither the sensitivity to exogenously applied GABA nor the holding current of Purkinje cells were noticeably altered by 5-HT. The results indicate that 5-HT differentially enhances the GABA-mediated IPSCs in rat cerebellar Purkinje cells via a presynaptic mechanism. Serotonergic neurons thus appear to play a role in the motor control through selective presynaptic facilitation that modulates the output from the cerebellar cortex.

This paper reports a study of rhodopsin's structure and function using insertional mutagenesis with a flexible epitope. Sixteen rhodopsin derivatives were constructed, each of which carried a 12-amino acid epitope derived from the c-Myc protein flanked by penta-glycine linkers. For eight of the insertion mutants, the membrane sideness of the epitope insert was determined by immunostaining of intact or permeabilized cells. The results confirm the sidedness of each of the six helix connecting loops and the amino and carboxyl termini as postulated by the current seven-helix models of G-protein-coupled receptors and provide the first experimental evidence for the existence of the third extracellular loop. In general, inserts that were either closer to the amino terminus or on the extracellular face were more likely to disrupt folding and/or stability than were inserts near the carboxyl terminus or on the cytosolic face. Epitope insertion at positions 139 or 239, in the second and third cytosolic loops, respectively, failed to activate transducin, whereas an insertion at position 333 in the carboxyl-terminal tail was fully functional. The experimental approach described here should prove generally useful for elucidating structural and functional properties of both membrane and globular proteins.


Protein kinases modulate the activity of several ligand-gated ion channels, including the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) subtype of glutamate receptor. Although phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of glutamate receptors may participate in several lasting physiological and pathological alterations of neuronal excitability, the physiological control of this cycle for NMDA channels has not yet been established. Using cell-attached recordings in acutely dissociated adult rat dentate gyrus granule cells, we now demonstrate that inhibitors of an endogenous serine/threonine phosphatase prolong the duration of single NMDA channel openings, bursts, clusters and superclusters. Okadaic acid, a non-selective phosphatase inhibitor, prolongs channel openings only at a concentration that inhibits the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase 2B (calcineurin), and is ineffective when Ca2+ entry through NMDA channels is prevented. Furthermore, FK506, an inhibitor of calcineurin, mimics the effects of okadaic acid. Thus in adult neurons, calcineurin, activated by calcium entry through native NMDA channels, shortens the duration of channel openings. Simulated synaptic currents were enhanced after phosphatase inhibition, which is consistent with the importance of phosphorylation of the NMDA-receptor complex in the short- and long-term control of neuronal excitability.
Protein-tyrosine kinases (PTKs) and protein-tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs) are key enzymes in signal-transduction pathways for a wide range of cellular processes. PTKs and PTPs are highly expressed in the central nervous system, which is consistent with the importance of tyrosine phosphorylation in neuronal function. Protein phosphorylation is known to be involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter receptors, but the effects of tyrosine phosphorylation on neurotransmitter receptor function in the central nervous system are unknown. Here we present evidence that in mammalian central neurons tyrosine phosphorylation regulates the function of the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor, a subtype of excitatory amino-acid receptor. NMDA-receptor-mediated whole-cell currents and intracellular Ca2+ responses are depressed by inhibition of PTKs. Conversely, NMDA currents are potentiated by intracellular application of the well characterized PTK pp60c-src. NMDA currents are also potentiated by intracellular administration of an inhibitor of PTPs. Protein-tyrosine phosphorylation is a new mechanism for regulating NMDA receptors and may be important in neuronal development, plasticity and toxicity.
The pharmacology of the neurotensin response of dopamine-sensitive neurons in the substantia nigra compacta was examined by testing the effect of a novel neurotensin receptor antagonist, SR48692, on the response to neurotensin(8-13). Extracellular recordings of action potentials from neurons were made from coronal rat brain slices maintained in vitro. SR48692 was unable to antagonise the actions of neurotensin(8-13) until microM concentrations were applied. The equilibrium constant for SR48692 was 4.9 microM compared with low nM Ki values reported in binding experiments. The data suggests that the pharmacology of the neurotensin response in the rat substantia nigra may be different to that predicted from radioligand-binding studies in cell lines and brain homogenates.
Dopamine receptors have been divided into two families, known as D1 and D2, based on their ability to bind distinct ligands, and their use of separate post-synaptic transduction systems. Determining the specific cellular location for these dopamine receptors in the striatum is important to the design of drug treatments for disorders with suspected dopaminergic involvement such as Parkinson's disease. This study examined the binding of D1 and D2 antagonist ligands on identified striatonigral neurons using in vitro fluorescent techniques. The results indicate that striatonigral neurons express both pharmacological subfamilies of dopamine receptor binding sites.
In the present study we examined the effects of lithium chloride and the muscarinic receptor agonists pilocarpine hydrochloride and L-658,903 (3-(3-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5-yl) quinuclidine hydrochloride) upon the accumulation of inositol monophosphates in mouse brain using a radiometric technique. Lithium was able to stimulate dose dependently the accumulation of inositol monophosphates with a minimal effective dose (MED) of 3 mEq/kg s.c. and maximal effect seen at 20 mEq/kg. This corresponded to an increase in the radioactivity in the inositol monophosphate fraction from 1.4 +/- 0.06% to 4.6 +/- 0.60%. The response was time-dependent, with a peak effect observed at 4 h post administration and returning to basal levels by 48 h. The muscarinic receptor agonist pilocarpine (MED 10 mg/kg i.p.) was able to enhance dose dependently the response to 10 mEq/kg lithium, with a maximum response seen at 30 mg/kg (9.3% of the total brain radioactivity present in the inositol monophosphate fraction). The efficacious oxadiazole muscarinic receptor agonist L-658,903 also enhanced the response to lithium, producing a maximal effect of 10.4% of the total brain radioactivity present in the inositol monophosphate fraction at 1 mg/kg i.p. This stimulation was blocked by 1 mg/kg scopolamine i.p. but not by 1 mg/kg N-methylscopolamine. These results demonstrate the linkage of muscarinic receptors to the accumulation of inositol monophosphates in vivo, and confirm that following peripheral administration L-658,903 is a potent efficacious at muscarinic receptors within the central nervous system.
Transport of the amino acid glutamate across plasma membranes of neurons, glial cells and epithelial cells of the small intestine and kidney is carried out via specific transport proteins. Recently, a high-affinity Na(+)-dependent glutamate transporter was cloned from rabbit small intestine. We have designed oligonucleotide probes to sequences of rabbit glutamate transporter mRNA and used these for in situ hybridization histochemistry in order to define the cellular localization of glutamate transporter mRNA in the rabbit kidney. Strong hybridization with the probes to glutamate transporter mRNA was demonstrated in the outer stripe of the outer medulla, with tubular rays radiating into the cortex. In emulsion-dipped and hematoxylin-eosin counterstained sections, it could be seen that cells expressing glutamate transporter mRNA were localized in the outer stripe of the outer medulla, coinciding with the S3 segment of proximal tubules. The results show that glutamate transporter mRNA is expressed in proximal tubule cells of the rabbit kidney, suggesting that Na(+)-dependent uptake of glutamate occurs primarily within this nephron segment.
Pharmacologically relevant concentrations of volatile anesthetics can bidirectionally modulate radioligand binding to GABAA receptors. In mouse cerebral cortex, halothane (a prototypic volatile anesthetic) increased [3H]muscimol (a GABA receptor agonist) binding while inhibiting the binding of a GABA receptor antagonist ([3H]SR 95531). These bidirectional effects of inhalational anesthetics on ligand binding to GABA receptors are effected through changes in the Bmax with no significant alterations in the KD of these radioligands. Moreover, the concentration dependent, bidirectional modulation of radioligand binding to GABA receptors by volatile anesthetics exhibited stereoselectivity. Thus, (+)-isoflurane was about twice as potent as the (-)-enantiomer in enhancing [3H]muscimol binding and approximately 50% more potent as an inhibitor of [3H]SR 95531 binding, respectively. The demonstration of a bidirectional, stereospecific modulation of radioligand binding to GABA receptors by inhalational agents is consistent with the presence of specific recognition sites for inhalational anesthetics on the GABAA receptor complex.
Based upon recent evidence that the secreted form of APP can cause the release of cytokines and elicit other biological activities, we sought to identify whether a receptor could be identified on the surface of cells. The secreted amyloid precursor protein containing the Kunitz domain (scAPP751) is identical to protease nexin II, a protease inhibitor which has been shown to form complexes with labeled EGF binding protein that subsequently binds to cells. Results of [125I]scAPP751-trypsin complex incubated with intact fibroblast cells show that the complex appears to bind in a saturable time-dependent and reversible manner. The kinetic constants from the binding studies demonstrate a k1 = 2.5 x 10(7) M-1 s-1 and k2 = 4.7 x 10(-4) s-1 and thus a KD (= k2/k1) = 20 pM. Furthermore, the complex formation of [125I]scAPP751 with a protease appears to be a requirement for optimal binding. The binding affinity of secreted APP demonstrated in this study is consistent with its potency in eliminating a range of biological efforts that have been documented.
Direct and persistent effects of chronic neonatal administration of the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol on brain noradrenergic activity were investigated by measuring tissue concentrations of noradrenaline and its metabolites and in vivo overflow of noradrenaline during adulthood. Rat pups were chronically treated with propranolol from postnatal day 1 to day 10. Determination of monoamine metabolism after the last injection showed an increase in noradrenaline metabolism in frontal cortex, limbic system and hippocampus of propranolol-exposed rats, but 47 days after this last injection it was apparent that these effects were not long-lasting. Moreover, basal noradrenaline overflow in vivo in the hippocampus of 40-55 day-old propranolol-exposed rats did not differ from that in controls. However, the regulation of noradrenaline release seemed to have been altered, since a pharmacological challenge with the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan induced an enhanced increase in the in vivo noradrenaline overflow in propranolol-exposed rats compared to controls. It is suggested that the neonatal beta-blockade induced a supersensitivity of the presynaptic alpha 2-adrenoceptor. The precise mechanism underlying this effect has to be elucidated.
The effects of the centrally produced allylic neurosteroid, 3 alpha-hydroxy-4-pregnen-20-one (3 alpha HP), on the responses of male mice to the odors of estrous female mice were examined in an odor preference test. Control untreated mice displayed a significant preference for the odors of an estrous female, spending more time in a Y-maze in the vicinity of the odors of an estrous than a non-estrous female. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administrations of 3 alpha HP enhanced male preference for the odors of estrous females, causing a significant dose-related (0.01-1.0 microgram) increase in the amount of time spent in the proximity of the odors of the estrous female, while having no significant effect on the responses to the non-estrous female odors. These effects of 3 alpha HP were stereospecific, with the stereoisomer, 3 beta-hydroxy-4-pregnen-20-one (3 beta HP), having no significant effects on odor preferences. The analgesic, morphine, also had no significant effects on the responses to female odors suggesting that the enhanced preference for estrous female odors were unlikely to be directly due to any analgesic effects of 3 alpha HP. The effects of 3 alpha HP were significantly reduced by peripheral administrations of the GABAA antagonists, bicuculline and picrotoxin, but were unaffected by either the benzodiazepine antagonist, Ro 15-1788, or the opiate antagonist, naloxone. These results suggest that the neurosteroid 3 alpha HP has facilitatory effects on olfactory mediated male sexual interest or motivation that involve interactions with the GABAA receptor.
In normal adult rats, intense immunostaining for the 75 kDa low-affinity receptor for nerve growth factor and other neurotrophins (p75NGFR) is concentrated in the middle region of the cuneate nucleus (CN), distributed in a blotchy pattern similar to that of cytochrome oxidase (CO) activity. In the adult rats, partial dorsal rhizotomies (centered around the 7th and 8th cervical spinal segments) resulted in the complete disappearance of p75NGFR-like immunoreactivity within the ipsilateral CN, but did not affect the distribution of the CO blotches. Perinatal (postnatal day 1-8) damage to the ipsilateral forepaw and subsequent rearing to adulthood also resulted in significant disruption of the topographical expression of p75NGFR-like immunoreactivity within the CN, as well as--as previously reported--disruption of the CO blotches. Although the patterns of staining in intact adult rats are similar for CO staining and for p75NGFR-like immunoreactivity within the CN, the CO staining appears to be primarily associated with postsynaptic cells, while the p75NGFR-like immunostaining appears to be associated with primary afferent terminals.
Herbimycin A, a benzoquinoid ansamycin, is widely used as an inhibitor of tyrosine kinases. We have examined the effects of herbimycin A and several analogues on p185, the tyrosine kinase encoded by the erbB2 gene in human breast cancer cells. Exposure to 0.35 microM herbimycin A reduced tyrosine phosphorylation of p185 in SKBr3 cells by 80% after 2 h, and the p185 protein level was reduced by 90% after 6 h. The reduction of p185 resulted primarily from increased degradation of p185; cellular protein synthesis was reduced only 16% in SKBr3 cells treated with herbimycin A, RNA synthesis was inhibited only 10%, and erbB2 mRNA levels were unchanged. Examination of the major cellular glycoproteins indicated that most glycoproteins were unaffected under conditions that substantially depleted p185. Studies with cell lines transfected with erbB2 containing defined deletions indicated that susceptibility to the depletion of p185 by herbimycin and its analogues required the domain encoded by amino acids 751-971. The benzoquinoid ansamycins therefore initiate a process of specific degradation of tyrosine kinases by a mechanism that remains unknown.
Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is a dominantly inherited disease characterized by the development of bilateral vestibular schwannomas and meningiomas, which together represent 30% of primary brain tumors. The NF2 gene, which has recently been isolated, maps to the long arm of human chromosome 22. Using recombinant inbred mice, we have determined the chromosomal position of the mouse homologue of the NF2 gene. Analysis of the allele distribution in AKXD recombinant inbred strains using a simple sequence repeat polymorphism (D11Mcg1) in the 3' untranslated region of the mouse cDNA maps the mouse NF2 gene to the proximal region of chromosome 11, closely linked to Pmv-2. This region also contains the genes for leukemia inhibitory factor and neurofilament heavy-chain polypeptide and thus represents a region of conserved synteny between human chromosome 22 and mouse chromosome 11. Using additional polymorphic markers, we established the following locus order from the centromere: D11Mit1/D11Mit72/D11Mcg1-D11Mit74-Pmv-2-D11Mi t2-D11Mit77/D11Mit78/D11Mit63.
1. To characterize the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT) innervation of hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurones, current clamp recordings were obtained in SON cells in superfused rat hypothalamic explants. Stimulation of 1 Hz evoked 5-10 mV bicuculline-sensitive IPSPs in forty out of forty-six SON neurones, including both phasic (vasopressin immunoreactive) and continuously firing (oxytocin immunoreactive) cells. 2. In twenty-four cells, mean IPSP latency was 8.7 +/- 1 ms (+/- S.D.) and reversal potentials (Vr) ranged between -60 and -75 mV. In the other sixteen cells, Vr ranged between -20 and -55 mV and the addition of bicuculline revealed underlying EPSPs (latency, 7.8 +/- 0.8 ms; mean Vr, -8 +/- 10 mV) with two components: (a) fast (rise and half-decay times of 5.83 +/- 1.3 ms and 19 +/- 4.4 ms respectively), with reversible blockade by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX); (b) slow (4- to 5-fold increase in rise and half-decay time), with reversible reduction by (-)-aminophosphonovaleric acid (APV). 3. During 10 Hz stimulation, EPSPs summated into 3-7 mV depolarizing envelopes lasting 1.5-3.0 s and sustaining action potential bursts. Depolarizing envelopes displayed voltage dependence, and were enhanced after removal of extracellular magnesium, diminished by APV and completely abolished by APV and CNQX together. 4. Thus, non-NMDA receptors probably mediate fast EPSPs whereas NMDA receptors mediate slow EPSPs and depolarizing envelopes. OVLT-evoked EPSPs were only seen in vasopressin-immunoreactive neurones. 5. These observations indicate converging inhibitory and target-selective excitatory amino acid-mediated inputs from OVLT to SON; the latter may modulate the excitability of SON vasopressin neurones to a hyperosmotic challenge.
We have used the alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, castanospermine, to investigate the possible involvement of N-linked glycosylation in the process of neurite outgrowth both during the development and regeneration of sympathetic nerve fibres into the iris of the rat. The effects on nerve growth were assessed qualitatively using catecholamine histochemistry and quantitatively by measuring the uptake of [3H]noradrenaline. Castanospermine was injected during the first, second or third postnatal week or during the second to fourth week after degeneration of adrenergic nerve terminals with the neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine. Results showed that both the initial growth of sympathetic nerve fibres, as well as the regeneration of these fibres, was inhibited by castanospermine treatment. The inhibitory effects were restricted to injection of castanospermine at particular time periods during postnatal development and regeneration. These results suggest that N-linked carbohydrates may be important in particular stages of the processes of initial nerve growth and regeneration of sympathetic nerve fibres in the iris.

Kinesin is a microtubule-based motor protein that contains two identical force-generating subunits. The kinesin binding sites along the microtubule lie 8 nm apart (the dimension of the tubulin dimer), which implies that kinesin must translocate a minimum distance of 8 nm per hydrolysis cycle. Measurements of kinesin's microtubule-stimulated ATPase activity (approximately 20 ATP per sec) and velocity of transport (approximately 0.6 micron/sec), however, suggest that the net distance moved per ATP (approximately 30 nm) may be greater than one tubulin dimer under zero load conditions. To explore how kinesin translocates during its ATPase cycle, we constructed a microscope capable of tracking movement with 1-nm resolution at a bandwidth of 200 Hz and used this device to examine microtubule movement driven by a single kinesin motor. Regular stepwise movements were not observed in displacement traces of moving microtubules, although Brownian forces acting on elastic elements within the kinesin motor precluded detection of steps that were &lt; 12 nm. Though individual steps of approximately 16 nm were occasionally observed, their infrequent occurrence suggests that kinesin rarely moves abruptly by distances of two or more tubulin subunits during its ATP hydrolysis cycle. Instead it is more likely that kinesin moves forward by the distance of only a single tubulin subunit under zero load conditions.
Various first messengers linked to phospholipase C, including acetylcholine and interleukin 1, regulate the production both of the secreted form of the amyloid protein precursor (APP) and of amyloid beta-protein. We have now identified intracellular signals which are responsible for mediating these effects. We show that activation of phospholipase C may affect APP processing by either of two pathways, one involving an increase in protein kinase C and the other an increase in cytoplasmic calcium levels. The effects of calcium on APP processing appear to be independent of protein kinase C activation. The observed effects of calcium on APP processing may be of therapeutic utility.
Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies are caused by defects of dystrophin, which forms a part of the membrane cytoskeleton of specialized cells such as muscle. It has been previously shown that the dystrophin-associated protein A1 (59-kDa DAP) is actually a heterogeneous group of phosphorylated proteins consisting of an acidic (alpha-A1) and a distinct basic (beta-A1) component. Partial peptide sequence of the A1 complex purified from rabbit muscle permitted the design of oligonucleotide probes that were used to isolate a cDNA for one human isoform of A1. This cDNA encodes a basic A1 isoform that is distinct from the recently described syntrophins in Torpedo and mouse and is expressed in many tissues with at least five distinct mRNA species of 5.9, 4.8, 4.3, 3.1, and 1.5 kb. A comparison of our human cDNA sequence with the GenBank expressed sequence tag (EST) data base has identified a relative from human skeletal muscle, EST25263, which is probably a human homologue of the published mouse syntrophin 2. We have mapped the human basic component of A1 and EST25263 genes to chromosomes 8q23-24 and 16, respectively.
The purpose of the present study was to determine the effect of inhibiting the mitochondrial beta-oxidation of free fatty acids on the incorporation of radiolabeled free fatty acids into brain lipids. To this end, methyl 2-tetradecylglycidate (MEP), an irreversible inhibitor of carnitine palmitoyltransferase I, was given orally to male rats 2, 4, and 6 h prior to an intravenous infusion of the saturated fatty acid [U-14C]palmitic acid (PA) or the polyunsaturated fatty acid [1-14C]arachidonate (AA). With [U-14C]PA, MEP (10-25 mg/kg) increased brain organic radioactivity 2-fold and decreased brain aqueous radioactivity 3- to 5-fold relative to control values at all pretreatment times. The effect was due to prolongation of the plasma integral of [U-14C]PA due to peripheral inhibition of beta-oxidation, and to direct inhibition of beta-oxidation of the tracer within the brain. MEP had no effect on brain organic radioactivity after infusion of [1-14C]AA. Increasing the interval between MEP administration and [U-14C]PA infusion from 2 to 6 h resulted in a dramatic redistribution of [U-14C]PA within brain lipids. The percentage of radioactivity in phospholipids decreased from 65 to 33%, whereas that in the free fatty acid fraction increased from 10 to 47% and that in triglycerides was elevated 2-3 fold over control levels. These results indicate that MEP may facilitate the use of radiolabeled PA as an in vivo probe of brain lipid metabolism using quantitative autoradiography or positron emission tomography.
Extracellular, intracellular and tight-seal patch-clamp recordings in ventral striatal slices were used to investigate whether the effectiveness of muscarinic neuromodulation of fast synaptic transmission may be dependent on the frequency of afferent stimulation. In all neurons tested, EPSPs were reversibly attenuated by muscarine or carbachol. This action was completely antagonized by atropine or pirenzepine. Several observations indicated a presynaptic site of action. In extracellular recordings, carbachol reduced the monosynaptic population spike but not the non-synaptic compound action potential. The acetylcholinesterase inhibitors eserine and pyridostigmine also induced an atropine-sensitive reduction of the EPSP. When the rate of afferent stimulation was increased, control EPSPs or EPSCs exhibited a decline in peak amplitude until reaching a steady-state value. Muscarinic modulation of steady-state EPSPs/EPSCs was significantly stronger in the range of lower frequencies (0.25-4 Hz) than at higher frequencies (8 and 12 Hz). The GABAA and GABAB-receptor/channel antagonists picrotoxin and 2-hydroxy-saclofen, the opiate receptor antagonist naloxone and atropine failed to alter the shape of the frequency-response curve. These results show that both exogenous and endogenous muscarinic receptor agonists are capable of activating a presynaptic mechanism by which fast excitatory inputs to the ventral striatum are depressed. The depressive effect is clearly stronger at lower rates of afferent stimulation than at high rates. This frequency-dependent attenuation of excitatory synaptic inputs exemplifies a new type of activity-dependent neuromodulation in central neural circuits.
The present study evaluates the relative roles of seizure activity and spreading depression in upregulating glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) mRNA expression. Stimulating electrodes were placed bilaterally in the angular bundle, and recording electrodes were placed bilaterally in the dentate gyrus of adult rats. Intense electrographic seizures were induced by delivering stimulus trains through one stimulating electrode. In some cases, spreading depression accompanied the seizures, while in other cases, the seizures occurred in the absence of spreading depression. Animals were killed 24 h following the last stimulus train, and the forebrains were prepared for quantitative in situ hybridization. Seizure activity and spreading depression led to significant increases in GFAP mRNA levels in the hippocampal formation. Seizure activity alone (without spreading depression) induced a 4-fold increase in GFAP mRNA levels in the hilus and molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and in stratum lacunosum-moleculare of the hippocampus. When seizure activity was accompanied by spreading depression, there was a 10-fold increase in GFAP mRNA levels in these same regions. Regional differences within the hippocampal formation in glial cell response were evident. While GFAP mRNA levels in stratum lacunosum-moleculare of the hippocampus were upregulated by seizure activity and spreading depression, levels in hippocampal stratum radiatum of the hippocampus remained unchanged. The results suggest that abnormal neuronal activity can influence glial cell gene expression and that spreading depression is a stronger signal than seizure activity in upregulating GFAP mRNA levels.
The effects of the centrally produced allylic neurosteroid, 3 alpha-hydroxy-4-pregnen-20-one (3 alpha HP), on the responses of male mice to an aversive, anxiety-inducing, predator (cat) odor were examined in an odor preference test. Control untreated mice displayed an anxiogenic response to the cat odor, spending a minimal amount of time in a Y-maze in the vicinity of the cat odor. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administrations of 3 alpha HP had an anxiolytic action, resulting in significant dose-related (0.01-1.0 micrograms) increases in the amount of time spent in the proximity of the cat odor. These anxiolytic effects of 3 alpha HP were stereospecific, with the stereoisomer, 3 beta-hydroxy-4-pregnen-20-one (3 beta HP) having no significant effects on odor preferences. The analgesic, morphine, also had no significant effects on the response to cat odor indicating that the anxiolytic actions of 3 alpha HP were unlikely to be related to any analgesic effects. The effects of 3 alpha HP were significantly reduced by peripheral administrations of the GABAA antagonists, bicuculline and picrotoxin, but were unaffected by either the benzodiazepine antagonist, Ro 15-1788, or the opiate antagonist, naloxone. These results indicate that the allylic neurosteroid 3 alpha HP has anxiolytic actions involving interactions with the GABAA receptor.
Lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) disrupt performance in a variety of delay tasks, which suggests that the mPFC supports short-term memory processes. The putative involvement of the dopaminergic innervation of the mPFC in these mnemonic processes was investigated by evaluating the effects of local infusions of dopaminergic drugs into the mPFC of rats in an operant delayed-matching-to-position (DMTP) task. Trained animals were provided with bilateral guide cannulae aimed at the dorsal part of the mPFC. Two separate groups of rats were tested after microinfusion of several doses of either the dopamine agonist apomorphine (APO) or the dopamine antagonist cis-flupenthixol (FLU). In addition, all animals were tested after infusion of several doses of the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (SCO). Animals were tested 0 and 135 min after each infusion. At the 0 min interval, neither APO nor FLU affected accuracy of DMTP performance, while both drugs dose-dependently increased response latencies and decreased nosepoke frequencies. At the 135 min interval, APO had almost no effect, whereas the effects of FLU were very prominent. A number of animals no longer responded after infusion of the highest doses of FLU and those that did showed a delay-independent decrease in response accuracy. In contrast, SCO infusions into the mPFC induced a dose- and delay-dependent deterioration of DMTP performance. Taken together, these results support a direct involvement of the rat mPFC in short-term memory processes, although they implicate cholinergic rather than dopaminergic mechanisms in this function.
We used rapid-rate, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) for the noninvasive study of verbal recall. Five right-handed normal subjects were studied. Recall followed immediately after presentation of a 12-word list. Focal rTMS was applied with a figure eight coil in trains of 500 ms duration to F7, F8, T5, T6, P3, P4, or O1, O2 at latencies of 0, 250, 500, or 1000 ms during word list presentation. Recall was consistently significantly diminished only after left mid-temporal and bilateral dorsofrontal rTMS at both 0 and 250 ms latencies. We conclude that rTMS may be useful as a non-invasive tool for the study of verbal memory processes.
N-acetyl-aspartylglutamate (NAAG) is an acidic dipeptide found at high concentrations almost exclusively in the brain and spinal cord. There is evidence that NAAG is an excitatory neurotransmitter/neuromodulator. On the other hand, the identification and characterization of an enzyme in the nervous system which hydrolyzes NAAG to liberate glutamic acid (Glu) has led to an alternative hypothesis that the dipeptide might serve as a precursor of the excitatory amino acid. Using an interactive laser cytometer to quantitate changes in intraneuronal Ca2+ in individual neurons, we demonstrate that NAAG, at the concentrations at which it is found in the brain, promotes a rapid increase in intraneuronal Ca2+. NAAG-induced effects are completely dependent on the presence of Ca2+ in the bathing medium and are inhibited by NMDA receptor and channel antagonists. Several factors have led us to conclude that it is NAAG itself, and not NAAG-derived Glu, which is responsible for the observed effects in this system.

We have investigated the possible effect of estrogen on the metabolism of the Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein (APP). Using a cell line that contains high levels of estrogen receptors, we have found that treatment with physiological concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol is associated with accumulation in the conditioned medium of an amino-terminal cleavage product of APP (soluble APP or protease nexin-2), indicative of non-amyloidogenic processing. There were no obvious changes in the levels of intracellular immature or mature APP holoproteins, suggesting that estrogen may increase the secretory metabolism of APP.
By conventional spike count measures, auditory neurons in the cat's anterior ectosylvian sulcus cortical area are broadly tuned for the location of a sound source. Nevertheless, an artificial neural network was trained to classify the temporal spike patterns of single neurons according to sound location. The spike patterns of 73 percent of single neurons coded sound location with more than twice the chance level of accuracy, and spike patterns consistently carried more information than spike counts alone. In contrast to neurons that are sharply tuned for location, these neurons appear to encode sound locations throughout 360 degrees of azimuth.
Magnocellular hypothalamic neurons of the paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei have been shown to contain a wide variety of messenger molecules in addition to vasopressin and oxytocin, including the nitric oxide (NO)-synthesizing enzyme (NOS). In this paper we have investigated the effects of salt loading on the expression of NOS by means of immunohistochemistry and in-situ hybridization. The results show an increase in the number of NOS-immunoreactive (IR) neurons both in the PVN and the SON after 5 and 14 days of salt loading. Several of these neurons were double labelled with vasopressin antiserum. In situ hybridization showed a marked increase in the number of neurons expressing NOS mRNA and a stronger signal in individual neurons. The present results suggest a role for NO in the magnocellular hypothalamic system after salt loading.
The relationship between regional oxidative and total rCMRglc in five healthy volunteers in activated and non-activated areas of the brain has been investigated with positron emission tomography (PET). The tracers [1-11C]-D-glucose and [2-18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose were used. A previous study has shown that the former may be used to measure the rate of glucose oxidation while the latter tracer is used to measure the total rate of glucose consumption. Regional activation was performed (voluntary finger movements). Use of a computerized brain atlas enabled comparison between the regional oxidative and total rCMRglc in each volume element of the brain for the group of subjects. The values of total and oxidative rCMRglc, when calculated for each volume element of the brain and displayed in a scatter plot, were found to be symmetrically grouped around a straight line which passes close to the origin. The slope of this line varied between the subjects. This indicates that, on the average, the fraction of non-oxidative glucose utilization is constant within each subject, regardless of the value of rCMRglc and, further, that the fraction of non-oxidative glucose utilization varies between subjects. The total and oxidative CMRglc in the activated left hand area were 23.4 +/- 0.9% (mean +/- SEM) and 11.7 +/- 0.3%, respectively, higher than in the contralateral homologous non-activated area. Our interpretation of the difference is that regional activation increases the fraction of non-oxidative glucose consumption. This interpretation is supported by a previous PET study using [15O]O2, and by studies using MRS technique.
Chick embryos were given daily injections of ethanol (approximately 30 mg/day) either chronically from embryonic days 4 to 15 (E4-E15) or E18, or acutely from E15 to E18. Untreated and saline-injected embryos served as controls. Although morphological indicators of developmental age were not different among groups, chronic ethanol reduced weights of several brain regions. Similar to rodent models of prenatal ethanol exposure, chronic ethanol treatment reduced cerebellar Purkinje cell numbers compared to controls. Chronic but not acute ethanol exposure resulted in a significant reduction in choline acetyltransferase activity in the optic tectum (OT) and forebrain (FB) compared with controls. This study demonstrates that the chick embryo is a viable model to investigate the effects of ethanol exposure on CNS development. Unlike the mammalian fetus, the avian embryo is isolated from maternal interactions and may prove more useful in investigating the mechanisms by which ethanol directly influences brain development.
The autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are a clinically heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative diseases. To date, two SCA loci have been identified-one locus (SCA-1) on the short arm of chromosome 6 and the second locus (SCA-2) on the long arm of chromosome 12. We have studied two large kindreds from different ethnic backgrounds, segregating an autosomal dominant form of SCA. A total of 207 living individuals, including 50 affected, were examined, and blood was collected. We performed linkage analysis using anonymous DNA markers which flank the two previously described loci. Our results demonstrate that the two kindreds, one Austrian-Canadian and one French-Canadian, are linked to SCA-2 (chromosome 12q). Multipoint linkage analysis places the SCA-2 locus within a region of approximately 16 cM between the microsatellites D12S58 and D12S84/D12S105 (odds ratio 2,371:1 in favor of this position). We show that the SCA-2 locus is not a private gene and represents an alternative SCA locus.
The effectiveness of occupational therapy interventions for adults with brain injury is largely dependent on how well clients are able to learn the new strategies, techniques, and information therapists are trying to teach them. Neuroscience research in the past two decades has provided some intriguing hints about the neurological processes that may underlie that learning. Understanding this research might stimulate new occupational therapy ideas about more effective ways to facilitate recovery and learning in adults with brain injury. This review presents an overview of the physical, biochemical, and electrical changes in nerve cells that have been found to accompany learning in adults with and without brain injury. Recommendations for treatment derived from the review include teaching to clients' levels of learning and information-processing strengths.
To assess the role of arterial baroreceptors in cardiovascular regulation, many studies have used rats in which baroreceptor afferents have been surgically destroyed. However, interpretation of studies using sinoaortic-denervated (SAD) rats is complicated by variability in the extent of baroreceptor denervation. We have compared cardiovascular regulation in rats with total sinoaortic cardiovascular regulation in rats with total sinoaortic denervation, as assessed by the abolition of reflex changes in heart rate (HR) to increases and decreases in arterial pressure (AP), with rats that underwent the same denervation procedure but still had residual (although markedly blunted) reflex changes in HR to changes in AP. In totally SAD rats, the lability of AP was greatly exaggerated compared with sham-denervated rats, although the average AP was equivalent. In contrast, partially SAD rats had elevated AP, and although AP was more labile than in sham-denervated rats, it was less labile than in totally SAD rats. In addition, cardiovascular responses elicited by elimination of neural activity in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) were qualitatively different between the two groups of rats; destruction of the NTS increased AP similarly in partially SAD rats and sham-denervated rats, whereas this treatment did not alter AP in totally SAD rats. Thus there are marked differences in SAD rats with no residual arterial baroreceptor reflex function compared with SAD rats with even a small degree of residual baroreceptor reflex function. These studies highlight the importance of carefully characterizing SAD rats used in studying the role of the baroreceptor reflex in cardiovascular regulation.
Postnatal developmental changes in blood flow to choroid plexuses of the lateral (LVCP) and fourth (4VCP) ventricles and cerebral cortex were studied in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats at 2, 3, 5, and 7-8 wk. Blood flow was measured by indicator fractionation with N-isopropyl-p-[125I]iodoamphetamine as the marker. Blood flow to the LVCP and 4VCP was 2.5 +/- 0.1 and 2.7 +/- 0.1 ml.g-1.min-1, respectively, and did not change between the 2nd and 3rd wk. However, it increased by 34% between the 3rd and 5th wk. From the age of 5 wk on, 4VCP was characterized by higher blood flow rates than LVCP. Cerebral cortical blood flow gradually increased between the 2nd and 5th wk. There was no difference in cortical blood flow between 5-wk-old and adult animals. The changes in choroidal blood flow likely represent a continuing adjustment of the choroidal vascular system to steadily increasing secretory capabilities of the maturing choroidal epithelium.
The effect of terbutaline (a beta 2-adrenergic agonist) on high-frequency fatigue (HFF) was studied in small bundles of rat soleus muscle fibers. HFF, the decline in force during continuous stimulation (50 Hz for 20 s), was reduced by 10-20% with 10 microM terbutaline. A similar reduction in HFF with 2 mM dibutyryl-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (DBcAMP) implicated adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) as the second messenger in the terbutaline effect. Sodium (Na-K)-pump inhibition with 1 mM ouabain depressed peak tetanic force but did not significantly alter either the subsequent fatigue or the effect of terbutaline on fatigue. This suggested that the pump was neither rate limiting in HFF nor involved in the terbutaline effect. Nevertheless, a significant hyperpolarization recorded with terbutaline implied that beta 2-adrenoceptor activation stimulated the Na-K pump at rest. Caffeine (1 mM) slowed HFF and prevented additional effects with terbutaline. Caffeine is known to potentiate Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), and we suggest that terbutaline, acting via cAMP, facilitates Ca2+ release from the SR to better maintain myoplasmic Ca2+ concentration during continuous tetanic stimulation.
Magnetic resonance imaging was used to measure the volumes of the caudate, putamen, and globus pallidus of 25 schizophrenic patients (17 men and eight women) and 26 age- and sex-matched comparison subjects (18 men and eight women). Schizophrenic patients had significantly larger right and left globus pallidus and right putamen volumes than comparison subjects. There were no significant differences between schizophrenic patients with and without persistent tardive dyskinesia in the volume of any of the three structures.




Neuronal properties of the human globus pallidus (GP) are not known. Since GP is the major output of the basal ganglia, it may be involved in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease. We studied 12 patients with medically resistant Parkinson's disease by using single cell recording of the GP during stereotaxic pallidotomy to define neuronal firing rate and its modulation during active and passive movements. Different frequency and pattern of single cell activity was found in globus pallidus externus compared with globus pallidus internus. Discharge rates of 19% of GP cells were modulated by passive contralateral movements. Pallidal units were most often related solely to single joint movement. Different patterns of activity in relation to the two different movements of the same joint were often observed. We identified somatotopically arranged cell clusters that alter discharge rate with related movements. These findings suggest at least a partial somatotopic organization of the human GP and similarity with experimental results in both healthy and MPTP monkeys, providing a rationale for surgical or pharmacological targeting of GP for treating Parkinson's disease.
Mathematical analyses of mandibular biomechanics often assume a close relation between the relative activity levels of the jaw-adductor muscles and their mechanical advantage. However, this relation has not been clearly demonstrated. This study examined the relation between muscle activity levels, force generation, and mechanical advantage in 48 (23 male, 25 female) normal subjects. Mechanical advantage in the sagittal plane was calculated from standard lateral cephalograms. Activity for the anterior and posterior temporalis and masseter muscles was recorded from surface electrodes during incisor and molar bites. Muscle activity was standardized by calculating a least-squares regression for electromyographic versus occlusal force. At each bite position the more efficient muscles were recruited at higher rates but muscle size was more important in determining efficiency than was mechanical advantage. Differences in jaw-muscle recruitment rates between males and females were also best explained by differences in muscle size. Decreased muscle recruitment rates at molar bite positions matched increased mechanical advantage for the anterior temporalis and masseter. However, posterior temporalis recruitment patterns seemed to reflect jaw position more closely than mechanical advantage.


Neuronal signalling involves multiple neuropeptides that are diverse in structure and function. Complex patterns of tissue-specific expression arise from alternate RNA splicing of neuropeptide-encoding gene transcripts. The pattern of expression and its role in cell signalling is difficult to study at the level of single neurons in the complex vertebrate brain. However, in the model molluscan system, Lymnaea, it is possible to show that alternate mRNA expression of the FMRFamide gene is specific to single identified neurons. Two different transcripts are expressed in a mutually exclusive manner in different neurons. Post-translational processing of the two precursor proteins leads to completely distinct sets of neuropeptide transmitters. The function of these transmitter cocktails, resulting from alternate mRNA splicing, was studied physiologically in identified neurons forming part of a behaviourally important network regulating heartbeat.
Minute amounts of cerebrospinal fluid samples from alcoholics were subjected to separation by HPLC-molecular sieving, combined with multispectral UV analysis of the acquired data. A significant difference in the protein/polypeptide pattern within the molecular weight range of 7-10 kDa has been observed between samples, taken directly after detoxification and 2 weeks later. Spectral analysis of the results suggests that the components are of peptidergic nature. On the other hand, albumin content did not differ significantly, suggesting that the blood-brain barrier was not affected. An enzyme marker, dynorphin converting enzyme, remained unchanged in both groups.
The rational design of a non-peptide tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist, [(2-benzofuran)-CH2OCO]-(R)-alpha-MeTrp-(S)-NHCH(CH3)P h (28, PD 154075) is described. Compound 28 has a Ki = 9 and 0.35 nM for the NK1 receptor binding site in guinea-pig cerebral cortex membranes and human IM9, cells respectively (using [125I] Bolton-Hunter-SP as the radioligand). It is a potent antagonist in vitro where it antagonises the contractions mediated by SPOMe in the guinea-pig ileum (KB = 0.3 nM). Compound 28 is active in vivo in the guinea-pig plasma extravasation model, where it is able to block the SPOMe-induced protein plasma extravasation (monitored by Evans Blue) in the bladder with an ID50 of 0.02 mg kg-1 iv.
1. In vivo microdialysis has been used to investigate the concentration of various amino acids and lactate in the extracellular fluid of the rat cortex following focal ischaemia, the probe being placed in the core of the infarct area. 2. An ischaemic infarct was produced in the cortex by use of a photochemical dye (Rose Bengal) and light irradiation. There was a marked increase in lactate concentration (300%) over the next 4 h. Substantial increases were also seen in the concentration of the excitatory (glutamate and aspartate), inhibitory (GABA and taurine) and other amino acids (serine, alanine, asparagine). 3. Administration of chlormethiazole (200 mg kg-1, i.p.) 5 min after the onset of ischaemia reduced the ischaemia-induced neurodegeneration by approximately 30%, measured histologically 24 h later. 4. Chlormethiazole (200 mg kg-1, i.p.) administration also reduced the rise in the concentration of lactate and all the amino acids by between 30-60% during the first 4 h after the onset of ischaemia. 5. Analysis of the time course of the amino acid changes suggested that chlormethiazole is not neuroprotective because of the inhibition of excitatory amino acid release but rather that the attenuated rise in the concentration of all the amino acids is reflective of neuroprotection and therefore decreased cell death. 6. This conclusion was supported by the observation that the enhanced efflux of glutamate from slices of cerebral cortex which had been induced by incubation of the slices in an hypoxic medium was unaltered by the presence of a high concentration of chlormethiazole (1 mM) in the medium. 7. Overall the data strengthen the evidence for the neuroprotective effect of chlormethiazole in this model of focal ischaemia.
1. The effects of the NK1-receptor antagonists, (+/-)-CP 96,345 and CP 99,994, on NK1-agonist evoked contractions were compared in isolated rings of guinea-pig tracheal smooth muscle. 2. (+/-)-CP 96,345 and CP 99,994 were similarly effective in antagonizing responses evoked by septide, whereas CP 99,994 was more effective than (+/-)-CP 96,345 in inhibiting responses evoked by [Sar9Met11(O2)] substance P. 3. These results suggest that responses to septide and [Sar9Met11(O2)] substance P may be operated via different populations of NK1-receptors.
Understanding the relationship between age and prospective memory may be increased by studying the distribution and constituents of incorrect responses. Failure to perform the right activity at the right time may manifest itself as an 'error of omission', in which no response is made at the critical moment, or an 'error of commission', in which the intended action is replaced by a related one. These may, in turn, result from breakdown of encoding/storage or from retrieval failure. Which error is made may depend on the nature of the task, the context or the available processing resources of the performer. Responses of a group of elderly people to the appointment item of the Rivermead Behavioural Memory Test were examined for frequency of occurrence of different types of error and their relationship to other variables. Logistic regression analysis was used to explore the contribution made by variables of anxiety, age and current intelligence to performance on the task. The results suggest that the relationship is a complex one, in which there is an inverse relationship between anxiety and intelligence, and error type is differentially related to low and high anxiety and to age.
In a follow-up study of 259 floppy infants of undetermined cause in my laboratory, 11 patients were later diagnosed as having the Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS). To clarify the pathogenesis of muscle hypotonia in PWS, I examined muscle biopsies by histochemical and morphometric methods and the results were compared with those obtained from floppy infants with only mental retardation but with no other features. The histochemical abnormalities of PWS included (i) fiber size variation of both type 1 and 2 fibers, (ii) type 2 fiber atrophy, (iii) increased numbers of type 2C fibers, and (iv) decreased numbers of type 2B fiber. Although muscle hypotonia in PWS has been thought to be due to central nervous system abnormality, my findings suggest that primary muscle pathology, including muscle fiber immaturity and abnormal muscle fiber type distribution, at least in part, plays a role in muscle hypotonia and weakness.
The expression of dopamine D2 receptor mRNA in cultured rat striatal and cerebellar astrocytes was examined by in situ hybridization (ISH) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Cells double-labelled for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immuno-histochemistry and dopamine D2 receptor mRNA (ISH) provide evidence that striatal but not cerebellar astrocytes express the dopamine D2 gene in vitro. These results were confirmed by polymerase chain reaction studies. As judged by GFAP immunostaining and morphology of the cells, this gene is almost exclusively expressed by astrocytes type 1. The expression of dopamine D2 receptor mRNA by striatal astrocytes in vitro, as found in this study, brings thus evidences for the existence of dopamine D2 receptors in such glial cells. This had been previously suggested from ligand binding studies but the typical dopaminergic nature of the binding to striatal astrocytes was left questionable. Our results with molecular biological techniques thus suggest that striatal dopamine might modulate the functions of striatal astrocytes.
In three sets of experiments in nine normal subjects and a patient with a percutaneous wrist-stabilizing splint, we quantified the open-loop gain (OLG) of the stretch reflex acting about the elbow. The subjects exerted a steady mean flexing force and were instructed not to intervene (i.e., not to resist actively) when force or displacement perturbations were imposed on the forearm. The method was either to reconstruct transmission around the entire loop in a two-part experiment, or to use the attenuation of external perturbations in normal and electrically stimulated muscle to compute gain. Across all experiments, the mean magnitude of stretch reflex OLG was close to unity in the frequency range 1-2 Hz, and declined at higher frequencies, as required to ensure stability, given that the phase lag approached 180 degrees at 5 Hz. Inherent muscle stiffness was approximately equal to reflex stiffness. In functional terms, an OLG of 1 means that the yield caused by a force perturbation is approximately halved by reflex action (prevailing inherent muscle stiffness is doubled). Automatic scaling of reflex transmission at Ia/alpha-motoneuronal synapses ensures that the OLG remains close to unity as inherent stiffness increases. Trials in the patient with the wrist fixator gave similar results, indicating that the reflexes were proprioceptive ly mediated. In a fourth experiment in which the task was to catch a heavy ball, we compared the efficacy of inherent muscle stiffness and reflexes alone, with the subject's intentional reactions, which included predictive and voluntary components of response. The latter were far more effective in maintaining the position of the hand after the ball was caught than inherent and reflex stiffnesses alone. We conclude that stability requirements limit the extent to which stretch reflexes can augment inherent muscle stiffness. When inherent muscle stiffness is low, such as in our ball-catching task, the reflex stiffness is also low, and predictive and pre-programmed reactions predominate in load compensation, thus shifting the emphasis from automatic servo or equilibrium-point behaviour to higher order control.

Acute and monophasic experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was induced in rats by immunization with myelin basic protein (MBP). Proliferative responses of lymph node cells to major and minor encephalitogenic and nonencephalitogenic determinants of the MBP molecules were measured at various time intervals after the immunization. Results of these experiments revealed that additional responses to minor determinants which had been observed at the late stage of mouse EAE (Lehmann et al., Nature 356, 155, 1992) were very weak and short-lived in the rat. Furthermore, the response to the minor encephalitogenic determinant was not recognized throughout the course of EAE. Coimmunization with synthetic peptides, corresponding to the major and minor determinants, induced T-cell response only to the major determinant. These findings suggest that poor generation of T cells reactive with the minor encephalitogenic epitope is attributable to peptide competition between these two determinants. The present results, together with those reported in mice, strongly suggest that differences in the clinical course of EAE, i.e., acute monophasic or chronic relapsing, is closely related to the presence or absence of &quot;determinant spread&quot; to minor encephalitogenic epitope(s).
In this work, we have characterized the opioid receptor expressed by the human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-BE and compared its hydrodynamic behaviour with those of well known opioid receptors: mu-opioid receptor of rabbit cerebellum and delta-opioid receptor of the hybrid cell line NG 108-15. Human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-BE expresses a substantial amount of opioid receptors (200-300 fmoles/mg of protein). Pharmacological characterization suggests an heterogenous population of receptors and the presence of two delta subtypes which are, at least partially, negatively coupled with adenylate cyclase via a Gi protein. These receptors exist under two different molecular forms and, in this respect, strikingly contrast with the archetypic delta receptors of NG 108-15 hybrid cell line which show only a high molecular weight form and appear more tightly coupled with the G protein. Hydrodynamic behaviour of SK-N-BE opioid receptors is reminiscent of the profile observed with the rabbit cerebellum mu-opioid receptor. This observation is consistent with the presence of two delta-opioid receptors subtypes, one of which exhibiting properties close to those of mu opioid receptors. Taken overall, our results suggest that different types and subtypes of opioid receptors, even if they are coupled to the same inhibitory G protein, are more or less tightly coupled with their transduction proteins and that closely related opioid receptors can form allosterically interacting complexes.
Studies have shown the existence of minor developmental cortical malformations, including microgyria, in the brains of dyslexics. Concomitant studies have shown that language-impaired individuals exhibit severe deficits in the discrimination of rapidly presented auditory stimuli, including phonological and nonverbal stimuli (i.e., sequential tones). In an effort to relate these results, male rats with neonatally induced microgyria were tested in an operant paradigm for auditory discrimination of stimuli consisting of two sequential tones. Subjects were shaped to perform a go/no-go target identification, using water reinforcement. Stimuli were reduced in duration from 540 to 249 msec across 24 d of testing. Results showed that all subjects were able to discriminate at longer stimulus durations. However, bilaterally lesioned subjects showed specific impairment at stimulus durations of 332 msec or less, and were significantly depressed in comparison to shams. Right- and left-lesioned subjects were significantly depressed in comparison to shams at the shortest duration (249 msec). These results suggest a possible link between the neuropathologic anomalies and the auditory temporal processing deficits reported for language-impaired individuals.

This study investigates the incorporation of three intravenously administered radiolabeled fatty acids, [9,10-3H]palmitate (3H-PAM), [1-14C]arachidonate (14C-ACH) and [1-14C]docosahexaenoate (14C-DHA), into lipids of intracerebrally implanted tumor and contralateral brain cortex in awake rats. A suspension of Walker 256 carcinosarcoma cells (1 x 10(6) cells) was implanted into the right cerebral hemisphere of an 8- to 9-week-old Fischer-344 rat. Seven days later, the awake rat was infused intravenously for 5 min with 3H-PAM (6.4 mCi/kg), 14C-ACH (170 microCi/kg) or 14C-DHA (100 microCi/kg). Twenty min after the start of infusion, the rat was killed and intracranial tumor mass and brain cortex were removed for lipids analysis. Each radiolabel was incorporated more into tumor than into brain cortex. Ratios of net incorporation rate coefficients (k*) into tumor as compared with brain were 4.5, 3.4 and 1.7 for 3H-PAM, 14C-ACH and 14C-DHA, respectively. Lipid radioactivity comprised more than 80% of total tumor or brain radioactivity for each probe. Phospholipids contained 58%, 89% and 68% of tumor lipid radioactivity, and 58%, 82% and 74% of brain lipid radioactivity, for 3H-PAM, 14C-ACH and 14C-DHA, respectively. Incorporation coefficients (k*i) for a phospholipid class (i)--choline phosphoglycerides (PC), inositol monophosphoglycerides (PI), ethanolamine phosphoglycerides (PE), serine phosphoglycerides (PS), and sphingomyelin (SM)--were greater in tumor than in brain for each fatty acid probe, except that values for k*PE and k*PS using 14C-DHA were equivalent. Differences in k*i between tumor and brain were largest for SM and PC and the change in k*PC accounted for 65-90% of the increase in the net phospholipid incorporation rate for each probe. Differences in k*PI, k*PE and k*PS were smaller than those in were smaller than those in k*PC and k*SM, and varied with the probe. Differences in k*i were related to differences in tumor and brain phospholipid composition and metabolism. The results indicate that suitably radiolabeled fatty acids may be used to image and characterize metabolism of lipid compartments of a brain tumor in vivo using positron emission tomography.

The question was addressed whether the three vascular dementia (VAD) subtypes, multi-infarct dementia (MID), strategic-infarct dementia (SID), and subcortical white matter dementia (SWMD) fulfil the basic criteria for a disease: does a distinct pattern of clinical features match a distinct pathological picture for the various VAD subtypes? No obvious correspondence between structural pathological changes and symptoms or signs was found in the MID and SID subtypes. Therefore, the disease status of these VAD subtypes can be questioned. The VAD subtype SWMD, however, appeared to fulfil the basic criteria for a disease, as the subcortical white matter changes corresponded to the subcortical symptom pattern, with mental slowness, extrapyramidal and bilateral pyramidal deficits.
Vascular dementia (VAD) is cognitive impairment caused by changes in the blood circulation of the brain. It is not synonymous with multi-infarct dementia. The latter is a subgroup of VAD. Neurochemical investigations of noninfarcted brain tissue from patients with VAD show general changes in VAD brains. The serotonin metabolism is severely reduced and so is the activity of choline acetyltransferase. Monamine oxidase B is significantly increased in the white matter. A severe decrease in myelin components indicates white matter disturbances of such a degree that they must be considered to be of pathogenetic importance. The levels of some neuropeptides in the hypothalamus are increased. This is a finding which is in agreement with clinical findings of a high activity in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in patients with VAD. This high activity is possibly due to a loss of serotonergic inhibitory tone on the hypothalamus in VAD brains.
In recent years, interest in vascular causes of dementia has increased and it has been proposed that vascular dementia (VAD) may be more common than previously supposed. This may have important implications, because VAD at present may be more amenable to prevention and treatment than Alzheimer's disease (AD). Several vascular factors have been related to cognitive decline and dementia in the elderly, including stroke and white matter disease. However, while numerous case-control studies have been concerned with the risk factors for AD, studies on risk factors for VADs are rare. The problems inherent in the diagnostic criteria make it difficult to interpret the results from the few studies that have been performed. Generally, risk factors for multi-infarct dementia are supposed to be the same as those for stroke, and include hypertension, diabetes mellitus, advanced age, male sex, smoking and cardiac diseases. White matter dementia has mainly been related to hypertension. Recent research suggests that vascular factors may also be important in AD, especially in the late-onset type. In stroke patients, dementia has been associated with higher age, less formal education, cerebral atrophy, left-sided or bilateral infarcts, volume of macroscopic infarcts, bilateral symptoms, previous stroke and white matter lesions. The pathogenetic mechanism through which these factors cause dementia is still not clear. Furthermore, it is not known if risk factors for VAD differ from those found in stroke patients. There is now an urgent need for further research on risk factors for VAD and on factors related to dementia in subjects with cerebrovascular disorders.
The chick limb bud is unable to mount a regenerative response following amputation at any stage of its development. Local application of heparan sulfate conjugated beads loaded with fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) onto an amputated stage 25 chick limb bud results in a high frequency (88%) of limbs in which the regeneration of digit-like structures was induced. The regenerative response is associated with the location of the FGF-2-loaded beads on the limb stump. This is the first report of the induction of a regenerative response in a higher vertebrate limb by a chemically defined agent.
The trkA gene encodes the tyrosine kinase receptor that transduces the NGF signal. We have used a defective herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1) vector containing a full-length rat trkA sequence (pHSVtrkA) to express NGF receptors in primary cultures of neonatal nodose neurons and embryonic spinal motor neurons which are normally unresponsive to NGF. Transduction of rat neonatal nodose ganglion neurons and spinal motor neurons with pHSVtrkA resulted in expression of functional NGF receptors. Stimulation of these receptors by NGF resulted in the survival and the morphologic and biochemical differentiation of these neurons. These observations indicate that nodose and spinal motor neurons can express the downstream signal transduction apparatus necessary to mediate the survival and differentiating effects mediated by ligand binding to trkA and that transduction with pHSVtrkA can effectively convert NGF nonresponsive neurons into responsive ones.
Kinetics of binding of [3H]PK11195, an antagonist ligand with high selectivity for the peripheral-type (mitochondrial) benzodiazepine receptor (PTBR), was studied in homogenates of cerebral cortex, kidney, heart, and testis of portacaval shunted rats and sham-operated controls. Portacaval anastomosis resulted in a significant two- to threefold increase in the number of [3H]PK11195 binding sites in cerebral cortex and kidney. A reduction in the number of [3H]PK11195 binding sites was observed in testis preparations, while the number of binding sites in the heart remained unaltered. These differences in the response of PTBRs to portacaval anastomosis, in different organs suggest that the physiological function of these receptors and the factors regulating them are modulated by distinct mechanisms. The finding of increased densities of [3H]PK11195 binding sites in brain and kidney following portacaval anastomosis parallels the cellular hypertrophy in these tissues and, together with previous observations of similar increases of these binding sites in brain and kidney in congenital hyperammonemia, suggest a pathophysiologic role for ammonia in these changes. In contrast, the significant loss of [3H]PK11195 binding sites in testicular preparations following portacaval anastomosis together with the known effects of steroid hormones on these sites suggests a role for PTBRs in the pathogenesis of testicular atrophy in chronic liver disease.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) to visual and somatosensory stimuli, generated during an oddball task, were obtained in a group of autistic children and 3 control groups (normal, attention-deficit, and dyslectic children, respectively). The task included the presentation of standard, deviant, and novel stimuli and had a (between-group) passive vs. active (counting) condition. Research questions were whether (a) autistic children differ from other children with respect to the processing of visual and/or somatosensory stimuli, as measured in the amplitude of the N1, mismatch activity, and P3, (b) autistic children specifically have problems in the processing of distal (visual) stimuli, compared to the processing of proximal (somatosensory) stimuli, and (c) autistic children have an atypical lateralization pattern of ERP activity. Only in the autistic group a task effect on the visual P2N2 (mismatch activity) and larger P3s to novels than to deviants were found, in both the visual and the somatosensory modality. There also was a smaller occipital P3 to visual standard stimuli in the passive condition in the autistic group than in 2 control groups. We concluded that autistics (a) differ from several other groups of children with respect to the visual P2N2 and the visual and somatosensory P3, (b) show abnormalities in the processing of both proximal and distal stimuli, and (c) show no indication of abnormal lateralization of ERPs.
Recent evidence indicates that interleukin-6 (IL-6) acts on Sertoli cells to modulate secretory function. IL-6 is also detected in medium bathing tissue or cells from the seminiferous tubule, suggesting a testicular regulatory role. Because other cytokines found to be active in testicular function have more than one site of production, we examined whether Leydig cells may serve as an alternate source of IL-6. Purified Leydig cells were cultured with or without modulatory substances, and the medium was subjected to the 7TD1 bioassay for IL-6. Northern analysis using an IL-6 cDNA probe was performed on companion cell preparations. Incubation with either hCG or IL-1 beta increased the levels of bioactive IL-6 released into the medium and IL-6 mRNA detected in the cells in a dose-related manner. When used together, these agents had an additive stimulatory influence on both the release of IL-6 bioactivity and the amount of IL-6 mRNA. Our results demonstrate that IL-6 is secreted from enriched preparations of Leydig cells and that its release is under the control of at least two modulators of testicular function. Identification of interstitial cells as a site of IL-6 production coupled with reports of IL-6 release and action in seminiferous tubular cell preparations suggest that IL-6 may serve a role in signal integration or communication from one testicular location to another.
Using patient data obtained from the International Cooperative Aneurysm Study that evaluated clinical records from 68 neurosurgical centers in 14 countries, we evaluated the data as to the monthly occurrence of cerebral vasospasm and subarachnoid hemorrhage relative to the latitude of the medical center where the data were gathered. Using the Edwards analysis for cyclic patterns, we examined peak to trough ratios and months of peak to assess the strength and nature of the cyclic variations between December 1980 and July 1983. Of the 3,521 subarachnoid hemorrhage patient records examined, 685 developed some grade of vasospasm as defined symptomatically, angiographically, and by the Fisher Grading Scale. Cyclic analysis demonstrated a strong seasonal occurrence for the incidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage, with a peak in February, in the northern hemisphere. Cerebral vasospasm incidence, after controlling for subarachnoid hemorrhage occurrence, exhibited only a small peak to trough ratio (1.15) relative to the larger ratio (1.74) seen with unadjusted vasospasm data. Age was related to both incidence and location. In populations at high risk for cerebrovascular diseases, climatic conditions may act as synchronizers of pathologic vascular events.
We have been involved in developing a health-related quality-of-life model for use as an outcome measure in epilepsy. As part of the further development of this model, we have developed a measure of life fulfillment. This scale is based on methods previously described by Krupinski in 1980. The value of Krupinski's approach is the opportunity for patients to weight the numerous aspects of their quality of life and assess the discrepancy between their actual and desired circumstances. The life fulfillment scale has been shown to be reliable (alpha = 0.7) and valid. The scale is currently being applied to several clinical studies in epilepsy. We believe that the scale provides a valuable contribution to our health-related quality-of-life model.
Using immunohistochemical techniques we have analysed the occurrence of cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity (CCK-LI) in the cortex and striatum of the rat. In the cortex few CCK-immunoreactive cell bodies, mainly interneurons, could be visualized in normal brains, and a moderately dense network of CCK fibres was also observed. Injections of colchicine into the striatum led to an accumulation, in the surrounding cortex, of CCK-LI in the initial segment of the axon of numerous cells. In addition, with an antibody to pro-CCK several cell bodies, many of which with pyramidal shape, could be visualized. Furthermore, retrograde staining of cortical cells after unilateral injection of wheat germ agglutinin into the striatum revealed bilaterally in the cortex a number of labelled cells that also contained pro-CCK-LI. In the striatum CCK-LI was diffusely distributed in fine fibres as well as in patches of fibres located in the medial aspects. After decortication followed by callosotomy these patches disappeared on the side ipsilateral to the lesion, while the pattern of immunoreactivity of several other peptides in the striatum was unaffected. No change was observed on the contralateral side. Decortication or callosotomy alone did not affect the pattern of CCK-LI. At the ultrastructural level several CCK-immunoreactive terminals could be observed, mostly with clear, densely packed vesicles and straight asymmetric synaptic contacts with small spines, characteristic for terminals of cortical origin. The results are consistent with the presence of a major, partly crossed, CCK-containing cortico-striatal pathway.
Rats have been described as being insensitive to relatively high doses of systemically administered 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), a neurotoxin that in primates induces a neurological syndrome identical to idiopathic Parkinson's disease. The current explanation for the rat resistance is that most of the MPTP is converted into the toxic metabolite 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridium (MPP+) by the MAO-B present in the brain vessel endothelium. Since MPP+ is a polar compound, a very low amount could cross the blood-brain barrier and be present inside the brain. We administered C57 BL mice and Brown Norway rats with either MPTP (30 mg/kg, ip) or the combined treatment MPTP + diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC). In mice, DDC prolonged the striatal exposure to MPP+, potentiated the MPTP-induced acute syndrome, and enhanced the MPTP-induced striatal dopamine depletion. In rats, DDC potentiated the MPTP-induced acute syndrome, but no changes in the striatal dopamine were observed after either MPTP or DDC + MPTP administration. Also in rats, however, high doses of MPP+ were measured in the striatum of MPTP-alone treated rats and DDC delayed the MPP+ elimination from the striatum. When MPTP alone or DDC + MPTP was administered to rats unilaterally lesioned with 6-hydroxy dopamine (6-OH-DA), the levels of MPP+ measured in the intact striatum were significantly higher than those found in the 6-OH-DA-lesioned striatum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Using immunohistochemistry the expression of galanin (GAL) and galanin message-associated peptide (GMAP) in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) was investigated 2, 4, 7, and 14 days after unilateral transection of the cervical sympathetic trunk (decentralization) or after cutting the external and internal carotid nerves (axotomy), as well as 7 days after removal of parotid gland tissue. In control SCGs including the sympathetic trunk and the carotid nerves, very few neurons and fibers were GAL/GMAP-positive. Two and 7 days after decentralization, about 5% of all counted neuron profiles in the ipsilateral SCG were GAL/GMAP immunoreactive. Immunoreactive cell bodies were distributed throughout the SCG, with a greater number in the most caudal portion of the ganglion. Many GAL/GMAP-positive nerve fibers were observed in the whole SCG, with strongly fluorescent bundles of immunoreactive fibers accumulated at the caudal end of the SCG. Several GAL/GMAP-immunoreactive nerve fibers were seen ipsilaterally in the external carotid nerve, whereas only a few positive fibers could be observed in the internal carotid nerve. About 2% of all counted neuron profiles in SCGs ipsilateral to decentralization still contained GAL/GMAP-immunoreactivity 14 days after the operation. The number of GAL/GMAP-positive cell bodies was at least doubled in the contralateral SCGs after decentralization compared to controls. After axotomy, about 50% of all counted neuron profiles were GAL/GMAP-positive in the ipsilateral SCG and distributed throughout the SCG. A strong accumulation of immunoreactive nerve fibers was observed in both the internal and external carotid nerves. The number of GAL/GMAP-positive cell bodies was slightly increased in the contralateral SCGs. After unilateral removal of parotid gland tissue, many GAL/GMAP-positive cell bodies and some fibers were observed in the caudal half of the ipsilateral SCG. The number of immunoreactive nerve fibers was increased also in the external carotid nerve, but not in the internal carotid nerve. In situ hybridization revealed prepro GAL mRNA in about 5% of all SCG neuron profiles in decentralized SCGs, paralleling the increase seen in GAL/GMAP peptide content. There was also a small increase in prepro VIP mRNA-positive cells in the caudal part of the SCG. The present results indicate that both pre- and postganglionic lesions increase the content of GAL/GMAP in the SCG, with a much more pronounced increase after transection of the carotid nerves.
Many studies have used the intracerebral transplantation technique to study the neostriatum. Most of this work has been conducted in two well-characterized animal models of striatal dysfunction: the rat model of Huntington's disease (striatal damage) and the rat model of Parkinson's disease (damage of dopaminergic nigrostriatal afferents). In animals with striatal damage, fetal striatal tissue implanted into the neostriatum (homotypic transplants) displays a remarkable anatomical and functional incorporation into the host brain. These homotypic grafts also induce a wide range of behavioral improvements in experimental animals. In contrast, fetal substantia nigra neurons implanted into the dopamine-depleted neostriatum (heterotypic transplants) generally show a more restricted integration into the host brain and elicit fewer behavioral improvements. Nonetheless, the ability of grafted fetal neurons to survive, differentiate, and partially reconstruct an appropriate and functional neurocircuitry with host systems indicates that there are factors within the adult brain that promote neuronal development and regeneration. Such results have encouraged the clinical use of intracerebral grafts for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Recent studies have emphasized the use of genetically modified cells and neural cell lines as alternative populations to study and repair the central nervous system.
The autosomal dominantly inherited spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are a heterogeneous group of disorders. To date, three loci have been identified: the SCA1 locus (on chr 6p), the SCA2 locus (on chr 12q), and more recently a Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) locus (on chr 14q). We have studied one large French-Canadian kindred with four generations of living affected individuals segregating an autosomal dominant form of SCA. Linkage analysis using anonymous DNA markers that flank the three previously described loci significantly exclude the French-Canadian kindred from the SCA1, SCA2, and MJD loci. Therefore, a fourth, still unmapped SCA locus remains to be identified. In addition, the unique clinical phenotype present in all affected individuals of the French-Canadian kindred might be characteristic of this still unmapped SCA locus.
The neurotoxic drug p-chloramphetamine (PCA) causes widespread degeneration of fine, unmyelinated serotonergic (5-HT) axons in the forebrain. PCA toxicity is selective for 5-HT axon terminals; preterminal axons and cell bodies are spared. Degeneration is followed by slowly progressive axonal sprouting and partial reinnervation. PCA is injected subcutaneously; this route of administration avoids mechanical disruption of the blood brain barrier. The present study analyzed the response of microglia and astrocytes in rat brain to selective ablation of 5-HT axons by PCA. Several microglial markers were analyzed with immunocytochemical methods. An increase in the number of microglial processes and in immunoreactive staining was observed with antibodies directed against CR-3, MHC-I, CD4, and rat LCA. The microglial response was maximal 3 weeks after PCA treatment, became less evident 6 weeks after treatment, and by 9 weeks no difference was observed between treated and control rats. No change was detected in MHC-II or the macrophage marker ED1, nor in expression of GFAP by astrocytes. Thus, degeneration of 5-HT axon terminals affects only a subset of the microglial markers examined; in comparison, retrograde reaction to facial nerve transection causes a robust increase in all of these markers and in GFAP. The microglial response to PCA-induced axon loss is slow in onset and small in magnitude. These findings indicate that CNS microglia are activated by degeneration of fine, unmyelinated 5-HT axon terminals; furthermore, sensitive microglial markers can detect a subtle axonal lesion that provokes no detectable increase in GFAP expression by astrocytes.

Conventional studies of mast cells are limited by methodological restrictions such as a selective fixative-dependent routine staining blockage. This is thought to depend on the biochemical differences of the mast cell granule contents suggesting a cellular heterogeneity. Investigations of human mast cells, using routine methods, also suffer from the problem of a low signal-to-noise ratio. In the present study, normal human skin was used to compare an immunohistochemical method for histamine with two recommended mast-cell fixatives and a new commercial fixative in combination with three routine stains. Mast cells were found throughout the dermis with all the routine stains used. However, immunohistochemistry gave profoundly better results. Small structures, such as thin cytoplasmatic extensions and single granules, were readily detectable. Double-staining (immunohistochemistry followed by routine staining) revealed differences in staining capacity. All immunoreactive cells were not stained by routine stains and sometimes the opposite was also seen. This supports earlier reported evidence of heterogeneity, not only between skin and intestinal mast cells but also among skin mast cells themselves. Furthermore, by focusing on histamine, instead of heparin, we probably overcame the problems of the selective fixative-dependent routine staining blockage. Finally, the immunofluorescence technique provides a high signal-to-noise ratio and is an excellent method for making high-quality microphotographs of human mast cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the last three decades it has become evident that in a wide variety of animals, the axonal compartment of neurons harbours a variety of RNA molecules, such as transfer RNA, ribosomal RNA and messenger RNA. In this paper data will be reviewed on the origin, the selective transport, subcellular localization and functional aspects of the occurrence of RNA molecules in the axonal domain.
A number of measures of brain function have suggested that depression is associated with cerebral hypoactivity. This study examines the late components of the event-related potential (ERP), in particular the P300 component, in depression. The P300 component is thought to index the updating of neurocognitive models which are concerned with the prediction of future events. Cognitive theories of depression include the proposition that depression may be characterized by abnormalities in the prediction of future events. The P300 component may therefore provide one neurophysiological index of cognitive dysfunction in depression. Twenty-seven subjects (14 medicated, 13 drug-free) fulfilling DSM-III criteria for Major Depression were compared to 27 age- and sex-matched normal controls. The amplitudes and latencies of N100, P200, N200 and P300 ERP components, reaction time and task accuracy were recorded during a standard auditory discrimination task. No significant differences were found in any ERP component measure or in reaction-time between the groups. Depressed subjects performed the experimental task significantly less accurately than normal controls, but this was not reflected in the ERPs.
Interactions between adhesion molecules, agglutinins, on the surfaces of the flagella of mt+ and mt- gametes in Chlamydomonas rapidly generate a sexual signal, mediated by cAMP, that prepares the cells for fusion to form a zygote. The mechanism that couples agglutinin interactions to increased cellular levels of cAMP is unknown. In previous studies on the adenylyl cyclase in flagella of a single mating type (i.e., non-adhering flagella) we presented evidence that the gametic form of the enzyme, but not the vegetative form, was regulated by phosphorylation and dephosphorylation (Zhang, Y., E. M. Ross, and W. J. Snell. 1991. J. Biol. Chem. 266:22954-22959; Zhang, Y., and W. J. Snell. 1993. J. Biol. Chem. 268:1786-1791). In the present report we describe studies on regulation of flagellar adenylyl cyclase during adhesion in a cell-free system. The results show that the activity of gametic flagellar adenylyl cyclase is regulated by adhesion in vitro between flagella isolated from mt+ and mt- gametes. After mixing mt+ and mt- flagella together for 15 s in vitro, adenylyl cyclase activity was increased two- to threefold compared to that of the non-mixed (non-adhering), control flagella. This indicates that the regulation of gametic flagellar adenylyl cyclase during the early steps of fertilization is not mediated by signals from the cell body, but is a direct and primary response to interactions between mt+ and mt- agglutinins. By use of this in vitro assay, we discovered that 50 nM staurosporine (a protein kinase inhibitor) blocked adhesion-induced activation of adenylyl cyclase in vitro, while it had no effect on adenylyl cyclase activity of non-adhering gametic flagella. This same low concentration of staurosporine also inhibited adhesion-induced increases in vivo in cellular cAMP and blocked subsequent cellular responses to adhesion. Taken together, our results indicate that flagellar adenylyl cyclase in Chlamydomonas gametes is coupled to interactions between mt+ and mt- agglutinins by a staurosporine-sensitive activity, probably a protein kinase.
We investigated, using laser-Doppler flowmetry, whether nitric oxide (NO)- and/or indomethacin (IND)-sensitive mechanisms mediate the elevations of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) elicited by electrical stimulation of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) in the anesthetized spinalized rat. Stimulation of the RVL for 10 s caused increased rCBF in the frontal cortex by 31% (n = 46), peaking at 22 s and persisting for up to 8 min. Intravenous L-nitro-NG-arginine (NNA) dose dependently and reversibly increased arterial pressure and reduced basal and evoked rCBF to 74 and 54% of the control, respectively (p &lt; 0.05; n = 7). Superfused over the cortex, NNA dose dependently reduced only the evoked elevations of rCBF, to 39% of the control (p &lt; 0.05; n = 6). Intravenous IND decreased the basal rCBF dose dependently and decreased the elevations evoked from the RVL by 38% (p &lt; 0.05), but IND was without effect when superfused. Combined, the effects of intravenous NNA and IND summated, reducing rCBF by 70%. However, when NNA and IND were superfused together, the inhibition of the evoked vasodilation was comparable to that elicited by NNA alone. We conclude that the elevation in rCBF elicited from the RVL is partially mediated by (a) NO synthesized locally in the cortex in response to an afferent neural signal and (b) an IND-sensitive mechanism, probably a product of cyclooxygenase, located in larger cerebral arteries, in response to a retrograde vascular signal resulting from increased blood flow within the brain.
The present study examined the postnatal development of the radial glia in the rabbit superior colliculus during the first 40 postnatal days. An antivimentin monoclonal antibody and the carbocyanine fluorescent tracer DiI were used in order to investigate the development of laminar connectivity in the superior colliculus. We focused our study on the superficial gray layer, the intermediate layer, and the deep layers of the superior colliculus, the periaqueductal gray matter (PAGM), and the medial intercollicular region. Vimentin-positive structures of glial lineage consisted of 1) the main radial system, which in the newborn rabbit was made up of wavy fibers that ran from the aqueduct to the pial surface, where they terminated in end-feet. At postnatal day 15, these fibers diminished to 100-200 microns long wavy tracts, which emanated from the aqueduct, and to a few straight or arched fragments in the superficial gray layer; 2) the median ventricular formation, which extends from mesencephalic aqueduct to the intercollicular sulcus, was characterized by a series of ascending, vimentin-positive fibers, some of large caliber, which persisted until postnatal day 40; 3) the tangential fiber system, which was made up of fibers that diverged from the median ventricular formation and of a number of short tracts running perpendicular to the periaqueductal radial fibers; these structures may provide support for migrating subpopulations of neurons; 4) immature and mature-like protoplasmic and fibrous astrocytes, which appeared during the second postnatal week. Thereafter, the number of vimentin-positive astrocytes decreased sharply. Our findings generally support earlier descriptions of the radial glia, except for the persistence, in superficial layers of the superior colliculus, of straight and curved fragments of fibers, which may participate in the organization of visual afferents at this level.
In Manduca sexta, the larval abdominal prolegs and their muscles degenerate at pupation. The proleg motor neurons undergo a period of dendritic regression, after which a specific subset of them dies. The surviving motor neurons undergo dendritic outgrowth during pupal-adult development, and most die after adult emergence. All of these events are regulated hormonally by ecdysteroids and juvenile hormone, but interactions of the motor neurons with other cells may potentially contribute as well. To investigate the possible influence of interganglionic neural interactions, we chronically isolated individual abdominal ganglia by severing the adjacent rostral and caudal connectives in the larval stage. Subsequent metamorphic changes in proleg motor neurons were examined in the isolated ganglia and ganglia adjacent to the isolated ganglia. Two abnormalities were observed: (1) some imprecision in the timing of motor neuron death, both at pupation and after adult emergence, and (2) the growth of ectopic neurites outside the neuropil boundaries during pupal-adult development (in ganglia with or without neuromas caused by connective transections). Other aspects of proleg motor neuron metamorphosis, including the segment-specific death of motor neurons at pupation, were the same as that in intact and sham-operated insects. Thus, interganglionic interactions appear to play a relatively minor role in the steroid-mediated metamorphic transformation of proleg motor neurons.
Ganglioside analysis and quantitative Golgi studies of the cerebral cortex of cats with ganglioside and nonganglioside lysosomal storage diseases reveal a correlation between the amount of accumulated GM2 ganglioside and the extent of ectopic dendrite growth on cortical pyramidal neurons. This correlation was not observed with any of the other gangliosides assayed for, including GM1 ganglioside. These results suggest a specific role for GM2 ganglioside in the initiation of ectopic neurites on pyramidal cells in vivo and are consistent with the developing hypothesis that different gangliosides have specific roles in different cell types dependent upon the receptor or other effector molecules with which they may interact.
The feasibility of using a permeabilized preparation of human SH-SY-5Y neuroblastoma cells for studies of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) sequestration has been evaluated. Exposure of cells permeabilized with digitonin, streptolysin-O, or the alpha-toxin from Staphylococcus aureus to oxotremorine-M (Oxo-M) for 30 min resulted in a 25-30% reduction in the number of cell surface mAChRs, as monitored by the loss of N[3H]methylscopolamine ([3H]NMS) binding sites. The corresponding value for intact cells was 40%. For cells permeabilized with 20 microM digitonin, the Oxo-M-mediated reduction in [3H]NMS binding was time (t1/2 approximately 5 min) and concentration (EC50 approximately 10 microM) dependent and was agonist specific (Oxo-M &gt; bethanechol = arecoline = pilocarpine). In contrast, no reduction in total mAChR number, as monitored by the binding of [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate, occurred following Oxo-M treatment. The loss of [3H]NMS sites observed in the presence of Oxo-M was unaffected by omission of either ATP or Ca2+, both of which are required for stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis, but could be inhibited by the inclusion of guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate). mAChRs sequestered in response to Oxo-M addition were unmasked when the cells were permeabilized in the presence of higher concentrations of digitonin (80 microM).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dystrophin associates with a 58-kDa and an 87-kDa protein in the postsynaptic membrane of the Torpedo electric organ. We have previously shown that the 87-kDa protein is a major phosphotyrosine-containing protein in these membranes. Immunoprecipitation of the 87-kDa protein from phosphorylated postsynaptic membranes results in coimmunoprecipitation of additional phosphorproteins. These phosphorproteins are identified as dystrophin and the 58-kDa protein. Monoclonal antibodies to dystrophin and the 58-kDa protein immunoprecipitate phosphorylated forms of these proteins from postsynaptic membranes phosphorylated in vitro. Phosphoamino acid analysis reveals that dystrophin and the 58-kDa protein are phosphorylated on serine and tyrosine residues. In addition, both dystrophin and the 58-kDa protein are shown to be phosphorylated on tyrosine residues in vivo. These results suggest that the synaptic function of dystrophin and its associated proteins, the 58-kDa and 87-kDa proteins, may be modulated by tyrosine and serine protein phosphorylation.
The morphological characteristics of GABAergic neurons and the distribution of GABAergic synaptic terminals were examined in cultures of hippocampal neurons from 4-35 days in vitro. Neurons expressing GABA immunoreactivity represented about 6% of the total number of cultured neurons at all time points. Although the morphological characteristics of GABAergic cells suggested a heterogeneous population, GABAergic cells as a class were notably different from the non-GABAergic, presumably pyramidal cells. Most GABAergic cells had more fusiform or polygonal shaped somata, non-spiny and less tapering dendrites and appeared more phase-dense than nonGABAergic cells. Quantitative analysis revealed that GABAergic cells had fewer primary dendrites, more elongated dendritic arbors, and longer dendritic segments than non-GABAergic neurons-characteristics that are similar to GABAergic cells in situ. Double immunostaining revealed that GAD65-positive varicosities were also immunopositive for synapsin I, suggesting that GAD65-positive varicosities that contacted somata and dendrites represented presynaptic specializations. Confocal microscopy revealed the proportion of the synaptic specializations on the cell soma that were GAD65-positive was greater than on the dendrites, suggesting that somata and dendrites differ in their ability to induce the formation of presynaptic specializations by GABAergic axons. These data indicate that the GABAergic cells that develop in culture exhibit distinctive morphological characteristics and participate in different synaptic interactions that nonGABA cells. Thus many of the features that distinguish GABAergic neurons in culture are reminiscent of the characteristics that distinguish GABAergic neurons in situ.
Previous studies from this laboratory have used antisera to aldehyde-conjugated ovalbumin to localize ovalbumin-like immunoreactivity within a subpopulation of sensory neurons. We have now combined retrograde tracing and immunohistochemical procedures to identify the tissues innervated by sensory neurons which are either immunoreactive or non-immunoreactive for ovalbumin. The fluorescent tracer Di-I was administered to feather follicles, flexor ulnar muscle, subdermis, expansor secundariorum, heart and liver and identified seven days later within corresponding dorsal root ganglia. Most neurons innervating the follicles had large cell somata, and fewer than 3% were immunoreactive for ovalbumin. In contrast, most sensory neurons projecting to subdermis, muscle and expansor secundariorum muscle were of a medium diameter. Approximately 25% of those neurons projecting to the expansor secundariorum, and 60% projecting to the subdermis and muscle, were immunoreactive for ovalbumin. Sensory neurons innervating heart and liver were the smallest, and only 8% were immunoreactive for ovalbumin. The study indicates that sensory neurons innervating different organs have somata with significantly different sizes, suggesting a functional specificity. Moreover, neurons demonstrating either the ovalbumin-IR positive or negative phenotypes show distinct peripheral projections, suggesting that this phenotype may be at least partially controlled by retrograde signals derived from the cells they innervate.
A right-handed patient with a haematoma in the left pulvinar showed impaired stereoacuity. In contrast with previous reports, he did not show peripheral visual extinction or prolonged reaction times for targets on the side contralateral to the lesion.

1. Whole-cell recordings have been made from interneurons located in stratum pyramidale in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. The responses of these interneurons to brief current pulses were recorded; the neurons were filled with biocytin and their morphology was reconstructed. 2. The interneurons were identified as basket cells on the basis of the regional distribution of their axon collateral network and their location in stratum pyramidale. 3. A compartmental model of the reconstructed neuron was made, and the specific membrane resistivity (Rm), specific cytoplasmic resistivity (Ri), and somatic shunt leakage resistance (Rs) determined by adjusting these parameters until an optimal fit was obtained between the compartmental model's current pulse response and the recorded current pulse response of the neuron. 4. This procedure was successful for six neurons, giving Rm from 7 to 66 k omega cm2, Ri from 52 to 484 omega cm, and Rs from 84 M omega to infinity. The specific membrane capacitance was assumed to be 1 microF/cm2. The electrotonic length of the apical dendrites was 1.06 +/- 0.4, and for the basal dendrites it was 0.51 +/- 0.26 (mean +/- SD). 5. Although the total surface area of the interneurons and the physical length of their dendrites was much smaller than for CA1 pyramidal neurons, their electrotonic profiles were similar. Neurons with small physical profiles cannot be assumed to be more electrotonically compact than larger neurons, especially if the dendrites of the smaller neurons have a proportional reduction in diameter. 6. Two neurons did not require a somatic leakage conductance in their electrical representation. This suggests that when a somatic leakage conductance is required, it is an artifact resulting from electrode damage, rather than a requirement caused by a lower resistivity of the somatic membrane compared with the dendritic membrane. 7. Simulations of synaptic currents evoked in the dendrites of these interneurons while the soma is voltage clamped indicate large errors will occur in the time course measurements and amplitude of these currents. Also the ratio of N-methyl-D-aspartate:alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (NMDA:AMPA) currents at these synapses calculated from currents recorded at the soma will be in error because of the differential attenuation of the faster AMPA currents compared with the NMDA currents.
1. The presence of dye coupling between striatal neurons was investigated using in vivo intracellular recording and dye injection in adult rats. In 17% of the cases in which a single striatal neuron was injected with Lucifer yellow, more than one labeled neuron was recovered. In control rats, this dye coupling was observed only between single pairs of medium spiny neurons and only when the neuron injected exhibited the Type II response profile as defined by paired-pulse stimulation of corticostriatal afferents. 2. After intravenous administration of the D1/D2 agonist apomorphine at a behaviorally effective dose (i.e., 0.1-0.3 mg/kg), an increase in the incidence (from 17% to 82% of injected cells) and extent (from 2 cells to 3-7 cells labeled per injection) of dye coupling was observed. This effect was mediated by D2 receptor stimulation because administration of the D2 agonist quinpirole caused similar alterations in the incidence and extent of dye coupling (66% coupled). In contrast, administration of the D1 agonist SKF 38393 or the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 did not result in any significant alteration in dye coupling. 3. In control rats, the entire somatodendritic regions of dye-coupled neurons were found to be localized within single matrix compartments of the striatum. However, after intravenous administration of apomorphine or quinpirole, clusters of dye-coupled neurons were found to extend across the patch/matrix boundary. Moreover, dye coupling was observed after injecting cells exhibiting either the Type I or the Type II response profile. 4. In response to D2 receptor stimulation, both the extent and the pattern of coupling between striatal neurons is altered, resulting in direct coupling between neurons that are otherwise functionally and anatomically segregated in the control animal.
1. Changes in the response properties of 106 ventral posterior medial (VPM) units were assessed after iontophoretic blockade of gamma-aminobutyric acid-A or -B (GABAA or GABAB) receptor-mediated inhibition using bicuculline methiodide (BIC) or 2-hydroxy-saclofen (2-OH-S), respectively. 2. The iontophoretic administration of either BIC or 2-OH-S did not alter significantly the average spontaneous firing rate of VPM neurons for current intensities between 40 and 80 nA. The presence of 10 mM 2-OH-S (60 nA) was effective in completely reversing the depressant effects of the selective GABAB receptor agonist, baclofen, on the spontaneous activity of VPM neurons. 3. The effect of BIC on whisker-evoked responses was a preferential enhancement in the responses elicited by the whisker giving rise to the highest probability response (center receptive field whisker or CRF). The effect of 2-OH-S (40-80 nA iontophoretic currents) was to increase the responsiveness of VPM neurons to the stimulation of whiskers in all parts of the receptive field (RF), although its influence was much more pronounced in the peripheral areas of the RF (surround receptive field whisker or SRF). This preferential enhancement of SRF-whisker responses after the blockade of GABAB receptor-mediated inhibition resulted in a 2.3-fold increase in the average RF size of VPM neurons; no statistically significant increases in the size of the RF were seen in the presence of BIC. 4. The primary influence of BIC and, to a lesser degree, 2-OH-S was to prolong the response duration of VPM neurons to CRF whisker stimulation. Under our recording conditions, approximately 25% of VPM neurons in normal animals responded with sustained discharges. In the presence of BIC and 2-OH-S, the percent of VPM units that could be classified as tonically responding increased to 82% and 67%, respectively. 5. The proportion of VPM neurons that was selective to the deflection of whiskers in a particular direction (87%) was not altered in the presence of BIC or 2-OH-S. 6. BIC was effective in antagonizing GABA-mediated inhibition within the first 40 ms of a stimulus; BIC was completely ineffective in reversing a late suppression seen between 80 and 140 ms. In contrast, no statistically significant changes in the initial GABA-mediated inhibition were seen in the presence of 2-OH-S, but 2-OH-S was partially effective in antagonizing the late suppression of responses in VPM neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Changes in the receptive field (RF) properties of thalamic VPM neurons were assessed quantitatively using single-unit recording techniques following a selective excitotoxic lesion of the ipsilateral thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN). The response profiles to controlled deflections of the contralateral vibrissae were obtained from 97 VPM neurons in normal and 102 VPM neurons in TRN-lesioned animals. 2. Histological signs of TRN lesions were detectable in Nissl-stained sections as early as 20 h after the release of kainic acid into TRN. 3. The average RF size of VPM neurons in normal animals was 2.39 +/- 0.18 whiskers (mean +/- SE). Immediately after the lesion of TRN, the average RF size in VPM was enlarged significantly and remained expanded for as long as 1 mo after the destruction of TRN (7.64 +/- 0.47 whiskers, P &lt; 0.001). 4. Subsequent lesions of trigeminal subnucleus interpolaris (SpVi) in TRN-lesioned animals produced a marked reduction in the RF size of VPM neurons. The average VPM RF size for TRN/SpVi lesioned animals was 2.14 +/- 0.64 whiskers. 5. The loss of inhibition from TRN increased the average response probability and magnitude to the center RF whisker by 38 and 34%, respectively. The response probability and magnitude of the surround RF whiskers increased by 64 and 69%, respectively. The average response latencies to the center and surround RF whiskers were significantly longer after the lesion of TRN; subsequent lesions of SpVi in TRN-lesioned cases reduced the average response latencies of VPM neurons to those seen in normal animals. 6. The RF of VPM neurons in both normal and TRN lesioned cases displayed a strong anterior-posterior (&quot;row&quot;) preference. Immediately adjacent anterior-posterior whiskers were twice as likely to elicit a response in VPM than immediately adjacent dorsal-ventral whiskers. 7. VPM units were tested for a preferential response to whisker movement in one of four directions (up, down, backward, and forward). The majority of the neurons in both normal and TRN-lesioned cases showed direction-selective responses, mostly in the up direction. Thus gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated inhibition in rat VPM does not appear to be responsible for direction selectivity of VPM neurons. 8. Virtually all neurons in rat VPM after TRN lesions displayed responses that were sustained for the duration of the stimulus (25.5% in normal vs. 88.2% in TRN-lesioned cases). VPM units showing sustained (tonic) responses maintained a high rate of spontaneous activity and, on average, responded to 2-3 times more whiskers than phasically responding units.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have investigated the characteristics and mechanism of activity-dependent decreases in synaptic effectiveness in visual cortex. Repetitive, low-frequency stimulation (LFS) of either layer IV or the white matter of visual cortical slices was shown to result in a long-term depression (LTD) of intra- and extracellularly recorded synaptic responses in layer III. In preparations in which responses to stimulation of two independent pathways could be monitored, LFS of one pathway produced LTD of responses to test stimulation of that input only, showing that this form of LTD is homosynaptic. This form of LTD was dependent on the frequency and/or pattern of conditioning stimulation and on activation of NMDA receptors. Okadaic acid, an inhibitor of protein phosphatases 1 and 2a, inhibited LTD, but had no effect on induction of long-term potentiation. In all of these respects, LFS-induced LTD in visual cortex closely resembles what has been recently documented in hippocampus. The combined data support a model in which LTD is triggered by a modest elevation in postsynaptic Ca2+ and activation of protein-serine, threonine phosphatases.
A recent study (Roberts, 1993) of saccular hair cells from grass frogs (Rana pipiens) has suggested a mechanism by which the unusually high concentrations of calcium-binding proteins found in certain sensory receptors and neurons, particularly in the auditory system, can influence short-range intracellular calcium signaling. In frog saccular hair cells, the mechanism operates within arrays of calcium channels and calcium-activated potassium channels that are involved in the cells' electrical resonance and synaptic transmission. The present study tests the hypothesis that calbindin-D28k, one of the most abundant proteins in these cells, can serve as a mobile calcium buffer that reduces and localizes changes in the intracellular free-calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) by shuttling calcium away from the channel arrays. Based upon theoretical analysis and computer modeling, it is shown that [Ca2+]i near one or more open channels quickly reaches a steady-state level determined primarily by two properties of the buffer, the mean time (tau c) before it captures a free-calcium ion and a replenishment factor (R), which are related to the buffer's diffusional mobility (DBu), association rate constant (kon), and concentration (Bo) by tau c = (konB0)-1 and R = B0DBu. Simulation of calcium entry through a channel array showed that approximately 1.5 mM of a molecule with the diffusional and binding properties expected for calbindin-D28k (Bo approximately 8 mM calcium-binding sites) is needed to reproduce the previous experimental results. A lower concentration (B0 = 2 mM) was almost completely depleted within the channel array by a modest calcium current (8 pA = 12% of calcium channels open), but still had two important effects: it caused [Ca2+]i to fall steeply with distance outside the array (space constant &lt; 50 nm), and returned [Ca2+]i quickly to the resting level after the channels closed. A high concentration of calbindin-D28k can thus influence the cell's electrical resonance and synaptic transmission. Its most important functions may be to localize regions of high [Ca2+]i and speed the return of [Ca2+]i toward the resting level.
Abnormal metabolic processing of the beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease. Several aspects of normal APP processing have been elucidated, but the precise cellular trafficking of APP remains unclear. To investigate APP trafficking pathways further, we have examined the subcellular distribution of APP in rat brain tissue and a variety of cultured cell types, and correlated this distribution with the biochemical processing of APP. In immunofluorescence microscopy of rat brain sections, APP immunoreactivity was concentrated in the Golgi complex and in proximal axon segments. In addition, a lower level of punctate fluorescence was visible throughout the neuropil. By immunoelectron microscopy of rat brain tissue fragments, APP was found associated with Golgi elements and with medium-sized, invaginated vesicles in both axons and dendrites. Prominent localization of APP to the Golgi complex was also found in primary cultures of rat hippocampal neurons and in non-neuronal cell lines. When cultured cells were treated with brefeldin A (BFA), APP immunoreactivity changed from a Golgi-like to an endoplasmic reticulum-like distribution. No APP was detected in the BFA-induced reticulum identified by the transferrin receptor, indicating that concentration of APP in the Golgi does not reflect recycling between the trans-Golgi network and early endosomal system. In immunoblots of BFA-treated cells, there was an accumulation of full-length APP and inhibition of APP secretory processing. Treatment with phorbol ester resulted in a marked elevation of APP secretion, but no obvious redistribution of APP immunoreactivity was apparent at the light microscope level. The lysosomotropic drug chloroquine induced accumulation of APP in cell lysates, as seen by immunoblotting. Immunofluorescence microscopy of chloroquine-treated cells demonstrated a colocalization of APP with the lysosomal marker Igp 120, whereas no colocalization was seen in untreated cells. Taken together, these results support a scheme in which APP is concentrated in the Golgi complex as it travels through the central vacuolar system en route to the plasma membrane for secretion of its amino-terminal domain and/or to lysosomes for degradation.
Repeated kindled seizures induce long-lasting physiological and morphological alterations in the hippocampal formation. In the dentate gyrus (DG), the morphological alterations induced by kindled seizures include loss of polymorphic neurons in the hilus, mossy fiber axon sprouting, and synaptic reorganization of the mossy fiber pathway. In this study, quantitative stereological methods were used to determine the distribution and time course of neuronal loss induced by 3, 30, or 150 kindled generalized tonic-clonic seizures in hippocampal, limbic, and neocortical pathways. Neuronal loss was observed in the hilus of the DG and CA1 after three generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and progressed in these sites to 49% and 44% of controls after 150 seizures. Neuronal loss was also observed in CA3, entorhinal cortex, and the rostral endopyriform nucleus after 30 seizures, and was detected in the granule cell layer and CA2 after 150 seizures. There was no evidence of neuronal loss in the somatosensory cortex after 150 seizures. The time course of the neuronal loss demonstrated selective vulnerability of hippocampal neuronal populations to seizure-induced injury, and suggests that even brief seizures may induce excitotoxic injury in vulnerable neuronal populations. Repeated brief seizures induced neuronal loss in a distribution that resembled hippocampal sclerosis, the most common lesion observed in human epilepsy. The results demonstrated that kindling induces alterations in neural circuitry in a variety of locations in the limbic system, and suggest that hippocampal sclerosis may be acquired in human epilepsy as a consequence of repeated seizures.
The adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene is a tumor suppressor gene that is mutated in human familial adenomatous polyposis, an autosomal dominant condition with predisposition to colorectal carcinoma and brain tumors. Although tumor suppressor genes appear to play a general role in regulating cellular proliferation, the normal biological function of the APC gene product is unknown. In the present study, we cloned fragments of the rat homolog of the APC gene and examined its tissue distribution by Northern blot analysis. These studies demonstrated particularly high levels of APC mRNA in brain. To gain clues to the role of the APC gene in brain function, we examined the neuroanatomical distribution of APC mRNA using in situ hybridization. In the adult, prominent expression of APC mRNA was observed in the olfactory bulb, hippocampus, and cerebellum, with low levels of hybridization in other regions of adult rat brain. In contrast, during embryonic and early postnatal development (1-2 weeks), high levels of APC expression were found throughout the brain and then decreased to adult levels by 6 weeks after birth, except in the olfactory bulb where the high levels of APC mRNA found in development persist in the adult. During development of cortex, cerebellum, and retina, APC mRNA expression was particularly prominent in layers containing newly formed postmitotic neurons, with lower levels observed in the proliferative zones where neurogenesis occurs. The high levels of APC expression from early neurogenesis until late stages of neuronal maturation suggest that APC may contribute to suppressing neuronal proliferation during this period of intense growth.
In adult rats, intraperitoneal administration of kainic acid, a glutamic acid analog and potent neurotoxin, induces persistent seizure activity that results in electrographic alterations and neuropathology that closely resemble human temporal lobe epilepsy. We used in situ hybridization to identify regions of altered glutamate and GABAA receptor gene expression following kainate-induced status epilepticus. In the CA3/CA4 area, the hippocampal region most vulnerable to neurodegeneration after kainate acid treatment, expression of GluR2 (the AMPA/kainate receptor subunit that limits Ca2+ permeability) and GluR3 was decreased markedly at 12 and 24 hr, times preceding neurodegeneration. These findings raise the possibility that increased formation of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA/kainate receptors in the CA3/CA4 area may enhance glutamate pathogenicity. Expression of the GABAA alpha 1, subunit was also reduced, indicating a possible decrease in inhibitory transmission, which would also enhance excitotoxicity. GluR1 and NR1 expression was not significantly changed. In the dentate gyrus, a region resistant to neurodegeneration, concomitant increases in GluR2 and GluR3 expression were observed; GluR1, NR1, and GABAA alpha 1 mRNAs were not detectably altered. Analysis of emulsion-dipped sections revealed that the changes in GluR2, GluR3, and GABAA alpha 1 expression represented changes in mRNA content per neuron and were specific to pyramidal cells of the CA3/CA4 area and to granule cells of the dentate gyrus. These findings indicate that kainate seizures modify hippocampal glutamate and GABAA receptor expression in a cell-specific manner. Timing of the changes in glutamate and GABAA receptor mRNAs indicates that these changes may play a causal role in hippocampal neuronal cell loss following kainate-induced seizures.
In the retina of nonmammalian vertebrates, light regulates photoreceptor morphology by causing rod photoreceptor elongation and cone photoreceptor contraction. The opposite photomechanical movements occur in the dark, and proceed with a circadian rhythm in many species in vivo. Using dissociated cultures of embryonic chick retina cells, we have recently demonstrated that photoreceptor cells that differentiate in vitro acquire the capacity of responding to light/dark cycles with photomechanical movements (Stenkamp and Adler, 1993). Here we report that the putative neuromodulators melatonin and dopamine can mimic the effects of darkness and light, respectively, on in vitro photomechanical movement. Pharmacological studies showed that dopamine appears to function by means of a D2-type receptor negatively coupled to adenylate cyclase. The effects of light on the cultured photoreceptors were inhibited by dopamine D2 receptor antagonists, and were attenuated by the dopaminergic neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine and by the dopamine synthesis inhibitor alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine. The possible existence of an endogenous source of dopamine in the cultures was also suggested by the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity, and of an Na(+)-dependent mechanism for the accumulation of 3H-dopamine, which was predominantly associated with nonphotoreceptor cells. Additionally, 3H-dopamine release occurred in vitro through a Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism, as well as through reverse function of a nomifensine-sensitive dopamine transporter. Both of these putative release mechanisms appeared to be regulated by light and by melatonin, suggesting a mechanism whereby the putative dopaminergic cells may interact with other cells present in the cultures. These studies suggest that complex paracrine neuromodulatory mechanisms can differentiate in low-density embryonic cell culture, that dopaminergic activities exist in vitro, and that they are important for mediating photomechanical movements.
Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange has been identified as a mechanism for regulation of intracellular Ca ion concentration ([Ca2+]i) in neurons of invertebrates and vertebrates, but for mammalian central neurons its role in restoration of resting [Ca2+]i after transient increases induced by stimulation has been less clear. We have examined the recovery of [Ca2+]i following K+ depolarization and glutamate receptor activation of cultured mouse hippocampal neurons using the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye Fura-2. Reduction of the transmembrane Na+ gradient by removal of external Na+ slowed the recovery of neurons from imposed Ca2+ loads. We observed that [Ca2+]i regulation was disrupted more severely when N-methyl-D-glucamine (N-MG), Tris, or choline rather than Li+ replaced external Na+. Additional disruption of intracellular pH regulation by substitutes other than Li+ may account for this difference. Measurement of [Ca2+]i and [H+]i (using the H(+)-sensitive dye BCECF) during glutamate receptor activation indicated that Ca2+ influx resulted in production of intracellular H+, and that Li+ but not N-MG could prevent cytoplasmic acidification on removal of external Na+. We also observed that intracellular acidification alone was sufficient to slow recovery from Ca2+ load. We conclude, therefore, that Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange contributes to recovery of [Ca2+]i after stimulation leading to Ca2+ entry into hippocampal neurons, and that Na(+)-H+ exchange limits the acidification (and secondary increase in [Ca2+]i) that accompanies Ca2+ influx. We suggest that because both Na(+)-Ca2+ and Na(+)-H+ exchangers will be compromised during ischemia and hypoglycemia, increased intracellular H+ may synergize with cytoplasmic Ca2+ to potentiate excitotoxic neuronal death.
The minK protein induces a slowly activating voltage-dependent potassium current when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. In order to measure the levels of minK protein in the plasma membrane, we have modified the minK gene by inserting a 9 amino acid epitope into the N-terminal domain of the protein sequence. When intact live oocytes are injected with the modified minK RNA and subsequently incubated with an antibody to this epitope, specific binding is detected, indicating that the N-terminal domain is extracellular. We found that when oocytes are injected with amounts of minK mRNA up to 50 ng, the levels of protein at the surface are proportional to the amount of injected mRNA. In contrast, the amplitude of the minK current recorded in the oocytes saturates at 1 ng of injected mRNA. Although the amplitude of the currents is not altered by increasing mRNA levels above 1 ng, the kinetics of activation of the current differ in oocytes with high or low levels of minK RNA. In particular, activation is slower with higher levels of minK protein in the plasma membrane. Finally, we find that increasing intracellular cAMP levels, which increases the amplitude of minK currents, does not alter surface expression of the minK protein but produces a small increase in the rate of activation of the current. Our results support a model in which minK protein forms functional potassium channels by association with a factor endogenous to the oocyte.
The extracellular matrix (ECM) at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is biochemically and functionally specialized, and bears molecules that can regulate both the formation and function of this peripheral synapse. We have previously purified one synaptic component of the muscle ECM--a unique laminin isoform named s-laminin--from a rat schwannoma cell line (Chiu et al., 1992). To develop new probes for the ECM, monoclonal antibodies were generated against other components produced by this cell line. One of these new antibodies, 9H6, binds selectively at the synaptic cleft of NMJs in adult rats, but not at extrasynaptic sites on the muscle surface. On Western blots, 9H6 recognizes a 150 kDa band that colocalizes, and copurifies with the laminin-binding, ECM glycoprotein entactin under both reducing and nonreducing conditions. N-terminal sequence analysis also indicates that the 9H6 antigen is related to entactin. However, polyclonal antibodies to entactin stain both synaptic and extrasynaptic sites. Thus, 9H6 appears to identify an entactin epitope with a very restricted distribution. Treatment with N-glycanase reduces the molecular mass of entactin and eliminates 9H6 binding, suggesting that the 9H6 epitope at synapses is dependent on glycosylation. Recent studies have shown that novel isoforms of laminin, collagen IV, agrin, and AChE are selectively sequestered at the NMJ. Our results indicate that the entactin present at the synaptic cleft also differs from entactin present outside the synapse. The synaptic form of entactin may contribute to the unique functions of the ECM at the neuromuscular synapse.
The synaptic relationships formed by medial lemniscal (ML) or spinothalamic tract (STT) axon terminals with neurons of the somatosensory ventroposterolateral thalamic nucleus of the macaque monkey have been examined quantitatively by electron microscopy. ML and STT axons were labeled by the anterograde axon transport of WGA-HRP following injection of the tracer into the contralateral dorsal column nuclei, or the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, respectively. Thalamic tissue was histochemically reacted for the presence of HRP. Serial thin sections were stained with a gold-labeled antibody to GABA, to determine which neuronal elements exhibited GABA immunoreactivity (GABA-ir). Serially sectioned thalamic structures were recorded in electron micrographs and reconstructed in three dimensions by computer. Individual ML axon terminals form multiple synaptic contacts with segments of the proximal dendritic trees of thalamocortical relay neurons and also synapse upon the dendritic appendages of GABA-ir interneurons (local circuit neurons). These GABA-ir dendritic appendages contain synaptic vesicles and are presynaptic (presynaptic dendrites) to the same segments of relay neuron dendrites that receive ML contacts. When analyzed in serial sections and reconstructed by computer, the ML terminals form triadic relationships (ML, GABA appendage, and relay neuron dendrite) or more complex glomerular arrangements involving multiple appendages, all of which then contact the relay neuron dendritic segment. In contrast, multiple STT terminals make synaptic contacts along segments of projection neuron dendrites and are usually the only type of profile to contact that segment of dendrite. More than 85% of the spinal afferents form simple axodendritic synapses with relay cells and do not contact GABA-ir appendages. The thalamic synaptic relationships of ML terminals are fundamentally different from those formed by the STT. Because STT neurons predominatly transmit information about noxious stimuli, the simple axodendritic circuitry of the majority of these spinal afferents suggests that the transmission of noxious information is probably not subject to GABAergic modulation by thalamic interneurons, in contrast to the GABAergic processing of non-noxious information carried by the ML afferents. The differences in the GABAergic circuits of the thalamus that mediate ML and STT afferent information are believed to underlie differential somatosensory processing in the forebrain. We suggest that changes in thalamic GABAergic dendritic appendages and GABA receptors following CNS injury may play a role in the genesis of some central pain states.
Astrocytes purified from the neonatal rat brain were cultured for up to 3 weeks prior to being treated with agents that can induce reactive changes in astrocytes. These agents included dibutyryl cAMP, interleukin-1 beta, and macrophage conditioned media. After treating astrocytes for 3 days, the agents were removed and the ability of the astrocytes to support neurite growth was assessed by plating neonatal rat cerebellar cortical neurons. All the agents increased the ability of astrocytes to support the growth of long neurites. This was particularly evident with astrocytes treated with dibutyryl cAMP and LPS macrophage-conditioned medium. These results provide direct evidence that the reactive changes induced in astrocytes in this in vitro model might aid the growth of neurites. Similar changes may underlie the injury-induced axonal sprouting that occurs in vivo.
1. Watson's (1989) conceptualization of care possesses limited clinical utility in psychosocial contexts, given that there already exists an extensive lineage of human concepts of helping, within various psychotherapeutic traditions. 2. Watson's (1989) use of language delimits any utility that the &quot;caring&quot; construct might possess, Watson's conceptualization of caring is an inappropriate focus for psychiatric nursing, and historical precedents exist for many of the propositions upon which the science of caring is based. 3. Four decades of psychiatric nursing practice research and education render Watson's notion of a &quot;science of caring&quot; redundant.
Steroid biosynthesis activated by pituitary tropic hormones is known to be acutely regulated by cAMP acting via Protein kinase A. Because the mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptor (MBR) has been suggested to play a role in the activation of steroidogenesis, the present study investigates whether various protein kinases phosphorylate MBR. In rat and bovine adrenal mitochondrial preparations Protein kinase A, but not other purified protein kinases, was found to phosphorylate the 18 kDa MBR protein. In digitonin-permeabilized MA-10 Leydig tumor cells incubated with [gamma-32P]ATP, phosphorylation of MBR was detectable during treatment of the cells with dibutyryl cAMP. In conclusion, these data show that the MBR protein is an in vitro and in situ substrate of Protein kinase A, but the role of this phosphorylation in the regulation of steroidogenesis remains to be established.
We describe a simple nonisotopic method for analyzing receptor gene expression using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and laser densitometry of agarose gels. Densitometry of known amounts of double stranded DNA molecular weight standards was used to estimate yield of glutamate receptor RT-PCR product (in ng DNA) obtained from rat brain. While unable to provide absolute quantitation of gene expression, this method using standard techniques allows for rapid analysis of relative levels of receptor gene expression without using radioactivity.
We used the magnetic search coil technique to measure the horizontal cervico-ocular reflex (COR) of 8 subjects in response to transient or sinusoidal (0.1-1.0 Hz) trunk rotations while their heads were firmly immobilized. Although we were able to resolve eye rotations of &lt; 0.05 degrees, the COR was hardly measurable (gain was always &lt; 0.07). This finding, made with the most precise measurement technique used to date, suggests that the COR makes a negligible contribution to the stability of gaze in normal subjects during natural activities.
Some forms of synaptic plasticity depend on the temporal coincidence of presynaptic activity and postsynaptic response. This requirement is consistent with the Hebbian, or correlational, type of learning rule used in many neural network models. Recent evidence suggests that synaptic plasticity may depend in part on the production of a membrane permeant-diffusible signal so that spatial volume may also be involved in correlational learning rules. This latter form of synaptic change has been called volume learning. In both Hebbian and volume learning rules, interaction among synaptic inputs depends on the degree of coincidence of the inputs and is otherwise insensitive to their exact temporal order. Conditioning experiments and psychophysical studies have shown, however, that most animals are highly sensitive to the temporal order of the sensory inputs. Although these experiments assay the behavior of the entire animal or perceptual system, they raise the possibility that nervous systems may be sensitive to temporally ordered events at many spatial and temporal scales. We suggest here the existence of a new class of learning rule, called a predictive Hebbian learning rule, that is sensitive to the temporal ordering of synaptic inputs. We show how this predictive learning rule could act at single synaptic connections and through diffuse neuromodulatory systems.
Acute pretreatment (30 min) of primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells with TPA (10 nM) resulted in a decrease in carbachol-and glutamate-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis, but not in basal levels of PI hydrolysis. To investigate the mechanism of TPA action, phospholipase C was assayed in membranes prepared from cerebellar granule cells acutely treated with TPA. TPA had no effect on basal, GTP gamma S-, NaF-, and calcium-stimulated phospholipase C when compared with membranes prepared from vehicle-treated cells. The effects of pulsing with TPA (30-min pulse, 10 nM) on agonist-stimulated PI hydrolysis were studied 1, 3, and 5 or 6 d after TPA treatment. TPA treatment results in a statistically significant decrease in glutamate-stimulated PI hydrolysis, and a slight reduction of carbachol-stimulated PI hydrolysis when compared to temporally matched controls. Measurements in membranes prepared from TPA-treated vs control cells 1, 3, and 5 d after treatment showed that calcium- and NaF-stimulated phospholipase C activity was significantly decreased at all days tested, whereas GTP gamma S-stimulated phospholipase C activity was significantly decreased only at d 3. These data demonstrate differences in the acute vs long-term effects of TPA treatment on agonist-stimulated PH hydrolysis, and suggest that the acute effects may be mediated at the level of the receptor, whereas long-term effects of TPA on PI hydrolysis may be mediated by deficits in effector function.
The effects of riluzole, a novel neuroprotective drug with anticonvulsant and anti-ischemic properties, were studied on currents carried by cloned rat brain IIA sodium channel alpha subunits expressed in Xenopus oocytes. (i) When the oocytes were held at strongly hyperpolarized potentials to close the sodium channels and riluzole was added to the external solution, the current elicited by test depolarizing pulses was reduced within a few minutes and recovered upon washout of the riluzole. Although the currents were reduced, riluzole did not shift the peak current-voltage relationship. An inhibitory constant of 30 microM was estimated for the low affinity block of closed channels. (ii) Riluzole did not affect the time course of inactivation, and repetitive stimulation at frequencies that did not result in significant accumulation of inactivation did not affect current block. These results suggest that riluzole did not block open channels. (iii) Riluzole increased steady state inactivation by shifting its voltage dependence in the hyperpolarizing direction, by prolonging the recovery from inactivation, and by blocking more effectively at high stimulation frequencies. According to the modulated receptor theory, these results suggest that riluzole binds selectively to inactivated channels, with an inhibitory constant estimated at 0.2 microM. These results show that the riluzole binding site is on the alpha subunit of the sodium channel, and they suggest that stabilization of the inactivated state may underlie the neuroprotective properties of riluzole.
We monitored simultaneously the changes in the intracellular sodium concentration ([Na+]i) and intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in individual neurons from primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells loaded with sodium-binding benzofuran isophthalate and fluo-3. An application of glutamate (50 microM) in Mg(2+)-free medium containing 10 microM glycine evoked [Na+]i and [Ca2+]i increases that exceeded 60 mM and 1 microM, respectively. The kinetics of [Na+]i and [Ca2+]i decreases after the termination of the glutamate pulse were different. [Na+]i failed to decrease immediately after glutamate withdrawal and the delay in the onset of [Na+]i decrease after the glutamate pulse termination was proportional to the glutamate dose, the glutamate pulse duration, and the extent of [Ca2+]i elevation elicited by glutamate. The kinetics of [Ca2+]i decrease were biphasic, with the first phase occurring immediately after glutamate withdrawal and the second phase being correlated in time with a [Na+]i value lower than 15-20 mM. These results were interpreted to indicate that the glutamate-evoked calcium influx may lead to sodium homeostasis destabilization. The delay in the restoration of the sodium gradient may in turn prolong the neuronal exposure to toxic [Ca2+]i values, due to the decrease in the efficiency of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger to extrude calcium. The glutamate effects on [Na+]i and [Ca2+]i were potentiated by glycine. Glycine (10 microM) added alone also evoked [Na+]i and [Ca2+]i increases; this effect was inhibited by a competitive inhibitor of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid, indicating an involvement of endogenous glutamate.
Neck pain is rare in children. Although in adults it is often associated with degenerative disease, in children it is most often the result of a serious underlying disorder. Careful history taking, complete physical examination, and state-of-the-art neuroradiologic imaging are required to define the correct cause and guide the choice of therapy to alleviate the symptoms and treat the primary disorder.
The effects of warming on nerve conduction variables and electromyography were studied in 15 patients with a polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance. In each patient median nerve (motor, sensory) and tibial nerve (motor) conduction parameters were measured before and after warming in water at 36 degrees C. Warming: (1) increased the conduction velocity (CV); (2) decreased the distal motor latency, amplitude, and duration of the compound muscle or nerve action potential; and (3) caused fibrillations to appear in 1 patient. The increase in CV with temperature depended upon the CV after warming: the lower this CV, the smaller the increase in CV with temperature (delta CV/delta T). Correction of median nerve motor CV before warming with 2.2 m/s per degree C yielded CV values which were higher than the CV values after warming, because in most patients delta CV/delta T was less than 2.2 m/s per degree C. Because of differences in delta CV/delta T values, it is more accurate to warm the extremity than to correct for temperature.
The author reviewed in this paper current microneurographic findings on the responses of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) and skin sympathetic nerve activity (SSNA) to the environment in humans with special reference to vibration-induced white finger (VWF). 1) MSNA was enhanced by +Gz gravitational input, while being suppressed by simulated weightlessness through the baroreflex mechanism to maintain hemodynamic homeostasis. 2) MSNA was enhanced by hypobaric hypoxia through the chemoreflex mechanism. 3) SSNA was lowest under thermoneutral ambient temperature condition. Sudomotor component of SSNA increased under hot ambient temperature, while vasomotor component of SSNA increased under cold ambient temperature. 4) MSNA and vasomotor component of SSNA increased by local cold stimuli such as when a hand was immersed into cold water. 5) SSNA was enhanced by local vibration of the human body. The vibratory frequency of 60 Hz was the most effective for vibration-induced SSNA response. With a constant vibratory frequency of 60 Hz, SSNA increased depending on the vibratory acceleration. MSNA was not enhanced by local vibration of the body. 6) SSNA was markedly enhanced by combined stimuli of local vibration and noise. 7) MSNA increased during handgrip exercise, presumably depending on afferent inputs from muscle metaboreceptors. 8) The sympathetic response to environmental stress was markedly influenced by aging. The basal level of MSNA increased with aging, while the MSNA responsiveness to gravitational stress became reduced by aging. MSNA responsiveness to simulated weightlessness was also reduced by aging. 9) Vibration-induced white finger may be related to complex autonomic dysfunctions including excessive somato-sympathetic reflex induced by local vibration, cold stimuli and handgrip exercise. Gravity-dependent sympathetic nerve responses and the influence of aging may also contribute to the underlying mechanisms of VWF.
We report a null mutation in the human ciliary neurotrophic factor gene (CNTF). The mutated allele shows a G to A transition producing a new splice acceptor site and the resulting mRNA species codes for an aberrant protein. Analysis of tissue samples and transfection of CNTF minigenes into cultured cells demonstrates that the mutated allele expresses only the mutated mRNA species. In 391 Japanese people tested, 61.9% were normal homozygotes, 35.8% heterozygotes and 2.3% mutant homozygotes. The distribution of the three genotypes is similar in healthy and neurological disease subjects, indicating that human CNTF deficiency is not causally related to neurological diseases.

In order to investigate the biochemical mechanisms responsible for glutamate-induced cell death, we have tested the effect of this excitatory amino acid on the growth and survival of several cell lines of neural origin. Most of the cell lines studied were insensitive to glutamate, but we observed in PC12 cells that addition of glutamate (1-10 mmol/l) led to a dose-dependent cell damage (70% of cell lysis at 10 mmol/l as estimated by lactate dehydrogenase release). This effect which was not due to an inhibition of cell proliferation was only obvious after 8-10 h of incubation and required the continuous presence of glutamate for at least 4-6 h, to become apparent. Studies of the cytotoxic effect of several glutamate analogues showed that neither N-methyl-D-aspartate nor kainate, ibotenate, trans(+/-) 1-amino 1,3-cyclopentane dicarboxylic acid or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl isoxazole-4-propionic acid exerted any significant action and that quisqualate only was more potent than glutamate itself. A known antagonist of non-NMDA receptors, the 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, was able to significantly decrease the glutamate and quisqualate-induced cell lysis. In addition, we observed that glutamate effect was associated with a significant increase in arachidonate liberation from prelabelled cells.


Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can now provide maps of human brain function with high spatial and temporal resolution. We aimed to establish whether this noninvasive technique could also map the cortical activation that occurs during focal seizures. In order to do this, we used a conventional 1.5-tesla clinical MRI system for the investigation of a 4-year-old boy suffering from frequent partial motor seizures of his right side. We acquired FLASH images (TE = 60 msec) every 10 seconds over intervals of 10 minutes and derived activation images by subtracting baseline images from images obtained during clinical seizures. Functional MRI revealed sequential activation associated with specific gyri within the left hemisphere with each of five consecutive clinical seizures, and also during a period that was not associated with a detectable clinical seizure. The activated regions included gyri that were structurally abnormal. We concluded that functional MRI can provide new insights into the dynamic events that occur in the epileptic brain and their relationship to brain structure.
Perforin (PF) and granzyme A (GA) are candidates suspected of being cytolytic proteins of the granules of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and natural killer (NK) cells. We analysed PF and GA in muscles from patients with inflammatory myopathies. Five cases of polymyositis (PM), two cases of inclusion body myositis (IBM), and five cases of dermatomyositis (DM) were studied immunohistochemically using anti-PF and GA antibodies raised against each synthetic peptide of human PF and mouse GA, together with a panel of monoclonal antibodies reactive for lymphocyte subsets. In PM and IBM, PF positive cells were colocalized with GA positive cells and occasionally invaded into the non-necrotic muscle fibres. The percentage of PF positive cells among the endomysial CD8 positive cell population was 9.9% (PM) and 12.5% (IBM), and the majority of the endomysial CD8 positive cells were alpha/beta T cells. In contrast, in DM, both PF and GA positive cells were very few in all cases. Only few inflammatory cells were CD16+ or CD57+ NK cells among these diseases. Our results suggest that PF and GA are secreted mainly from alpha/beta T cells, and may play a key role in muscle fibre damage in at least some PM and IBM, but not in DM.
Adenosine is a potent modulator of neuronal activity throughout the nervous system. Previous evidence suggests that adenosine presynaptically inhibits synaptic transmission. The mechanism of presynaptic inhibition is uncertain. Adenosine may inhibit transmitter release by reducing voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents, activating K+ currents, or by mechanisms downstream to Ca2+ influx. By simultaneously recording the presynaptic Ca2+ transient ([Ca]t) and the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) at CA3-CA1 synapses of hippocampal slices, we found that adenosine, through activation of presynaptic A1 receptors, inhibits the fEPSP primarily by reducing the [Ca]t. Reduced [Ca]t was due to inhibition of omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive and some unidentified Ca2+ channels, probably including Q-type, but not to omega-agatoxin-IVA-sensitive Ca2+ channels. The adenosine A1 antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine enhanced both the [Ca]t and the fEPSP, suggesting a tonic inhibition of the [Ca]t by endogenous adenosine in the hippocampal slice.
The discriminative stimulus properties of the selective CCKB-receptor antagonist, L-365,260 were evaluated in rats trained to discriminate diazepam (2 mg/kg) or morphine (5 mg/kg) from vehicle, using a two-lever food reinforced technique. In the diazepam drug discrimination, the benzodiazepine-receptor agonist FG8205 (0.063-2 mg/kg) produced dose-related drug associated responding, whereas L-365,260 (0.125-4 mg/kg) treated animals showed vehicle appropriate behaviour. In rats trained to discriminate morphine from saline, L-365,260 (0.063-4 mg/kg) produced saline lever responding. When a dose of 1 mg/kg L-365,260 was administered in combination with morphine, the dose response curve for drug lever responding was not significantly affected. This was in contrast to the effect produced by the opiate antagonist naloxone (0.3 mg/kg) which shifted the dose-response curve to the right. Another group of rats underwent training to discriminate a dose of 6 mg/kg L-365,260 from vehicle. None of the animals learned the discrimination within 50 daily training sessions. In addition, unlike morphine (3 mg/kg), or changing the training dose of cocaine, intravenous administration of L-365,260 (0.3-10 mg/kg) did not modify lever pressing or the number of injections received by rats trained to self administer cocaine (0.25 mg/injection). L-365,260 (0.1-3 mg/kg) produced a dose-related inhibition of pentagastrin-stimulated gastric acid secretion in vivo. When administered dissolved in a mixture of ethanol/propylene glycol/saline, the ID50 was 0.83 mg/kg, and when suspended in an ethanol/carboxymethylcellulose vehicle, it was 0.7 mg/kg. It was concluded: 1) that L-365,260 does not produce discriminative stimuli similar to either diazepam or morphine; 2) that the potentiation of morphine-induced behaviour by L-365,260 does not extend to the discriminative stimulus properties of morphine; 3) that L-365,260 itself does not produce readily discriminable interoceptive stimuli in rats; and 4) that L-365,260 does not substitute for the reinforcing drug cocaine.


The neurosecretory cells in the eyestalks of Penaeus indicus and P. vannamei were studied by immunocytochemistry using polyclonal antisera raised against purified Homarus americanus neuropeptides. Cross-reactions between two H. americanus anti-crustacean hyperglycemic hormone antisera and Penaeus neurosecretory material were observed. The specific anti-vitellogenesis inhibiting hormone antiserum only showed an immunological reaction in the nervous tract and the sinus gland of Penaeus, suggesting a progressive exposure of a characteristic epitope which was amenable to immunological detection. Molecular hybridizations were performed in P. indicus and P. vannamei with a digoxigenin tailed 23mer oligonucleotide probe deduced from two partial sequences of uncharacterized, purified P. duorarum neuropeptides. Two distinct clusters of positive cells were observed by in situ hybridization experiments in the medulla terminalis ganglionic X-organ. Classical control tests gave negative results. Northern and Southern blot analyses were performed with the same tailed probed and allowed the determination of molecular weights for the mRNA and for a DNA restriction fragment (Pst 1), 1.7 kb and 200 bp, respectively. These observations show the existence of a strong homology between the P. duorarum sequence (selected for synthesizing the probe), and some P. indicus and P. vannamei neuropeptide sequence(s). Heterologous antisera were tested in other Arthropods to complete our analyses. In the centipede Lithobius forficatus and the scorpion Euscorpius carpathicus, the anti-crustacean hyperglycemic hormone antiserum induced a strong cross-reaction. A monoclonal anti-bombyxin-1 antiserum showed an immunoreaction in the neurosecretory system of the insects Tenebrio molitor and Labidura riparia. In contrast, the anti-bombyxin-1 antiserum did not react either in Penaeus or in Lithobius, and the Homarus hyperglycemic hormone antiserum did not react in the insects that were tested. A comprehensive view of these observations is discussed in relation to a divergence in Arthropod evolution.
Muscle spindles and Golgi tendon organs constitute the receptor foundation to the &quot;muscle sense.&quot; Muscle sensitivity has long been assumed relevant to the non-visual perception of the positions and motions of the body's segments and of the properties of hand-held objects. Dynamic touch is the label given to the particular kind of tactile exteroperception that involves a non-spatial input from muscles and tendons. When a hand-held object is wielded, hefted, carried and so on, the hand movements, together with the physical properties of the object, produce torques and angular motions that change in time with the movement. There is, however, an unchanging quantity that relates the variable torques and angular motions, namely, the object's inertia for rotation about a fixed point in the wrist. Our research revealed that the non-visual perception of the length of a wielded object by dynamic touch is a function of muscular sensitivity to the principal moments or eigenvalues of the inertia tensor. Across four experiments, variations in object length were accompanied by variations in width, spatial and material heterogeneity, the relation of the tensorial components to mass, and geometric shape. Subjects had no foreknowledge of the variations in object dimensions. Perceived lengths of occluded objects were reported by adjusting a visible marker so that its position corresponded to the position of the felt end of the object. In each experiment, perceived length was closely related to actual length and uniquely constrained by the major and minor eigenvalues of the inertia tensor. The present results, in conjunction with previous research, suggest that the inertia tensor provides the domains for two sets of functions realized by the &quot;muscular sense,&quot; one consisting of the principal moments of inertia or eigenvalues, which map on to perceived object magnitudes (e.g. length, weight), and one consisting of the principal directions or eigenvectors, which map on to perceived relations between hand and object (e.g. position of grasp). The significance of information-perception specificity over cognitive mechanisms is underlined and perspectives on dynamic touch and its underlying muscular sensitivity, including a general tensorial analysis, are discussed.
To assess the spatial extent and temporal behavior of rolandic rhythms we recorded neuromagnetic signals from four healthy subjects with a 24-channel magnetometer. The subjects performed self-paced thumb movements or the motions were triggered by electrical stimulation of the median nerve at the wrist. The main frequency components of the magnetic mu rhythm signals centered at 10 and 20 Hz. Both components were completely suppressed during the movement and increased substantially 0.5-2.5 s after it; the 20-Hz component reacted about 300 ms faster. The rebound was stronger after self-paced than after stimulated motion, and after contra- than after ipsilateral movement. The reactive source areas were identified for both frequency ranges, and they clustered on partly overlapping cortical areas of 6-8 cm2 wide along the course of the central sulcus. The 10-Hz rhythmic oscillations occurred predominantly at the primary somatosensory hand cortex; the sources of the 20-Hz signals were slightly more anterior. We hypothesize that the 10-Hz signal is a true somatosensory rhythm whereas the 20-Hz activity is essentially somatomotor in origin.
Neuropeptide Y has been reported to inhibit the release of the adrenergic transmitter from sympathetic nerves in many tissues. The purpose of this study was to determine the mechanism of the inhibitory effect of neuropeptide Y on the release of the adrenergic transmitter in cultured superior cervical ganglion cells prelabeled with tritiated norepinephrine. In cultured superior cervical ganglion cells superfused with a HEPES-buffered saline, electrical field stimulation (1 Hz, 30 pulses, 1 ms, 60 V) increased the fractional overflow of tritium. Neuropeptide Y (50 nM) attenuated this depolarization-induced increase in transmitter release. The nonhydrolyzable cAMP analog, 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)cyclic AMP (100 microM) and the potassium channel blockers, tetraethylammonium chloride (1 mM) and 4-aminopyridine (300 microM) potentiated the electrically stimulated increase in fractional tritium overflow but failed to alter the inhibitory effect of neuropeptide Y on fractional tritium overflow. Increasing the calcium concentration in the superfusion fluid from 1.8 to 5.4 mM potentiated the electrically stimulated increase in fractional tritium overflow and attenuated the inhibitory effect of neuropeptide Y. Reduction of superfusion fluid calcium concentration to 0.5 mM decreased electrically stimulated fractional tritium overflow and augmented the inhibitory effect of NPY on release of tritium. The fractional release of tritium in response to the calcium ionophore, ionomycin, was not significantly altered by neuropeptide Y. In Fura-2-loaded isolated sympathetic neurites obtained from superior cervical ganglia explants, the depolarization-induced (54 mM KCl) increase in cytosolic calcium was attenuated by neuropeptide Y (50 nM).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The fetal rat can detect odors in its amniotic fluid. Indirect evidence suggests that the accessory olfactory system may be mediating chemoreception prenatally. The primary goal of this study was to determine if stimuli in the amniotic fluid gain access to the receptor neurons of the accessory olfactory system that are sequestered inside the vomeronasal organ. Other goals of the study were to compare the access of stimuli to the vomeronasal organ in the prenatal and young postnatal rat and to examine the role of the autonomic nervous system in this process. On the day before birth fluorescent beads (0.95 microns diameter) were injected into the amniotic sacs of rat fetuses from seven dams. After 4-6 h one group of mothers received an i.p. injection of epinephrine (either 60 or 75 micrograms) and another group received no injection. One hour later pups were collected and processed for histological examination using fluorescence microscopy. A portion of the fetuses from both treatment groups had significant numbers (&lt; 50) of beads in their nasal passages. Some of these subjects also had beads in the vomeronasal organ. There was no significant difference in the proportion of subjects with beads in the nasal cavities or vomeronasal organ across the two treatments. In a second experiment, five- to seven-day-old rat pups had beads infused into one naris. After 3-4 h one group was injected i.p. with epinephrine (2-4 micrograms), while a second group received no injection. As expected, virtually all the subjects had large numbers of beads in their nasal cavities upon post mortem examination.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This study examines the effect of intraventricular administration of the neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine on serotonin1A, serotonin2 and serotonin3 receptors in the rat medial prefrontal cortex using in vivo extracellular single cell recording and iontophoresis. Iontophoresis of the serotonin1A, serotonin1C,2 and serotonin3 receptor agonists (+-)-8-hydroxy-(di-n-propyl)aminotetralin, (+-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane and 2-methylserotonin, respectively, produces a current-dependent (5-80 nA) suppression of the basal firing rate of medial prefrontal cortical cells in sham- and 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-lesioned rats. The suppression produced by 2-methylserotonin and serotonin was significantly greater in 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-lesioned rats than in control rats. No significant difference in the spontaneous activity of medial prefrontal cortex cells was observed between experimental and control rats after iontophoresis of (+-)-8-hydroxy-(di-n-propyl)aminotetralin or (+-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane. There was no significant difference between the groups regarding the response of medial prefrontal cortex cells to the iontophoresis of GABA, whereas the response of medial prefrontal cortex cells to the iontophoresis of dopamine was significantly attenuated in animals pretreated with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine compared to controls. Our results indicate that 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-induced denervation selectively enhances the sensitivity of serotonin3-like receptors in the medial prefrontal cortex, which could, at least partially, account for the serotonin denervation supersensitivity. Moreover, the finding that the response of medial prefrontal cortical cells to the iontophoresis of dopamine is attenuated in 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine pretreated rats is consistent with the view that the inhibitory action of dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex is dependent upon serotonin tone.
The effects on the hippocampal electroencephalogram of microinjections of procaine hydrochloride and the serotonin1A agonists, 8-OH-DPAT and buspirone, into the median raphe nucleus were examined in the urethane anesthetized rat. Injections of procaine, 8-OH-DPAT or buspirone into the median raphe nucleus produced a change in the hippocampal electroencephalogram from a spontaneous desynchronized pattern to a synchronized pattern (theta rhythm) within short latencies and for long durations post-injection. Procaine was shown to elicit theta at a mean latency of 52 s and for a mean duration of 21.75 min; buspirone at a mean latency of 2 min and for a mean duration of 34.5 min. A dose dependent relationship was observed between 8-OH-DPAT injections and latencies but not durations. Small doses (0.5 micrograms) of 8-OH-DPAT produced theta at a mean latency of 1.33 min and large doses (3.0 micrograms) at a mean latency of 1.17 min. 8-OH-DPAT injections generated theta for a mean duration of 62 min. Injections of each of these substances into structures dorsal, lateral or rostrocaudal to the median raphe (dorsal raphe nucleus, pontine reticular formation, caudal linear nucleus or raphe pontis, respectively) failed to generate theta or in a few cases produced theta at very long latencies (&gt; 24 min). Saline injections in the median raphe nucleus or control structures were without effect. The demonstration that agents injected into the median raphe nucleus that inhibit its activity (procaine and serotonin1A agonists) produce theta indicate that serotonin-containing median raphe neurons normally suppress theta or are involved in the control of hippocampal desynchronization. The present findings are consistent with previous work showing that median raphe nucleus stimulation desynchronizes the hippocampal electroencephalogram and that median raphe nucleus lesions produce constant theta, but are at odds with the proposal that serotonergic mechanisms may play a role in the generation of the theta rhythm.
The cholinergic innervation of the rat amygdala was studied immunohistochemically with antibodies against choline acetyltransferase and the low affinity p75 nerve growth factor receptor in normal rats and in rats lesioned with an immunotoxin, 192 IgG-saporin, directed against the p75 nerve growth factor receptor. The density of choline acetyltransferase-positive fibers was high in the nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract, the basolateral nucleus, and the amygdalohippocampal area; medium in the lateral nucleus, the cortical nucleus, the accessory basal nucleus, the periamygdaloid cortex, and the anterior amygdaloid area; and low in the medial and central nuclei. Nerve growth factor receptor-positive fibers were of medium density in the lateral nucleus, the accessory basal nucleus, the cortical nucleus, the anterior amygdaloid area, the periamygdaloid cortex, and the amygdalohippocampal area. The medial nucleus and the central nucleus displayed a low density of nerve growth factor receptor-positive fibers. The basolateral nucleus and the nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract also contained a low density of nerve growth factor receptor-positive fibers even though the two nuclei displayed the highest density of choline acetyltransferase-positive fibers in the amygdala. Injections of 192 IgG-saporin induced a complete loss of cholinergic nerve growth factor receptor-positive neurons in the basal forebrain but spared a subpopulation of nerve growth factor receptor-negative cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis-substantia innominata complex. Following 192 IgG-saporin injections, choline acetyltransferase-positive and acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers were essentially unchanged in the nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract and the basolateral nucleus and showed a partial reduction in the remaining nuclei of the amygdaloid complex. Cholinergic fibers emanating from cholinergic cell group 4 neurons reached the amygdala via the stria terminalis and the ventral amygdalofugal pathway. These observations indicate that two amygdaloid nuclei, the nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract and the basolateral nucleus, receive their cholinergic projections predominantly, if not exclusively, from nerve growth factor receptor-negative cholinergic neurons whereas all remaining amygdaloid regions receive fibers from nerve growth factor receptor-negative as well as nerve growth factor receptor-positive cholinergic neurons.
Activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor has been reported to be involved in the mechanisms that underlie thermal hyperalgesia produced by the intraplantar injection of carrageenan. As NMDA-mediated thermal hyperalgesia produced in models of acute and persistent pain have been reported to involve production of nitric oxide, we examined the role of nitric oxide in both the development and maintenance of the thermal hyperalgesia produced by the intraplantar injection of carrageenan. In addition, we examined the role of nitric oxide in the maintenance of the mechanical hyperalgesia produced by intraplantar injection of carrageenan. Prior to the intraplantar injection of carrageenan (2 mg in 100 microliters) there was no significant difference in thermal withdrawal latencies or mechanical withdrawal thresholds between the left and right hindpaws. Three hours after injection of carrageenan into the left hindpaw, rats showed evidence of a significantly faster thermal withdrawal latency and lower mechanical withdrawal threshold of the left hindpaw compared to the right hindpaw. In addition, the left hindpaw was significantly increased in size (diameter) compared with the right hindpaw. In these same rats, the intrathecal administration of saline, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 2-200 nmol) or the inactive enantiomer, NG-nitro-D-arginine methyl ester (D-NAME; 200 nmol) did not produce any significant change in thermal nociceptive withdrawal latencies in the non-injected paw. However, administration of L-NAME (2-20 nmol), but not saline or D-NAME produced a dose dependent and reversible block of the thermal hyperalgesia for a period of up to 3 h.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Amplification of complementary DNA by the polymerase chain reaction and anti-peptide antibodies were used to characterize the expression of two alternatively spliced forms of a metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR1 alpha and mGluR1 beta) in the central nervous system of the rat. Polymerase chain reaction analysis showed that mGluR1 alpha was the predominate of the two forms in the cerebellum, diencephalon, mesencephalon, olfactory bulb and brainstem, while mGluR1 beta was the major form present in the hippocampus. Approximately equal amounts of the two receptors were expressed in the cerebral cortex, septum and striatum. Immunochemical analyses of the two receptors were conducted in the rat cerebellum and hippocampus. An mGluR1 alpha-specific antibody labelled a protein with a relative molecular weight of 146,000 on immunoblots of the hippocampus and cerebellum. Immunoblot analysis of the developmental expression of mGluR1 alpha in the hippocampus and cerebellum demonstrated that in both structures, the levels of mGluR1 alpha were at or near their maximum levels in the adult brain. In contrast, two mGluR1 beta-specific antibodies failed to detect mGluR1 beta on immunoblots of brain tissue, thus precluding an immunocytochemical analysis of this receptor. Although low levels of a higher-molecular weight protein, possibly a dimeric form of mGluR1 beta were seen with one of the mGluR1 beta-specific antibodies, we hypothesize that some of the mGluR1 beta present in brain tissue may undergo proteolytic cleavage of the carboxy terminus. Immunocytochemical analysis of mGluR1 alpha showed that very high levels of this receptor were expressed in Purkinje cell bodies and dendrites. In the granule cell layer, some Golgi neurons were immunostained. The granule cells were not labelled. In the hippocampus, mGluR1 alpha immunoreactivity was present in interneurons of the stratum oriens and the dentate hilar region. Double-labelling studies demonstrated that these interneurons were also immunopositive for the neuropeptide somatostatin. The presence of mGluR1 alpha in cells of the hippocampus that are associated with the release of somatostatin, suggest that this receptor could play a role in regulating hippocampal excitability in both normal and epileptic tissues.
In order to assess the role of neuronal activity in the regulation of the fibroblast growth factor system, we examined changes in levels of basic fibroblast growth factor and the expression of its receptor-1 following seizures. Epileptiform activity was induced by kainate injection and the rats displaying seizures were killed 3, 6, 12 and 24 h after injection. To identify basic fibroblast growth factor and fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 immunoreactivity, we used a monoclonal antibody that binds to the biological active form of basic fibroblast growth factor and a monoclonal antibody that recognizes fibroblast growth factor receptor-1. In normal brain tissue, fibroblast growth factor staining was widely distributed throughout the brain and appeared to be localized within the nucleus of astrocytes. Starting 6 h after seizures, there was a progressive increase in basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity. The seizure-induced effect on basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity was expressed in astrocytes as an enlargement of the nucleus and a spreading of the staining to the processes. This phenomenon was particularly strong in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. The fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 immunoreactivity was virtually absent in control brain tissue. By 3 h post-seizure induction, there was an increase in fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 immunoreactivity in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. After 6 h, fibroblast growth factor receptor-1-positive cells appeared in the stratum oriens along the CA1, CA2 and CA3 hippocampal subfields. This effect gradually expanded to other brain regions and by 24 h fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 immunoreactivity was distributed throughout the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Fluorescent double labelling indicated that the fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 immunoreactivity was expressed in astrocytes. At 24 h, some fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 immunoreactivity was also observed in neuron-like cells located throughout the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Since our results indicate that seizure activity modulates the expression of basic fibroblast growth factor and fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 levels, it is also possible that physiological stimulation might have similar effects. In addition, our results suggest that the fibroblast growth factor system may have a role in plasticity events triggered by physiological activity.
Rats received bilateral lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis by infusion of biotenic acid. Two weeks after the lesion, a suspension of genetically modified primary rat fibroblasts was grafted dorsal to the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (2 x 10(5) cells per side). The fibroblasts were either infected with the gene for human beta-nerve growth factor or Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase. The nerve growth factor-producing fibroblasts released 67 ng nerve growth factor/10(5) cells per day in vitro. Two weeks after implantation of the fibroblasts, spatial learning was tested in the Morris water-maze. Nerve growth factor-producing fibroblasts, but not beta-galactosidase-producing fibroblasts ameliorated the deficit in acquisition of the water-maze task. In addition, spatial acuity was improved to near-normal levels by the nerve growth factor-producing grafts. Choline acetyltransferase activity in cortical areas and hippocampus was not affected by the nerve growth factor-producing grafts. Both grafted groups showed a similar reduction in the level of dopamine, but not homovanillic acid or 3-methoxytyramine, in the frontal cortex. Levels of norepinephrine, epinephrine and serotonin and their metabolites in the neocortex and hippocampus were not affected by the lesion or the grafts. Nerve growth factor-producing grafts increased the size of remaining nerve growth factor-receptor (p75) immunoreactive neurons in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis by 25%. Nucleus basalis magnocellularis lesions reduced the integrated optic density of choline acetyltransferase-positive fiber staining in the ventral neocortex by 46%, but nerve growth factor-producing grafts restored this area to 86% of control. These data suggest that nerve growth factor-producing grafts can cause a marked behavioral improvement, probably through the partial restoration of the lesioned projection from nucleus basalis magnocellularis to neocortex.
Recent studies with nerve growth factor (NGF) have identified the pharmacological actions of this neurotrophin in a variety of animal models that mimic some of the neurotransmitter deficits that occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD, for reviews see Refs 7, 15, 17, 19). Based upon extensive pharmacological studies, NGF has been characterized as a crucial maintenance factor for adult cholinergic neurons of the septo-hippocampal and basalo-cortical pathways. Among the reported actions of NGF is an attenuation of lesion-induced decrements in presynaptic and postsynaptic cholinergic markers and functions in the hippocampal formation. Thus, in studies that used partial fimbriectomies to parallel the cholinergic neurodegeneration that occurs in AD, intraventricularly administered nerve growth factor prevented the loss of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and acetylcholinesterase immunoreactivity in the septum and increased a variety of presynaptic cholinergic markers involved in the synthesis, storage and release of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (for reviews see Refs 7, 17, 19). More specifically, chronic NGF treatment attenuates lesion-induced reductions in hippocampal ChAT activity and high-affinity choline uptake, the end-result of which is an enhanced capacity to synthesize acetylcholine. This increased acetylcholine synthesis, in turn, appears to translate directly into augmented vesicular storage and release of the neurotransmitter. For instance, not only does NGF treatment reverse lesion-induced reductions in maximal binding densities of the acetylcholine vesicular transport marker [3H]vesamicol, but it also enhances acetylcholine release and turnover rate. NGF treatment also appears to restore the sensitivity of postsynaptic muscarinic receptors to agonist-induced stimulation following partial fimbriectomies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
During the development of the nervous system many types of neurons are produced in excess and die because they fail to obtain sufficient amounts of target-derived neurotrophic factors (for review, see Refs 1, 16). Brain-derived neurotrophic factor is a protein that belongs to the nerve growth factor family of neurotrophins (for review, see Ref. 17) which promotes the survival and differentiation of distinct neuronal populations that partially overlap with those affected by the other members of the family (for review, see Ref. 11). We have recently shown that four promoters direct tissue specific expression of the rat brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene. In the present study we have quantified the levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNAs transcribed from different promoters during the rat brain development. Our data show that different promoters have specific regulation patterns during embryonic development but are regulated coordinately in several regions of rat brain during postnatal development, suggesting that the four transcription units have both distinct and common regulatory elements. Quantification of absolute levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA revealed that it is expressed significantly higher in the rat brain than previously estimated.
To study further the molecular mechanisms by which glutamate and dopamine interact to regulate the functions of the basal ganglia, the effects of persistently inhibiting dopamine receptors and glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on the density of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors and on the level of their transcripts were examined in mouse brain. To block dopamine receptors, mice were treated with N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline once daily for two and six days, or were treated with fluphenazine-N-mustard once daily for five days. To block N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, mice were treated with dizocilpine by continuous infusion with osmotic mini-pumps for two and six days. The density of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors was measured by receptor autoradiography, and the level of D1 and D2 dopamine receptor messenger RNA was measured by in situ hybridization histochemistry. The results showed that N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline blocked about 90% of both D1 and D2 dopamine receptors, but had no significant effect on the level of either D1 or D2 dopamine receptor messenger RNA. Fluphenazine-N-mustard, which was as effective as N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline in blocking D2 dopamine receptors but had little effect on D1 dopamine receptors, also had no significant effect on the level of D1 and D2 dopamine receptor messenger RNAs. By contrast, continuously infusing dizocilpine significantly decreased the levels of D2 dopamine receptor messenger RNA in striatum, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle. Dizocilpine also caused small decreases in the density of D2 dopamine receptors, but only in posterior striatum was this decrease statistically significant. Dizocilpine slightly and transiently decreased the levels of D1 dopamine receptor messenger RNA in striatum but had no significant effect on the density of D1 dopamine receptors in any region examined. This study demonstrates that persistent blockade of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors has relatively little effect on the levels of D1 and D2 dopamine receptor messenger RNA, but that blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors produces a rapid and profound decrease in the levels of D2 dopamine receptor messenger RNA and a smaller decrease in the density of D2 dopamine receptors. These results suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors play an important role in the expression of D2 dopamine receptors in basal ganglia.
To elucidate the role and the mechanism of action of nerve growth factor in the adult central nervous system, we investigated the localization of nerve growth factor-like immunoreactivity in adult rat brain, both quantitatively and immunohistochemically, using polyclonal anti-nerve growth factor immunoglobulin G. We raised rabbit polyclonal anti-mouse nerve growth factor antibody with an extremely high titer as 10(-9) determined by an enzyme immunoassay. The affinity-purified anti-nerve growth factor immunoglobulin G specifically recognized nerve growth factor with no cross-reaction to recombinant brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 evaluated by an enzyme immunoassay. We quantified nerve growth factor content in each layer of the adult rat cerebral cortex and in each small piece (0.225 mg wet weight tissue) of the diencephalon, brainstem and cerebellum with a highly sensitive two-site enzyme immunoassay. Nerve growth factor content was unevenly distributed in the cerebral cortex (dense in layers II/III and V/VI and sparse in layers I and IV). Moderate to high levels of nerve growth factor were registered in the habenular nuclei, zona incerta, ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra, locus coeruleus, ventral cochlear nucleus, trapezoid body, lateral vestibular nucleus, cerebellar nuclei and paraflocculus. Immunohistochemically, the nerve growth factor-like immunoreactivity was found in the cell bodies, dendrites and axons of adult rat central neurons, not only in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and basal forebrain, but also in the diencephalon, brainstem and cerebellum. The population of neurons with nerve growth factor-like immunoreactivity was limited, but unexpectedly widespread, and the density of these cells correlated well with the content determined by an enzyme immunoassay in the present and a previous study [Nishio T. et al. (1992) Expl Neurol. 116, 76-84]. The monoamine neurons, including dopaminergic, noradrenergic and serotonergic neurons, showed intense nerve growth factor-like immunoreactivity, indicating that the central monoaminergic neuronal system may also be involved in the nerve growth factor trophic system. To visualize nerve growth factor transported in the axons and to enhance the immunostaining in the nerve growth factor-producing cells, we injected colchicine, a potent inhibitor of microtubule polymerization and a blocker of axoplasmic transport, into the lateral ventricle of adult Wistar rat brain. Colchicine treatment enhanced the intensities of nerve growth factor-like immunoreactivity in the axons and cell bodies, especially in the axon hillocks and the proximal axons of the nerve growth factor-producing neurons. This observation may suggest the existence of an orthograde axonal transport system for nerve growth factor in the central neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The relative levels of messenger RNA for brain-derived neurotrophic factor and the alpha subunit of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II were examined in hippocampal sections from Alzheimer's diseased and age matched non-diseased brains by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Consistent with previous reports in monkey and rodent, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II messenger RNA was prevalent throughout the dentate gyrus, all the principal hippocampal subfields, and adjacent cortical regions. A distribution consistent with the dendritic localization of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II was also observed. In contrast, brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels were much lower than calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II messenger RNA levels and were less widely distributed. Within the hippocampus of Alzheimer's diseased brains, levels of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II messenger RNA were increased and levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA were decreased in comparison with matched controls. These changes were consistently seen in four out of six cases processed for both messenger RNA species and ranged from 150-300% relative to non-diseased brain tissue for calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II and 20-70% for brain-derived neurotrophic factor. These results suggest that within the Alzheimer's hippocampus an altered program of gene expression is occurring leading to aberrant levels of both calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II and brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. Previous studies of the activity-dependent regulation of these messenger RNA species suggest these results are consistent with a decrease in afferent activity within the Alzheimer's hippocampus.
A model of spinal cord trauma in guinea-pigs, using lateral compression to a set thickness, produces a delayed functional loss at one to two days, followed by a partial recovery over several weeks, as measured using hindlimb motor behavior, vestibulospinal reflex testing, and mapping the receptive field of the cutaneous trunci muscle reflex. The role of inflammatory events in these secondary changes, was investigated with intraperitoneal injections of the macrophage toxin, silica. In one experiment, 11 matched pairs of animals were injured. One of each pair was selected randomly and injected with a suspension of 1.2 g of silica dust in sterile saline, immediately after injury and surgical closure. In a second experiment, involving 10 pairs of guinea-pigs, a similar dose of silica was administered to one of each pair at either one or two days before the injury. The animals survived up to three months, then were fixed by perfusion with glutaraldehyde. Histopathology of the lesion was quantified by line sampling of myelinated axons, and by measurement of blood vessels, in plastic sections through the center of the lesion. Surgery, injury, analysis of behavior and histology were all performed without knowledge of the experimental status of the animal. The secondary onset of functional loss below the lesion appeared to be delayed by one to two days in silica-treated animals with respect to controls. The number of myelinated axons at the center of the lesion, examined at two weeks to three months after injury was higher in the animals injected with silica immediately after surgery, most significantly in the dorsal quadrant of the cord. Myelin sheath thickness and axon caliber distribution were not different. Hypervascularity of the lesion was significantly reduced in animals injected with silica within one day of injury. These findings support the hypothesis that inflammatory activity plays an important role in secondary tissue damage, and that it may be responsible for some proportion of long-term neurological deficits, but do not suggest a prominent role for early macrophage activity in the mechanisms of demyelination.
The lamina terminalis consists of neurons which are activated by both osmotic and angiotensinergic stimuli and which project axons to many sites including regions of the hypothalamus responsible for vasopressin production. Combination of retrograde neuronal tracing procedures with the identification of Fos protein following discrete stimuli shows populations of neurons, projecting to the supraoptic nuclei, which are preferentially activated by intravenous infusion of either hypertonic saline or angiotensin II. Following infusion of hypertonic saline, the greatest percentage of neurons both labelled with cholera toxin-gold and having elevated levels of Fos protein occurred in that part of the lamina terminalis called the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis. Conversely, angiotensin infusion resulted in greatest numbers of Fos and cholera toxin-gold-labelled neurons in the subfornical organ with fewer double-labelled cells represented in the other components of the lamina terminalis, the median preoptic nucleus and the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis. While these data do not support more than a general separation of the functions examined among neurons of the lamina terminalis, they do highlight a discrete group of osmoresponsive neurons in the dorsal cap of the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis. These cells, by virtue of their response to infusions of hypertonic saline and their axonal connections to regions of the hypothalamus responsible for vasopressin production, are likely candidates for cerebral osmoreceptors.
To study the role of electrical membrane processes in neuronal regeneration and growth, resting membrane potentials and action potentials of sensory (dorsal root ganglion) neurons growing in culture were measured at the soma, neurite and growth cone using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Our results show that resting membrane potentials measured at the soma (-56.8 +/- 8.8 mV), neurite varicosity (-55.8 +/- 5.2 mV) and growth cone (-57.2 +/- 4.1 mV) of growing neurons were not statistically different. The membrane resistance measured around the resting membrane potential at the neurite varicosity (160 +/- 70 M omega) was smaller than those at the soma (687 +/- 540 M omega) and growth cone (922 +/- 825 M omega). The resting membrane potential measured at the soma using a perforated patch (-60.3 +/- 4.4 mV) was not different from that measured in the normal whole cell. In both configurations, isotonic KCl (140 mM) depolarized the membrane potential to above 0 mV. The K+ channel blockers quinine, Cs+, 4-aminopyridine and tetraethylammonium depolarized the membrane potential by 10-40 mV, while Na(+)-free extracellular solution hyperpolarized it by about 10 mV. Extracellularly applied ouabain, intracellular Na(+)-free or low Cl(-)-containing solutions did not affect the resting membrane potential. Similar results were obtained for growth cones. Action potentials could be evoked by current pulses in 81% of somata and in all growth cones, but not in neurite varicosities. Current-induced repetitive firing was found in 19% of somata and in 65% of growth cones.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings were made from myenteric neurons in the proximal colon of the guinea-pig. The electrical behaviour of the neurons in response to intracellular depolarizing current pulses, and to internodal strand stimulation, was recorded. The intracellular electrode contained the intracellular marker biocytin which was injected into impaled neurons for subsequent histochemistry. Proximal colon myenteric neurons displayed electrophysiological properties similar to myenteric neurons in the small intestine, and were classified as either AH- or S-neurons. AH-neurons were characterized by the presence of a slow afterhyperpolarization following an action potential. Internodal strand stimulation evoked slow excitatory synaptic potentials in five out of six AH-neurons tested, but did not evoke fast excitatory synaptic potentials in 26 AH-neurons tested. S-neurons lacked a slow afterhyperpolarization, but internodal strand stimulation evoked fast excitatory synaptic potentials in all 113 neurons and slow excitatory synaptic potentials in seven out of 17 tested. A subpopulation of AH-neurons displayed a rhythmic oscillation in membrane potential which could be triggered by an action potential. S-neurons could be subdivided into those that fired tonically and those that fired phasically in response to long depolarizing current pulses. About 80% of the AH-neurons were immunoreactive for calbindin, as were 10% of S-neurons. A further 17% of S-neurons, but no AH neurons, were calretinin immunoreactive. Morphological analysis of filled neurons revealed eight distinct classes. Neurons electrophysiologically classified as AH typically had a large, oval soma and several long tapering processes. Processes of AH-neurons branched into many adjacent ganglia. Almost all S-neurons were uniaxonal and many axons ended in an expansion bulb in the myenteric plexus. S-neurons typically had broad, lamellar processes, or short, spiny processes. Roughly equal proportions of S-neurons had oral or anal projection. However, almost all S-neurons that were immunoreactive for calbindin or calretinin projected orally. The results indicate that myenteric neurons in the proximal colon of the guinea-pig are electrophysiologically similar to myenteric neurons in the small intestine, but there are a greater number of morphological and chemical categories.
The effect of castration combined with either long-term treatment with the tricyclic antidepressant drug desipramine or the sex steroid 17 beta-estradiol on serotonin responses in area CA1 of the hippocampus of male and female rats was examined. Using single-electrode current and voltage-clamp techniques serotonin-induced hyperpolarizations and outward currents were recorded from hippocampal pyramidal cells. Neither in male nor in female castrated rats treatment effects were observed on the magnitude of the 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A mediated outward currents (0.26 nA) and membrane hyperpolarizations (11 mV) induced by superfusion of serotonin (15 microM), or on the effect of serotonin on the afterhyperpolarization and extracellularly recorded population spike. In voltage-clamp experiments using microelectrodes filled with potassium-chloride, but not with potassium-acetate, the sole observable effect was that the membrane resistance drop due to application of serotonin was significantly larger in the ovariectomized group (31% approximately 19 M omega) as compared to the ovariectomized/estrogen supplemented group (23% approximately 15 M omega). Spiperone (3 microM) completely antagonized the serotonin-induced outward currents and input resistance changes under all treatments. Apart from these changes the majority of passive and active membrane properties of cells from ovariectomized animals were not affected by chronic desipramine or steroid treatment. Neither did castration alone, nor in combination with long-term 17 beta-estradiol treatment, affect CA1 pyramidal cell membrane properties of male rats. Since we attained physiological levels of 17 beta-estradiol in the blood plasma (30-50 pg/ml) using subcutaneous silastic implants containing a mixture of cholesterol/estrogen, we conclude that both long-term estrogen and long-term desipramine treatment do not affect serotonergic neurotransmission in CA1 of the rat hippocampus.
Substance P receptor-expressing neurons in the rat cerebral neocortex were examined by single- and double-immunolabeling methods with an affinity-purified specific antibody to substance P receptor. Substance P receptor immunoreactivity was observed exclusively in non-pyramidal neurons. About a quarter of these substance P receptor-positive neocortical neurons showed intense immunoreactivity, and the other three quarters displayed weak substance P receptor immunoreactivity. The neurons showing intense substance P receptor immunoreactivity were large multipolar cells with a few long aspiny or sparsely-spiny dendrites, and were scattered throughout the neocortical layers except for layer I, and also in the underlying white matter. The weakly immunoreactive neurons were medium-sized multipolar cells with oval to round somata and aspiny varicose dendrites, and were distributed in all cortical layers with a bias to layers II-III and the superficial part of layer V. The double-immunofluorescence study revealed that almost all substance P receptor-positive neurons were immunoreactive for GABA, but negative for glutaminase. Substance P receptor immunoreactivity in GABAergic neocortical neurons were further examined by the double-immunofluorescence method with antibodies to markers for subgroups of GABAergic neurons. Somatostatin immunoreactivity was found in 89% of neurons with intense substance P receptor immunoreactivity, and in 1.5% of neurons with weak substance P receptor immunoreactivity. Neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity was also observed in 92% of neurons with intense immunoreactivity for substance P receptor, and in 1.6% of neurons with weak immunoreactivity for substance P receptor. In contrast, parvalbumin immunoreactivity was seen in 1.3% of neurons with intense substance P receptor immunoreactivity, and in 59% of weak substance P receptor immunoreactivity. Calbindin D28k immunoreactivity was found in 12 and 19% of neurons, respectively, with weak and intense immunoreactivities for substance P receptor. Virtually no cells showing substance P receptor immunoreactivity displayed immunoreactivity for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or choline acetyltransferase. These results indicate that the neocortical neurons expressing substance P receptor constitute a subpopulation of GABAergic non-pyramidal cells, and are segregated into neurons with intense immunoreactivity and those with weak immunoreactivity for substance P receptor; the vast majority of neurons with intense substance P receptor immunoreactivity contain somatostatin and neuropeptide Y, and the majority of neurons with weak substance P receptor immunoreactivity have parvalbumin.
The basal release of D-[3H]aspartate, an unmetabolized analogue of glutamate, from cerebral cortical slices remained at the same level from three-day-old to 24-month-old mice, but the response to K+ stimulation (50 mM) was smaller in young than in adult or aged mice. Kainate, N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate (0.1 mM) stimulated the basal release of D-aspartate in the cerebral cortex of seven-day-old mice, the effects of kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate being reduced by their antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and dizocilpine maleate, respectively, indicating that in the immature cerebral cortex the kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate types of the glutamate receptor are involved in the basal release. The K(+)-stimulated release was not affected by glutamate agonists in developing mice, though they markedly attenuated the evoked release in adults. The inhibitory amino acids GABA, taurine and glycine depressed the K(+)-stimulated release only in the adult cerebral cortex. The action of GABA was abolished by bicuculline, demonstrating the involvement of presynaptic GABAA receptors. The glycine effect was strychnine-insensitive, characteristic of the glycine modulatory site in the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. This kind of regulation by both kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors could be of physiological significance, particularly in the immature cerebral cortex.
Time-mated female Sprague-Dawley rats were injected subcutaneously with either 40 mg/kg cocaine-HCl or saline once daily on gestational days 13 through to 16. Local cerebral blood flow and glucose use were measured in the mature male offspring from these dams using the fully quantitative [14C]2-deoxyglucose and [14C]iodoantipyrine autoradiographic techniques, respectively. The effects of the treatment upon the integrity of central serotonergic terminals was assessed using [3H]paroxetine radioligand binding autoradiography. There were no significant changes in glucose use in any of the 40 brain areas analysed in this study, and although there was a generalized tendency towards increases, these never exceeded +15% of control values. In contrast, significant increases in local cerebral blood flow were measured in more than one-third of the areas examined in cocaine-treated rats, ranging from +20% in dorsal raphe nucleus to +95% in some parts of the neocortex. In all but three brain areas, the ratio of cerebral blood flow to metabolic demand was found to increase following cocaine exposure, resetting the relationship from an overall ratio of 1.6 in controls to 2.5 in treated rats. This relative hyperaemia, which must result from excessive dilatation of the cerebrovascular bed under normal physiological conditions, could not be explained by a direct effect of the treatment on serotonergic constrictor neurons as there was no evidence for any changes in [3H]paroxetine binding. Whatever the underlying cause, we conclude that the effects upon cerebrovascular control mechanisms of prenatal exposure to cocaine identified here, might present a further source of difficulty in the management of &quot;crack babies&quot;.
The neurotensin/neuromedin N precursor molecule possesses four lysine-arginine dibasic residues which represent potential sites of cleavage by proteolytic maturation enzymes. As shown in the preceding paper, all of these dibasic residues are cleaved to a variable extent in rat brain. The aim of the present study was to localize immunohistochemically the resulting maturation products using site-specific antibodies directed against neurotensin, as well as against the exposed KLPLVL (K6L) and EKEEVI (E6I) sequences of the precursor. In a first set of experiments, each antigen was singly labelled in serial adjacent sections through the rat brain using a peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique. In a second series of experiments, neurotensin and either E61 or K6L antigens were double labelled in pairs using indirect immunofluorescence and visualized by confocal microscopy. In both types of preparations, immunoreactivity for all three antigens was detected in nerve cell bodies and axon terminals. In the absence of colchicine pretreatment, labelled nerve cell bodies were sparse in both neurotensin- and E6I-immunostained material and virtually undetectable in K6L-immunoreacted sections. By contrast, terminal immunostaining was intense and comparable in distribution for both neurotensin and E6I in most regions examined. K6L axonal labelling showed the same topographic pattern as that of E6I and neurotensin but was consistently weaker, except in the globus pallidus, where both E6I- and K6L-immunoreactive arbors were more widespread than those of neurotensin. These results suggest that the cleavage of the dibasic sites adjacent to the E6I and K6L sequences is more extensive in certain brain regions than in others. Colchicine pretreatment markedly increased the number of neurotensin- and, to a lesser extent. E6I-immunoreactive perikarya throughout the rat brain. However, it only marginally augmented the number of K6L-immunoreactive cell bodies, which remained sparse throughout. These results suggest that the maturation cleavages exposing the E6I and K6L sequences occur further distal to the cell body than the one giving rise to neurotensin. Both E6I- and K6L-immunoreactive perikarya were essentially confined to areas displaying neurotensin immunoreactivity. Furthermore, E6I and K6L antigens were shown in double labeling experiments to be present in the same cells as neurotensin, indicating that even if it is quantitatively different among brain regions, the basic pattern of neurotensin/neuromedin N precursor processing remains qualitatively similar throughout the brain.
Neurotensin and neuromedin N are two biologically active related peptides which are encoded in the same precursor molecule. In the rat, the precursor consists of a 169-residue polypeptide containing in its C-terminal region one copy each of neurotensin and neuromedin N. Four Lys-Arg sequences which are thought to represent putative processing sites occur in the precursor molecule. Of these sites, the three that are closest to the C-terminus flank and separate neurotensin and neuromedin N. The fourth precedes a neuromedin N-like sequence. The present studies were aimed at determining the extent to which each of these four dibasic sites is cleaved and at identifying and quantifying the intermediate and mature products to which this cleavage gives rise in extracts from whole rat brain, hippocampus and globus pallidus. This was achieved by means of radioimmunoassays specific for sequences of the neurotensin/neuromedin N precursor that are adjacent to the dibasic processing sites used in combination with high pressure liquid chromatography and arginine-directed trypsin digestion of tissue extracts. In all tissue extracts, it was found that the three most C-terminal dibasic processing sites in the neurotensin/neuromedin N precursor are processed to a similar extent, whereas the dibasic site that precedes the neuromedin N-like sequence is processed to a lesser extent. As reported previously, the globus pallidus was shown to contain proportionally lower levels of neuromedin N than other brain regions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The mammalian brain contains many species of proteoglycan. To identify each proteoglycan species, we have raised monoclonal antibodies against soluble chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans purified from 10-day-old rat brains. One monoclonal antibody, named monoclonal antibody 1G2, recognized two proteoglycan species with 220,000 and 150,000 mol. wt core glycoproteins (chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan-220 and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan-150). Partial amino acid sequences of N-termini of their core proteins coincided with those of neurocan, a brain-unique chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan species, whose complete coding sequence was recently reported [Rauch et al. (1992) J. biol. Chem. 269, 19,536-19,547]. Western blots revealed that chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan-220 became detectable in the rat cerebrum on embryonic day 14, and that it disappeared from the brain around postnatal day 30. In contrast, a fairly large amount of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan-150 remained in the mature brain. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that 1G2 antigen was first localized in the preplate zone, then both in the marginal zone and in the subplate of the rat cerebrum on embryonic day 16, prior to arrival of the first thalamic afferents at the cortex. On embryonic day 20, immunolabeling with monoclonal antibody 1G2 began to spread from the subplate into the developing cortical plate. On postnatal day 10, the neuropil of the cerebrum, except for the barrel field, was diffusely stained with the antibody, intensely in the hippocampus and superficial layers (I-III) of the cerebral cortex and weakly elsewhere. The barrel hollows were stained very weakly compared with the barrel walls at this stage. The immunoreactivity in the hippocampus and superficial cortical layers was weakened in the mature brain, so that no particular staining pattern, but weak and diffuse staining was observed in the adult rat cerebrum. The 1G2 antigen was immunohistochemically associated largely with glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells in primary cultures of the neonatal rat cerebrum. Both chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan-220 and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan-150 were detected in the conditioned media not only of highly enriched cultures of fetal rat cortical neurons but also of pure cultures of mature astrocytes; more (12- to 20-fold) in the astrocyte conditioned media. Astrocytes, in addition to neurons, may be a cellular source of neurocan in brain at least under certain physiological conditions. The spaciotemporal expression pattern of 1G2 epitope-bearing proteoglycan, or neurocan, suggests that this proteoglycan species plays some roles at least in forming the elongation pathway for early cortical afferent fibers as well as the functional barrel structure in the somatosensory cortex.
In rats, morphological and synaptic maturation of the striatum, a brain area involved in the control of movement and in cognitive behaviour, proceeds for several weeks postnatally. Little is known, however, about the molecular events associated with the final maturation of the striatum. In particular, there is little information on molecules playing a role in cell adhesion, a phenomenon of particular importance for neuronal development. We have examined the time course and topography of expression of the highly polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule in the rat striatum during postnatal development and in the adult, and compared it to growth-associated protein-43, a marker of axonal growth. As earlier during development [Aaron L. I. and Chesselet M.-F. (1989) Neuroscience 28, 701-710], immunolabelling for polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule was very intense in the entire striatum at postnatal days 17-19. At postnatal days 21 and 22, loss of polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity in the caudal part of the striatum contrasted with the persistence of immunoreactivity at more rostral levels. Most of the striatum was devoid of polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity by postnatal day 25. At this age, as well as in the striatum of adult rats, immunolabelling was only observed along the ventricular edge of the striatum. In contrast to polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity, immunolabelling for growth-associated protein-43 had reached its adult pattern by postnatal day 17, indicating that polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule persists beyond the period of major axonal growth. In the adult, an area of stronger growth associated protein-43 immunoreactivity overlapped with the region which retained immunoreactivity to polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule. The results indicate that, in the developing rat striatum, the neural cell adhesion molecule remains highly sialylated not only during the ingrowth of cortical and nigral inputs but also during the formation of dendritic spine and synaptogenesis. Loss of polysialyated neural cell adhesion molecule occurs at the time of emerging spontaneous activity in cerebral cortex, and precedes the development of mature responses to cortical stimulation and adult membrane properties in a majority of striatal neurons.
The parafascicular thalamic nucleus projects to the subthalamic nucleus and the striatum. Double-retrograde fluorescent tracing was used to determine whether these projections arise from the same neurons via axon collaterals. True Blue was injected into the subthalamic nucleus and Nuclear Yellow was injected into the striatum of each rat and the parafascicular thalamic nucleus was examined under the fluorescence light-microscope. Individual parafascicular neurons were not double-labelled with the tracers. The True Blue- and Nuclear Yellow-labelled neurons wee located in different parts of the parafascicular nucleus ipsilateral to the injections. In the rostral part of the parafascicular nucleus, True Blue-labelled neurons were located ventral to the fasciculus retroflexus, and in the caudal part of the nucleus. True Blue-labelled neurons were located close to the medial and lateral borders of fasciculus retroflexus. Nuclear Yellow-labelled neurons were found mainly to encircle the fasciculus retroflexus in the rostral part of the parafascicular nucleus and in the dorsolateral sector of the caudal part of the parafascicular nucleus. Double-labelled neurons were, however, found in the cortex. The proportion of neurons projecting to both the subthalamic nucleus and the striatum accounted for 38% of the total number of cortiscosubthalamic neurons in the prefrontal cortex, 15.5% in the cingulate cortex and 9% in the sensorimotor cortex. The present finding of an individualization between the parafascicular efferents to the subthalamic nucleus and the striatum emphasize the importance of this projection and provides further evidence of the associative functions attributable to the subthalamic nucleus.
Transformation of normal resting astrocytes to reactive astrocytes in the adult brain after injury has been well documented. Using double immunofluorescent labeling methods, we report that astrocytes in both the ischemically damaged and the retrogradely/anterogradely degenerating forebrain nuclei express not only the glial cell markers glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin, but also the neuronal markers neuron-specific enolase and microtubule-associated protein 2. Since these neuronal markers are expressed in glial precursor cells, these results suggest that one of the characteristic responses of astrocytes in the adult brain after injury may be re-expression of fetal trait(s) of early differentiating glial cells/neurons.
Significant changes in the neurophysiology and neuropharmacology of nigral dopaminergic neurons take place in the first postnatal month. In order to correlate these changes with the postnatal development of dopaminergic neuron morphology and substantia nigra cytoarchitecture, brains from Sprague-Dawley rat pups of age postnatal days 1, 7, 14, 21 and 28 and adult rats were sectioned and processed for tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry. At postnatal day 1, pars compacta and pars reticulata were not clearly delineated; tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons and a dense plexus of fibers were scattered throughout the substantia nigra. By day 7 the density of tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons decreased markedly in ventral substantia nigra, and a dopaminergic pars compacta and a non-dopaminergic pars reticulata could be more clearly distinguished. By day 14 the substantia nigra appeared essentially as it does in the adult. Cell counts during development revealed that the number of tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons/section in both pars compacta and pars reticulata decreased significantly from postnatal day 1 to postnatal day 14, while those in pars lateralis did not change. Tyrosine hydroxylase-positive somatic size increased modestly but significantly from postnatal day 1 to day 14 as did the diameter of the proximal and distal dendrites. However, even at day 1, the morphology of tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons appeared essentially the same as in adults. Dendritic arborizations were well developed. The dendrites were non-varicose and modestly branched, with some of the longer ventrally directed dendrites passing through pars reticulata into the crus cerebri.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The cell-level functional maturation of cell suspension grafts from embryonic day 14-15 rat striatal primordia implanted unilaterally into ibotenic acid lesioned striata of adult female rats was studied from two days to 10 weeks post-grafting. The functional and morphological characteristics of the grafts were compared with those of adult grafts (one year after implantation), normal adult striata and postnatal developing striata (up to four weeks after birth). Serial sections were stained with Cresyl Violet and investigated immunohistochemically with antibodies against dopamine- and adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32, as a striatal marker), tyrosine hydroxylase (as a marker of dopaminergic fibres), Fos protein (as a cell-level marker of functional dopaminergic host-graft interactions), and neuron-specific enolase (correlated to differentiation and functional maturation of neuronal cells). Selected sections were double-stained for DARPP-32 and either tyrosine hydroxylase, Fos or neuron-specific enolase. The rats used to study dopamine receptor-activated expression of Fos were killed 2 h after administration of either the dopamine-releasing agent D-amphetamine (5 mg/kg intraperitoneally) or the dopamine-receptor agonist apomorphine (0.25 mg/kg subcutaneously, at which dosage it is active only on supersensitive receptors of denervated neurons). In normally developing rats, amphetamine induced Fos expression in both the striatum and globus pallidus by two weeks after birth; by four weeks, the pattern of amphetamine-induced Fos immunoreactivity was similar to that observed in adults. In the globus pallidus of both two- and three-week-old rats, amphetamine induced greater expression of Fos than in adults. Apomorphine did not induce appreciable Fos activation in either the striatum or the globus pallidus at any stage of development. In striatal grafts, amphetamine induced Fos expression from three weeks after implantation onwards, and by five to 10 weeks post-grafting the pattern of Fos immunoreactivity was similar to that observed in adult grafts. However, apomorphine induced a considerable number of Fos-positive nuclei in striatal grafts at three and four weeks after grafting. Neuron-specific enolase immunoreactivity was moderate in normal adult striatum and very high in the adult globus pallidus, and mainly located in neuronal perikarya and processes. Before two weeks of age, most neuron-specific enolase immunoreactivity was observed in internal capsule fascicles and the striatal afferents. Between two and four weeks after birth, neuron-specific enolase immunoreactivity in striatal and globus pallidus neurons gradually increased, while that in afferent fibres decreased to adult levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Glutamate is the most abundant excitatory neurotransmitter in the vertebrate central nervous system. It is widely assumed that neurons using this transmitter derive it from several sources: (i) synthesizing it themselves from alpha-ketoglutarate or aspartate, (ii) synthesize it from glial-derived glutamine, or (iii) take up glutamate from the extracellular space. By use of immunocytochemistry we show that glutamate is abundant in the retinal ganglion and bipolar cells of the rabbit, but that immunoreactivity for glutamate in these neurons is reduced below immunocytochemical detection limits after the specific inhibition of glutamine synthesis in glial cells by D,L-methionine D,L-sulphoximine. GABA immunoreactivity in retinal amacrine cells was also reduced after inhibition of glutamine synthetase but the patterns and densities of immunoreactivity for taurine and glycine were unaffected. Therefore, this experimental paradigm does not induce generalized metabolic changes in neurons or glia. This study demonstrates that some glutamatergic neurons are dependent on the synthetic processes in glia for their neurotransmitter content.
A competitive antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, CGP 39551, was administered daily to neonatal rats with increasing doses from postnatal day 1 to 22. These animals displayed approximately 50% decrease of body weight at the end of treatment and, therefore, both normal and neonatally undernourished rats were used as controls. At a young adult stage (55-75 days of age) CGP 39551-treated rats showed a much higher spontaneous locomotor activity as compared to control groups. This hypermotility was counteracted by D1 and D2 dopamine antagonists while administration of methamphetamine increased, to the same extent, the differential basal locomotor activity of treated and control groups. The locomotor activity response to the N-methyl-D-aspartate channel blocker, dizocilpine maleate, was significantly shifted to the right for treated rats so that an equivalent increase of motility was obtained by doubling the dose effective for control animals. In in vivo microdialysis experiments, similar amounts of dopamine were collected from the striatum of treated and control rats after high K+ or methamphetamine stimulation, the only difference being a greater Ca2+ dependency of the depolarization-induced dopamine release in treated rats. Assays for different neurochemical parameters, carried out at 80-90 days of age, suggested some alteration of the balance between excitatory and inhibitory circuits in the basal ganglia of CGP 39551-treated rats. Tyrosine hydroxylase and calbindin immunostaining, as well as acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, revealed a similar picture in the striatum of treated and control rats. However, 5'-nucleotidase histochemistry showed a stronger and evenly distributed reactivity in the striatum of treated rats, opposite to the weaker and patchy localization of normal or undernourished controls. From the present results it is possible to conclude that chronic blockade of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor during neonatal brain maturation results in long-lasting alteration of locomotor activity which appears related to functional changes of the dopamine receptors as well as to an altered balance between various excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter and neuromodulatory systems.
In the present study, the time-course of changes in glutamate binding and aspartate release in the rat hippocampus following tetanization of perforant pathway and of pentylenetetrazol-induced kindling was investigated. The K+ (48 mM)-stimulated [3H]D-aspartate release from hippocampal slices and the specific [3H]L-glutamate binding to crude synaptic membranes of the hippocampus were measured 1, 4 and 24 h after the last tetanization train or one, five and nine weeks after the last pentylenetetrazol injections, respectively. The tetanization of the fascia dentata was followed by a significant increase in K(+)-stimulated [3H]D-aspartate release from hippocampal slices only 1 h after the last tetanization train, but the specific [3H]L-glutamate binding was enhanced 4 h afterwards. No further deviations from controls have been seen 24 h after tetanization. After pentylenetetrazol kindling, the K(+)-stimulated amino acid release from hippocampal slices was not changed. However, at one week as well as at five and nine weeks after the pentylenetetrazol kindling the specific [3H]L-glutamate binding in the hippocampus was significantly increased by about 50% compared to controls. From these findings it can be assumed that after long-term potentiation induction presynaptic transmitter release and post- (and/or pre-)synaptic glutamate binding are elevated with a different time course only in the early phase of potentiation. In contrast, kindling results in a long lasting increase in activity state of glutamatergic transmission. Therefore, it can be concluded that differences of the synaptic excitability following long-term potentiation and kindling are reflected by a different activation of glutamatergic system in the central nervous system.
The present experiments examined the role of excitatory amino acid receptors in the orofacial stereotypy induced by direct amphetamine microinjection into the ventrolateral striatum. In these experiments, the influence of prior intra-ventrolateral striatum treatment with various excitatory amino acid antagonists on the expression of amphetamine-stimulated oral stereotypy was observed. In all experiments, behavioral observations were conducted in the home cage using a time-sampling procedure. In the first experiment, different groups of rats received bilateral microinfusions of either kynurenic acid, 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline or dizocilpine maleate. The excitatory amino acid antagonists were administered immediately prior to bilateral microinfusions of d-amphetamine. Both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists dose-dependently attenuated or blocked the expression of dopamine-mediated stereotypy. 2-Amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid was the most potent of these compounds, totally suppressing stereotypy at a dose of 0.3 micrograms (equivalent to 1.5 nmol). In the second experiment, the same compounds were tested for their ability to suppress physostigmine-induced mouth movements. Cholinergic stimulation of the ventrolateral striatum has previously been shown to elicit non-directed mouth movements, quite distinguishable from stimulus-directed, amphetamine-induced biting. Excitatory amino acid antagonists were administered in the same doses prior to bilateral infusion of physostigmine (2.5 micrograms/0.5 microliters). The expression of physostigmine-induced mouth movements was for the most part not affected by excitatory amino acid antagonists, although dizocilpine maleate slightly reduced this oral behavior. In a third experiment, behavior was observed following infusion of the antagonists alone, using the same doses as in the previous experiments. No behavioral alterations were observed with the exception of a small increase in nonspecific mouth movements induced by kynurenic acid and 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid. These findings indicate that the expression of dopamine-mediated oral stereotypy, induced by amphetamine stimulation of the ventrolateral striatal region, is highly dependent on activation of striatal excitatory amino acid receptors. In contrast, oral behavior induced by cholinergic stimulation of the ventrolateral region is not mediated by glutamate input. These results are discussed in relation to the synaptic organization of neuronal elements within the striatum. Moreover, the relevance to further understanding of orofacial dyskinesias is noted.
Activation of microglia has been emphasized as a critical step in the pathophysiology of degenerative and inflammatory processes of the CNS. Activated microglia release low molecular weight compounds, such as excitatory amino acids, that are directly toxic to neurons. Here we demonstrate that a microglia-derived cytokine, transforming growth factor-beta 1, directly alters the susceptibility of neurons to glutamate-induced cell damage. Transforming growth factor-beta 1 acts as a neuroprotectant following short-term exposure to glutamate, whereas, following chronic exposure to glutamate, similar concentrations of transforming growth factor-beta 1 actually potentiate excitotoxic cell death. This complex interaction may play an important role in determining the extent of local tissue damage.
Expression of the immediate early gene c-fos increases acutely following neuronal depolarization. c-fos and Fos protein have been widely used to investigate basal ganglia responses to changes in dopaminergic neurotransmission. Increased dopaminergic input to D1 receptors increases Fos synthesis in striatal neurons. The role of D2 receptors in regulating Fos activity has been more difficult to establish. Because dopamine is believed to excite striatal neurons via D1 receptors and inhibit them via D2 receptors, we hypothesized that acute dopamine depletion would increase Fos activity in basal ganglia circuits normally inhibited by dopaminergic input to D2 receptors. Rats were perfused after a single dose of the dopamine-depleting drug reserpine. The brains of rats perfused 3 h after reserpine displayed numerous Fos-like immunoreactive nuclei in the striatum, entopeduncular nucleus, nucleus accumbens shell, and ventral pallidum, and sparse Fos-like immunoreactive nuclei in the globus pallidus and nucleus accumbens core. Few or no Fos-like immunoreactive nuclei were seen following perfusion 30 min, 60 min, and 24 h after reserpine. In the 3-h paradigm, pretreatment with the selective D1 antagonist SCH 23390 did not change the pattern of Fos-like immunoreactivity; pretreatment with the selective D2 agonist quinpirole completely blocked increased Fos synthesis. Acute dopamine depletion, therefore, increases Fos activity in the basal ganglia by disinhibiting D2 circuits. These results support the parallel pathway model of basal ganglia function, and show that Fos can be used to investigate the role of D2 receptors in striatal function. The findings suggest anatomic correlates for the clinical effects of acute dopamine depletion in drug therapy and advanced Parkinson's disease in humans.
Maintenance of long-term potentiation in synapses formed by the perforant path on to granule cells of the dentate gyrus is accompanied by a sustained increase in the extracellular concentration of glutamate, the presumed transmitter at this excitatory hippocampal pathway. Quantal analysis indicates that, at least in the first hour of induction, this reflects an increase in transmitter release rather than a decrease in glutamate uptake, while biochemical studies have suggested that the increase in release persists for several hours. Morphological studies have described early but persistent increases in the spine number and area. Increases in the number of segmented/perforated synapses persisting for at least 1 h after induction of long-term potentiation, have also been reported. These morphological changes suggest both presynaptic and postsynaptic modifications. Increases in synaptic vesicle number and distribution lasting for at least 1 h specifically indicate presynaptic changes. To explore further the role of the presynaptic terminal in long-term potentiation, we have investigated changes in three synaptic vesicle proteins, synapsin, synaptotagmin and synaptophysin, in control tissue and in tissue prepared from potentiated dentate gyrus 45 min and 3 h after induction of long-term potentiation. We found that there was an increase in the concentration of the three proteins 3 h after induction of long-term potentiation. No such increase was observed 45 min after induction or in tissue prepared from animals in which an intraventricular injection of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, blocked induction of long-term potentiation.
In adult pigmented and albino rats, small amounts of different fluorescent dyes (Fast Blue and Fluoro-Gold) were pressure-injected into the dorsal lateral geniculate nuclei, each nucleus (right or left) being injected with one dye only. After postinjection survival of three days, the distribution of neurons retrogradely labelled by each dye was analysed. Consistent with previous studies, in each strain each dye labelled a large number of neurons in the several ipsilateral visuotopically or retinotopically organized structures--visual cortices, retino-recipient layers of the superior colliculi and the pretectal nuclei. A substantial number of retrogradely labelled neurons was also found in the contralateral parabigeminal nucleus. A few retrogradely labelled neurons were found in the ipsilateral and (to a lesser extent) contralateral dorsolateral divisions of the periaqueductal gray matter, as well as in the ipsilateral parabigeminal nucleus and the caudal part of the lateral hypothalamus. However, in all the above structures there was a paucity of cells retrogradely labelled with both dyes (double-labelled cells). By contrast, in each strain, several &quot;modulatory&quot; nuclei (containing cholinergic and aminergic cells) of the pontomesencephalic tegmentum--dorsal raphe, pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, parabrachial nucleus, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and locus coeruleus--contained significant numbers of cells projecting to both ipsilateral and contralateral dorsal lateral geniculate nuclei. In each nucleus, ipsilaterally and contralaterally projecting cells constituted, respectively, about 65-70% and about 30-35% of retrogradely labelled cells. About 25% of the contralaterally projecting cells (i.e. about 5-10% of all retrogradely labelled tegmental neurons) were double-labelled with both dyes. Double-labelled cells were intermingled with single-labelled cells projecting ipsilaterally or contralaterally. The proportions of the ipsilaterally, contralaterally and bilaterally projecting neurons in the modulatory components of the pontomesencephalic tegmentum were virtually identical in pigmented and albino strains. It appears that in both strains the visuotopically organized structures convey to the dorsal lateral geniculate nuclei information related mainly to the contralateral visual field. The projections from these structures might play an important role in regulating transmission of visual information in the retinotopically distinct parts of each dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. By contrast, the projections from the modulatory nuclei of the pontomesencephalic tegmentum are likely to contribute to the functional synchronization of both dorsal lateral geniculate nuclei during the sleep-wakefulness cycle and saccadic eye movements.
The goal of this study was to determine the distribution and diversity of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes within the lateral superior olive of the gerbil. We used morphometric analyses and several immunocytochemical markers to assess differences in glial cell composition between the lateral (low-frequency projection) and the medial (high-frequency projection) limb of the lateral superior olive. Cell counts from Toluidine-stained semithin sections revealed a similar density of total astrocytes in both the lateral and the medial limbs. However, based on cytologic features, there was a prevalence of fibrous-like astrocytes in the lateral limb and protoplasmic-like astrocytes in the medial limb. In a similar manner, glial fibrillary acidic protein staining of astrocytes was intense in the lateral limb, but was largely restricted to the nucleus borders in the medial limb of the lateral superior olive. While glial fibrillary acidic protein was largely restricted to astrocytic processes, glutamine synthetase and S100 protein staining occurred, for the most part, in glial cell bodies. The density of glutamine synthetase positive cell bodies was homogeneous between the two limbs, while the density of S100-positive somata was significantly greater in the lateral limb. Cell counts obtained from semithin sections demonstrated a greater density of oligodendrocytes in the lateral limb than in the medial limb of the lateral superior olive. In a similar manner, there was a 40% greater density of carbonic anhydrase-positive somata in the lateral limb compared to the medial limb. Transferrin immunostaining was restricted to oligodendrocytes, but the density of labeled somata was identical in the lateral and medial limbs. 2',3'-Cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase and myelin-associated glycoprotein were also localized to the somata of oligodendrocytes, labeling both perisomatic and interfascicular cells. At the ultrastructural level, specialized contacts were found between pairs or clusters of oligodendrocytes. These results suggest that more than one type of astrocyte and oligodendrocyte is present within the gerbil lateral superior olive. Furthermore, glial cells were unevenly distributed, such that a greater density of oligodendrocytes and fibrous-like astrocytes were found in the low-frequency projection region. This heterogeneity is well correlated with known differences in the neuronal morphology within the lateral superior olive.
We show here that a protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, sodium orthovanadate, induces rat pheochromocytoma cells to express neurites, a prominent morphological marker of neuronal phenotype. Vanadate-induced differentiation and neurite outgrowth in pheochromocytoma cells was not as extensive as that induced by the positive control employed, nerve growth factor. However, neurite outgrowth responses were comparable between nerve growth factor-treated pheochromocytoma cells and cells primed and then restimulated with vanadate. In the human neuroblastoma cell line, SH-SY5Y, a single exposure to vanadate induced neurite extension in this cell line equal to that initiated by nerve growth factor. In both cell lines vanadate treatment resulted in tyrosine phosphorylation of several high-molecular-weight proteins and using anti-phosphotyrosine antibodies, intense fluorescence was observed in the cell body and neurites of pheochromocytoma cells exposed to vanadate. Vanadate mediated differentiation and neurite outgrowth in pheochromocytoma cells could be ablated by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor erbastatin, whereas nerve growth factor-induced neurite outgrowth was only partially inhibited. In SH-SY5Y cells, erbstatin mediated partial inhibition of both vanadate and nerve growth factor-induced neurite elongation with similar kinetics. In contrast, K252b, a trk tyrosine kinase inhibitor, exhibited only a 30% reduction of neurite outgrowth in vanadate treated pheochromocytoma cells but an 80% reduction in nerve growth factor-treated cells. In SH-SY5Y cells, K252a did not have a statistically significant effect on neurite elongation induced by vanadate in contrast to a 60% reduction in nerve growth factor-treated cells. The membrane impermeable analogue K252b, had no effect on neurite elongation induced with either vanadate or nerve growth factor in these cells. The effects of vanadate were not mimicked by ouabain (0.1-50 microM) indicating that vanadate does not induce differentiation and/or neurite extension by inhibiting ion channel Na,K-ATPase, which is one of its other well-characterised inhibitory activities. Evidence for the selective action of vanadate on some but not all neuronal cell lines comes from the fact that it did not induce neurite extension in the human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-MC. These data imply that vanadate-induced neurite outgrowth responses in pheochromocytoma and SH-SY5Y cells can be induced by the inhibition of tyrosine phosphatases and appears not to simply mimic nerve growth factor signals. The target(s) of vanadate action in the two cell lines are currently being sought.
This study investigated the morphology and quantitative distribution of neurons containing NADPH diaphorase activity in the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus of the rat. The pattern of diaphorase staining revealed a strongly reactive lateral subdivision and a weakly staining medial subdivision. A characteristic feature of the diaphorase staining in the lateral part was its &quot;stripe-like&quot; appearance. These &quot;diaphorase stripes&quot; resulted from regions of strong somatic and neuropil diaphorase activity lying between unstained fibre bundles coursing dorsoventrally through the nucleus. Two distinct populations of diaphorase reactive cell types were present--class A and class B neurons. The ratio of class A to class B diaphorase neurons was approximately 14:1 (A:B). Diaphorase reactive neurons made up 73% of the total neuron population in the lateral subdivision, and 31% in the medial subdivision. A third population of cells was found exclusively in the optic tract--class C neurons. Quantitative analyses in the coronal and sagittal planes indicated that the principal processes of both class A and class B neurons were oriented preferentially--either parallel with, or perpendicular to the outlying optic tract. Diaphorase enzyme histochemistry in combination with GABA immunocytochemistry demonstrated the co-localization of GABA immunoreactivity in the majority of class B neurons, whereas class A and class C neurons were GABA immunonegative. Furthermore a large population of GABA-immunoreactive neurons was present that were not stained for diaphorase activity. From this and previous studies, it can be concluded that a high proportion of the diaphorase reaction class A neurons are geniculotectal projection cells, while diaphorase reaction class B neurons represent a numerically small subpopulation of &quot;local-circuit&quot; inhibitory neurons. Since diaphorase activity co-localizes with nitric oxide synthase, the results indicate the likely involvement of nitric oxide in the neuronal operations of both subpopulations of geniculotectal projection neurons and &quot;local-circuit&quot; GABAergic neurons in the rat's ventral lateral geniculate nucleus.
Substance P, a putative neurotransmitter or neuromodulator of nociception or pain in the spinal cord, exhibits both antinociceptive and hyperalgesic properties. Investigators have shown that the N-terminal metabolite of substance P, substance P(1-7), produces naloxone-reversible antinociception when given supraspinally and systemically in mice and hyperalgesia when injected intrathecally in rats. The goal of our investigation was to identify the receptors mediating these actions of substance P(1-7) at the initial site of release of substance P, i.e. in the spinal cord. Thirty minutes after intrathecal injection, substance P(1-7) produced naloxone-reversible antinociception in a dose-dependent manner in the abdominal stretch assay. When administered with naloxone, substance P(1-7) produced hyperalgesia 5 and 10 min after injection, which was inhibited by dizocilpine (MK-801), a phencyclidine ligand and non-competitive antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate. Antinociception was inhibited by the mu-selective opioid antagonist beta-funaltrexamine, but not by the mu 1-selective opioid antagonist naloxonazine or the delta-selective antagonist naltrindole, indicating a mu 2-opioid receptor-mediated effect. These findings suggest that the N-terminal portion of substance P may modulate nociception or pain, as demonstrated in the acetic acid abdominal stretch (writhing) assay, via activation of two different receptor systems. Substance P(1-7)-induced hyperalgesia is mediated by a phencyclidine-sensitive mechanism and antinociception involves activity at mu-opioid, most likely mu 2, receptors.
The localization of fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 was investigated in rat brain by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal antibody against an acidic peptide sequence of chicken fibroblast growth factor receptor-1. For raising the antisera in rabbits, we synthesized the oligopeptide EDDDDEDDSSSEEKEAD which is a highly acidic region of chicken fibroblast growth factor receptor-1. The oligopeptide was used as a haptenic antigen by conjugating with poly-L-glutamate as a carrier protein. On immunospot assay, the best antiserum was capable of detecting 15.7 pmols of both the chicken and its analogous human oligopeptides but failed to react even with up to 1 nmol of poly-L-glutamate. When rat brain homogenate was examined by Western blots, the antiserum revealed two bands with molecular weights of 145,000 and 75,000 corresponding to known sizes of the membrane-bound and secreted forms of the rat receptor, respectively. Immunohistochemistry in rat brain demonstrated that putative fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 immunoreactivity sites were present mainly in neurons but also in tanycytes and ependymal cells. Positive neurons were distributed widely in various brain regions, but were particularly abundant in such regions as the lateral hypothalamus, substantia nigra, locus coeruleus and raphe nuclei. The present study suggests that fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 is expressed preferentially in certain neuronal systems that appear to be under the influence of fibroblast growth factors in the normal brain. The result should facilitate study of the functional significance of fibroblast growth factors in these brain neurons.
Incubation of PC12 cells with S-100 protein induces a rapid (0.5-1.0 min) rise of intracellular Ca2+ which lasts for the whole period of incubation. This effect is abolished in a Ca(2+)-free medium or in the presence of 1.0 microM Ni2+, an inhibitor of calcium channels. The rise in intracellular Ca2+ is followed by a progressive increase of cells undergoing degeneration and death. This event is accompanied by the appearance of apoptotic bodies and DNA fragmentation typical of the process known as apoptosis. S-100-induced cell death is prevented by 1 microM Ni2+ or by 0.1 nM cycloheximide, suggesting the involvement of new protein synthesis. It is postulated that the binding of S-100ab to specific sites present in PC12 cells is followed by the formation of Ca2+ channels and/or the stimulation of pre-existing ones with consequent increase of Ca2+ influx and activation of a process of cell death.
An extensive plexus of nerve fibers capable of synthesizing nitric oxide was demonstrated in the cat carotid body by immunocytochemical and biochemical studies of nitric oxide synthase. Denervation experiments indicated that the axons originate from: (i) microganglial neurons located within the carotid body and along the glossopharyngeal and carotid sinus nerves, whose ramifications primarily innervate carotid body blood vessels; and (ii), sensory neurons in the petrosal ganglion, whose terminals end in association with lobules of type I cells. In the in vitro superfused cat carotid body, the nitric oxide synthase substrate, L-arginine, induced a dose-dependent inhibition of carotid sinus nerve discharge evoked by hypoxia. In contrast, the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, L-NG-nitroarginine methylester, augmented the chemoreceptor response to hypoxia, and this effect was markedly enhanced when the preparation was both perfused and superfused in vitro. The nitric oxide donor, nitroglycerine, inhibited carotid sinus nerve discharge, and immunocytochemistry revealed that this drug stimulated the formation of cyclic 3',5'-guanosine monophosphate in both type I cells and blood vessels. Our data indicate that nitric oxide is an inhibitory neuronal messenger in the carotid body, which affects the process of chemoreceptor transduction/transmission via actions on both the receptor elements and their associated blood vessels.
Changes in neuropeptide expression occur in sensory, motor, and sympathetic neurons following axotomy. The particular pattern of peptide changes that occurs varies among the three cell types. We have studied the regulation in the rat superior cervical ganglion of the expression of galanin, a peptide previously shown to increase in axotomized sensory and motor neurons. While normally only an occasional neuron exhibiting galanin-like immunoreactivity is found in this ganglion, at two days after transection of the postganglionic internal and external carotid nerves, immunostaining can be observed in many neurons throughout the ganglion. Similar changes are found when ganglia are placed in organ culture for two days. The distribution of immunostained neurons after section of only one of the postganglionic trunks suggests that changes in galanin-like immunoreactivity occur only within neurons whose axons are transected. None the less, even when both nerve trunks are transected, only about half of the neurons in the ganglion exhibit galanin-like immunoreactivity, indicating that only a proportion of the axotomized neurons exhibit a detectable response. The few immunostained neurons seen after section of the cervical sympathetic trunk may also represent axotomized neurons. Galanin-like immunoreactivity extracted from the ganglion co-chromatographs with authentic galanin, and the level of this immunoreactivity increases dramatically after axotomy and explantation, and modestly after decentralization. These same manipulations produce parallel increases in the level of galanin messenger RNA. Together, the findings indicate that the expression of galanin increases in sympathetic neurons after axotomy. Galanin is thus the first neuropeptide whose expression has been shown to increase after transection of all three types of peripheral axons that have been studied.
We reviewed the relationship between affective disorder and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). There are many reports that elderly patients with depression had increased small deep white matter lesions than the normal control. We examined silent cerebral infarction (SCI) in patients with presenile and senile major depression. Our findings suggest that half of presenile-onset major depression and the majority of senile-onset major depression might be organic depression related to SCI. Because patients with depressive states with SCI are at high risk of occurrence of stroke, we designated this condition &quot;pre-stroke depression&quot;. It is important to begin therapy for cerebrovascular disease at this time.
The brain stem of children with congenital aqueductal stenosis or posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus were examined histologically and immunohistochemically. Congenital aqueductal stenosis occurs in various stages of CNS development, and is associated with microdysplasia and maturational abnormalities including astrogliosis, loss of neurons (tyrosine hydroxylase reactivity) and decreased myelination (myelin basic protein reactivity) in the periaqueductal gray matter. In Arnold-Chiari type II malformation there are few dysplasias, and poor development of glial and neural components in the periventricular brainstem. On the other hand, there are marked astroglial proliferation and defects of neural fibers in the periaqueductal area in children with posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus. Fibrous proliferation in aqueduct makes stenosis, and its pathogenesis seems to be caused by edema, ependymal cell desquamation, microglial proliferation and astrogliosis in parts of hemosiderin deposition. Thus, different CSF circulation disturbance and neural transmission disorder of the brainstem may develop with occurrence time, etiology or secondary complication of hydrocephalus.
NCQ 115 ((+)-(R)-5-bromo-N-((1-(4-fluorobenzyl)-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl)-2, 3-dimethoxybenzamide) is a selective dopamine D-2 receptor antagonist. NCQ 115 has a fluorine in a synthetically suitable position in the parent compound and was therefore suggested as a potential 18F-labelled radioligand for positron emission tomography (PET). [18F]4-Fluorobenzyl iodide was prepared in a 3-step synthesis from [18F]fluoride. N-4-Fluorobenzylation of the corresponding secondary pyrrolidine precursor was performed in DMF followed by purification with semi-preparative HPLC. The total radiochemical yield (EOB and decay-corrected) was 15-20% with a total synthesis time of 90 min and a radiochemical purity &gt; 99%. The specific radioactivity at the end of synthesis (EOS) was about 1500 Ci/mmol (55.5 GBq/mumol). [18F]NCQ 115 was injected into a Cynomolgus monkey for PET examination of brain in vivo. There was a conspicuous uptake of radioactivity in the monkey striatum. A specific [18F]NCQ 115 binding reached a peak after about 60 min which indicates equilibrium.
The aim of the present study was to analyze the effects of morphine injected into the second relay station of the gustatory input pathways, the parabrachial area, on preference for saccharin over water. This study was carried out using both rats whose lateral hypothalamic neurons had been lesioned by ibotenic acid and sham-lesioned rats. As already shown, an 0.3 mM solution of the sweetener, which was clearly preferred over water by the sham-lesioned animals, was neutral for the lesioned rats. The injection of 50 ng of morphine into each parabrachial area transformed this neutral response of the lesioned rats to a clear preference for the sweetener, whereas the preference of sham-lesioned rats for the same solution was converted to an aversive response. Likewise, with a more palatable solution of saccharin (2.5 mM), the injection of 50 ng of morphine decreased the preference of the nonlesioned rats but increased the preference of the lesioned animals. Using the 2.5 mM solution of saccharin, the intraparabrachial injection of higher doses of morphine (100 and 500 ng) did not greatly modify the preference for the sweetener but induced a significant decrease in total fluid intake that was still observed 11 h after the injection of the opiate. These results are discussed: the morphine-induced aversion observed in the nonlesioned rats could be explained either by a specific influence on certain opioid receptors in the parabrachial area or, more probably, by the stimulation of pathways involved in taste or visceral aversive processes and relaying in the parabrachial area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA), (+-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA), or (+-)-trans-1-amino-1,3-cyclo-pentanedicarboxylic acid (ACPD) (5-60 ng in 0.3 microliter of saline) microinjected in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus on penile erection and yawning was studied in male rats. NMDA induced both penile erection and yawning in a dose-dependent manner. AMPA and ACPD also induced penile erection but less potently than NMDA, but were ineffective in causing yawning. NMDA effect on penile erection and yawning was prevented by (+)-MK-801 (0.05-0.1 mg/kg IP, 10 min before NMDA), by the oxytocin antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8- vasotocin (50-100 ng ICV 10 min before NMDA), but not by haloperidol (0.1-0.5 mg/kg IP 10 min before NMDA). The results suggest that NMDA induces penile erection and yawning by increasing oxytocinergic transmission by acting in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus.
Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was investigated in a group of medicated DSM-III-R schizophrenic patients and age, sex and handedness matched normal volunteers using a split-dose 99mTc-HMPAO Single Photon Emission Tomography (SPET) protocol. Measures were taken during the performance of a verbal memory task aimed at activating the left medial temporal lobe, a region repeatedly suggested to be structurally abnormal in schizophrenia. In normal subjects, the performance of the task was associated with significant rCBF increases in the left medial temporal, left inferior frontal and anterior cingulate cortices, and right cerebellum. Despite their significantly poorer performance on the memory task, the degree of medial temporal activation measured in the schizophrenic patients was not significantly different from that found in the control group. This finding suggests that memory deficits in schizophrenia do not necessarily imply failure to activate the left medial temporal lobe as assessed by 99mTc-HMPAO SPET.
Ibogaine is a putative anti-addictive drug with potential efficacy for the treatment of opiate, stimulant, and alcohol abuse. We now report ibogaine is a competitive inhibitor (Ki, 1.01 +/- 0.1 microM) of [3H]MK-801 binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor coupled cation channels. Since MK-801 can attenuate the development of tolerance to morphine and alcohol as well as sensitization to stimulants in preclinical studies, the reported ability of ibogaine to modify drug-seeking behavior in man may be attributable to a blockade of NMDA receptor coupled cation channels.
Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded from normal young adults during visual search tasks in which the stimulus arrays contained either eight identical items (homogeneous arrays) or seven identical items and one deviant item (pop-out arrays). Four experiments were conducted in which different classes of stimulus arrays were designated targets and the remaining stimulus arrays were designated nontargets. In Experiments 1 and 2, both target and nontarget pop-out stimuli elicited an enhanced anterior N2 wave and a contralaterally larger posterior P1 wave, but Experiments 3 and 4 demonstrated that these components do not reflect fully automatic pop-out detection processes. In all four experiments, target pop-outs elicited enlarged anterior P2, posterior N2, occipital P3, and parietal P3 waves. The target-elicited posterior N2 wave contained a contralateral subcomponent (N2pc) that exhibited a focus over occipital cortex in maps of current source density. The overall pattern of results was consistent with guided search models in which preattentive stimulus information is used to guide attention to task-relevant stimuli.


Myo-inositol-1,4,5-triphosphoric acid (IP3) formation stimulated by (+-)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentane-trans-dicarboxylic acid (trans-ACPD) was examined in the cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum of iron-induced epileptic rats and epileptic El mice. Increased IP3 formation by trans-ACPD was observed in the cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum of iron-injected rats while it was found in the hippocampus and cerebellum of the saline-injected control rats. Increased IP3 formation by trans-ACPD was remarkably higher in the hippocampus of iron-injected rats than the other regions. Increased IP3 formation by trans-ACPD was observed in the cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum of ddY mice, while such an increase was found only in the cerebral cortex and not in the hippocampus and cerebellum of El mice. These findings suggest that the inositol response may be involved in the seizure mechanisms of iron-induced epileptic rats and epileptic El mice in some different forms.
A new dry chemistry fluorescence immunoassay has been recently developed for therapeutic drug monitoring. In the present study we compared this new assay with a fluorescence polarization immunoassay. The drugs tested were carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, theophylline and valproate. An high degree of correlation (coefficients ranging from 0.95 to 1.00) was obtained for all drugs tested.

Many effects resulting from D2 dopamine (DA) receptor stimulation are manifest only when D1 DA receptors are stimulated by endogenous DA. When D1 receptor stimulation is enhanced by administration of selective D1 receptor agonists, the functional effects of selective D2 agonists are markedly increased. These qualitative and quantitative forms of D1/D2 DA receptor synergism are abolished by chronic DA depletion when both D1 and D2 DA receptors are supersensitive. Using both electrophysiological and behavioral methods, the present study examined the effects of selective D1 and D2 receptor supersensitivity, induced by repeated administration of selective D1 or D2 receptor antagonists, on the synergistic relationships between D1 and D2 receptors. Daily administration of the selective D2 antagonist eticlopride (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) for 3 weeks produced a selective supersensitivity of both dorsal (caudate-putamen) and ventral (nucleus accumbens) striatal neurons to the inhibitory effects of the D2 agonist quinpirole (applied by microiontophoresis). This treatment also abolished the normal ability of the D1 agonist SKF 38393 to potentiate quinpirole-induced inhibition, and relieved D2 receptors from the necessity of D1 receptor stimulation by endogenous DA (enabling), as indicated by significant electrophysiological and behavioral (stereotypy) effects of quinpirole in eticlopride-pretreated, but not saline-pretreated, rats that were also acutely depleted of DA. Daily administration of the selective D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) caused supersensitivity of striatal neurons to the inhibitory effects of SKF 38393 and also abolished both the ability of SKF 38393 to potentiate quinpirole-induced inhibition and the necessity of D1 receptor stimulation for such inhibition. However, both quinpirole-induced inhibition of striatal cells and stereotyped responses were also somewhat enhanced in SCH 23390-pretreated rats. When such D1-sensitized rats were acutely depleted of DA, the behavioral effects of quinpirole were intermediate between saline-pretreated rats with acute DA depletion and SCH 23390-pretreated rats without acute DA depletion. Based upon these and related results, it is argued that the enhanced effects of quinpirole in D1-sensitized rats are due to a heterologous sensitization of D2 receptors rather than to enhanced enabling resulting from supersensitive D1 receptors. It is suggested that supersensitivity of either D1 or D2 receptors can lead to an uncoupling of normal qualitative and quantitative D1/D2 synergisms and that the heterologous regulation of D2 receptor sensitivity by D1 receptors may be related to uncoupling of functional D1/D2 synergisms.

Naturally occurring cell death has been hypothesized to sculpt various features of the organization of the mature visual pathways, including the recent proposal that the selective elimination of ganglion cells in the temporal retina shapes the formation of decussation patterns. Through a class-specific interocular competition, ganglion cells in the two temporal hemiretinae are selectively lost to produce the decussation patterns characteristic of each individual cell class (Leventhal et al., 1988). The present study has tested this hypothesis by asking whether the removal of one retina in newborn ferrets, which should disrupt binocular interactions at the level of the terminals, alters the decussation pattern of the alpha cells, a cell class that is entirely decussating in the normal adult ferret. Enucleation on the day of birth was found to increase the uncrossed projection by approximately 50%, but not a single uncrossed alpha cell was found in the temporal retina. Either alpha cells never project ipsilaterally during development, or if they do, they cannot be rescued by early enucleation. While naturally occurring cell death plays many roles during development, creating the decussation pattern of the ferret's alpha cell class via a binocular competition at the level of the targets is unlikely to be one of them.
Smooth pursuit eye movements allow primates to keep gaze pointed at small objects moving across stationary surroundings. In monkeys trained to track a small moving target, we have injected brief perturbations of target motion under different initial conditions as probes to read out the state of the visuo-motor pathways that guide pursuit. A large eye movement response was evoked if the perturbation was applied to a moving target the monkey was tracking. A small response was evoked if the same perturbation was applied to a stationary target the monkey was fixating. The gain of the response to the perturbation increased as a function of the initial speed of target motion and as a function of the interval from the onset of target motion to the time of the perturbation. The response to the perturbation also was direction selective. Gain was largest if the perturbation was along the axis of ongoing target motion and smallest if the perturbation was orthogonal to the axis of target motion. We suggest that two parallel sets of visual motion pathways through the extrastriate visual cortex may mediate, respectively, the visuo-motor processing for pursuit and the modulation of the gain of transmission through those pathways.
The subcellular distribution of GABAA receptor in the macaque and human retina was studied by immunocytochemistry with monoclonal antibodies for the alpha and beta subunits with a particular focus on bipolar cells. Immunoreactivity to GABAA receptor was present on dendritic tips of all bipolar cells. The stain was strongest on bipolar membranes in apposition to horizontal cell processes. Stain was concentrated on the tips of flat and invaginating cone bipolar cells at the base of the cone pedicle and on the invaginating tips of rod bipolar cells. Stain on the cone pedicle membrane was restricted to sites of apposition to stained bipolar dendrites; pedicle membrane in apposition to horizontal cell processes was unstained. Stain was also present on bipolar axon terminals in both on and off strata of the inner plexiform layer. All bipolar cell somas stained faintly; horizontal and Mller cell somas were unstained. The alpha and beta subunits distributed similarly in monkey and human retina. Presence of GABAA receptor on the bipolar dendritic tips suggests that horizontal cells directly affect bipolar cells. Thus, GABAA receptor might mediate the receptive field surround of both off and on bipolar cells. Presence of GABAA receptor on bipolar axon terminals suggests that much of the inhibition feeding back from GABAergic amacrine to bipolar cells is GABAA-mediated.
Capillary zone electrophoresis was performed on fourteen synthetic opioid peptides and one tachykinin peptide (substance P = SP) at pH values of 2.5, 5.5 and 8.5 to rationalize the electrophoretic behavior of these neuropeptides. A plot of the theoretical q/M(r)2/3 values (where q = peptide charge) calculated across the pH range of 1 to 10 for these peptides was used to understand and to predict their separation. The experimentally determined electrophoretic mobilities (mu) were correlated to the estimate of the relative mu predicted by q/M(r)2/3 and by [ln (q + 1)]/n0.43 (where n = number of constituent amino acids), where q values were calculated using amino acid pKa values for an isolated amino acid and for an amino acid in a peptide. In general, relatively high correlations were obtained with either mathematical expression and with both sets of amino acid pKa values for data at a single pH value. However, the combination of the former expression and the adjusted pKa values gave the best prediction of electrophoretic behavior when data for the three pH values were correlated across these different separation conditions.
As part of a program of screening the Merck sample collection, N-ethyl-L-tryptophan benzyl ester was identified as a weak antagonist at the substance P (NK1) receptor. Structure-activity studies showed that the indole ring system could be replaced by 3,4-dichlorophenyl, alpha- or beta-naphthyl, or benzthiophene with retention or only small loss of affinity. It was found that acylation of the tryptophan nitrogen gave compounds with higher affinity than N-ethyl or other basic amines. Optimization of substitution on the benzyl ester led to the identification of the 3,5-bis-(trifluoromethyl)benzyl ester of N-acetyl-L-tryptophan 26 as a potent and selective substance P receptor antagonist. Compound 26 blocked substance P induced dermal extravasation in vivo and was the most potent compound from this structurally novel class of antagonists which further adds to the diversity of small molecules that bind to the (NK1) receptor.
To facilitate molecular genetic analysis of vertebrate development, haploid genetics was used to construct a recombination map for the zebrafish Danio (Brachydanio) rerio. The map consists of 401 random amplified polymorphic DNAs (RAPDs) and 13 simple sequence repeats spaced at an average interval of 5.8 centimorgans. Strategies that exploit the advantages of haploid genetics and RAPD markers were developed that quickly mapped lethal and visible mutations and that placed cloned genes on the map. This map is useful for the position-based cloning of mutant genes, the characterization of chromosome rearrangements, and the investigation of evolution in vertebrate genomes.
Cytochrome c oxidase L-form transcript-binding protein (COLBP) activity parallels the tissue-specific mRNA expression of bovine cytochrome c oxidase liver isopeptides. A similar RNA-binding activity is found in human myoblast and liver Hep G2 cell homogenates. Human COLBP activity, however, is not present in myotubes or adult skeletal muscle. It is proposed that COLBP down-regulation during muscle cell differentiation may underlie oxidase isoform switching during myogenesis.

We used a biophysical model of an isolated dendritic spine to assess quantitatively the impact of changes in spine geometry, Ca2+ buffer concentration, and channel kinetics on Ca2+ dynamics following high-frequency activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. We found that varying the buffer concentration in the postsynaptic density from 50 to 500 microM can result in an 8-fold difference in the peak Ca2+ concentration following three pulses at 100 Hz. Similarly, varying the spine neck diameter from 0.1 to 0.55 micron can result in a 15-fold difference in the peak Ca2+ concentration. The amplification of peak Ca2+ concentration also depended on temporal summation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents. Variation of the current duration on the order of 100 msec can significantly affect summation at a given stimulation frequency, resulting in a 10-fold difference in the peak Ca2+ concentration at 100 Hz. It is suggested that activity-dependent modifications of these parameters may be important for the regulation of synaptic plasticity in the brain.
We have investigated the possible involvement of the synaptic vesicle protein synapsin IIa in synapse development. Synapsin IIa was introduced into Xenopus embryonic spinal neurons by early blastomere injection, and nerve-muscle cultures were prepared. Synaptic currents were measured by comparing synapses in which the presynaptic neuron either contained [syn IIa (+)] or lacked (control) exogenous synapsin IIa. Syn IIa (+) synapses had a 3.6-fold increase in the frequency and a 2.1-fold increase in the amplitude of spontaneous synaptic currents, compared to controls, after 2 days in culture. Synapsin IIa also increased the amplitude of evoked synaptic currents by 2.3-fold in 2-day cultures. The evoked synaptic current amplitudes of syn IIa (+) synapses had a lower coefficient of variation indicating a more stable evoked response. These enhanced synaptic activities were independent of the presence or absence of the protein in the postsynaptic muscle cell. The findings indicate a role for synapsin IIa in synapse maturation.
The distribution of proto-oncogene c-Fos protein-immunoreactive cells in the spinal cord dorsal horn was studied after electrical stimulation at A alpha/A beta-fiber intensity of normal and previously injured sciatic nerves in urethane anesthetized rats. No or only occasional Fos protein-like immunoreactive cells were seen after stimulation of the normal uninjured nerve or after nerve transection without stimulation. Electrical nerve stimulation at 3, 12, and 21 days after sciatic nerve transection resulted in substantial increases in the numbers of Fos protein-like immunoreactive cell nuclei in each of Rexed's laminae I-V. Combined demonstration of Fos protein-like immunoreactivity and of glial fibrillary acidic protein-like immunoreactivity (astroglia) or OX-42 immunoreactivity (microglia), indicated that the observed Fos protein-like response was confined to neurons and not to astroglia or microglia. Combined demonstration in the spinal cord of Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons and neurons labeled retrogradely with Fluoro-Gold from the gracile nucleus showed that some of the Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons in Rexed's laminae III and IV contributed to the postsynaptic dorsal column pathway. The results indicate that stimulation at A alpha/A beta-fiber intensity of a previously injured nerve gives rise to an abnormally increased activation pattern of postsynaptic neurons in the dorsal horn, some of which contribute to the postsynaptic dorsal column pathway.
In this study, the effects of chronic treatment with (+)-nicotine on brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, as well as on animal body weight were compared with those of chronic treatment with (-)-nicotine. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were s.c. injected with saline, (+)-nicotine (2.0 mg free base/kg b.w.) or (-)-nicotine (0.45 mg free base/kg b.w.) for 18 days. Brain nAChRs were investigated by (-)-[3H]nicotine binding. A significant increase in the high-affinity (-)-[3H]nicotine (5 nM)-binding sites was observed in the cortex, hippocampus, midbrain and striatum but not in the cerebellum of the rats treated with either (+)- or (-)-nicotine. The displacement curves of (-)-[3H]nicotine/(-)-nicotine in the cortices of rats treated with either (+)- or (-)-nicotine showed only one population of high-affinity binding sites, whereas both high- and low-affinity binding sites were observed in the cortices of control animals. Brain NMDA receptors were studied by [3H]MK-801, which binds to the NMDA receptor-ion channel complex. A significant decrease in the Bmax, but not in the KD for [3H]MK-801 binding in the cortices of rats treated with either (+)- or (-)-nicotine was only detected under certain experimental conditions where the NMDA receptors seem not to be maximally activated. The body weight of the animals treated with (-)-nicotine was significantly lower than that of the control animals, whereas there was no difference in body weight between (+)-nicotine- and saline-treated animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
NB2a/d1 cells incorporate neurofilaments (NFs) containing extensively phosphorylated high (NF-H) molecular weight subunits into the Triton-insoluble cytoskeleton of axonal neurites elaborated during differentiation with dibutyryl cAMP. However, immunocytochemical and biochemical analyses demonstrate the constitutive expression and extensive phosphorylation of a sizeable pool of (200 kDa) NF-H. We examined by cell-free analyses whether or not this Triton-soluble NF-H pool was assembly-competent in cell-free analyses. Triton-soluble fractions from 35S-radiolabeled NB2a/d1 cells were incubated with dissociated mouse CNS Triton-insoluble cytoskeletons that had been dissociated by treatment with 6 M urea. Following overnight dialysis to remove urea, low-speed centrifugation to sediment Triton-insoluble cytoskeletons resulted in the co-sedimentation of radiolabeled NF-H, indicating that Triton-soluble NF-H was capable of association with Triton-insoluble structures. Triton-soluble, extensively phosphorylated NF-H from NB2a/d1 cells was also capable of co-assembling with purified NF-L. Following high-speed centrifugation (100,000 x g for 1 h) to sediment any oligomeric assemblies, the Triton-soluble fraction from NB2a/d1 cells was mixed with purified NF-L that had been solubilized by 6 M urea. Following overnight dialysis to remove urea, high-speed centrifugation sedimented both NF-L and Triton-soluble NF-H from NB2a/d1 cells, demonstrating that Triton-soluble NF-H variants are assembly-competent. These data suggest that NF-H variants represent precursors for NF assembly, and indicate that their assembly within NB2a/d1 cells, demonstrating that Triton-soluble NF-H variants are assembly-competent. These data suggest that NF-H variants represent precursors for NF assembly, and indicate that their assembly within NB2a/d1 cells must be under temporal and spatial regulation.
Recombinant human annexin V showed survival promoting activity in embryonic rat neocortical and mesencephalic neurons in vitro. The neurotrophic effect was observed from a relatively low dose and in a dose-dependent manner. The neurotrophic activity of annexin V was completely blocked by anti-annexin V antibody. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that annexin V mRNA is expressed in non-neuronal cells in the CNS. These results suggest that annexin V plays certain roles in the CNS as a paracrine-type neurotrophic factor.
Whether or not chronic L-dopa treatment (100 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.), twice daily for 4 weeks) alters lipid peroxidation in the brain as an indicator of neuronal damage was examined in normal mice and mice in which catecholamine (CA) neurons had been injured previously by the administration of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), followed by recovery. In normal mice, chronic L-dopa treatment reduced the thiobarbituric acid reacting substances (TBARS) level, an indicator of lipid peroxidation, in the cerebral cortex. In contrast, in mice with CA neuronal injury induced by pretreatment with 6-OHDA, the chronic L-dopa treatment markedly increased the TBARS in the striatum and frontal cortex, despite recovery of the striatal dopamine levels similar to those in the control mice. These findings suggest that the long-term high-dose administration of L-dopa enhances the progression of neuronal damage in patients with injured CA neurons such as those with Parkinson's disease.
The cardiovascular effects of adrenaline microinjected alone or together with neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor agonists into the nucleus tractus solitarius (Sol) of the anaesthetized rat have been investigated in order to evaluate NPY/adrenergic receptor interactions. In the dose range 0.05-20 nmol, adrenaline microinjected unilaterally into the Sol produced significant dose-related reductions in mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate. The vasodepressor action of a close to ED50 dose of adrenaline (0.5 nmol) was significantly counteracted by a threshold dose of NPY (1-36) (1 pmol) and of the NPY Y1 receptor agonist [Leu31,Pro34]NPY (2.5 pmol) microinjected into the Sol, but not by a threshold dose of NPY(13-36)(50 fmol), a selective Y2 receptor agonist. The present study provides evidence for an antagonistic NPY Y1/adrenergic receptor interaction in the Sol of the rat, involved in cardiovascular regulation.
Internucleosomal DNA fragmentation, the characteristics feature of programmed cell death, was demonstrated in gerbil hippocampus following 10 min of forebrain ischemia. Quantitative analysis revealed the presence of DNA fragments as early as 12 h after ischemia, reaching a maximum at 48 h. Measurable DNA fragmentation was still present in 3/3 subjects 96 h after the ischemic insult. In situ staining of hippocampus demonstrated pronounced DNA fragmentation that was localized in the CA1 region. The localization of fragmented DNA to the CA1 is consistent with the vulnerability of this layer to ischemic insult, and indicates that DNA fragmentation may be associated with the delayed loss of CA1 neurons in this model of forebrain ischemia.
Systemic injection of kainic acid in adult rat is accompanied by a large increase in the accumulation of acetylated derivatives of spermidine and spermine in the hippocampus and piriform cortex of animals pretreated with the polyamine oxidase inhibitor, MDL 72527. Furthermore, the activity of the enzyme spermine/spermidine acetyltransferase is increased at 8 and 16 h after kainate injection in piriform cortex and hippocampus. These results indicate that the polyamine interconversion pathway is rapidly activated in limbic areas following kainate-induced seizure activity, and suggest that this pathway might participate in the resulting neuronal damage.
Can asymptomatic cerebral emboli be detected? With transcranial Doppler ultrasonography of the middle cerebral artery, short-duration high-intensity asymptomatic embolic signals were detected in 6 of 25 patients with carotid stenosis and in 9 of 24 with prosthetic cardiac valves, but not in 20 normal controls. In carotid stenosis the signals were usually unilateral and ipsilateral to the stenosis. Embolic signals were significantly more common in patients with mechanical valves than with pig xenografts (8/13 vs 1/11). With mechanical valves embolic signals were usually bilateral. Detection of asymptomatic emboli may allow identification of and preventive treatment in at-risk patients.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors mediate most rapid excitatory synaptic transmission in the mammalian central nervous system. These receptors are divided into alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA), kainate, and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors based on pharmacological and electrophysiological characteristics. Ionotropic receptor subunits are integral membrane proteins that have been proposed to have a large extracellular ligand-binding N-terminal domain, four hydrophobic transmembrane domains, and an extracellular C-terminal domain. In this study we have shown that both AMPA receptor subunits (GluR1-4) and kainate receptor subunits (GluR6/7) are glycosylated in adult rat brain; however, the kainate receptor subunits are glycosylated to a greater extent. Examination of the sequences of AMPA and kainate receptors revealed that kainate receptors have several additional consensus sites for N-linked glycosylation; interestingly, one of these is located in the proposed major intracellular loop of the receptor subunits. To test the proposed transmembrane topology model for these receptors, we have used site-specific mutagenesis of the GluR6 subunit to remove the consensus glycosylation site located within the proposed intracellular loop. Mutagenesis of this site demonstrates that it is glycosylated in transiently transfected human embryonic kidney cells, which express functional kainate receptors. Since N-linked glycosylation has only been found to occur on extracellular domains of plasma membrane proteins, these results suggest that the proposed transmembrane topology model for the glutamate receptor subunits is incorrect. Combining these results with other recent data, we have proposed an alternative transmembrane topology model.
A cDNA which encodes a protein tyrosine phosphatase with two src homology 2 (SH2) domains was isolated from a rat brain cDNA library. This phosphatase appears to be a rat homologue of PTP1D based on its amino acid sequence. The gene is expressed in a variety of tissues, and its mRNA is enriched in the brain, skeletal muscle, and lung. An RNA splice variant (PTP1Di) was also isolated which has four additional amino acid residues (Ala-Leu-Leu-Gln) in the catalytic domain. The catalytic domains of PTP1D and PTP1Di were expressed in Escherichia coli as glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins and purified to near homogeneity. Whereas both PTP1D and PTP1Di had catalytic activity, the Vmax of PTP1Di relative to that of PTP1D was 8-fold lower for para-nitrophenylphosphate, 20-fold lower for nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, and 14-fold lower for myelin basic protein. The Km values of PTP1Di were lower than those of PTP1D for both nicotinic acetylcholine receptor and myelin basic protein, suggesting a higher affinity of PTP1Di for a protein substrate. These two forms also differed in optimum pH for para-nitrophenylphosphate and sensitivity to the inhibitory effects of vanadate, molybdate, and spermidine. In order to see if this insert would affect the catalytic activity of other related phosphatases, the 4-amino acids were inserted in the corresponding region of the catalytic domain of PTP1C. Whereas both the wild type and PTP1Ci which contained the 4-amino acid insert dephosphorylated para-nitrophenylphosphate, nicotinic receptor, and myelin basic protein, the enzyme activity of PTP1Ci was only 11-24% of that of PTP1C wild type. These results demonstrate that the 4-amino acid insert in the catalytic domains of PTP1D down-regulates its phosphatase activity and suggests that RNA splicing may serve as a regulatory mechanism of protein tyrosine phosphatase activity.
The capillary zone electrophoretic behavior of substance P and methionine enkephalin, when the amount of peptide was increased at a constant injection volume, was examined using a 50-microns I.D. capillary. Peak-shape distortion (asymmetry) increased when the concentration of these two peptides exceeded 1% of the buffer concentration. Increasing the buffer concentration increased the peak height and decreased the peak width, leading to higher detectability and resolution, respectively. Peak area versus analyte concentration remained linear, even under the overloading conditions that distorted the peak shape.
Several modern concepts of the nervous system have developed since the last century: Their influence on modern neurology is traced by notes from biographies and the work of leading Swiss neurologists and neurobiologists. 1. Psychiatrists working in neuroanatomy: Auguste Forel, Constantin von Monakow, Bernhard Aloys von Gudden and Eduard Hitzig. 2. Anatomists who influenced the development of the &quot;neurone-theory&quot;: Rudolf Albert von Klliker and Wilhelm His Senior. 3. A practising physician developing &quot;interactionism&quot; as a basis for neurorehabilitation: Heinrich Simon Frenkel. 4. Behavioural aspects considered within a general framework of neurobiology: Walter R. Hess. 5. Neurosurgery: Hugo Krayenbhl.
The rise of neurophysiology in the 19th century was kindled by Luigi Aloysius Galvani's revolutionary claim for animal electricity at the end of the preceding century. He was first challenged by Allessandro Giuseppe Antonio Anastasio Volta who showed that the muscle twitch in Galvani's experiment was the result of electric stimulation rather than of an enabled biological current. The controversy between Galvani and Volta became a predominant and stimulating issue among the scientists of the early century and found its ultimate elucidation only 40 years later by the pioneering work of Carlo Matteucci of Pisa and Emil Heinrich Du Bois-Reymond of Berlin, who both deserve the reknown as founders of modern neurophysiology. As the first influential promoter and mastermind of the experimental physiology, Franois Magendie of Paris primarily investigated the nervous system and inaugurated the lesion experiments to clarify specific functions of neural structures. Johannes Mller founded the German school of physiology with its eminent neurophysiological offspring: Du Bois-Reymond, Hermann Ludwig Ferdinand von Helmholtz, and Eduard Friedrich Wilhelm Pflger. It was Helmholtz's merit to have for the first time precisely assessed the motor conduction velocity by measuring the time interval between two different stimulation sites of the sciatic nerve of the frog. In their brilliant work published in 1870 Gustav Theodor Fritsch and Eduard Hitzig demonstrated that appropriately located focal electrical stimulation of the exposed cortex of dogs induces movement of the contralateral limbs and unequivocally disproved the then prevailing dogma of holistic capacity of the hemispheres, which denied localised functions within the cortex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The startle reflex is inhibited when the startling stimulus is preceded 30-500 ms by a weak noise or 'prepulse'. While the primary startle circuit is organized at or below the pons, the amount of 'prepulse inhibition' (PPI) is modulated by forebrain activity and is reduced in certain neuropsychiatric disorders. The reduction of PPI in these disorders is thought to reflect disturbances in sensorimotor inhibition which underlie an inability to 'gate' irrelevant sensory, motor or cognitive information. PPI is altered by pharmacologic manipulations of the ventral striatum, which is thought to modulate PPI via sequential efferent projections through the ventral pallidum and pontine reticular formation. In the present study, we assessed the effects of cellular lesions of the ventral striatum (VS) on PPI. Quinolinic acid lesions of the VS significantly reduced PPI and increased startle amplitude; however, changes in PPI and startle amplitude were not significantly correlated within rats. Infusion of the GABA agonist muscimol into ventral striatal terminal fields in the ventral pallidum significantly restored PPI in VS-lesioned rats, but did not reverse lesion effects on startle amplitude. It was verified that muscimol infusions were made into an area which receives direct VS innervation, using ventral pallidal injections of the retrograde tracer Nuclear yellow in VS sham-lesioned rats. Cells in the ventral striatum appear to modulate sensorimotor gating of the startle reflex via a GABAergic innervation of the ventral pallidum.
The ability of VSCC antagonists to modulate excitatory amino acid (EAA) release was evaluated by measuring N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent spontaneous epileptiform discharges in rat cortical wedges. The N-type channel blocker omega-CTX-GVIA (300 nM) was ineffective. The P-type channel blocker omega-Aga-IVA at 300 nM reduced the frequency of discharges by 63%, while 300 nM omega-CTX-MVIIC reduced the frequency by 35%. These results coupled with the absence of NMDA antagonism by omega-Aga-IVA or omega-CTX-MVIIC in the cortical wedge suggest that the VSCCs blocked by these toxins are primarily responsible for mediating impulse dependent EAA release in the rat neocortex.
Lesions of the anterior hypothalamus-medial preoptic area (AH-MPOA) impair courtship and copulatory behavior in male Cnemidophorus inornatus, a sexually reproducing species of whiptail lizard, and male-like pseudosexual behaviors in C. uniparens, an all-female species. These results suggest that, since C. inornatus is a direct ancestor to C. uniparens, the neural structures responsible for mediating male-typical courtship and copulatory behavior in male whiptails are conserved in the evolution of the all-female parthenogen.
We have analyzed in the anesthetized cat the effects of electrical stimulation of the cerebral cortex on the intraspinal threshold of two collaterals belonging to the same muscle spindle or tendon organ afferent fiber. The results obtained provide, for the first time, direct evidence showing that the motor cortex is able to modify, in a highly selective manner, the synaptic effectiveness of individual collaterals of the same primary afferent fiber. This presynaptic control could function as a mechanism that allows funneling of information to specific groups of spinal neurons in the presence of extensive intraspinal branching of the afferent fibers.
In rodents, transient forebrain ischemia causes preferentially neuron death in small and medium size neurons of the striatum and hilar neurons in the hippocampus within 24 h, and CA1 hippocampal neurons within 72 h. The temporal unfolding of pathological processes after longer time intervals between reperfusion and sacrifice now includes delayed degeneration of the substantia nigra reticulata (SNr). Animals were exposed to 20 min of transient forebrain ischemia and sacrificed within 7 days, or at least 3 weeks after reperfusion. Histological examination and quantitative morphometrics revealed that the degree of volume loss and neuron loss in the SNr depended on the initial ischemic injury. Initial ischemic injury confined to the caudate nucleus produced volume loss but not neuron loss in the SNr. However, initial ischemic injury that included the caudate nucleus and the globus pallidus produced not only greater volume loss but also neuron loss in the SNr. SNr neuron loss was restricted to the medial dorsal area, occurred in animals that survived at least 3 weeks after perfusion, and did not occur in animals that survived 7 days after perfusion, and was accompanied by increased staining of antibody to glial fibrillary acidic protein. The topographic specificity and delayed time course suggest that the mechanism for SNr neuron loss depends on transneuronal events initiated by ischemia but evolving over a longer time period. In situ hybridization with a cDNA probe for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) mRNA demonstrated increased GAD signal in the remaining SNr neurons of animals with CN and GP damage compared to animals with CN damage. The significant increase in GAD mRNA may indicate compensation at the level of gene expression for the loss of GABAergic neurons. This rodent model offers new in vivo opportunities to elucidate the requirements for neuronal viability, and phenotypic expression, and suggests that the current notions of windows of opportunity for therapeutic intervention may be expanded from hours to days to weeks.
GTP or G protein inactivation by N-ethylmaleimide reduced the Bmax value but not the KD value of 7-[3H]hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin ([3H]7-OH-DPAT) binding in the rat subcortical limbic area. Neurotensin (10 nM) increased the KD and the Bmax values of [3H]7-OH-DPAT binding, and these effects persisted also following N-ethylmaleimide pretreatment. N-Propylnorapomorphine, quinpirole, raclopride, and remoxipride inhibited [3H]7-OH-DPAT binding with Ki values of 0.093, 1.97, 10.6, and 710 nM, respectively. These findings indicate that the D3 receptor is coupled to G proteins in the brain, and that neurotensin can modulate D3 agonist binding by a G protein-independent mechanism.
Increases in extracellular potassium concentrations reliably increase burst rates in cultured fetal murine spinal cord networks. This effect could be mimicked by either blocking voltage-gated potassium conductances or facilitating excitatory synaptic interactions, but not by blocking specific calcium-dependent potassium conductances or tonic depolarization. Spontaneous bursting in cultured networks is apparently dependent on potassium currents and intracellular calcium levels, but not on the pharmacologically characterized calcium-dependent potassium conductances.
Overview of views on dyslexia-specific reading disorders. The most important contribution to the problem was the work of S. T. Orton which began more than 60 years ago. He was the first to formulate the neuropsychological theory of dyslexia. His followers use as a basis his idea that the specific background of dyslexia are cerebral mechanisms with decisive functional relations of the two cerebral hemispheres, but they abandon the factor of dominance of one half of the cerebral cortex. An important contribution was the work of D. Kimura et al. (some 30 years ago) who published findings relating to the role of the hemispheres in processing different grades of human speech, spatial, superficial and figural stimuli (inc. text). During the last twenty years interesting findings were provided by child neurologists R. Masland, N. Geschwind and his pupil and follower A. Galaburda (cytoarchitectonic investigations of the brain) and the neurosurgical clinic of Prof. G. A. Ojeman. Thus a new discipline was developed--neurobiology of speech as well as other branches of so-called neurosciences. Their findings will influence in future not only the approach to handicapped children but also the organization of the training process and teaching methods.
A number of peptides have been identified in the central nervous system of the freshwater snail, Lymnaea stagnalis, that function as hormones and neurotransmitters/neuromodulators. These peptides are typically proteolytically processed from larger prohormones mostly at sites composed of single or multiple basic amino acid residues. Previously we demonstrated a diversity of putative prohormone convertases that may be involved in prohormone processing in the Lymnaea brain. In the present report, we have characterized a cDNA clone encoding a putative endoprotease of 837 amino acids. The primary structure of endoprotease (Lfur2) was comparable to that of human furin and contained a putative catalytic domain, a Cys-rich domain, and a transmembrane region. The catalytic domain of Lfur2 demonstrated about 70% residue identity when compared with human furin, PACE4 and Drosophila Dfur1 and dKLIP-1. The Lfur2 gene was expressed in the central nervous system as well as various peripheral tissues of Lymnaea.

To explore the possibility that gonadal hormones are required for triggering the postpubertal emergence of enhanced dopamine-related behaviors in rats with neonatal excitotoxic lesions of the ventral hippocampus (VH), we assessed behavioral changes in castrated VH lesioned rats. The VH of rat pups was lesioned with ibotenic acid on day 7 after birth (PD7). Rats were castrated on PD21. Novelty- and amphetamine-induced locomotor activity were tested on PD56, and apomorphine-induced stereotypic behaviors and locomotion were evaluated on PD98. As demonstrated previously, the VH lesioned rats expressed enhanced novelty-, amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced hyperlocomotion (PD56) as well as potentiated apomorphine-induced stereotypic behaviors (PD98) in young adulthood as compared with sham-lesioned counterparts. Castration had no significant effect on novelty-induced locomotion or apomorphine-induced stereotypies but potentiated amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced hyperactivity in lesioned rats. These results indicate that the absence of gonadal hormones not only does not prevent the appearance in adulthood of behavioral disturbances linked to increased DA transmission in rats with neonatal lesions of the VH but even exaggerates those linked primarily to the mesolimbic DA system.
This study was designed to evaluate the effects of a chronic treatment with the classical neuroleptic drug haloperidol on the preproenkephalin (ppEnk) mRNA synthesis and its consequences for opioid and dopamine (DA) receptor-regulated adenylate cyclase in the developing and adult rat striatum. Prenatal exposure to haloperidol (2 mg/kg, 14 days) caused a 40% reduction of striatal ppEnk mRNA levels, but had no consequences for DA-stimulated or Met-enkephalin-inhibited adenylate cyclase activity in striatal slices from embryonic day 21 (E21) foetal brain. Postnatal treatment of rat pups from day 10 (P10) until P23 and adult rats resulted in significant increases of mRNA levels of 8 and 41%, respectively, a clear reduction of D1 DA receptor-stimulated cAMP production and a profound desensitization of delta-opioid receptors inhibitory coupled to adenylate cyclase. Since striatal D2 receptor-mediated inhibition of adenylate cyclase activity, in contrast to its activation through D1 receptors, is not present in the prenatal period, this study indicates that the tonic inhibitory effect of DA on striatal ppEnk mRNA synthesis is dependent on the presence of adenylate cyclase-coupled D2 receptors which gradually develops postnatally and further supports the idea that striatal D1 and D2 DA receptors have bidirectional effects on enkephalin synthesis in this brain area. The adaptive changes in D1 DA and delta receptor-regulated adenylate cyclase activity are discussed in relation to the well-known increase in the locomotor and reinforcing effects of mu-opioid receptor agonists upon chronic neuroleptic treatment.
Cholecystokinin receptors on GH3 rat anterior pituitary cells have been characterised using radioligand binding and Ca2+ mobilisation. [125I]Bolton Hunter CCK-8s (BHCCK) bound dose dependently to GH3 cells (Kd 85 pM, Bmax 23 fmol/mg protein). Competition curves with CCK-8s (IC50 2.4 nM), pentagastrin (IC50 25 nM) and devazepide (IC50 820 nM), were consistent with a population predominantly of CCKB receptors. Binding of [125I]BHCCK to lysed cells was inhibited by 10 microM GTP-gamma-S and 10 microM GppNHp, suggesting the receptor was linked to a guanine nucleotide binding protein. Intracellular Ca2+ mobilisation was a functional consequence of CCKB receptor activation in GH3 cells using the fluorescent dye fura-2. CCK-8s (0.1 nM-1 microM) and the selective CCKB receptor agonist, pentagastrin, (0.1 nM-100 microM) dose dependently increased intracellular Ca2+ with a similar maximal increase of 2.85-fold and 2.77-fold respectively. Response to a submaximal dose of the CCKB receptor agonist pentagastrin (100 nM) was dose dependently blocked by the CCKB receptor antagonist L-365,260. GH3 cells may therefore provide a useful model to study CCKB receptor coupling in a pituitary cell line.
The neuropeptides myomodulin, small cardioactive peptide (SCP), and buccalin are widely distributed in the phylum Mollusca and have important physiological functions. Here, we describe the detailed distribution of each class of peptide in the central nervous system (CNS) of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis by the use of immunocytochemical techniques combined with dye-marking of electrophysiologically identified neurons. We report the isolation and structural characterization of a Lymnaea myomodulin, PMSMLRLamide, identical to myomodulin A of Aplysia californica. Myomodulin immunoreactivity was localized in all 11 ganglia, in their connectives, and in peripheral nerves. In many cases, myomodulin immunoreactivity appeared localized in neuronal clusters expressing FMRFamide-like peptides, but also in a large number of additional neurons. Double-labelling experiments demonstrated myomodulin immunoreactivity in the visceral white interneuron, involved in regulation of cardiorespiration. SCP-like immunoreactivity also appeared in all ganglia, and double-labelling experiments revealed that in many locations it was specifically associated with clusters expressing distinct exons of the FMRFamide gene that are differentially expressed in the CNS. Characterization of the two types of SCP-antisera used in this study, however, suggested that they cross-reacted with both FMRFamide and N-terminally extended FMRFamide-like peptides. Selective preadsorption with these cross-reacting peptides resulted in elimination of the widespread staining and retention of bona fide SCP immunoreactivity in the buccal and pedal ganglia only. Buccalin immunoreactivity was limited to the buccal and pedal ganglia. It did not coincide with the distribution of either myomodulin or SCP. Most immunoreactive clusters were found in the pedal ganglia.
This paper investigates the distribution of four classes of neuropeptides, myomodulin, small cardioactive peptide (SCP), buccalin, and FMRFamide, in central neurons forming the network that underlies feeding behavior in the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. Intracellular dye-marking and immunocytochemical analysis, using antisera to the different classes of peptides, were applied to identified neurons of all three levels of the hierarchy of the circuitry: modulatory interneurons (cerebral giant cells, CGC; slow oscillator, SO), central pattern generator (CPG) interneurons (N1, N2, N3), motoneurons (B1-B10), and their peripheral target organs. Myomodulin immunoreactivity was detected in the CGC interneurons, in the SO, and in ventral N2-type CPG interneurons. Several large buccal motoneurons, the paired B1, B2, B3, B7, and neurons located in the dorsal posterior area (putative B4 cluster types) were also myomodulin immunoreactive. Target organs of buccal motoneurons, the buccal mass, salivary glands, and oesophagus contained myomodulin-immunopositive fibers. SCP appeared in N2-type interneurons and was found colocalized with myomodulin in the B1 and B2 motoneurons. SCP-containing neurons in the B4 cluster area were also detected. The buccal mass and salivary glands exhibited SCP-immunoreactive fibers. Buccalin immunoreactivity was scarce in the buccal ganglia and was identified only in N1-type interneurons and three pairs of dorsal posterior neurons. In the periphery, immunoreactive fibers were localized in the oesophagus only. None of the buccal neuronal types examined revealed immunoreactivity to SEQPDVDDYLRDVVLQSEEPLY (&quot;SEEPLY&quot;), a peptide encoded in the FMRFamide precursor protein of Lymnaea. SEEPLY immunoreactivity was confined to a pair of novel ventral neurons with projections to the laterobuccal nerve innervating the buccal mass. Immunoreactive fibers were also traced in this organ.

Met5-enkephalin inhibits sodium and water excretion and antagonizes the central actions of angiotensin II in subfornical organ of rat brain. We examined the ultrastructural basis for enkephalin modulation in this circumventricular region. Additionally, we examined the possibility that there might be cellular sites for functional interactions involving Met5-enkephalin and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), a known inhibitory transmitter throughout the central nervous system. Met5-enkephalin and GABA were identified in single coronal sections through the subfornical organ using immunoperoxidase and silver-enhanced immunogold labeling methods, respectively. Enkephalin-like immunoreactivity was most prominently localized within axon terminals. These were distributed primarily in the central, highly vascular, regions of the subfornical organ. Enkephalin-labeled terminals were apposed to the basement membranes of fenestrated capillaries and also formed symmetric, inhibitory type synapses with neurons. In terminals associated with either blood vessels or neurons, the enkephalin immunoreactivity was enriched in large (80-150 nm) dense core vesicles. The immunoreactive vesicles were usually located within portions of the axon in close proximity to astrocytic processes. In contrast, smaller vesicles in the same terminals were more often aggregated near the basement membrane of the capillaries and the active zone of the synapse. The targets of enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals were either unlabeled or GABA-labeled dendrites of local neurons. Enkephalin was also co-localized with GABA in perikarya and in axon terminals. Terminals containing only GABA were far more abundant than those containing enkephalin or enkephalin and GABA. GABA-immunoreactive terminals formed symmetric synapses on unlabeled dendrites some of which also received convergent input from terminals containing enkephalin. Additionally, the enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals were closely apposed to GABA-labeled and unlabeled terminals. These results suggest sites for nonsynaptic release of Met5-enkephalin from dense core vesicles in contact with astrocytes near blood vessels and synaptic complexes in the rat subfornical organ. Moreover, the observed dual localization and pre- and postsynaptic associations between neurons containing Met5-enkephalin and GABA indicate that inhibitory effects of opioids in the subfornical organ may be mediated or potentiated by GABA.
Efflux pathways for amino acids, K, and Cl activated during regulatory volume decrease (RVD) were characterized in cultured cerebellar granule neurons exposed to hyposmotic conditions. Results of this study favor diffusion pores (presumably channels) over energy-dependent transporters as the mechanisms responsible for the efflux of these osmolytes. The selectivity of osmolyte pathways activated by RVD was assessed by increasing the extracellular concentrations of cations, anions, and amino acids to such an extent that upon opening of the pathway, a permeable compound will enter the cell and block RVD by reducing the efflux of water carried by the exit of intracellular osmolytes. The cationic pathway was found selective for K (and Rb), whereas the anionic pathway was rather unselective being permeable to Cl, nitrate, iodine, benzoate, thiocyanate, and sulfate but impermeable to gluconate. Glutamate and aspartate as K but not as Na salts were permeable through the anion channel. RVD was slightly inhibited by quinidine but otherwise was insensitive to known K channel blockers. RVD was inhibited by 4,4'-diisothiocyanostilbene-2-2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS), niflumic acid, and dipyridamole. Gramicidin did not affect cell volume in isosmotic conditions but greatly accelerated RVD, suggesting that cell permeability to Cl is low in isosmotic conditions but increases markedly during RVD making K permeability the rate limit of the process. The permeability pathway for amino acids activated during RVD as permeable to short chain alpha- and beta-amino acids, but excluded glutamine and basic amino acids.
The present study was aimed at determining whether or not lesions of the anterior thalamic nuclei induced deficits in sequential or delayed spatial alternation (SA) in mice, these procedures enabling measures of sensitivity to interference and rate of forgetting respectively. Results showed that sequential SA comprising six successive trials separated by a 30 s inter-trial interval was not impaired by the lesion; in contrast, delayed SA in lesioned animals was impaired by a long (6 h) but not by a short (5 min) delay, compared with controls. These results support the view that lesions of anterior thalamic nuclei can produce anterograde amnesia for spatial informations selective to relatively long delay.
A novel method to selectively lesion preganglionic sympathetic neurones has been combined with immunohistochemistry to study the expression of peptides in the rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG). Thus, systemic administration of monoclonal antibodies against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) caused a marked reduction in the number of enkephalin (ENK)-positive fibres and a total disappearance of fibres immunoreactive for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and AChE in the SCG. A marked increase in the number of galanin/galanin message-associated peptide (GAL/GMAP)-immunoreactive cell bodies was also observed. The present results indicate that probably all CGRP and most ENK containing fibres in the rat SCG are of preganglionic origin and that peptides not normally expressed in SCG neurones, e.g. GAL and GMAP, can be upregulated after deafferentation.
Previous electrophysiological and pharmacological studies have suggested the involvement of both glycine and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) as transmitters in the reflex pathway mediating recurrent inhibition of cat spinal motoneurones. By use of the postembedding immunogold technique and antibodies against glutaraldehyde-conjugated amino acids it is shown that glycine- and GABA-immunoreactive nerve terminals occur in contact with cell bodies of alpha motoneurone size, as well as in the surrounding neuropil in the motor nuclei of the cat spinal cord. A substantial proportion of these terminals harbours both glycine- and GABA-LI. The enrichment of immunolabelling over synaptic vesicles in such terminals strongly suggests that both of these amino acids are used as transmitter substances.
Errors in pointing to remembered target locations in 3-D space were studied when subjects were free to move their heads, and when they rotated their heads to the extreme right or left. Relative to pointing when the head was free to move, head rotations to the right shifted the final position of the responding arm to the left, whereas head rotations to the left shifted the final position of arm to the right. Horizontal rotation of the head had no systematic influence on elevation and radial distance errors. The influence of head rotations on pointing errors may be mediated by small shifts in the internal representation of external space, shifting the presentation of space in the opposite direction of the head rotation.
Neuronal storage disorders are fatal neurodegenerative diseases of humans and animals that are caused by inherited deficiencies of lysosomal hydrolase activity. Affected individuals often appear normal at birth but eventually develop progressive neurologic symptoms including sensory and motor deficits, mental retardation, and seizures. We have examined efficacy of bone marrow transplantation as a means of enzyme replacement, using cats with the lysosomal storage disease alpha-mannosidosis. Treated animals showed little or no progression of neurologic signs 1-2 years after transplant, whereas untreated cats became severely impaired and reached endstage disease by 6 months of age. Increased lysosomal alpha-mannosidase activity was found in brain tissue of the treated animals, and electron microscopy revealed no evidence of lysosomal storage within most neurons. Histochemical localization of acidic alpha-D-mannoside mannohydrolase (EC 3.2. 1.24), using 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl alpha-D-mannopyranoside, showed that functional enzyme was present in neurons, glial cells, and cells associated with blood vessels. This study provides direct evidence that bone marrow transplantation as treatment for a neuronal storage disease can lead to significant levels of a missing lysosomal hydrolase within neurons of the central nervous system and to compensation for the genetic metabolic defect.
Efferent stimulation and nicotinic agonists can either decrease or increase the frequency of occurrence of EPSPs recorded from VIIIth nerve afferents in the frog. It has been hypothesized that the distribution of hair cell resting membrane potentials overlaps the equilibrium potential dictated by the nicotinic-gated channels on the hair cells. Nicotinic mediated increases in EPSP frequency would then be due to depolarization of hair cells that were more hyperpolarized at rest, while decreases in EPSP frequency would be due to hyperpolarization of hair cells more depolarized at rest. In order to test this hypothesis, while recording from afferents which showed an increase in EPSP frequency due to bath application of the nicotinic agonist DMPP (1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperizinium iodide), hair cells were depolarized with 10 mM K+ in the bath, and then the effects of DMPP on EPSP frequency were assessed. In this situation, DMPP still increased EPSP frequency, suggesting that the equilibrium potential for the nicotinic-gated channel was much more positive than the resting potentials of the hair cells. An alternative hypothesis then seems likely, that the nicotinic receptors on hair cells are able to activate different iontophores that result in either hair cell depolarization or hyperpolarization, dependent upon which iontophore predominates in the hair cells innervating a particular afferent.
The nature of neurofilament organization within the axonal cytoskeleton has been the subject of controversy for many years. Previous reports have suggested that neurofilaments are randomly distributed in the radial dimension of the myelinated axon. Randomness of distribution implies that there is no interaction between neurofilaments, while order in distribution suggest the presence of forces between neurofilaments. To address the issue of randomness vs. order, we evaluated neurofilament distribution by two different statistical approaches--nearest-neighbor distance and the Poisson tile-counting method. Neurofilament nearest-neighbor distances in a myelinated axon differ from nearest-neighbor distances of a set of random points with similar density (40.6 +/- 7.0 nm vs. 30.7 +/- 12.9 nm, P &lt; 0.0001). The Poisson tile-counting method also indicated that neurofilament distribution is different from a random distribution, under conditions of appropriate tile size and masking of other organelles. To further characterize the distribution of neurofilaments, we compared the relationship between nearest-neighbor distance and density for three sets of data: evenly spaced points, randomly distributed points and measured neurofilament coordinates. Neurofilaments do not conform to either evenly spaced or random distribution models. Instead, neurofilament distribution falls into an intermediate position between evenly spaced and random distributions. This study also demonstrates that the nearest-neighbor distance method of assessing neurofilament distribution offers several technical and theoretical advantages to the Poisson tile-counting method.
The DI TNC1 cell line has been derived from cultures of rat brain astrocytes by targeted oncogenesis. Cultured astrocytes are known to promote neurite outgrowth via the production of adhesion molecules found either on the cell surface or in the extracellular matrix. We sought to investigate whether DI TNC1 cells retained the ability to produce such neurite-inducing molecules, and promote neurite growth. We found by immunofluorescence that DI TNC1 cells expressed laminin, N-CAM and 1A1. The latter is a cell adhesion molecule that is expressed exclusively on astrocytes of the type 1 lineage. In vitro neurite outgrowth assays were also used to assess the functional properties of these cells. Monolayers of DI TNC1 cells were almost as effective a substrate as monolayers of astrocytes purified from the neonatal rat brain in their ability to support neurite outgrowth. In addition, PC12 cells grown on extracellular matrix derived from either DI TNC1 cells or neonatal astrocytes displayed significantly more neurite growth than cells plated on plastic. This effect was partially inhibited by preincubation of the extracellular matrix with anti-laminin antibodies. Taken together, these results suggest that the immortalized DI TNC1 cells show many similarities to neonatal astrocytes. Given the heterogeneity of cultured astrocytes, this homogeneous cell line may prove to be particularly useful for future investigations on interactions between glia and neurons.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) catalyzes the COOH-terminal alpha-amidation of neuro-endocrine peptides through the sequential action of monooxygenase and lyase domains contained within this bifunctional protein. Alternative splicing leads to the expression of soluble and integral membrane bifunctional PAM proteins as well as a soluble monofunctional monooxygenase. In order to determine how alternative splicing affects post-translational modification of PAM proteins, we investigated the sulfation of PAM proteins expressed in stably transfected hEK-293 cells. Metabolic labeling with [35S]SO4(2-) or [35S]methionine and immunoprecipitation demonstrated that [35S]SO4(2-) was efficiently incorporated into PAM proteins that have the noncatalytic exon A region following the monooxygenase domain (PAM-1 and PAM-4) and into a soluble bifunctional PAM protein (PAM-3). Alkaline hydrolysis, radiosequencing, and deglycosylation experiments demonstrated the presence of a sulfated tyrosine (Tyr965) in the COOH-terminal domain of PAM-3 and multiple sulfated O-glycans in the exon A region of PAM-1 and PAM-4. A mutant PAM-3 protein in which Tyr965 was changed to Ala965 (PAM-3/Y965A) was not sulfated and exhibited monooxygenase and lyase activities similar to those of wild type PAM-3. Pulse-chase and temperature block experiments showed that the PAM-3/Y965A protein exits the trans-Golgi network faster than wild type PAM-3. Thus inclusion of exon A results in the sulfation of O-glycans, while elimination of the transmembrane domain results in the sulfation of Tyr965.
Genes encoding neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors exhibit restricted patterns of expression in the nervous system. We are interested in elucidating the molecular mechanisms responsible for establishing these patterns of expression. This paper presents the characterization of regulatory elements upstream of the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha 3 gene. We have identified a GC-rich multistart site promoter adjacent to the alpha 3 coding region. Similar alpha 3 start sites were identified in PC12 cells and sympathetic ganglion neurons, suggesting similar control mechanisms in the clonal line and peripheral neurons. The start site region lacks TATA-like sequences but does contain initiator-like sequences. We show, in transient transfection assays, that the POU domain transcription factor, SCIP/Tst-1, specifically activates alpha 3 in a neural context. Other POU domain factors tested only weakly activated or repressed alpha 3. Unexpectedly, we found that alpha 3 basal activity and SCIP/Tst-1 activation of alpha 3 is not dependent on the SCIP/Tst-1 binding sites found upstream of the gene. In addition, mutations in the SCIP/Tst-1 coding region that prevent the factor from binding to DNA with high affinity do not obliterate alpha 3 activation. These results lead us to propose that alpha 3 activation by SCIP/Tst-1 is achieved via protein-protein interactions between SCIP/Tst-1 and a specific complement of transcription factors that act directly on the promoter.
Vestibular nerve afferents innervating the bullfrog utriculus differ in their response dynamics and sensitivity to natural stimulation. They also supply hair cells that differ markedly in hair bundle morphology. To examine the peripheral innervation patterns of individual utricular afferents more closely, afferent fibers were labeled by the extracellular injection of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into the vestibular nerve after sectioning the vestibular nerve medial to Scarpa's ganglion to allow the degeneration of sympathetic and efferent fibers. The peripheral arborizations of individual afferents were then correlated with the diameters of their parent axons, the regions of the macula they innervate, and the number and type of hair cells they supply. The utriculus is divided by the striola, a narrow zone of distinctive morphology, into medial and lateral parts. Utricular afferents were classified as striolar or extrastriolar according to the epithelial entrance of their parent axons and the location of their terminal fields. In general, striolar afferents had thicker parent axons, fewer subepithelial bifurcations, larger terminal fields, and more synaptic endings than afferents in extrastriolar regions. Afferents in a juxtastriolar zone, immediately adjacent to the medial striola, had innervation patterns transitional between those in the striola and more peripheral parts of the medial extrastriola. Most afferents innervated only a single macular zone. The terminal fields of striolar afferents, with the notable exception of a few afferents with thin parent axons, were generally confined to one side of the striola. Hair cells in the bullfrog utriculus have previously been classified into four types based on hair bundle morphology (Lewis and Li: Brain Res. 83:35-50, 1975). Afferents in the extrastriolar and juxtastriolar zones largely or exclusively innervated Type B hair cells, the predominant hair cell type in the utricular macula. Striolar afferents supplied a mixture of four hair cell types, but largely contacted Type B and Type C hair cells, particularly on the outer rows of the medial striola. Afferents supplying more central striolar regions innervated fewer Type B and large numbers of Type E and Type F hair cells. Striolar afferents with thin parent axons largely supplied Type E hair cells with bulbed kinocilia in the innermost striolar rows.
Olfactory receptor neurons depolarize in response to odorant stimulation of their sensory cilia. One transduction mechanism involves a G-protein-mediated increase in adenylate cyclase activity, raising the internal cyclic AMP concentration to open a cyclic nucleotide-activated cation channel on the plasma membrane. An influx of Ca2+ through this channel, which is permeable to both monovalent and divalent cations, triggers olfactory adaptation. Previous work has indicated that at least part of this Ca(2+)-mediated adaptation resides in the channel itself, but the mechanism remains unclear and controversial. Here we use the cloned channel from rat expressed in a cell line and the native channel from rat olfactory receptor cells to show that Ca2+ reduces the apparent affinity of the channel for cAMP by up to 20-fold in the presence of calmodulin, an abundant protein in olfactory cilia. This decrease in apparent affinity appears to involve a direct interaction between Ca(2+)-calmodulin and the channel, and it can reduce the activation of the channel by cAMP by up to a few hundred-fold, suggesting that it may be a key component of the Ca(2+)-triggered olfactory adaptation.
Vitamin K is given to many babies born in the United Kingdom, but we still do not know if it has substantial hazards. Because the population exposed to vitamin K is very large even quite small hazards would involve many adverse events. It is therefore important to be able to put reasonably close bounds on the potential damage that vitamin K prophylaxis could cause. Past research has not allowed us to do this but a large randomised controlled clinical trial of vitamin K against no vitamin K, enrolling only infants at low risk of haemorrhagic disease, would do so. There is no question that vitamin K is a useful treatment in babies at highest risk of haemorrhagic disease: the question is whether the trend towards use of vitamin K in lower risk babies should be encouraged.

Fourteen children who relapsed after initial remission of leukaemia were studied. Six received a second course of cranial radiotherapy, while the remaining eight children were given total body irradiation before bone marrow transplantation. The postirradiation somnolence syndrome was common after cranial radiotherapy. All children had mild/soft neurological signs, mostly of coordination. None had a major motor disability. All but the youngest child had cataracts; two children required an operation for these. All children were growth hormone deficient. Verbal IQ, attention, and concentration were selectively reduced (with respect to normative levels). The time between the two treatments, age at relapse, and higher doses of radiotherapy all correlated with cognitive outcome, with girls showing greater impairments than boys. Only two children were performing at age appropriate levels on measures of academic achievement. It is concluded that neurological and neuropsychological morbidity is significantly increased by the current treatments prescribed after the relapse of leukaemia.



GBS and CIDP are multifocal demyelinating diseases with lesions widely disseminated throughout the peripheral nervous system including cranial nerves, terminal intramuscular nerves and autonomic nerves. In both conditions myelin destruction is mediated by macrophages that attack myelin without disturbing the integrity of Schwann cells. The same pattern of myelin breakdown occurs in EAN, providing additional evidence that these disorders are immune-mediated. Recent autopsy and biopsy studies have challenged the view that lymphocytes are always present in newly forming lesions, an observation supporting a role for humoral immunity in the pathogenesis of some cases of GBS and CIDP. In both conditions neurological dysfunction is related to both myelin destruction and axonal loss. In some cases of CIDP there is the additional factor of impaired remyelination. Other chronic demyelinating neuropathies that may be immune-mediated differ from CIDP in presenting as solitary or multiple mononeuropathies. These can be classified into cases with and without evidence of widespread demyelination, cases with and without focal nerve enlargements, and a pure motor variant, multiple motor neuropathy associated with elevated anti-GM1 ganglioside antibody titres.
Electrical stimulation of area 24 and area 32 of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in rabbits elicited increases in respiration rate and decreases in heart rate (HR) and blood pressure. However, stimulation in area 25 elicited pressor responses and a biphasic HR response consisting of an initial HR increase followed by an HR decrease. Administration of an alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist eliminated the pressor response and bradycardiac response produced by area 25 stimulation but it had no effect on the bradycardia elicited by stimulation of area 24 or area 32. Lesions centered on area 32 of the mPFC greatly attenuated the conditioned bradycardiac response elicited by paired tone and paraorbital shock presentations. Lesions of area 24 produced a decrease in discrimination between a reinforced conditioned stimulus and a nonreinforced conditioned stimulus but had no effect on the magnitude of the conditioned response. Area 25 lesions had no effect on any aspect of conditioned responding.
We have studied the importance of hydrophobic interactions in the fusion activity of Sendai virus. Viral fusion activity towards model lipid membranes was monitored using a fluorescence dequenching assay. Fusion was dependent on the composition of the target membrane and was more rapid and extensive at low pH. Dehydrating agents such as dimethylsulfoxide and dimethylsulfone greatly enhanced the initial rate and extent of the fusion process, the effect of dimethylsulfone doubling that of dimethylsulfoxide. However, dehydrating agents had a less pronounced stimulatory effect at low pH. Using the fluorescent probe ANS (1-aminonaphthalene-8-sulfonate) we have shown that low pH by itself involves a marked increase in the viral envelope hydrophobicity, probably resulting in the observed lower stimulation of viral fusion activity by dehydrating agents. Therefore, there seems to be a strong correlation between viral envelope hydrophobicity and viral fusion activity.
1. This study examined the regulation of calcium currents in differentiated NG108-15 cells that had been stably transfected with cDNA encoding the short isoform of the human D2 dopamine receptor. Whole cell calcium currents were recorded by nystatin-perforated patch clamp recording. 2. Transient low-threshold calcium currents elicited by depolarizations from -100 mV to -20 mV were reversibly depressed by NiCl2 (84 +/- 8% at 30 microM; n = 3) and by omega-agatoxin IVA (15 +/- 5%; 100 nM, n = 7). These currents were unaffected by hD2 receptor activation. 3. High-threshold calcium currents elicited by depolarizations from -80 mV to 0 mV were partly blocked by omega-conotoxin GVIA (67 +/- 6% at 100 nM, n = 4) and by the subsequent addition of the dihydropyridine, nisoldipine (94 +/- 3% at 1 microM). Consistent with the presence of at least two distinct types of high-threshold calcium channels, nisoldipine alone (38 +/- 15% at 1 microM, n = 6) did not preclude the inhibition caused by omega-conotoxin GVIA (69 +/- 13% at 100 nM, n = 4). The residual current was completely blocked by 100 microM CdCl2 (98.8 +/- 0.4%, n = 7). 4. In hD2-transfected cells, but not untransfected cells, high-threshold currents were depressed by quinpirole (30 +/- 4% at 100 nM; n = 15) with a pEC50 of 8.61 +/- 0.22 (n = 5), as well as by (-)-noradrenaline (28 +/- 5% at 1 microM, n = 9). Responses to both agonists were selectively antagonized by S-(-)sulpiride (100 nM) but not by the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist, phentolamine (1O microM). The depression caused by (-)-noradrenaline was positively correlated with that of quinpirole for each cell(r2 = 0.91, slope = 0.99).5. hD2-receptor-mediated inhibition of high-threshold calcium currents was abolished by pretreatment of cells with omega-conotoxin GVIA (100 nM; n = 4). However, a component of the high-threshold current was reversibly depressed by omega-conotoxin GVIA (67% to 45% depression after 10 min wash). This current was also depressed by hD2 receptor activation (59 +/- 9% depression in 100 nM quinpirole, n = 3),and was completely blocked by nisoldipine (95 +/- 2% at 1 MicroM).6. These data demonstrate that activation of hD2(short) dopamine receptors can regulate both wconotoxinGVIA, and dihydropyridine-sensitive high-threshold calcium currents in neuroblastoma cells.Morever, the ability of human D2 dopamine receptors to regulate more than one type of calcium current supports the notion that these receptors have a diverse functional role in the central nervous system.
The issue of progressive cognitive decline in patients with schizophrenia has been debated. We performed a cross-sectional study of patients with chronic schizophrenia, aged from 18 to 69 years, in order to address this issue. The patients included in this study passed a rigorous screen for any comorbid condition with an adverse impact on central nervous system function. We assessed intellectual deterioration with a battery of neuropsychological tests known to be sensitive to cognitive impairment in progressive dementia. No evidence of accelerated intellectual decline was found. No significant differences were found between the five age-derived cohorts (18-29, 30-39, 40-49, 50-59, and 60-69 years of age) on the Mini-Mental State Examination, Dementia Rating Scale, or other tests sensitive to dementia. While performance on the Boston Naming Test significantly declined with age, this was mainly due to age rather than duration of illness. However, it is important to note that mean performances on the majority of the tests were abnormal across all cohorts studied. These results suggest that intellectual function does not markedly decline during the adulthood of patients with schizophrenia. The course of schizophrenia is more consistent with a static encephalopathy than a dementing disorder.
The VD1/RPD2 mRNA precursor in identified neurons VD1 and RPD2 of the freshwater snail Lymnaea stagnalis is alternatively spliced to yield two related variants encoding two distinct yet related preprohormones, named the VD1/RPD2-A and -B preprohormones. Here, we report the isolation and structural characterization of alpha 1, alpha 2 and beta peptides from dissected neurons VD1 and RPD2. The alpha 1 and alpha 2 peptides are derived from VD1/RPD2-A and B prohormones, respectively, whereas beta peptide is identical for both prohormones. In addition, we report the isolation and structural characterization of the alpha 2 peptide from the heart, demonstrating that the mature peptides are transported and released in the heart. The pharmacological actions of synthetic alpha 1 and alpha 2 peptides on isolated auricle preparations of the Lymnaea heart were examined. The two alpha peptides have similar excitatory effects on beat rate and beat amplitude, while their potencies differed considerably, indicating that alternative splicing results in structurally and functionally overlapping, through non-identical, sets of peptides.
Patients diagnosed with a brain tumor and their families are faced with uncertainties that result from the progression of the disease and treatment regimen. Many strategies can be used to help patients and families deal with these uncertainties. A case report is used to illustrate how changing needs of a patient and family were met by using different strategies.
mRNA transcripts encoding neuropeptides were detected, by means of in situ hybridization, in the axonal compartments of different types of identified neurons in the central nervous system of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. All cell types studied contained axonal mRNA although the relative intensities of the hybridization signals (i.e., the intensity of the signal over the cell body versus that over the axonal compartment of a particular cell) varied greatly between the different cell types studied. Strong signals over the axonal compartment were obtained with an oligonucleotide probe specific for the molluscan insulin-related peptide gene III mRNA, whereas low signals were obtained, e.g., with a probe for the mRNA encoding the neuropeptide APG-Wamide. Furthermore, some neurons are known to express more than one neuropeptide gene, e.g., the molluscan insulin-related peptide-producing light green cells and the egg-laying hormone-producing caudo-dorsal cells; these cell types express 4 and 2 related neuropeptide genes, respectively. The results may indicate that the different neuropeptide transcripts within a neuron are transported selectively to the axonal compartment.
After a difficult initial period in which connectionism was perceived as either irrelevant or antithetical to linguistic theory, connectionist concepts are now beginning to be brought to bear on basic issues concerning the structure, acquisition, and processing of language, both normal and disordered. This article describes some potential points of further contact between connectionism and linguistic theory. I consider how connectionist concepts may be relevant to issues concerning the representation of linguistic knowledge; the role of a priori constraints on acquisition; and the poverty of the stimulus argument. I then discuss whether these models contribute to the development of explanatory theories of language.

Recent research and theory suggest that conscious experience involves a modelling process. The human brain generates an internal model to fit incoming information about the external world, and experiences the model rather than the information. The modelling occurs at the level of the neocortex and may be associated with specific oscillatory field potentials. Imagining exercises the modelling system independently of sensory information. General disorders of consciousness are caused by damage to those areas of the brain that energize and direct the modelling process Specific deficits of consciousness are caused by focal lesions to sensory or motor cortex that prevent the modelling of particular input and output patterns.
Recent behavioral studies of infants have provided further evidence for the existence of cognitive and perceptual abilities in the first few months of life. Additional evidence from developmental neuroscience and comparative psychology has supported the view that, in some domains, such as visual attention and face and speech recognition, multiple neurocognitive processes give rise to the pattern of behavioral development observed over the first years of life. Primitive abilities and constraints present from birth may play an important role in facilitating the development of later-emerging processes that are more responsive to the effects of experience. In other domains, such as object permanence and memory, previous claims that the pattern of development was best accounted for by the sequential development of multiple neurocognitive systems have been brought into question.
Computation modelling is playing an increasingly accepted and important role in neuroscience. It is not a unitary enterprise, though, and the distinction between two different sorts of modelling, one interested in description and the other also in function, is illustrated by their application to activity-dependent developmental plasticity and adult conditioning.
Recent advances in neuroscience and molecular neurochemistry have substantially increased the knowledge of the neuropathobiology of senile dementia and Alzheimer's disease. On the basis of various hypotheses concerning degenerative processes in aging brains, new therapeutic strategies have been developed, including nootropic drugs with different mechanisms of action and heterogenous chemical structures. Mutual relationships exist between neuroscientific research and nootropic drug development. To date, such areas of research and drug development have involved deficits of brain neurotransmission (cholinergic, monoaminergic, peptidergic), free radical-induced damage, disturbances of calcium homeostasis and excitatory amino acid function, and deposition of amyloid protein.
Magnetic resonance imaging allows the identification of heterotopic gray matter (HGM) in medically intractable partial epilepsies. The relationships between HGM and the epileptogenic zone remain, however, unclear. In a case of a temporo-parietal epilepsy studied by stereo-EEG, interictal and ictal electrical activity of a temporal HGM were recorded, showing: (1) an intralesional electrical activity, (2) the possible presence of asynchronous spikes, and (3) an early but never initial, or isolated, involvement during ictal discharges. This suggests that the presurgical and surgical management of HGM must be guided, as for other lesions, by the coherence existing between ictal clinical and electrical features, and anatomical data.
In the last quarter of our century technologies have been developed that permit us to measure and localize with previously unknown precision physiological concomitants of mental activities. Human in vivo cerebral psychophysiology has come of age, decades after the discovery of EEG. In part this has come about through the development of PET and most recently dynamic MRI. However, it is hardly known today that the concepts which underlie these modern methods of studying the physiological correlates of human mental activity were the focus of Berger's early research at the onset of his scientific career at the turn of the century. Indeed at that time he attempted to study human mental function through measuring cerebral blood flow by means of plethysmography applied to patients who had pulsating skull defects. He also measured intracerebral temperature changes during neurosurgical procedures in awake, locally anesthetized, patients in a quest of identifying metabolic concomitants of mental activity. He was thus well ahead of his time, but was forced to give up these methods because they were not commensurate to the task. Only at age 50 he turned to electrophysiology and discovered the EEG. At last he was able to identify some electrophysiological facets of human psychophysiology related to attention, sleep, wakefulness and coma. This essay will illustrate some examples of PET, functional MRI, computerized EEG and cerebral electrical stimulation studies that show that Berger's conceptual approaches to human psychophysiology, even though he could not effectively apply them himself, were correct and have become powerful tools of modern neuroscience.
Pituitary cells with GnRH receptors increase over 2-fold during diestrus to reach a peak during the morning of proestrus. This is followed by a rapid fall during the afternoon of proestrus to reach a nadir by estrus. The objective of this study was to learn the identity of the new target cells added during diestrus. This was particularly important in view of recent evidence showing that gonadotropes with LH beta and FSH beta mRNA have GH antigens. Pituitary cells from diestrous and proestrous rats were exposed to biotinylated GnRH (Bio-GnRH) for 10 min. Bio-GnRH was detected by avidin peroxidase, and then the cells were immunolabeled for pituitary hormones. The percentages of cells labeled for Bio-GnRH rose during diestrus from 6.6 +/- 0.8% in the morning to 11.9 +/- 0.7% by evening (mean +/- SD). By the morning of proestrus, the percentages of Bio-GnRH target cells increased further to 16 +/- 0.7%. The percentages of pituitary cells dual labeled for LH beta antigens and Bio-GnRH rose from 4.3 +/- 0.6% to 9% +/- 1% during diestrus and averaged 13 +/- 0.7% by the morning of proestrus. At this time, 90% of cells with LH antigens bound Bio-GnRH. When percentages of pituitary cells with FSH beta antigens and Bio-GnRH-binding sites were analyzed, there was an increase during diestrus from 4 +/- 0.4% to 9.7 +/- 0.7%; a peak level of 14 +/- 0.9% was reached by the morning of proestrus. Bio-GnRH binding was expressed by 86% of FSH cells during this peak. Finally, GH antigens were also detected in GnRH target cells. The percentage of cells dual labeled for Bio-GnRH and GH increased from 4 +/- 0.8% to 8 +/- 1% during diestrus and the morning of proestrus. During the diestrous and proestrous peak periods of expression, Bio-GnRH binding was seen in 32% of GH cells. None of the other pituitary cell types showed significant GnRH binding. These studies showed that most of the new GnRH-receptive cells stem from maturing gonadotropes. Half of the GnRH-receptive cells also contain GH antigens, which correlated with results from previous studies that showed GH antigens in cells with gonadotropin mRNAs. This might reflect expression of gonadotrope functions by a subset of GH cells. Alternatively, the GH antigens may be bound to GH receptors in gonadotropes. This latter possibility may signify a paracrine regulation of gonadotrope function by GH.
The neuroendocrine cerebral caudodorsal cells of Lymnaea stagnalis initiate and coordinate ovulation and egg mass production and associated behaviors through the release of a complex set of peptides that are derived from the caudodorsal cell hormone-I (CDCH-I) precursor. We have previously characterized the CDCH-I peptide. In the present study, we isolated and amino acid sequenced by conventional peptide chemistry five additional peptides, epsilon-peptide, calfluxin, alpha-caudodorsal cell peptide, delta-peptide, and carboxyl-terminally located peptide, from the cerebral commissure, the neurohemal area of the caudodorsal cells. Fingerprinting by matrix-assisted laser desorption mass spectrometry of peptides in the commissure demonstrated the presence of all sequenced peptides and, in addition, could identify two other peptides derived from pro-CDCH-1, the beta 1- and beta 3-peptides. These findings together with previous immunocytochemical studies enabled us to define cleavage sites and major processing events of pro-CDCH-1. Pro-CDCH-1 is initially cleaved in the Golgi apparatus into carboxyl- and amino-terminal parts, each of which is sorted into distinct vesicle classes that traffic to different intracellular sites. As a result, in the commissure, peptides derived from the carboxyl-terminal part, including CDCH-1, are present at a many-fold higher concentration than those derived from the amino-terminal part.
The great technological progress in the Neurosciences area, which has appeared in the last few years, can cause, beside obvious scientific and practical advantages, an important risk: in fact, efficiency might be preferred at the expense of efficacy. In this paper we try and outline a sort of &quot;efficacy route in Neurology&quot;, based on well known general principles of Clinical Epidemiology, both for diagnosis and treatment. We stress the fact that clinical evaluation is still an essential instrument in the diagnostic process, and that the result of any therapeutic procedure must be evaluated by means of hard end points, strictly related to the real problems of the neurological patient.
Morphologically, a GABAergic connection between the medial terminal nucleus of the accessory optic system and the nucleus of the optic tract, two primary visual nuclei involved in the optokinetic reflex, has been demonstrated. In this study it was investigated if the medial terminal nucleus forms an inhibitory input to movement direction selective units in the nucleus of the optic tract. Neurons in the nucleus of the optic tract were visually stimulated with moving large random square patterns in their preferred and non-preferred direction, and their activity was recorded extracellularly. Concomitantly, bipolar electrical stimulation was applied to the medial terminal nucleus and its effect was studied on the visual responses of units in the nucleus of the optic tract. Units in the nucleus of the optic tract were strongly inhibited during electrical stimulation of the medial terminal nucleus. The role of GABA in mediating this inhibition was investigated by applying bicuculline, a GABAA receptor antagonist, iontophoretically to the recorded units in the nucleus of the optic tract. However, although average spike rate levels of units in the nucleus of the optic tract increased with bicuculline, bicuculline did not reduce inhibition invoked by electrical stimulation of the medial terminal nucleus. A possible explanation for this observation is that this inhibition is GABAB receptor mediated.
The effect of acute subcutaneous administration of methamphetamine on the expression of neurotensin mRNA was investigated in the adult rat striatum. At different time points (2, 6 and 24 h) following drug administration rats were killed, and mRNA levels were quantified both on films and emulsion-dipped tissue sections from two striatal levels. Two hours after methamphetamine injection, a dramatic increase in neurotensin mRNA levels was detected in different areas of the striatum at both rostral and caudal levels. Numerous positive cells were observed in the dorsomedial, dorsolateral and ventrolateral parts of the striatum. This up-regulation reflected an increase both in the number of cells expressing neurotensin mRNA and in the mean mRNA levels. This increase was still present after 6 h and was similar to the 2 h treated group at the rostral level of the striatum, but lower at the caudal one. Twenty-four hours after methamphetamine injection, neurotensin mRNA levels were back to control values, or in some areas even below. A strong increase in neurotensin mRNA-expressing cells was also seen in the olfactory tubercle, and the time-course was similar to the one observed in the striatum. In a second set of experiments, the effect of methamphetamine was evaluated on adjacent striatal sections hybridized with probes directed against neurotensin and substance P mRNAs, respectively. Two hours after drug administration, a significant increase in the levels of both peptide mRNAs was observed (+190% for neurotensin, +80% for substance P). These results demonstrate that methamphetamine is able to induce a dramatic, rapid and transient increase in striatal neurotensin mRNA levels, which may partly account for the elevation in neurotensin peptide levels observed in the striatonigral pathway after methamphetamine. The different anatomical localization of neurotensin mRNA-expressing cells observed after haloperidol and methamphetamine treatments, as well as the fact that the D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390 is able to counteract the effect of methamphetamine but not that of haloperidol on neurotensin mRNA expression, suggests that there are at least two different subpopulations of neurotensin cells in the striatum. One population is regulated via D1 receptors and projects to the substantia nigra pars reticulata. The second is sensitive to D2 receptor stimulation and may project to the globus pallidus and/or may represent interneurons.
We have utilized antibodies against the alpha subunit of GZ in fluorescence immunohistochemistry to determine whether this GTP-binding protein can translocate along nerves by intra-axonal transport. After ligation of the mouse sciatic nerve we found an increase in GZ-like immunoreactivity on the proximal and distal side with time, suggesting that the alpha subunit undergoes orthograde axonal transport and also returns to the cell body by retrograde axonal transport in the sciatic nerve. Unlike the retrograde transport of Gi alpha, shown in a previous study to be present in most sciatic axons, GZ alpha only accumulated in a subpopulation of axons, suggesting that different G-proteins could convey information specific to neuronal subtypes. These results support our proposal that GZ may play a second messenger role in communicating information from the terminals back to cell bodies. Gi alpha and GZ alpha may be representative of relatively stable signalling molecules by which the signal from some neurotrophic molecules can be translocated from the neuron periphery to the cell body without the need for the retrograde transport of the neurotrophic factor itself.
(-)-Norepinephrine is the predominant neurotransmitter of the sympathetic innervation of the heart. Racemic norepinephrine was labelled with carbon-11 and injected i.v. into Cynomolgus monkeys. Five minutes after injection there was a more than tenfold higher radioactivity in the heart than in adjacent tissue. Pretreatment with the norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor desipramine reduced the uptake by more than 80%. The high specific uptake of racemic [11C]norepinephrine indicates that enantiomerically pure (-)-[11C]norepinephrine has promising potential for detailed mapping of the sympathetic innervation of the human myocardium.
Central administration of galanin in the mouse dose-dependently blocked the hypothermia induced by the muscarinic receptor agonist, 2-ethyl 8-methyl-2,8-diazospiro[4,5]decan-1,3-dion hydrobromide, RS86 (minimum effective dose, MED = 3 nmol) and the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor tetrahydroaminoacridine, (MED = 3 nmol). This inhibitory effect was reversed over the dose range (0.1, 0.3, 1, 3 nmol) by the galanin receptor antagonist galantide (MED = 0.3 nmol). Furthermore, the ATP-sensitive K+ channel blockers glibenclamide (MED = 1 nmol) and gliquidone (10 nmol) both prevented the inhibitory effects of galanin on RS86 induced hypothermia. Glibenclamide (10 nmol) also reversed the inhibitory effects of galanin on tetrahydroaminoacridine induced hypothermia. Preincubation of rat cortical membranes with galanin (10 nM, 1000 nM) in vitro had no effect on binding affinity, receptor number or pharmacology of the rat cortical muscarinic receptor. In contrast to the high affinity of glibenclamide, galanin only weakly displaced [3H]glibenclamide binding in mouse whole brain homogenates (36% at 10 microM). These studies suggest that the inhibitory effect of galanin on cholinergically mediated hypothermia induced by RS86 and tetrahydroaminoacridine may be exerted via an action at ATP-sensitive K+ channels but is unlikely to be acting directly at the site labelled by [3H]glibenclamide.
The content of various substances, such as regulatory peptides, hormones and structural proteins, was investigated in normal buccal mucosa using indirect immunofluorescence. Thin nerve fibres, which from a morphological point of view were most probably sensory, showed immunoreactivity for substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), neuropeptide K (NPK) and neurokinin A (NKA). Also galanin (GAL), gamma-melanocyte stimulating hormone (gamma-MSH) and somatostatin (SOM) stained thin fibres were found in the propria, which were, however, few in number and the gamma-MSH staining was weak. CGRP, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), peptide histidine isoleucine amide (PHI) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) immunoreactive nerve fibres were observed in close connection to blood vessels. SOM positive cells with processes were found, mostly scattered, in the connective tissue. A population of cells within the epithelium also showed somatostatin immunoreactivity. Protein S-100 (S-100) stained distinct populations of cells at two separate locations. In the propria, cells with one or two slender processes were seen, being mostly single but sometimes forming groups. In the epithelium, dendritic cells with many processes with or without 'spines' were observed, mainly located to the basal layer of the lamina epithelialis. Single nerve fibres and nerve bundles were also stained. Neurofilament (NF) positive fibres, singly and in bundles, as well as endorgan-like structures were seen. Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) both stained the same structures, namely single fibres, nerve bundles, nerves surrounding vessels and innervating muscles and glands (if present in the section), as well as Merkel cells. Also with these two markers endorgan-like structures were seen. No clear innervation of the epithelium could be observed with the markers used. No methionine-enkephalin (ENK) or synaptophysin (SYN) immunoreactive material was found.
An association between the 19q13.2 chromosomal region and Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been reported in AD families and for sporadic AD. Recent observations provide evidence that the epsilon 4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE), located in this region, is a risk factor for late-onset AD. Within this region, other genes possibly involved in the pathophysiology of AD and in strong linkage disequilibrium with the APOE locus may be responsible for this association. To test this hypothesis, we analysed the allelic distribution of four polymorphic genetic markers flanking the APOE gene (D19S178 (CA)n repeat, D19S47 (CA)n repeat, APOCI HpaI restriction fragment length polymorphism, APOCII (CA)n repeat). We performed these analyses in a sample of late-onset sporadic cases (n = 36) versus controls (n = 38), and in a sample of early-onset sporadic cases (n = 34) versus controls (n = 36). Early-onset cases were analysed for two cut-offs with late-onset: less than 60 and less than 65. We observed a significant increased frequency of the APOE epsilon 4 allele in late-onset and early-onset AD with ages at onset less than 60 and less than 65. The adjusted odds ratio (OR) of the bearers of at least one APOE epsilon 4 allele was 4.10 ([1.84;9.16]) when estimated in both populations with a logistic regression model. Surprisingly, the odds ratio of the bearers of at least one APOE epsilon 2 allele was also significant and equal to 0.11 ([0.02;0.50]) suggesting a possible protective effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This study focusses on the development of a comprehensive multi-dimensional scale for assessing motivation for change in the alcohol dependent population. After establishing face validity, the items evolved were administered to a normal sample of 600 male subjects in whom psychiatric illness was ruled out. The data thus obtained was subjected to factor analysis. Six factors were obtained which accounted for 55.2% of variance. These together formed a 80 item five point scale and norms were established on a sample of 600 normal subjects. Further clinical validation was established on 30 alcohol dependent subjects and 30 normals. The status of motivation was found to be inadequate in alcohol dependent individuals as compared to the normals. Split-half reliability was carried out and the tool was found to be highly reliable.
Cross-linking of membrane IgM receptor on B cells induces tyrosine phosphorylation within 1 min. This biochemical alteration triggers a cascade of signaling events which ultimately leads to activation in mature B cells but growth arrest and cell death by apoptosis in immature B cells. To study the mechanisms underlying the bifurcation of signals, we chose to examine the role of receptor-type protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP) CD45 using CD45- clones isolated from an immature B cell line WEHI-231. Here we report that in CD45- clones, tyrosine phosphorylation was constitutively induced but not enhanced by anti-IgM stimulation and anti-IgM-induced Ca2+ flux was slightly delayed but evidently prolonged. Further, the degree of growth arrest and DNA fragmentation induced by anti-IgM antibody was more evident in CD45- clones than the parental cells. These results indicate that initial alterations in signaling are effectively transduced into effector signals and that IgM receptor-mediated growth arrest and apoptosis in immature B cells are negatively regulated by CD45.
1. We examined immobilization stress-induced antioxidant defense changes in rat plasma and observed the antioxidant effect of reduced glutathione (GSH) administration on these changes. 2. Immobilization stress induced severe bleeding in the stomach and a significant increase in plasma levels of thiobarbituric acid receives substances (TBARS). 3. Immobilization stress induced a significant decrease in plasma iron-binding, iron-oxidizing protections and radical scavenging activity. 4. Plasma levels of ascorbic acid, ascorbyl radical and superoxide dismutase activity remained unchanged following immobilization stress. 5. Treatment with GSH showed a significant protective effect on stomach bleeding, on the increase in plasma TBARS, and on the decrease of iron-binding, iron-oxidizing protection and radical scavenging activity in plasma. 6. These results suggest that immobilization stress induces generation of reactive oxygen species and decreases the endogenous antioxidant defenses, which can be attenuated by extracellular administration of antioxidant GSH.
The EEG time series has been subjected to various formalisms of analysis to extract meaningful information regarding the underlying neural events. In this paper the linear prediction (LP) method has been used for analysis and presentation of spectral array data for the better visualisation of background EEG activity. It has also been used for signal generation, efficient data storage and transmission of EEG. The LP method is compared with the standard Fourier method of compressed spectral array (CSA) of the multichannel EEG data. The autocorrelation autoregressive (AR) technique is used for obtaining the LP coefficients with a model order of 15. While the Fourier method reduces the data only by half, the LP method just requires the storage of signal variance and LP coefficients. The signal generated using white Gaussian noise as the input to the LP filter has a high correlation coefficient of 0.97 with that of original signal, thus making LP as a useful tool for storage and transmission of EEG. The biological significance of Fourier method and the LP method in respect to the microstructure of neuronal events in the generation of EEG is discussed.

The neurophysiology of mental events cannot be fully understood unless that of consciousness is understood. As the first step in a top-down approach to that problem, one needs to find an account of consciousness as a property of the biological organism that can be clearly defined as such. However, if it is to deliver what must be expected of it, it should address what is commonly meant by the word consciousness. Unless the last condition is satisfied, the theory will fail to deliver what must ultimately be expected of it. Although current interest lies mainly in the higher functions of consciousness, such as its role in language and social relationships, the common usage of the word relates to modes of awareness that are not denied to creatures lacking language or social relationships. The basic features to be covered include awareness of the surrounding world, of the self, and of one's thoughts and feelings; the subjective qualities of phenomenal experience (qualia); the conditions a brain event must satisfy to enter consciousness; and the main divisions of mental events, such as sensations, feelings, perceptions, desires, volitions, and mental images. In the first four chapters we argue that these basic features of consciousness can all be accounted for in terms of just three categories of internal representations, each supported by the empirical evidence and each accurately definable in physical and functional terms. In the fifth, and last, chapter we take a closer look at two of the categories and what these in particular suggest as the most relevant lines of research in the contemporary spectrum of the neurosciences.

Rate-dependent changes in the chick brain-stem auditory evoked response (BAER) using conventional averaging and a cross-correlation technique were investigated. Five 15- to 19-day-old white leghorn chicks were anesthetized with Chloropent. In each chick, the left ear was acoustically stimulated. Electrical pulses of 0.1-ms duration were shaped, attenuated, and passed through a current driver to an Etymotic ER-2 which was sealed in the ear canal. Electrical activity from stainless-steel electrodes was amplified, filtered (300-3000 Hz) and digitized at 20 kHz. Click levels included 70 and 90 dB peSPL. In each animal, conventional BAERs were obtained at rates ranging from 5 to 90 Hz. BAERs were also obtained using a cross-correlation technique involving pseudorandom pulse sequences called maximum length sequences (MLSs). The minimum time between pulses, called the minimum pulse interval (MPI), ranged from 0.5 to 6 ms. Two BAERs were obtained for each condition. Dependent variables included the latency and amplitude of the cochlear microphonic (CM), wave 2 and wave 3. BAERs were observed in all chicks, for all level by rate combinations for both conventional and MLS BAERs. There was no effect of click level or rate on the latency of the CM. The latency of waves 2 and 3 increased with decreasing click level and increasing rate. CM amplitude decreased with decreasing click level, but was not influenced by click rate for the 70 dB peSPL condition. For the 90 dB peSPL click, CM amplitude was uninfluenced by click rate for conventional averaging. For MLS BAERs, CM amplitude was similar to conventional averaging for longer MPIs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It is known that regenerating axons emerging from the proximal stump of a transected nerve are attracted towards the distal stump. It is not certain whether this neurotropic effect is on the axons themselves or whether it is on supporting cells such as Schwann cells that the axons then follow. In order to investigate this question in rats, segments of the sciatic nerve were either isolated or removed and reinserted as grafts, and then sutured into the opposing ends of double-Y silicone tubes. In these tubes, a central conduit was formed by connecting the centrally facing limb of each Y tube. The nerve segments were sutured into one of the limbs at either end. The third limbs of the Y tubes formed side arms, one of which was left open; a plug of mobilised fatty connective tissue was sutured into the other. A gap of 6 mm was left between the cut ends and the fat pads (or openings from the side arms). After 2-3 wk a significantly greater outgrowth (P &lt; 0.001) was found to link the nerve segments than to invade the side arms. The major cell component in the outgrowth was Schwann cells, supported by fibroblasts and capillaries and surrounded by a lamellated layer of flattened fibroblasts. The growth into the side arms had a looser cellular architecture and contained considerably fewer Schwann cells. The results strongly suggest the existence of mutual attraction between emigrant Schwann cells, or possibly endoneurial fibroblasts, from the 2 cut ends of transected nerves. This conclusion has implications for the guidance of axons across gaps in nerves. It does not exclude an additional neurotropic effect from the distal stump on axons.
To characterize the features of sympathetic nerve activity during non-REM sleep, we measured the muscle and skin sympathetic nerve activities (MSNA and SSNA, respectively) using a double recording microneurographic technique. Eight healthy volunteers were monitored by polysomnography (including EEG, EOG, EMG, and ECG) and received acoustic stimuli (880 Hz, 125 ms) during sleep stage 2. The specific discharge properties of MSNA during wakefulness included pulse-synchronicity, short burst duration and a non-responsiveness to arousal stimuli. These were considered to be generated by an inhibitory input from the baroreceptors to the cardiovascular center. In contrast, SSNA lacked pulse-synchronicity, had longer bursts, and was responsive to a variety of stimuli. Burst rates of MSNA and SSNA were reduced during sleep stages 1 and 2 (light sleep) vs. during a wakefulness. Both MSNA and SSNA appeared to be related to spontaneously occurring K-complexes. The baroreflex latency (from the ECG R-wave to the integrated MSNA burst peak) was constant at approximately 1.20 s during sleep, suggesting that pulse-synchronicity was maintained. The MSNA burst evolution time (interval between initiation of the burst and its peak) became longer with a transition to deeper non-REM sleep stages, whereas the SSNA burst evolution times remained constant. K-complexes induced by acoustic stimuli were frequently accompanied by MSNA and/or SSNA. MSNA responded to acoustic stimuli during light sleep, but some bursts lacked a close relation in time to cardiac rhythm.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In peripherally chemodenervated anesthetized and ventilated rats, inhalation of 100% N2 for 20 s rapidly excites reticulospinal vasomotor neurons of the rostroventrolateral reticular nucleus (RVL) and sympathetic nerves. After an initial fall, arterial pressure is also elevated. The sympathoexcitatory response and secondary increases in arterial pressure were abolished by microinjections of muscimol (250 pmol) into the RVL or by intrathecal administration of kynurenate (500 nmol), a broad-spectrum antagonist of excitatory amino acid receptors, but not by benextramine, an alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist. The results indicate that excitation of pre-ganglionic sympathetic neurons in the spinal cord by hypoxia results from excitation of RVL-spinal vasomotor neurons, probably the glutamatergic neurons.
We cloned cDNAs of a novel protein (designated V-1) that has been identified from among the developmentally regulated proteins in the rat cerebellum. Protein sequencing analysis (Taoka, M., Yamakuni, T., Song, S.-Y., Yamakawa, Y., Seta, K., Okuyama, T., and Isobe, T. (1992) Eur. J. Biochem. 207, 615-620) and cDNA sequence analysis revealed that the V-1 protein consists of 117 amino acids and contains 2.5 contiguous repeats of the cdc10/SWI6 motif, which was originally found in the products of the cell cycle control genes of yeasts and the cell fate determination genes in Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that the expression of the V-1 gene is transiently increased in postmigratory granule cells during postnatal rat cerebellar development and thereafter is markedly suppressed, whereas Purkinje cells constitutively express V-1 mRNA. In contrast, cerebellar granule cells of the staggerer mutant mouse continue to express the V-1 gene even when the granule cells of the normal mouse have ceased to express the V-1 gene, suggesting that the expression of the V-1 gene in granule cells is regulated through the interaction with Purkinje cells. On the basis of these results, we postulate that the V-1 protein has a potential role in the differentiation of granule cells.
Troponin C has a 14-residue alpha-helix at the extreme amino terminus (the N-helix) which is absent in calmodulin. To learn the significance of this region in troponin C, residues 1-14 were deleted using site-directed mutagenesis. Analysis of the mutant troponin C (delta 14-TnC) showed that deletion of the N-helix did not alter the secondary structure of troponin C. Like wild type troponin C, it exhibited Ca(2+)-dependent conformational changes based on electrophoretic mobility and increases in alpha-helix content. The thermal stability of delta 14-TnC, however, was 20 degrees C lower than wild type troponin C in the presence or absence of divalent cations because of destabilization of the amino-terminal domain. To determine the functional consequences of the deletion, its ability to relieve troponin I and IT inhibition of the actomyosin ATPase was assayed. The results show that the mutant could relieve troponin I inhibition in the presence and absence of Ca2+ but could relieve troponin IT inhibition only to 45-50% of the wild type level, even at high concentrations. Also, the calcium affinity of the low affinity sites is reduced as evidence by the 2.4-2.8-fold increase in Ca2+ concentration required to achieve half-maximal activation of the MgATPase and calcium titration of the metal-induced conformation monitored by far UV circular dichroism measurements. In addition, the N-helix is required for the full conformational change to take place upon the binding of Ca2+, but not Mg2+, to the high affinity sites. The results indicate that the N-helix of troponin C is important for the stability of troponin C and may play a vital role in the Ca(2+)-switching mechanism.
We have characterized the molecular species and subcellular distribution of Alzheimer beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein (APP) in neutrophilic granulocytes purified from human peripheral blood. APP was readily detectable in these cells. Immunochemical analysis with a panel of antibodies revealed that this APP species lacked the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains previously demonstrated in cell-associated APP. However, it contained a protease inhibitor domain of the Kunitz type, indicating that neutrophil APP is a potent inhibitor of certain serine proteases. Upon subcellular fractionation, APP was primarily localized to azurophilic granules, which are neutrophil-specific phagocytic organelles assigned to enzymatic digestion of invading microbes and dead or injured tissue. Apparently, in the neutrophil, a nonsecretory organelle stores truncated, soluble APP, a species previously found only in blood plasma and cerebrospinal fluid or in conditioned medium of cultured cells. Soluble APP in neutrophils may therefore have intracellular functions in addition to its previously described extracellular functions. These findings also indicate that there are previously uncharacterized cell-specific differences in processing, trafficking, and storage of the APP molecule. Finally, the precise subcellular localization of APP to neutrophil-specific phagocytic organelles is suggestive of a role for APP in the nonimmunological host defense.
Nine children (five girls and four boys) ranging in age from 1 to 18 years (median age, 12 years) with leptomeningeal metastasis were evaluated for cerebrospinal fluid compartmentalization with cerebrospinal fluid flow studies using ventricular diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid labeled with indium 111 (111In-DTPA). Histologic diagnosis included medulloblastoma (two), primitive neuroectodermal tumor (two), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (two), pineoblastoma (one), ependymoma (one), and anaplastic astrocytoma (one). Sixteen 111In-DTPA cerebrospinal fluid flow studies were performed, of which nine demonstrated normal anterograde cerebrospinal fluid flow of radionuclide, with the following cerebrospinal fluid compartment median times to appearance, with ranges in parentheses: ventricles, 1 minute (0 to 3 minutes); cisterna magna/basal cisterns, 5 minutes (3 to 5 minutes); cervical subarachnoid space, 8 minutes (5 to 10 minutes); thoracic subarachnoid space, 15 minutes (10 to 30 minutes); lumbar subarachnoid space, 35 minutes (20 to 45 minutes); and sylvian cistern, 80 minutes (60 to 90 minutes). Blockage of normal anterograde cerebrospinal fluid flow was seen in seven 111In-DTPA cerebrospinal fluid flow studies in the following cerebrospinal fluid compartments: cervical subarachnoid space (four), lumbar subarachnoid space (two), and cisterna magna/basal cisterns (one). Five 111In-DTPA cerebrospinal fluid flow studies were performed after demonstration of cerebrospinal fluid compartmentalization and treatment with limited-field radiation therapy to involved regions; cerebrospinal fluid flow blocks resolved in three. In conclusion, cerebrospinal fluid compartmentalization, as shown by radionuclide ventriculography, is a common occurrence in pediatric leptomeningeal metastasis (four of nine patients, or 44%) and may be palliated by involved-field radiotherapy.
Williams and Down syndromes, two genetic syndromes of abnormal neurodevelopment, are characterized by specific neuropsychological profiles and unique patterns of brain morphology. We find that the superior language ability of subjects with Williams syndrome is accompanied by significantly better performance on a verbal short-term memory task. Conversely, subjects with Down syndrome perform significantly better on a visual-spatial short-term memory task. This double dissociation provides neurogenetic evidence for the distinction between short-term storage for verbal and for visual-spatial stimuli.
The prognosis for patients with cancer of the paranasal sinuses (PNC) has been very poor, mainly due to a high rate of local recurrence. We report a series of 46 patients with PNC treated by craniofacial resection at the Royal Melbourne Hospital between November 1983 and June 1991. There has been no operative mortality or serious morbidity in these patients. The importance of a pericranial flap in the reconstruction of the floor of the anterior cranial fossa is emphasized. All patients have been followed to death or to the present time. There was a five year survival of 73% for squamous cell carcinoma and 83% for adenocarcinoma. This appears to represent a significant improvement in the long term results over conventional surgery and radiotherapy. The strong association between adenocarcinoma of the ethmoid sinuses and occupational exposure to hardwood dusts is borne out in our series. A history of prolonged wood dust exposure was given by all the 16 patients with adenocarcinoma and by 12 of the 25 patients with squamous cell carcinoma.
Dopamine elicits alternating bursts of activity in the respiratory interneurones of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. One of the neurones (VD4) was isolated in culture, and the effects of dopamine on both membrane voltage and current were studied utilising the whole-cell tight-seal recording technique. Dopamine had little effect on resting potentials near -60 mV, nor did it affect spike threshold or input resistance measured near -60 mV. However, it did alter the excitability of the cell, changing the response to current injection from one of repetitive spiking to one of rapid accommodation. Under voltage-clamp, VD4 responded to dopamine (EC50 = 92 nmol l-1) with increased net outward current at all potentials more positive than -60 mV. This was due primarily to an increase in voltage-gated potassium current and a decrease in calcium current. A reduction of Cd(2+)-sensitive outward current, possibly calcium-gated potassium current, was also evident at potentials more positive than +60 mV. The physiological actions of dopamine on these cells in vivo are consistent with the inhibitory mechanisms presented in this study.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 causes an encephalitis in humans that is primarily restricted to the temporal lobe and limbic system. The distribution of lesions suggests that virus enters the brain from a single site and then spreads transneuronally to infect connected structures. Two obvious sites of potential viral entry are the olfactory and trigeminal nerves. Trigeminal nerve entry is more likely because it innervates the oral cavity, a common site of initial infection, and the trigeminal ganglion is the most common site of viral latency. In previous reports, however, experimental trigeminal nerve infection has never led to the pattern of disease observed in humans. By directly inoculating virus into the murine tooth pulp, the mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve was selectively infected. This division, which innervates the oral cavity, is the one most commonly infected in humans. Intrapulp inoculation led to an encephalitis primarily affecting the temporal cortex and limbic system. Thus, spread via the trigeminal nerve provides an explanation for the distribution of herpes simplex virus observed in the human encephalitis.
Prosaposin is a precursor of four saposins that are required for the lysosomal hydrolysis of sphingolipids by specific hydrolases. Besides its precursor role, prosaposin also exists as a secreted protein. The present investigation reveals that prosaposin also exists as an integral component of the surface membranes of neuronal cells. Subcellular fractionation studies demonstrate that the membrane-bound prosaposin occurs specifically in plasma membranes of NS20Y rat neuroblastoma cells. An immunohistochemical study of the neuroblastoma cells using rat prosaposin-specific antibodies also showed that a portion of prosaposin is located on the surface of neurites as well as on cell bodies. Similar histochemical studies with antibodies that specifically recognized human prosaposin revealed the presence of prosaposin in dendrites, axons, and cell bodies of subcortical and spinal cord neurons in both human adult brain and in fetal brain (24-wk gestation). These findings suggest an important role of prosaposin in neuronal development.

Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) expression increases in sympathetic neurons when they are grown in dissociated cell or explant cultures and when they are axotomized in vivo. In dissociated cell culture, the magnitude of the VIP increase was reduced when nonneuronal cells were removed and medium conditioned by ganglionic nonneuronal cells increased VIP in neuron-enriched cultures. Antiserum against cholinergic differentiation factor (also leukemia inhibitory factor; CDF/LIF), but not against ciliary neurotrophic factor, immunoprecipitated this activity. Medium conditioned by sympathetic ganglion explants also contained a VIP-stimulatory molecule that was immunoprecipitated by CDF/LIF antiserum, and CDF/LIF antiserum partially blocked VIP induction in explants. CDF/LIF mRNA was increased in dissociated cell cultures, in ganglion explants and in vivo after axotomy. Our results suggest that CDF/LIF released from ganglionic nonneuronal cells plays an important role in regulating VIP after axotomy.
Rin is a large cell-surface glycoprotein that we have recently purified from chick brain, with a molecular weight of approximately 200 kD. Protein microsequence obtained from immunopurified rin does not match any sequences in the Genbank data base. Based on the sequence information and on its localization in the early chick embryo, rin is a novel cell-surface protein. Rin is expressed on the surface of many, but not all, axons in the developing chick nervous system. In the chick hindbrain, rin is expressed on reticular neurons, the first neurons to extend axons within the brain. Cranial motoneurons, which extend axons just a few stages later, do not express rin. Rin-positive axons pioneer the caudal section of the medial longitudinal fasciculus. The very first rin-positive axons that reach the floorplate do not enter the floorplate, but remain ipsilateral. Some of the next immunopositive axons to reach the floorplate do cross the midline, often with an alteration in trajectory, and often extending within the floorplate for some distance before reaching the other side. The failure of the very first rin-positive axons to cross the floorplate, and the changes in trajectory observed when the next axons extend onto the floorplate, suggests that early differentiating neurons cross the midline with some difficulty.
The activities and concentrations of protein phosphatase type 1 (PP1) and type 2A (PP2A) were compared in cytosol and particulate fractions of rat forebrain. Although the activity of PP2A was highest in the cytosol, immunoblot analysis with a PP2A-specific antibody showed that there were significant levels of the enzyme in the particulate fraction. There was no significant difference between the concentration of PP2A in the cytosol and particulate fractions such that the low activity of PP2A in the particulate fraction represents an inactivation of this form of the enzyme. Similar analysis in skeletal muscle, heart, and liver showed this finding was unique to the brain. Similarly, the majority of PP1 activity was recovered in the cytosol, but most PP1 enzyme was associated with the particulate fraction. Comparison with other tissues showed that the activities of PP1 in the particulate fractions were similar but that the forebrain contained significantly more enzyme than the other tissues. Thus, like PP2A it appears that the specific activity of PP1 in the particulate fraction of rat forebrain is much lower than that of the cytosol and of the particulate fractions of other tissues. Elution of PP1 and PP2A from membranes with 0.5 M NaCl plus 0.3% Triton X-100 resulted in severalfold activation of both enzymes. That the majority of PP1 and PP2A in rat forebrain are associated with membrane structures but in a low activity state suggests that novel regulatory mechanisms exist that have considerable and unique potential for activation of protein dephosphorylation.
Stimulation of the vagina and cervix, by mating or manual probing, elicits many behavioral and endocrine changes associated with female reproduction in rats. We and others have identified neurons in the medial preoptic area, medial division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, posterodorsal portion of the medial amygdala, ventromedial hypothalamus, dorsomedial hypothalamus and midbrain central gray that increase Fos expression in response to vaginal-cervical stimulation (VCS). In the present study, we used a double-label immunofluorescent technique to determine if any of these VCS-responsive neurons also contained estrogen receptor-immunoreactivity. We found that over 80% of the VCS-induced Fos-IR neurons in the medial division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis also contained estrogen receptor-immunoreactivity. Furthermore, high percentages of VCS-responsive neurons in the medial preoptic area, posterodorsal medial amygdala, ventromedial hypothalamus and midbrain central gray contained estrogen receptor-immunoreactivity as well. These results suggest that sensory and hormonal information associated with female reproduction converge on specific populations of neurons and may be integrated at the molecular level within these neurons.
Recent studies on experimental animals showed that long term activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis is associated with increased vasopressin (AVP) colocalization in paraventricular corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons. In the present study we estimated the fraction of CRH neurons in which AVP is colocalized by double label immunocytochemistry in hypothalami of 10 control subjects of 21-91 years of age and 10 age-matched Alzheimer patients. CRH neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of Alzheimer patients and control subjects showed similar age dependent increases in AVP colocalization. Based on this parameter, it seems that CRH neurons of Alzheimer patients are not overactivated as compared to age-matched controls, but e.g. changes in m-RNA for CRH should still be established.
Many neurons within the ventrolateral hypothalamus in guinea pigs contain estrogen-induced progestin receptors as well as substance P. Retrograde tracing combined with immunocytochemistry was used to determine the specific projections of this subset of steroid-sensitive cells. Unilateral Fluoro-Gold injections into the dorsal midbrain, including the central gray, labeled a large proportion of the ventrolateral hypothalamic neurons immunoreactive for both progestin receptors and substance P (approximately 30%); substantially fewer of these neurons were labeled by unilateral Fluoro-Gold injections into the preoptic area (approximately 6%), medial amygdala (approximately 10%), or the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (approximately 11%). The projections of progestin receptor-immunoreactive neurons in the ventrolateral hypothalamus were similar to those of progestin receptor/substance P double-labeled neurons, while a slightly lower percentage of the ventrolateral hypothalamic, substance P-immunoreactive neurons tended to project to each of these areas. These pathways may prove to be components of the neural circuitry underlying a variety of functions influenced by gonadal steroid hormones and substance P, such as female sexual behavior, salt intake, nociception and aggression.
Six normal volunteers underwent 4-T functional magnetic resonance imaging while performing a covert letter fluency task. An echo planar imaging sequence was utilized to detect activation based on deoxyhemoglobin contrast. All 6 subjects showed consistent activation in the frontal operculum and premotor and primary motor cortices. Activation was also detected in the supramarginal gyrus and the posterior part of the superior temporal gyrus. These results show that magnetic resonance functional neuroimaging can be used to investigate cerebral activity noninvasively during performance of complex cognitive tasks.
The diagnosis of leptomeningeal gliomatosis is discussed in relation to a single case studied in detail. Histology showed extensive subarachnoid spread of tumour that seemed to originate in an astrocytoma of the ventricular wall. The spinal fluid was xanthochromic with a high protein content. Reports of primary leptomeningeal gliomatosis are reviewed and the need for detailed histological study of the brain in such cases is emphasised.

The ATP-ubiquitin-dependent proteolytic pathway (ubiquitin pathway) is believed to be involved in the formation of various neuronal inclusion bodies including Lewy bodies (LBs), a pathological hallmark of Parkinson disease and diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD). Since multicatalytic proteinase (MCP) is involved in the ubiquitin pathway, an investigation of whether MCP is involved in neuronal inclusion bodies would provide a clue to the mechanism underlying the formation of neuronal inclusion bodies as well as to the pathogenesis of degenerative neurological disorders. In this study, we investigated detailed immunolocalization of MCP in LBs in DLBD brains using light and electron microscopy. We raised three different monoclonal antibodies against purified human MCP. Each of them recognized different sets of MCP subunits on Western blotting. Immunohistochemically, anti-MCP antibodies recognized all ubiquitin-positive cortical LBs in situ as well as those isolated from frozen DLBD cortices, suggesting that MCP is present in LBs as a whole molecule exhibiting protease activity. In electron microscopy, MCP immunoreactivity (MCP-IR) was exclusively localized on a characteristic oval structure with an approximate diameter of 100 nm. This structure was distributed throughout the LBs and was devoid of ubiquitin immunoreactivity. Treatment of isolated LBs with 2% SDS, but not with 0.5% Triton X-100, removed this structure from LBs in which fibrous materials predominated. Ubiquitin immunoreactivity was also decreased in isolated LBs treated with 2% SDS, suggesting that the fibrous structures in LBs were not ubiquitinated in situ. Thus, it is suggested that LBs are subjected to a proteolytic process in which MCP plays a role via processing of specific components of LBs.
1. The sites of origin of spontaneous interictal-like epileptiform activity in hippocampal slices from guinea pig, mouse, and rat were determined. A multisite fast optical recording technique using voltage-sensitive dyes and an array of 100 photodiodes was employed. The use of a low-magnification objective lens allowed the visualization of almost the entire transverse hippocampal slice. Three in vitro models of epilepsy were employed, utilizing different manipulations of the bath perfusion medium to induce epileptiform activity: 1) raising the external potassium (K+) concentration, 2) adding the potassium channel blocker 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), and 3) adding antagonists of gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA) receptors (bicuculline and picrotoxin, BIC-PTX). 2. Spontaneous epileptiform discharges were detected in each subfield of cornu ammonis (CA) but not in the dentate gyrus (DG) of each studied species. Preliminary experiments confirmed that interictal-like epileptiform activity originated in the CA2-CA3 region. Ictal-like activity was never observed in our experiments. 3. In the guinea pig, when GABAA antagonists were employed, the site of origin of spontaneous epileptiform discharges was consistently located in the CA2-CA3a region. When high K+ or 4-AP was used, this region was the most frequent site of origin. Subsequent epileptiform discharges with similar sites of origin occasionally invaded different areas of the CA2-CA3 region, revealing a variable area of occupance of epileptiform discharges. 4. In the mouse and rat, the site of origin of spontaneous discharges was invariably located in the CA3b-CA3c region independent of the epilepsy model. 5. In both the guinea pig and rat, when the CA2-CA3a region was surgically separated from the CA3b-CA3c region, independent discharges were observed in both regions. Areas that could generate discharges only under certain epileptogenic conditions were found in these species (potential sites of origin). Two independent sites of origin with different propagation patterns and area of occupance were occasionally observed within the CA2-CA3a region. 6. In the guinea pig, such lesions demonstrated that both regions can independently generate epileptiform discharges at different frequencies. When high K+ or 4-AP was employed, epileptiform activity was observed in both regions. Although BIC-PTX only generated discharges in the CA2-CA3a region, a subsequent increase in K+ induced additional discharges in the CA3b-CA3c region, revealing a potential site of origin. 7. In rat hippocampal slices with such lesions, spontaneous epileptiform discharges were observed in both CA2-CA3a and CA3b-CA3c region when 4-AP was employed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
During development, axons of the mammalian corpus callosum must navigate across the midline to establish connections with corresponding targets in the contralateral cerebral cortex. To gain insight into how growth cones of callosal axons respond to putative guidance cues along this CNS pathway, we have used time-lapse video microscopy to observe dynamic behaviors of individual callosal growth cones extending in living brain slices from neonatal hamster sensorimotor cortex. Crystals of the lipophilic dye 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (Dil) were inserted into the cortex in vivo to label small populations of callosal axons and their growth cones. Subsequently, 400 microns brain slices that included the injection site, the corpus callosum, and the target cortex were placed in culture and viewed under low-light-level conditions with a silicon-intensified target (SIT) camera. Time-lapse video observations revealed striking differences in growth cone behaviors in different regions of the callosal pathway. In the tract, which is defined as the region of the callosal pathway from the injection site to the corresponding target cortex, growth cones advanced rapidly, displaying continual lamellipodial shape changes and filopodial exploration. Forward advance was sometimes interrupted by brief pauses or retraction. Growth cones in the target cortex had almost uniform compact shapes that were consistently smaller than those in the tract. In cortex, axons adhered to straight radial trajectories and their growth cones extended at only half the speed of those in the tract. Growth cones in subtarget regions of the callosum beneath cortical targets displayed complex behaviors characterized by long pauses, extension of transitory branches, and repeated cycles of collapse, withdrawal, and resurgence. Video observations suggested that extension of axons into cortical targets could occur by interstitial branching from callosal axons rather than by turning behaviors of the primary growth cones. These results suggest the existence of guidance cues distinct for each of these callosal regions that elicit characteristic growth cone behaviors.
Members of the NGF family of proteins act as neurotrophic agents for defined populations of peripheral and central neurons during embryonic and postnatal development. We have studied the presence of receptors for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 and -4/5 (NT-3, NT-4/5) by cross-linking radioiodinated neurotrophins to specific cell surface receptors. We have identified neurotrophin receptors representing full-length TrkB and TrkC and their truncated forms (lacking a functional cytoplasmic kinase domain) in neuronal as well as in non-neuronal tissues. During chicken embryonic and early postnatal brain development, expression of full-length TrkB and TrkC proteins preceded the onset of the truncated forms of these receptors. A similar pattern was also observed in mouse embryonic and early postnatal brain. The relative levels of neurotrophin receptors in the basal forebrain and in the hippocampus did not change significantly with age in mice. High levels of receptors for the three neurotrophins were detected in the nigrostriatal system. Full-length TrkB and TrkC receptors were found in chicken and rat embryonic ventral spinal cord, as well as on purified motoneurons. Again, truncated TrkB appeared significantly later than the full-length form on spinal motoneurons. In chicken embryonic retina and optic tectum we detected full-length TrkB and TrkC; however, the optic tectum also expressed large amounts of the truncated form of TrkB. TrkC but not TrkB was detected in chicken embryonic skeletal muscle, suggesting that NT-3 may have a novel function in this tissue. The presence of neurotrophin receptors in a wide variety of embryonic and postnatal tissues underlines the significant role of BDNF, NT-3, and NT-4/5 in embryonic and postnatal development. The regulation of the ratio of full-length versus truncated neurotrophin receptors may play an important role in the development, maturation, and maintenance of various neuronal networks.
Neurological illness often influences the patient's behavior either as a direct result of trauma or due to pathophysiological changes to the brain. Neurological patients also experience psychological responses to their illness resulting in a heightened potential for a dual impact on behavior. The neuropsychiatric nurse provides care to patients with severe or unusually persistent behavioral manifestations of illness. Neurologic, psychiatric, cognitive and functional assessments are completed by the neuropsychiatric nurse to obtain an accurate picture of the behavioral problem. Nursing interventions are then developed to improve functional ability and promote independence. If a neuropsychiatric nurse is not available many of these assessment skills can be employed by neuroscience nurses and implemented on neurological and neurosurgical units.
Our experience of collaborative research &quot;the process of working with others in pursuit of scientific discovery&quot; has been a most rewarding experience. The nurses and physicians have developed mutual respect and appreciation of the value of each other's practice, and true collaboration has emerged. The relationships between the nurses and physicians have developed over time and have been supported by our visionary Associate Director for Nursing, Kathryn McKeon. Throughout this process of collaboration, we've grown to appreciate each others strengths and recognize what each discipline has to offer. We have also learned that when we work together, it is the patient who ultimately benefits most. The neurologists' holistic approach to patient care and their respect for nursing practice have greatly contributed to the establishment of truly collaborative research.
Kimball Maull a nationally recognized trauma surgeon writes &quot;It is important to know that injury is a free ticket to absolution from drunk driving and that impaired survivors are rarely investigated.&quot; While legal remedies are part of the solution, driving while intoxicated is only a symptom of a deeper problem. The neuroscience nurse who cares for the alcohol-impaired patient has a unique opportunity to exert an impact on the DUI problem. Neuroscience nurses can assist in several ways; they can continue to help identify repeat offenders and problem drinkers and attempt to get counseling for them. They can lobby their legislatures for mandatory jail sentences, license revocations and fines for DUI offenders and making DUI a reportable offense. Finally, neuroscience nurse can take an active role in preventive activities, making prevention of alcohol-related injury and death part of their routines.
Each year, thousands of preventable injuries occur in children as well as adults. Until recently, few programs existed to address injury prevention issues. Three programs which make a difference include The National Safe Kids Campaign, Think First and Mothers Against Drunk Driving. Each has a different focus and has opportunities for neuroscience nurses to become involved. Additional programs with measurable benefits need to be developed.
An accidental, punctate lesion to a medial portion of the frontal lobe, including supplementary motor cortex and anterior commissure, produced a change in the cortical potentials preceding voluntary movement in a cynomolgus monkey. At the time of the lesion, the animal was highly trained in a repetitive voluntary movement task, and baseline mapping of specific movement-related potentials (MRPs) was complete. Prelesion MRPs were characterized by a well-defined N2 response, which began approximately 100 msec before the onset of movement. This response was centered over the contralateral precentral gyrus and believed to reflect the phasic portion of the corticospinal discharge. After the lesion, the animal fully recovered the ability to perform the movement task. However, the amplitude of N2 on the side ipsilateral to the lesion was significantly reduced. This decrease was not associated with any deficit in movement execution. EMG measurements did not exhibit any diminished or abnormal patterns of activity. These data suggest that portions of the frontal lobe not directly involved in the genesis of MRPs may still provide a supportive role in organizing the sequence and pattern of neuroelectric activity associated with movement. Furthermore, the findings document the sensitivity of MRPs for detecting subtle changes in the pattern of efferent electrical activity associated with a lesion within the brain, even in the absence of overt movement disorders.
Chronic (14 day) but not acute (1 day) treatment of mice with clinically active antidepressants produces a significant (approximately 1.8-4.3 fold) reduction in the potency of glycine to inhibit [3H]-5,7-dichlorkynurenic acid (5,7-DCKA) binding to strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors in neocortical membranes. Moreover, these effects were not observed following chronic treatment with a variety of nonantidepressant drugs such as D-deprenyl, chlorpromazine, salbutamol, scopolamine and chlordiazepoxide. The time course and dose-response relationships for this effect were examined after treatment with two representative antidepressant drugs (imipramine and citalopram) and electriconvulsive shock (ECS). Increases in the IC50 of glycine to inhibit [3H]-5,7-DCKA binding were observed after treatment for 7 days with ECS, 10 days with citalopram and 14 days with imipramine, respectively, and were no longer apparent by the 10th day after cessation of treatment. These findings indicate that the antidepressant-induced reduction in the IC50 of glycine to inhibit [3H]-5,7-DCKA binding is: 1) a slowly developing, adaptive phenomenon; 2) remarkably persistent after cessation of treatment; and 3) a significantly better predictor of antidepressant activity (22 of 23 drugs) than either beta adrenoceptor down-regulation (15 of 23 drugs) or efficacy in the forced swim test (13 of 23 drugs) [P &lt; .01 vs. each measure, Fisher's Exact Test]. The ability of antidepressants drawn from every principal therapeutic class to effect adaptive changes in the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex is consistent with the hypothesis that this ligand-gated ion channel serves as a final common pathway of antidepressant action and indicates that glutamatergic pathways may be involved in the pathophysiology of depression.
The proconvulsive and putative excitotoxic properties of folates led us to study folate toxicity in cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons. Exposure of these neurons to tetrahydrofolate (THF) (EC50 = 263 +/- 12 microM) and dihydrofolate (EC50 = 709 +/- 29 microM), but not to folate, formyl-THF, methyl-THF or methotrexate, resulted in a concentration-dependent neurotoxicity. THF and dihydrofolate toxicity were characterized by prominent neuronal swelling and early loss of neurite networking and could not be blocked by glutamate receptor antagonists, L-channel calcium blockers or anticonvulsants. Cleavage of THF into glutamate and tetrahydropteroate by glutamate carboxypeptidase in the presence of 1 microM MK-801 and 5 microM 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3,dione shifted the concentration-toxicity curve to the left (EC50 = 47 +/- 4 microM). These results suggest (1) that the glutamate moiety is not necessary for folate toxicity, (2) that the unsubstituted reduced pteroate moiety is required for folate toxicity and (3) that unsubstituted reduced pteroates are previously unrecognized neurotoxins. Because there is no endogenous glutamate carboxypeptidase activity in cerebellar granule neuron cultures and no increase of glutamate levels in the medium of cultures exposed to THF or dihydrofolate, pteroate metabolites are unlikely to mediate the THF or dihydrofolate toxicity of cultured cerebellar granule neurons.
Dynorphin A reduced lumbosacral blood flow, elevated cerebrospinal fluid lactic acid concentrations and caused flaccid hindlimb paralysis and striking neuropathological changes after its injection into the spinal subarachnoid space in rats. Coadministration of the vasodilator hydralazine substantially eliminated the paralytic, anaerobic metabolic and neuropathological responses to dynorphin A. In contrast, in concentrations up to 1 mM, dynorphin A did not alter the viability of cultured rat spinal cord neurons. Thus, it appears that this peptide lacks direct neurotoxic effects and that neuronal injuries in vivo result primarily from ischemia associated with dynorphin A-induced blood flow reductions. NMDA receptor antagonists significantly improved recovery from dynorphin A-induced hindlimb paralysis, and substantially eliminated neuropathological changes without attenuating the acute blood flow reductions or lactic acid elevations. Additionally, glutamate and aspartate concentrations were increased significantly in spinal cord cerebrospinal fluid samples removed during the time that peptide-induced spinal cord blood flow reductions were observed. In contrast, neither amino acid concentration was elevated in media removed after 1-hr exposure of spinal cord neuronal cell cultures to 100 microM concentrations of dynorphin A. These results indicate that the paralysis and spinal cord injuries produced in rats after spinal subarachnoid injection of dynorphin A result predominantly from spinal cord ischemia, and further identify excitatory amino acids and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor mechanisms as important mediators in this injury model.
Beta adrenergic receptors (beta AR) are localized in several tissue compartments of the heart, including cardiac myocytes, coronary arteries and coronary arterioles, but it is unclear whether there are differences between tissues in beta AR coupling to G protein. The goal of these studies was to use receptor autoradiography to analyze beta receptor agonist binding characteristics in different tissue compartments of dog heart, including ventricular myocytes (predominantly beta-1) and coronary arterioles (predominantly beta-2). Frozen sections were incubated in [125I]-pindolol with the beta agonist isoproterenol in the absence and presence of 0.1 mM sodium 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate (GppNHp, a nonhydrolyzable GTP analog) and analyzed by gamma counting or autoradiography. Nonlinear curve-fitting analyses of ventricular section radioactivity indicated that in the absence of GppNHp, the data were consistent with a two-site fit, with 88% of the receptors in the high-affinity state. In autoradiographic analyses, GppNHp displaced the agonist binding curve to a greater extent in arterioles (approximately 100-fold) than in myocytes (approximately 10-fold). This suggests that beta receptors on arterioles are more tightly coupled to G protein than are beta receptors on myocytes. Thus these studies suggest that 1) beta AR on arterioles are coupled more tightly to G protein than are beta AR on myocytes, possibly because of differences in beta receptor subtype, and 2) more beta AR are in the high-affinity state than has been reported previously in more traditional analyses on membrane preparations.
We examined the effects of brief periods of hypoxia or application of cyanide on the discharge and membrane properties of medullary pacemaker neurones in slices of the rostral ventrolateral reticular nucleus (RVL) of the medulla oblongata of rats. Stable intracellular recordings were obtained from seventy-nine neurones within the RVL which exhibited spontaneous rhythmic discharge in the absence of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). The membrane potential cycles of these neurones could be reset with an evoked spike without eliciting EPSPs or inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and hence met criteria of RVL pacemaker neurones. Hypoxia, produced by reducing O2 from 95 to 20% for 40 s or exposure to cyanide (30-300 microM for 40 s), reversibly increased neuronal discharge 1.6-fold (20% O2) or 2.6-fold (300 microM cyanide), respectively, in association with membrane depolarization and a significant fall in membrane resistance. The membrane responses to hypoxia and cyanide were observed in the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX) at a concentration (10 microM) which eliminated spontaneous spikes or spikes evoked by intracellular depolarization. When recorded at a holding potential of -70 mV by single-electrode voltage clamp, hypoxia or cyanide (300 microM) elicited inward currents of 0.44 +/- 0.06 and 0.58 +/- 0.08 nA, respectively, which are attenuated by reducing the concentration of extracellular Ca2+ ions, and abolished by 2 mM CoCl2 and 100 microM NiCl2, but not affected by 50 microM CdCl2, replacement of 83% extracellular Na+, or adenosine deaminase (2U ml-1). We conclude that hypoxia and cyanide directly excite RVL pacemaker neurones in vitro by a common mechanism: activation of Ca2+ channel conductance.
Changes in local cerebral glucose utilization (LCGU) of the postischemic rat brain were investigated using the rat four-vessel occlusion model. Following 20 or 30 min of ischemia, LCGUs of the cerebral cortices, striatum and hippocampus were decreased at 1 and 3 days postischemia, but were recovered at 7 days postischemia. Effects of repeated administration of RS-8359, (+-)-4-(4-cyanoanilino)-7-hydroxycyclopenta(3,2-e)pyrimidin e, (30 mg/kg x 2/day, p.o., 4 days) were examined at 3 days postischemia following 20 min of ischemia. Compared with the sham-operated group, the LCGUs of 22 out of 34 structures examined in the ischemic-control group were significantly reduced. In the RS-8359-treated group, however, significant reduction was observed in only 9 structures. Compared with the ischemic-control group, RS-8359 significantly ameliorated the reduction of LCGU in 12 structures. These results suggest that RS-8359 has beneficial effects on reduced glucose metabolism in the postischemic brain.
CDP-choline (cytidine-5-diphosphate-choline) is an acetylcholine precursor frequently used in cerebrovascular disorders and psychoorganic syndromes. Furthermore, several authors have demonstrated the positive effects of CDP-choline on cognitive disorders and memory deficits. In the present study, the effects of CDP-choline (1000 mg/day, p.o. for 1 month) on cognition, evaluated by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) of Folstein et al., and on blood flow velocities, measured by transcranial Doppler ultrasonography (TCD), were investigated in patients with Alzheimer's disease: (AD, n = 20, age: 66.75 +/- 6.73 years, range: 57-78 yr). Cognitive function was measured by means of the MMSE in basal conditions (A) and after 1 month of treatment with CDP-choline (C). TCD measures were taken through the temporal window for right (MCA-R) and left (MCA-L) middle cerebral arteries with a 2 MHz pulsed transducer using a TC-2000S in basal conditions (A), 1 h after the administration of CDP-choline (B) and after 1 month of treatment with CDP-choline (C). MMSE scores were significantly increased (p &lt; 0.005) in patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) after CDP-choline treatment. Moreover, the orientation subtest significantly increased in the global group of AD patients (p &lt; 0.01) and in EOAD patients (p &lt; 0.02). Significant differences (p &lt; 0.05) were also found in MCA-Land MCA-R measures between recordings. These results suggest that CDP-choline influences cognitive and cerebrovascular function in Alzheimer's disease, probably through a mechanism linked to an immunogenic and/or neurotrophic effect at the microvascular niche.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It was previously demonstrated that daily administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) to primary cultures of cerebellar granule neurons for 5 days in vitro mediates an increase in the relative content of mRNAs encoding selected subunits of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor. This analysis was extended using a competitive polymerase chain reaction assay with internal standards to quantitate changes that occur in the absolute amounts of selected GABAA receptor subunit mRNAs in cerebellar granule neurons in vitro after the single administration of nontoxic doses of either NMDA or glutamate. For these studies, we focused on the alpha 1, alpha 5, and alpha 6 receptor subunit mRNAs and examined their absolute contents in cultures maintained in low KCl (12.5 mM), maintained in low KCl and treated with NMDA (10 microM) for 24 hr, or maintained in high KCl (25 mM). The absolute amounts of each mRNA varied in these paradigms; whereas the alpha 1 and alpha 5 receptor subunit mRNAs increased in response to NMDA-selective glutamate receptor stimulation, the alpha 6 receptor subunit mRNA did not. The time course of the alpha 1 and alpha 5 mRNA increases, dose dependence, and effects of glutamate in the presence or absence of MK-801 were also analyzed. Treatment of cultures maintained in 12.5 mM KCl with 5 microM glutamate resulted in comparable changes in the alpha 1 and alpha 5 receptor subunit mRNA contents, and a somewhat smaller increase in the alpha 6 mRNA content was observed. Using corresponding GABAA receptor subunit-specific antibodies, it was shown that the observed mRNA changes are accompanied by increased expression of alpha 1- and alpha 5-like receptor subunit immunoreactivity. Collectively, these data demonstrate that signal transduction mechanisms triggered by NMDA-selective glutamate receptor stimulation differentially modulate the levels of selected GABAA receptor subunit mRNAs and the corresponding proteins they encode.
The uptake of intravascular [123I]isopropyliodoamphetamine (IMP) and 99mTc-pertechnetate into choroid plexus (CP) and brain (frontal cortex) was studied by an indicator fractionation method applied to immature, ketamine-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats (1.5, 2, and 3 wk). Assessment of the rate and extent of uptake of these indicators provides functional information (eg blood flow; transport) about various regions of the developing CNS. IMP uptake by lateral ventricle CP was 1.15 ml/g/min in 1.5-wk-old infant rats and gradually increased to 3.9 mg/g/min by adulthood (7-8 wk) (P &lt; 0.05); over the same postnatal period, 99mTc uptake went from 2.82 to 3.18 ml/g/min. IMP uptake by cortex was 0.39 and 0.99 ml/g/min in infants and adults, respectively (P &lt; 0.05); however, 99mTc uptake by cortex was only 0.07 +/- 0.01 ml/g/min at all ages, reflecting early development of blood-brain barrier (BBB) to pertechnetate. Overall, our findings indicated a progressive increase with age in the rate of uptake of IMP by CP and brain; and that 99mTc penetration into CP was relatively constant and substantially greater than into cortex at all developmental stages. Thus the nature of uptake of IMP, relative to 99mTc, was markedly different at the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier (i.e., CP) vs. the blood-brain barrier.
Serotonin(5-HT) plays an important role in the seizures of El mice since the seizure threshold of El mice correlates with the 5-HT concentration in the central nervous system. In this study, the anticonvulsant effect of a 5-HT reuptake blocker, citalopram, was evaluated behaviorally and biochemically. El mouse convulsions were inhibited by oral administration of citalopram for 2 weeks. Citalopram increased tryptophan and tyrosine amounts, and decreased the 5-HT, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, kynurenine, and dopamine amounts in the brain. These findings show that citalopram depresses monoaminergic metabolism. Given the known convulsant effect of kynurenine, it is suggested that its decrease by citalopram may involve attenuation of El mice seizures.
The effect of apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg s.c.) and oxytocin (30 ng i.c.v.) on penile erection and yawning was studied in intact and castrated male rats. In castrated rats both apomorphine and oxytocin responses were abolished. In these animals, testosterone (100 microgramS/kg s.c. once a day for 3 days), restored penile erection while estradiol benzoate (10 micrograms/kg s.c. once a day for 3 days) restored yawning induced by both compounds. 5-Dihydrotestosterone (DHT) or progesterone (each at a dose of 100 micrograms/kg s.c. once a day for 3 days) were ineffective. Given together, estradiol benzoate and DHT partially restored apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced yawning and penile erection, whereas estradiol benzoate and progesterone restored only yawning. Estradiol benzoate-induced recovery of yawning was prevented by the antiestrogen tamoxifen (1 mg/kg s.c. once a day for 3 days). In intact rats, progesterone increased and estradiol benzoate decreased apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced yawning without modifying penile erection, although oxytocin-induced yawning was prevented much less by estradiol benzoate than that induced by apomorphine. Testosterone or DHT were ineffective on both responses. Estradiol benzoate inhibition of apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced yawning was prevented by tamoxifen, which per se failed to modify apomorphine and oxytocin responses, as well as by testosterone or progesterone. The present results suggest that apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced penile erection and yawning are endocrine-dependent and differentially modulated by sexual steroids, suggesting that the mechanisms controlling the two behaviors are different even though they are often associated.
The contribution of cognitive slowing to the slowed performance of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) is a matter of long-standing debate. In this study, we contrasted the performance of PD patients on two reaction-time tasks with the performance of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, young normal subjects, and elderly normal subjects. Both nondemented and demented PD patients showed cognitive as well as motor slowing, and the extent of cognitive slowing varied with overall cognitive status. Moreover, by comparison with the cognitive slowing in AD patients, cognitive slowing in PD patients was disproportionate to their general level of cognitive performance. We suggest that this disproportionality be used to differentiate the concepts of bradyphrenia and nonspecific cognitive slowing.
Alternative splicing generates distinct forms of the NMDA receptor subunit NR1. NR1 subunits with an N-terminal insert (termed N1) form receptors in Xenopus oocytes with greatly reduced potentiation by spermine and Zn2+. Oocytes expressing NR1 receptors with N1 exhibited larger NMDA currents than oocytes expressing corresponding receptors without N1. In the present study, we used mutational analysis to investigate structural features of the N1 insert that control current amplitude and spermine and Zn2+ potentiation. Neutralization of positive charges in N1 rescued spermine and Zn2+ potentiation. Positive charges in N1 did not affect spermine or Zn2+ affinity. Neutralization of positive charges in N1 diminished the responses to the level of NR1 receptors lacking N1. The positively charged N1 may increase NMDA currents by causing a conformational change similar to that produced by spermine and Zn2+ in NR1 receptors lacking N1.




It is controversial whether a stimulus projected within 1 to 3 degrees from the boundary between the right and left hemiretina is transmitted to only one cerebral hemisphere or to both cerebral hemispheres. In order to resolve this issue, letter- and word-stimuli were presented for 200 msec with a new type of tachistoscope, called the fundus tachistoscope, in and about the central retina, (i.e. fovea, 1.2 degrees in horizontal diameter) of the right eyes of two commissurotomized subjects (N.G. and A.A.). During stimulus presentation the subjects were attempting to fixate a fixation target. The fundus tachistoscope combined with image analysis of the fundus enables us to measure the position of the stimulus on the retina, relative to the foveal center, as well as whether or not the eye moved during stimulus presentation. The results indicate that the region of the right (temporal) hemiretina represented by both hemispheres in letter processing, if it exists, was estimated as less than 0.6 degrees from the foveal center. The two subjects frequently (27% in N.G. and 46% in A.A.) fixated the fixation target eccentrically, i.e. with a retinal point other than the foveal center, during fixation, namely stimulus presentation. Their eccentric fixations were small with magnitude almost all falling between 1.35 degrees right and 1.25 degrees left of the foveal center. It is therefore recommended that letter-stimuli be presented at least 2.0 degrees from the foveal center in ordinary tachistoscopic studies of cerebral hemispheric differences. Eye movements, which varied in 0.11 degrees and 1.43 degrees horizontally, occurred in about 8% of all the trials during fixation. On the average of the two subjects, the eye movements caused or worsened eccentric fixation in only about one third of the trials, and corrected eccentric fixation in about two thirds of the trials.
This paper presents an hypothesis regarding the functions of striatal dopaminergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission. It is suggested that the principal functional role of dopaminergic neurotransmission is to regulate the efficacy of cortico-striatal and cortico-accumbens neurotransmission. Increased activity at dopamine-mediated synapses is suggested to interact with neurotransmission at adjacent cortically derived glutamate-mediated synapses, facilitating communication from the cerebral cortex, and thereby causing behavioral stimulation. Decreased activity at dopaminergic synapses, as produced by neuroleptic drugs, causes changes in the activation of cortically derived synapses in the corpus striatum and nucleus accumbens which result in behavioral sedation and decreased activity. This hypothesis suggests that activity at dopaminergic synapses produces behavioral effects only insofar as these changes modulate cortico-striatal (or cortico-accumbens) activity, and further, that the manifestations of activity in cortico-striatal systems are modulated by activity at dopaminergic synapses. It is further suggested that when neuroleptics are administered chronically, adjustments in the efficacy of cortico-striatal neurotransmission are responsible for the antipsychotic effect of neuroleptic drugs.
In rats anaesthetized with urethane, selective activation of neuronal perikarya in the dorsal raphe nucleus evoked inhibitory (n = 17) and excitatory (n = 10) responses in single neurons recorded in the dorsolateral and lateral sectors of the periaqueductal gray matter and in the adjacent tegmental area. A further 11 cells showed biphasic inhibitory/excitatory responses. Ongoing activity of &gt; 85% of the cells was inhibited by iontophoretic application of 5-hydroxytryptamine (1-70 nA). The duration of the inhibitory response evoked from the dorsal raphe nucleus was increased by 66-75% during iontophoretic application (3-10 nA) of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) reuptake blocker paroxetine (five of six cells). In contrast, excitatory responses evoked from the dorsal raphe nucleus were either reduced (n = 3) or replaced by inhibitory responses (n = 2) in the presence of paroxetine. Paroxetine also produced a reduction in baseline firing and potentiated the responses of neurons to iontophoretically applied 5-hydroxytryptamine. Stimulation in the median raphe nucleus did not produce any significant changes in the activity of five neurons tested in the periaqueductal gray matter. It is suggested that the inhibitory influence of the dorsal raphe nucleus on cells in the dorsal half of the periaqueductal gray matter is mediated by 5-hydroxytryptamine. This projection may be involved in modulating the level of excitability of neurons in the midbrain aversive system which integrate defence behaviour. In addition, there appears to be a non-serotonergic excitatory projection from the dorsal raphe nucleus to the periaqueductal gray matter. The functional role of this projection remains obscure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Local cerebral glucose utilization was assessed during whisker stimulation by 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography. Whisker stimulation increased local cerebral glucose utilization in brainstem, thalamus and whisker sensory cortex in normal rats. Whereas whisker stimulation increased glucose metabolism in brainstem, whisker stimulation failed to increase glucose metabolism in thalamus of rats that had whisker sensory cortex ablated 5 h to five weeks previously. The failure of whisker stimulation to activate thalamus after cortical ablations was probably not due to decreased cortical input to thalamus because whisker stimulation activated thalamus after large cortical tetrodotoxin injections. Failure of whisker stimulation to activate thalamus at early times (5 h and one day) after cortical ablations was not due to thalamic neuronal death, since it takes days to weeks for axotomized thalamic neurons to die. The failure of whisker stimulation to activate thalamus at early times after cortical ablations was likely due to the failure of trigeminal brainstem neurons that project to thalamus to activate axotomized thalamic neurons. This might occur because of synaptic retraction, glial stripping or inhibition of trigeminal brainstem synapses onto thalamic neurons. The thalamic neuronal death that occurs over the days and weeks following cortical ablations was associated with thalamic hypometabolism. This is consistent with the idea that the thalamic neurons die because of the absence of a cortically derived trophic factor, since the excitotoxic thalamic cell death that occurs following cortical kainate injections is associated with thalamic hypermetabolism. The glucose metabolism of parts of the host thalamus was higher and the glucose metabolism in surrounding nuclei lower than the normal side of thalamus in rats that sat quietly and had fetal cortex transplants placed into cavities in whisker sensory cortex five to 16 weeks previously. Whisker stimulation in these subjects activated the contralateral host thalamus and fetal cortical transplants. This was accomplished using a double-label 2-deoxyglucose method to assess brain glucose metabolism in the same rat while it was resting and during whisker stimulation. The high glucose metabolism of parts of host thalamus ipsilateral to the fetal cortical transplants is consistent with prolonged survival of some axotomized thalamic neurons. The finding that whisker stimulation activates portions of host thalamus further suggests that the cortical transplants maintained survival of the host thalamic neurons and that synaptic connections between whisker brainstem and thalamic neurons were functional.
This work was performed to confirm previous data reporting the presence of GABAergic interneurons in the ventrobasal complex of guinea-pig, and to investigate the intrinsic organization of this nucleus compared to that of thalamic nuclei lacking interneurons. Immunocytochemical experiments were performed on the thalamus of adult guinea-pigs perfused with mixed aldehydes using an anti-GABA serum. At light microscopy, the immunoreaction on floating Vibratome sections showed that GABAergic neurons are present only in the reticular and lateral geniculate nuclei and in the ventrobasal complex. Quantitative evaluation of their number indicated that they are 20 and 15% of the total neuronal population in lateral geniculate nucleus and ventrobasal complex, respectively, while they are less than 1% in ventrolateral nucleus. At the ultrastructural level, the postembedding immunogold procedure showed the presence, in the ventrobasal complex, of GABA-labeled profiles involved in complex synaptic arrangements similar to those found in carnivores and primates. Conversely, GABA-labeled terminals in thalamic nuclei devoid of interneurons formed exclusively axo-dendritic or axo-somatic contacts, like in rats and mice. The present data suggest that GABAergic neurons in the ventrobasal complex of guinea-pigs give rise to functionally important rearrangements of its intrinsic synaptic organization and that they represent the morphological basis for an intrinsic modulatory mechanism that is absent in other thalamic nuclei lacking inhibitory interneurons. The phylogenetic implications of these findings are also discussed in comparison to other animal species.
The effects of iontophoretically applied cholecystokinin fragments and cholecystokinin antagonists on neurons of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus were investigated with extracellular recordings in rats anesthetized with urethane. The peptide cholecystokinin-8S, which has affinity for both cholecystokinin-A and -B receptors, altered the baseline firing as well as the responses to visual stimuli of about one half of the investigated neurons (90 out of 190). Excitatory effects predominated (P &lt; 0.01, Wilcoxon test), although inhibitory effects were also observed. The effects of cholecystokinin-8S were dose-dependent. Neurons sensitive to cholecystokinin-8S could be found in all regions of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, but they differed in their susceptibility to cholecystokinin in relation to their location. The B-agonist, BOC-cholecystokinin-4, also changed the baseline firing as well as the light-evoked activity of dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus neurons. The effects were either excitatory or inhibitory. Changes induced by cholecystokinin-8S could be effectively blocked by the cholecystokinin-B antagonist, CAM 1028 (19 out of 22 cholecystokinin-sensitive neurons tested). The cholecystokinin-A antagonist, Ge 410, blocked cholecystokinin-induced effects in 10 out of 16 neurons. These results indicate that the modulation of geniculate cell firing by cholecystokinin is mediated by both A-and B-receptor types.
Unilateral microinjection of neurotensin in the ventral tegmental area of the rat (2.5 micrograms/0.5 microliter) produced behavioural excitation illustrated by contralateral circling. Given orally, SR 48692, a selective and potent non-peptide neurotensin receptor antagonist, significantly reduced these rotations with a triphasic dose-effect relationship. Inhibition occurred at 0.12 mg/kg; further increases in dose up to 2.5 mg/kg produced no significant antagonism, then at doses &gt; or = 5 mg/kg, a second phase of antagonism was observed. Bilateral injection of neurotensin (0.5 microgram each side) into the nucleus accumbens antagonized the increase in locomotor activity following intraperitoneal injection of amphetamine. Given orally, SR 48692 reduced dose-dependently (0.1-1 mg/kg) these intra-accumbens neurotensin effects. Using high pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection, we showed that microgram amounts of neurotensin injected into the ventral tegmental area increased dihydroxyphenylacetate/dopamine ratios in the nucleus accumbens. Using in vivo voltammetry techniques, we found that the injection of nanogram and picogram amounts of neurotensin in the ventral tegmental area stimulated dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens. None of these biochemical changes were affected by SR 48692 (0.1-10 mg/kg). These results indicate complex interactions between neurotensin and the mesolimbic dopamine system. More particularly, the differential ability of SR 48692 to affect neurotensin-evoked behavioural versus biochemical changes supports the concept of neurotensin receptor heterogeneity.
Synaptophysin is a presynaptic vesicle protein. Its quantitative detection has become established as a molecular marker of synaptic density. We have studied synaptophysin messenger RNA in the neocortex, hippocampus and cerebellum using in situ hybridization histochemistry to see if the encoding transcript can be detected in post mortem human brain and to investigate factors which might influence its abundance. Synaptophysin was also measured immunocytochemically in the hippocampus. The level of synaptophysin messenger RNA expression was uniform in all neocortical areas examined. Strong correlations were found for the amount of synaptophysin messenger RNA between individual regions and between homologous areas in the two hemispheres. Synaptophysin messenger RNA declined with increasing age and prolonged post mortem interval. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity also reduced with age, as well as with duration of formalin fixation but not post mortem interval. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity correlated with the abundance of the messenger RNA in neurons within, and projecting to, each hippocampal subfield. Significantly greater synaptophysin immunoreactivity was seen in the left than the right CA4 and CA1 regions. These data show that quantitative detection of synaptophysin messenger RNA as well as synaptophysin itself can reliably be carried out in post mortem human brain sections. They are in keeping with other findings that synaptic density is relatively uniform through the neocortex and decreases with age. They also suggest a possible asymmetry of hippocampal synaptophysin expression. The level of synaptophysin messenger RNA paralleled that of synaptophysin immunoreactivity, indicating that changes in gene expression contribute to variations in the latter observed in aging and other situations. Detection of synaptophysin messenger RNA broadens the range of methods by which synaptic protein gene products can be studied and used as markers of synaptic density and synaptic involvement during physiological and pathological processes in human brain.
In order to study changes in neuronal activity in the nucleus basalis of Meynert in aging and Alzheimer's disease, we applied a polyclonal antibody directed against the Golgi apparatus on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded material. Subsequently, an image analysis system was used to measure the size of the Golgi apparatus in (i) all nucleus basalis neurons and also separately in (ii) the remaining large cells (perikaryonal diameter &gt; 30 microns). A significant reduction of 49% in the size of the Golgi apparatus was found in the entire population of nucleus basalis neurons in Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, although there was no significant decrease in the size of the persisting large neurons in the nucleus basalis of Meynert, a significantly decreased size of the Golgi apparatus was found in these neurons in Alzheimer's disease. These results suggest that the overall activity of nucleus basalis neurons is severely decreased in Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, these data support the idea that atrophy and decreased activity are the main phenomena in the nucleus basalis in Alzheimer's disease; they also indicate that the size of the Golgi apparatus is a sensitive parameter to follow this process.
Mouse inbred strain &quot;SAM-P/10&quot; (Senescence Accelerated Mouse) is a model of age-related brain atrophy. In this strain there is an earlier and more severe age-related deterioration in the conditional avoidance learning than the normal control inbred SAM-R/1 strain. The present study analysed age-related changes in brain area size using a computerized morphometric method. The region most vulnerable to age-related atrophy in SAM-P/10 was the frontal region of the cerebral cortex, including the prefrontal cortex. Other neocortical regions underwent diffuse atrophy. Posterior piriform cortex, entorhinal cortex, anterior olfactory nucleus, amygdala, caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens and cerebellar cortex were atrophy-prone regions. The septum also underwent atrophy but other basal forebrain structures were intact. The hippocampus, diencephalon and brainstem structures showed no atrophic change. White matter structures did not change in size with aging except for the forceps minor of the corpus callosum, which showed age-related atrophy. On the contrary, SAM-R/1 showed a significant age-related atrophy only in a restricted part of the cerebral cortex, mainly in the parietal region. Other cortical regions, subcortical structures, diencephalon, brainstem structures, cerebellum and white matter were atrophy-resistant in SAM-R/1. The prefrontal cortex, entorhinal cortex, piriform cortex and striatum are closely interconnected and also connect with the amygdala which plays a key role in conditioning in the rodent. Age-related atrophy in all these structures in SAM-P/10 presumably accounts for the age-related deficits in conditional avoidance learning in this strain of mouse. Comparison between SAM-P/10 and SAM-R/1 or other well-known rodents indicates that SAM-P/10 is a unique rodent that spontaneously and rapidly develops progressive generalized cerebral atrophy, which is considered to be a pathological process rather than an accelerated aging process.
To investigate possible changes in the GABAA receptor agonist site in the CA1 area and fascia dentata of rats kindled by stimulation of Schaffer collaterals, a quantitative autoradiographic study of the [3H]muscimol binding was carried out. Two kindled groups were studied, at 24 h (fully kindled stage) and at 28 days (long-term stage) after the last class V seizure. Several concentrations of [3H]muscimol were tested in the range of the high/intermediate (5-40 nM) and low-affinity (60-100 nM) binding sites. In the fully kindled group, the binding over the complete range of tested [3H]muscimol concentrations was significantly increased by 30-50% in the fascia dentata, while the binding was significantly decreased by 10-25% in the CA1 area. The high/intermediate-affinity binding was still significantly increased by 20-30% in the fascia dentata 28 days after the last seizure. In this long-term group there was still a significant decrease of 10-18% of the low-affinity binding in the CA1 area. These results show that kindling epileptogenesis induces long-lasting changes in the GABAA receptor agonist binding sites that are region specific. We hypothesize that the changes encountered at the fully kindled stage, i.e. increased binding in the fascia dentata and decreased binding in the CA1 area, may underly the electrophysiologically observed increased paired-pulse depression of field potentials in the former and the decreased paired-pulse depression in the latter area [Kamphuis et al. (1992) Neurosci. Lett. 141, 101-105; Kamphuis et al. (1988) Brain Res. 440, 205-215; Zhao and Leung (1991) Brain Res. 564, 220-229; Zhao and Leung (1992) Brain Res. 582, 163-167]. We conclude that the observed changes may not only contribute to the induction of kindling epileptogenesis but may also play a role in the maintenance of the kindled state.
The expression of the specific trk receptors for nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (trkA and trkB) has been assayed by messenger RNA in situ hybridization in adult rats with partial fimbrial transections along with intraventricular treatment of nerve growth factor or brain-derived neurotrophic factor. In the forebrain, specific hybridization labeling for trkA messenger RNA showed an identical pattern to that of choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA, supporting the view that trkA expression is confined to the cholinergic population in the basal forebrain and the cholinergic interneurons in the striatum. After partial unilateral transections of the fimbria there was a progressive loss of choline acetyltransferase and trkA messenger RNA expression in the septal region ipsilateral to the lesion. Daily intraventricular administration of brain-derived neurotrophic factor or nerve growth factor partially prevented the lesion-induced decrease in the levels of both messengers, the latter being more effective than the former. Grain count analysis of individual cells was used to test whether the two factors upregulated choline acetyltransferase or trkA expression in individual cells surviving the lesion. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment failed to induce any change in the levels of both messengers per neuron in the septal area. In contrast, daily intraventricular administration of nerve growth factor upregulated both choline acetyltransferase and trkA messenger RNA expression in individual neurons. This upregulation was evident on ipsilateral and contralateral sides, suggesting that nerve growth factor is able to upregulate these markers in intact and injured cholinergic cells in the basal forebrain. Similar to the situation in the septum, brain-derived neurotrophic factor did not upregulate choline acetyltransferase or trkA expression in the striatum. However, nerve growth factor administration strongly upregulated choline acetyltransferase messenger RNA expression by individual cholinergic neurons of the striatum. A medial to lateral gradient decrease in this upregulation was detected in the striatum ipsilateral to the side of administration, suggesting a limited diffusion of the nerve growth factor protein from the ventricle into brain parenchyma. In contrast to the strong effect on choline acetyltransferase expression, nerve growth factor treatment was ineffective in altering trkA messenger RNA in the striatum. The contrasting findings between septum and striatum suggest different regulatory mechanisms for trkA messenger RNA expression in the two cholinergic populations. Since nerve growth factor was found to upregulate the expression of its trkA receptor, we tested whether brain-derived neurotrophic factor administration had similar effects on the regulation of its trkB receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a novel member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily with potent trophic effects on dopamine neurons. Kainate-induced epileptic seizures have been shown to induce gene expression of trophic factors, particularly members of neurotrophin or fibroblast growth factor families, in the hippocampus. In this study, we examined the effects of kainate (12 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced epileptic seizures on the expression of the novel neurotrophic factor GDNF in the hippocampus. While GDNF messenger RNA was not detected during development or in normal adult rats in the hippocampus, kainate-induced epileptic seizures markedly increased GDNF messenger RNA in scattered neurons in the dentate granule layer 3 h after injection. Six hours after kainate almost all dentate granule cells and expressed GDNF messenger RNA. The increase in GDNF messenger RNA in the dentate granule layer returned almost to control levels 24 h after kainate; however, there was still expression of GDNF messenger RNA in the hilus/CA4 and also in pyramidal neurons in areas CA1-CA3. We conclude that GDNF messenger RNA is regulated, in part, via glutamate-mediated excitation and may play a role in long-lasting structural and/or functional reorganization in the hippocampal formation.
The presence and functional role of vasoactive intestinal peptide in the hamster seminal vesicle were studied by a combination of structural and functional approaches. The use of an immunofluorescence staining technique in both cryostat sections and whole-mount preparations revealed that vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive nerve fibres were mainly localized in the lamina propria of the mucosal layer. In double-stained preparations, vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivity was found to be localized in nerves also containing acetylcholinesterase activity. At the ultrastructural level, the use of an immunogold staining method showed that vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivity occurred in large granular vesicles (80-150 nm in diameter) in nerve varicosities which also contained small pleomorphic agranular vesicles. In order to evaluate the anatomical distribution of vasoactive intestinal peptide binding sites in the seminal vesicle, we have utilized an in vitro receptor autoradiographic technique. Vasoactive intestinal peptide binding sites were localized in the basal region of the secretory epithelium, in the muscle layer and in the wall of blood vessels. In vitro incorporation of [3H]L-leucine into protein by tissue slices revealed that vasoactive intestinal peptide (1 microM) significantly increases the amount of released protein. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (0.1-1 microM) did not affect the resting tension of the muscle but significantly inhibited the increase in muscle tension induced by carbachol. Atropine prevented the effect of carbachol, indicating that the latter is mediated by muscarinic receptors. Our results suggest that in the hamster seminal vesicle, vasoactive intestinal peptide is involved in the modulation of muscarinic function and in the control of secretion.
Brain activity patterns during echolocation and flight were assessed in mustached bats (Pteronotus parnellii parnellii). Bats were injected intraperitoneally with [3H]2-deoxyglucose and restrained in a foam holder or allowed to fly for 20 min. Under resting conditions, low levels of [3H]2-deoxyglucose uptake were observed throughout the forebrain but relatively high uptake was found in brainstem auditory and vestibular centers. In flying, echolocating bats, marked increases in regional [3H]2-deoxyglucose uptake were apparent. All structures of the classical ascending auditory pathway were intensely labeled in autoradiograms. Other brain regions that exhibited high [3H]2-deoxyglucose uptake in flying bats included the cingulate cortex, stratum lacunosum-moleculare of the hippocampus, thalamus, caudate-putamen, superior colliculus, pontine reticular formation, nucleus ambiguus, parts of the midbrain central gray, and cerebellum. In the cerebellum, the most prominent increase in [3H]2-deoxyglucose uptake was found in discrete patches of the granule cell layer. The results provide the first overview of brain activity patterns during echolocation and flight in bats. In addition, uptake of [14C]fluorodeoxyglucose was used to compare brain activity patterns in flying bats to bats that were imaging their environment via biosonar while hanging in a wire cage. The echolocating-not-flying bats emitted 6931 +/- 1226 pulses in 20 min compared to 8972 +/- 1273 pulses in 20 min for flying bats. The uptake of the metabolic marker was significantly more in the flying bats compared to the emitting-not-flying bats in the medial geniculate, superior colliculus, auditory cortex, cingulate cortex and thalamus. In the nucleus ambiguus, cochlear nucleus, and inferior colliculus, uptake was similar for the flying and emitting-not-flying bats. These results suggest that the high metabolic activity observed in forebrain auditory regions of flying bats is related in part to neural processes that involve sensory motor integration during flight and not simply the perception of acoustic information.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus of the mammalian brain is thought to be the anatomical locus of circadian rhythms. To examine the functional organization of the suprachiasmatic nucleus in vitro with intact intercellular connections for a prolonged period, we have established an organotypic slice culture system using a roller-tube technique. Brain slices (400 microns in thickness) containing the bilateral suprachiasmatic nuclei, were obtained from newborn rats at four to seven days old and were maintained in vitro for more than three weeks. During this three-week period, the slices flattened to one to three cell layers and two tightly packed neuronal cell-masses (neuronal zones), with diameters of about 1 mm were formed, which were surrounded by a peripheral glial cell-dispersed zone. In the neuronal cell zones, peptides and their messenger RNAs were found cytochemically with characteristic patterns similar to the suprachiasmatic nucleus in the brain. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry showed that vasoactive intestinal peptide messenger RNA expressing and vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive neurons were detected predominantly in the ventrolateral part of the neuronal zones in the suprachiasmatic nucleus slice culture. Vasopressin messenger RNA-expressing and vasopressin-immunoreactive cells were localized in the dorsomedial neuronal zones near the ependymal cell zone. The distribution of cell bodies and fibers containing these neuropeptides and their messenger RNAs in the neuronal zones of suprachiasmatic nucleus organotypic slice culture were similar to that of the suprachiasmatic nucleus in vivo. This suggests that the suprachiasmatic nucleus in these organotypic slice cultures retains the biological characteristics of these cells in vivo as the cells did develop, form compact neuronal masses and did establish connections. To examine the possibility that suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons in slice cultures show a persistent rhythmic activity, we also measured the amount of vasopressin released into the culture medium. Sampling at 4-h intervals combined with enzyme immunoassay revealed that vasopressin concentration in the medium embracing suprachiasmatic nucleus slice cultures fluctuated with a period of approximately 24 h. The present findings suggest that the intranuclear neuronal networks of the suprachiasmatic nucleus are maintained in vitro for a long duration and that organotypic cultures of the suprachiasmatic nucleus produce and release bioactive substances in an oscillating manner. The suprachiasmatic nucleus in slice cultures may be useful for future analysis of circadian rhythms in vitro.
The efferent connections of the hypothalamic area of the rat, where attack behaviour can be elicited by electrical stimulation, were studied using iontophoretic injections of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin. Specificity for the hypothalamic &quot;attack area&quot; was investigated by comparison with efferents of hypothalamic sites outside the attack area. The hypothalamic attack area consists of the intermediate hypothalamic area and the ventrolateral pole of the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. Fibres from the hypothalamic attack area, as well as fibres from several other hypothalamic sites, form diffuse fibre &quot;streams&quot; running rostrally or caudally. Many varicosities that are found on the fibres suggest, that these fibres are capable of influencing many brain sites along their way. Projection sites were found throughout the brain. In the comparison between attack area efferents and controls, many overlapping brain sites were found. Hypothalamic efferents preferentially originating in the largest part of the attack area, i.e. the intermediate hypothalamic area, were found in the mediodorsal and parataenial thalamic nuclei. Within the septum, a spatial organization of hypothalamic innervation was found. Fibres from the attack area formed specialized &quot;pericellular baskets&quot; in the dorsolateral aspect of the intermediate part of the lateral septal nucleus. Fibres from other hypothalamic sites were found in other septal areas and did not form these septal baskets. Within the mesencephalic central gray, fibres from the attack area were found specifically in the dorsal part and dorsal aspect of the lateral part of the central gray. Physiological and pharmacological studies have shown that several brain sites are involved in different aspects of aggressive behaviour. Some of these areas, as for instance the dorsomedial thalamic nucleus, septum and central gray, are innervated by efferents from the hypothalamic attack area, whereas other sites, like ventral premammillary nucleus and ventral tegmental area, are not. It is concluded from the present findings, that a number of brain sites, that are known to be involved in agonistic behaviour, receive hypothalamic information preferentially from the hypothalamic attack area through diffusely arranged varicose fibres. The function of each connection in the regulation of specific behaviours remains to be further investigated.

The morphological features of cerebral tissue in the isolated guinea-pig brain maintained in vitro by arterial perfusion are described. Light and electron microscopic analysis of the thalamus, the somatosensory cortex and the limbic cortices (hippocampus, piriform and entorhinal cortices) was performed after different periods of incubation in vitro (1, 7 and 12 h), in parallel with an electrophysiological study. The morphological analysis showed that neuronal elements retained their normal appearance at both cellular and subcellular level in the examined brain regions up to an incubation period of 12 h. Immunoreactivity for GABA was also preserved for up to 12 h of in vitro perfusion. Vasogenic edema and perivascular extracellular swelling appeared after 7 h, together with signs of progressive astrocytic deterioration. These findings show that normal electrophysiological recordings correlate with good anatomical preservation of the isolated guinea-pig brain preparation after prolonged times of arterial in vitro perfusion.
Strings of vimentin-positive rosary-bead-like formations in the rabbit superior colliculus were studied. The size and distance between beads varied from one string to another, and within a given string. The formations were similar in number and distribution in the two superior colliculi. Successions of beads were found mainly in the medial and deep layers, and represented not more than 1% of the radial glial fibers. The strings were in continuity at deep levels with segments of varicose fibers of radial glia, which in turn were continuous with fibers of normal appearance. These observations suggest a temporal sequence of evolution, starting with the normal radial glial fiber, which acquires swellings that in turn give rise to discrete beads; in subsequent stages, the beads become smaller and more widely separated. In the newborn rabbit, these formations are seen mainly in laterobasal regions of the superior colliculus, and spread throughout the colliculus by the end of week one of postnatal life, becoming more numerous in medial regions. We suggest that these formations represent a mechanism of removal of at least part of the radial glial fibers, and discuss the possible relation between these formations and the transformation of radial glia into astrocytes.
We have attempted to resolve apparently conflicting observations of previous investigators regarding the penetration of proteins into peripheral ganglia and nerves of the rat. Horseradish peroxidase, which is largely cleared from the blood and extracellular fluids in less than 30 min, entered all the extracellular spaces of ganglia, including the clefts between glial cells and neurons, but it did not enter the endoneurium. Rhodamine B-conjugated bovine albumin quickly entered sensory and sympathetic ganglia, but its penetration into avascular enteric nervous tissue was arrested at the outer margin of each myenteric and submucosal ganglion. If injected daily for a week, this fluorescent protein was seen also in the endoneurium, but it was still absent from enteric ganglia. The failure to enter enteric ganglia may have been due to the entrapment of aggregates of dye-labelled albumin molecules in the basal lamina that encloses the enteric nervous system. Extracellular endogenous albumin immunoreactivity was seen in all parts of peripheral nerves and in all types of ganglion. Some neuronal perikarya contained albumin-immunoreactive material; the strongest staining was in enteric neurons. Albumin may reach these cell bodies by retrograde axonal transport from peripheral terminals. We conclude that all the extracellular spaces of the rat's peripheral nervous system are accessible to plasma proteins, though diffusion occurs more slowly into the endoneurium than into ganglia.
The cysteine lysosomal proteases comprise a large family of highly conserved enzymes which are essential for intracellular protein turnover. These proteases are very efficient in their ability to degrade components of the extracellular matrix, and have been implicated in processes of cell growth, malignant transformation and inflammation. There is also a growing body of evidence for their involvement in the metabolism of the amyloid precursor protein. The production of insoluble beta A4 amyloid peptide is thought to be one of the key events that lead to the development of Alzheimer's pathology. To see the physiological role these enzymes play in the brain, we studied the relative abundance and distribution of the messenger RNAs for three lysosomal cysteine proteases, cathepsins B and L and cathepsin S, by in situ hybridization histochemistry in rat brain. All three enzymes are capable of degrading components of the extracellular matrix but they have different substrate preferences and resistances to neutral pH. We found that the mRNAs for cathepsins B, L, and S have different expression patterns in brain. Cathepsin B mRNA shows the highest level of expression. It has a wide distribution, and is preferentially expressed in neurons. The expression patterns of cathepsin B and cathepsin L mRNA overlap in many brain regions; in some areas they complement each other. Cathepsin B and L mRNAs are highly expressed in the choroid plexus, a structure that is instrumental in brain development. Both transcripts are also abundant in the neuropeptide synthesizing hypothalamic nuclei. Cathepsin S mRNA has wide expression pattern throughout brain, in grey and white matter. A great number of cells that express cathepsin S have microglial morphology. Regions that are known to contain the highest amounts of the amyloid precursor protein express highest levels of cathepsin B and cathepsin L mRNA. Also, all three transcripts are highly represented in regions that are most prone to degeneration in Alzheimer's disease. These results suggest a role for these lysosomal hydrolases released from degenerating cells in the development of Alzheimer's pathology.
