
Forkhead box O (Foxo) transcription factors induce muscle atrophy by upregulating the muscle-specific E3 ubiquitin ligases MuRF-1 and atrogin-1/MAFbx, but other than Akt, the upstream regulators of Foxos during muscle atrophy are largely unknown. To examine the involvement of the dystrophin glycoprotein complex (DGC) in regulation of Foxo activities and muscle atrophy, we analyzed the expression of DGC members during tail suspension, a model of unloading-induced muscle atrophy. Among several DGC members, only neuronal NOS (nNOS) quickly dislocated from the sarcolemma to the cytoplasm during tail suspension. Electron paramagnetic resonance spectrometry revealed production of NO in atrophying muscle. nNOS-null mice showed much milder muscle atrophy after tail suspension than did wild-type mice. Importantly, nuclear accumulation of dephosphorylated Foxo3a was not evident in nNOS-null muscle, and neither MuRF-1 nor atrogin-1/MAFbx were upregulated during tail suspension. Furthermore, an nNOS-specific inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole, significantly prevented suspension-induced muscle atrophy. The NF-kappaB pathway was activated in both wild-type and nNOS-null muscle during tail suspension. We also show that nNOS was involved in the mechanism of denervation-induced atrophy. We conclude that nNOS/NO mediates muscle atrophy via regulation of Foxo transcription factors and is a new therapeutic target for disuse-induced muscle atrophy.
We show here that the process of megakaryocytic differentiation requires the presence of the recently discovered protein tescalcin. Tescalcin is dramatically upregulated during the differentiation and maturation of primary megakaryocytes or upon PMA-induced differentiation of K562 cells. This upregulation requires sustained signaling through the ERK pathway. Overexpression of tescalcin in K562 cells initiates events of spontaneous megakaryocytic differentiation, such as expression of specific cell surface antigens, inhibition of cell proliferation, and polyploidization. Conversely, knockdown of this protein in primary CD34+ hematopoietic progenitors and cell lines by RNA interference suppresses megakaryocytic differentiation. In cells lacking tescalcin, the expression of Fli-1, Ets-1, and Ets-2 transcription factors, but not GATA-1 or MafB, is blocked. Thus, tescalcin is essential for the coupling of ERK cascade activation with the expression of Ets family genes in megakaryocytic differentiation.
To assess the possible neurological basis of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD), the relationships between BPSD and cognitive function were evaluated in 40 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). BPSD was assessed using the Behavioral Pathology in Alzheimer's Disease Frequency Weighted Severity Scale (BEHAVE-AD-FW) for behavioral symptoms and psychological symptoms separately, and cognitive function was also assessed using the Cognitive Abilities Screening Instrument (CASI). We found that only behavioral symptoms were associated with cognitive function based on the CASI total score and the score for the CASI attention domain. Administration of risperidone, an atypical anti-psychotic drug, for one month, improved the behavioral symptoms and the scores for the CASI attention and orientation domains. Our data suggest that BPSD in AD may reflect two largely independent pathophysiological processes: one associated with behavioral symptoms partly overlapping with attention, and the other associated with psychological symptoms predominantly unrelated to cognitive function.
Lexical-semantic investigations in cognitive neuroscience have focused on conceptual knowledge of concrete objects. By contrast, relational concepts have been largely ignored. We examined thematic role and locative knowledge in 14 left-hemisphere-damage patients. Relational concepts shift cognitive focus away from the object to the relationship between objects, calling into question the relevance of traditional sensory-functional accounts of semantics. If extraction of a relational structure is the critical cognitive process common to both thematic and locative knowledge, then damage to neural structures involved in such an extraction would impair both kinds of knowledge. If the nature of the relationship itself is critical, then functional neuroanatomical dissociations should occur. Using a new lesion analysis method, we found that damage to the lateral temporal cortex produced deficits in thematic role knowledge and damage to inferior fronto-parietal regions produced deficits in locative knowledge. In addition, we found that conceptual knowledge of thematic roles dissociates from its mapping onto language. These relational knowledge deficits were not accounted for by deficits in processing nouns or verbs or by a general deficit in making inferences. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that manners of visual motion serve as a point of entry for thematic role knowledge and networks dedicated to eye gaze, whereas reaching and grasping serve as a point of entry for locative knowledge. Intermediary convergence zones that are topographically guided by these sensory-motor points of entry play a critical role in the semantics of relational concepts.
Androgens are an important output of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis that controls reproduction in all vertebrates. In male teleosts two androgens, testosterone and 11-ketotestosterone, control sexual differentiation and development in juveniles and reproductive behavior in adults. Androgenic signals provide feedback at many levels of the HPG axis, including the hypothalamic neurons that synthesize and release gonadotropin-releasing hormone 1 (GnRH1), but the precise cellular site of androgen action in the brain is not known. Here we describe two androgen receptor subtypes, ARalpha and ARbeta, in the cichlid Astatotilapia burtoni and show that these subtypes are differentially located throughout the adult brain in nuclei known to function in the control of reproduction. ARalpha was expressed in the ventral part of the ventral telencephalon, the preoptic area (POA) of the hypothalamus and the ventral hypothalamus, whereas ARbeta was more widely expressed in the dorsal and ventral telencephalon, the POA, and the ventral and dorsal hypothalamus. We provide the first evidence in any vertebrate that the GnRH1-releasing neurons, which serve as the central control point of the HPG axis, express both subtypes of AR. Using quantitative real-time PCR, we show that A. burtoni AR subtypes have different expression levels in adult tissue, with ARalpha showing significantly higher expression than ARbeta in the pituitary, and ARbeta expressed at a higher level than ARalpha in the anterior and middle brain. These data provide important insight into the role of androgens in regulating the vertebrate reproductive axis.
Steroid hormones play an influential role in neural development. In addition to androgens and estrogens of fetal and neonatal origin, the developing brain may also be exposed to progesterone. In this regard, identifying forebrain nuclei that are sensitive to progesterone during neural development may elucidate the impact of progesterone on the developing brain. Using immunocytochemistry, the present study documented the distribution of progesterone receptor (PR) expression in the rat forebrain from embryonic day (E) 17 through postnatal day (P) 28. The results indicate that PR expression in the developing brain is extensive, present in numerous forebrain nuclei, but transient, in that PR expression was absent in most nuclei by P28. Regions displaying the highest levels of PR-immunoreactivity (PRir) were found in preoptic and hypothalamic nuclei including the medial preoptic, anteroventral periventricular, arcuate, and ventromedial nuclei. PRir was moderately abundant in the limbic region, particularly in subdivisions of the amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and hippocampus. The choroid plexus and neocortex were additional structures that demonstrated relatively abundant levels of PRir. The presence PR expression in the developing forebrain implicates the involvement of progesterone and PR in fundamental mechanisms of neural development.


Eugenol, a natural capsaicin congener, is widely used in dentistry. Eugenol inhibits voltage-activated Na(+) and Ca(2+) channels in a transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1)-independent manner. We hypothesized that eugenol also inhibits voltage-gated K(+) currents, and investigated this in rat trigeminal ganglion neurons and in a heterologous system using whole-cell patch clamping. Eugenol inhibited voltage-gated K(+) currents, and the inhibitory effects of eugenol were observed in both capsaicin-sensitive and capsaicin-insensitive neurons. Pre-treatment with capsazepine, a well-known antagonist of TRPV1, failed to block the inhibitory effects of eugenol on K(+) currents, suggesting no involvement of TRPV1. Eugenol inhibited human Kv1.5 currents stably expressed in Ltk(-) cells, where TRPV1 is not endogenously expressed. We conclude that eugenol inhibits voltage-gated K(+) currents in a TRPV1-independent manner. The inhibition of voltage-gated K(+) currents is likely to contribute to the irritable action of eugenol. Abbreviations: human Kv1.5 channel, hKv1.5; transient receptor potential vanilloid 1, TRPV1.
Continuous glucose sensors (CGS) offer the potential to greatly change the lives of people with diabetes. Even though two of these systems (Guardian RT, Medtronic, Northridge, CA, and DexCom STS, DexCom, San Diego, CA) have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for use as adjuncts to self-blood glucose monitoring (SBGM), questions remain concerning the accuracy of these devices. When considering accuracy, two distinct approaches should be emphasized: (1) numerical and (2) clinical. Because CGS data are a process in time, each of these two approaches includes two subtypes of accuracy: point and rate. Conventional statistics such as correlation coefficients, mean and median relative absolute differences, and International Standards Organization criteria are measures of numerical point accuracy. A new measure, the R deviation, is introduced to quantify numerical rate accuracy. Error-grid analysis (Clarke EGA) measures clinical point accuracy. The only measure of both clinical point accuracy and rate accuracy is continuous glucose error-grid analysis. This analysis is a combination of two components, P-EGA measuring point accuracy and R-EGA measuring rate accuracy, which are designed to assess the information that distinguishes continuous glucose measurements from intermittent SBGM determinations. Further, a better understanding of the source of the error associated with time lag and its effect on CGS readings may improve sensor output. Finally, the reliability of the CGS sensors, in terms of initial calibration and long-term application, needs to be assessed carefully if current CGS systems are to be used as hypoglycemia monitors or incorporated in the future design of closed loop (artificial pancreas) systems.

Performance on the visual paired-comparison (VPC) task has typically been interpreted with E. Sokolov's (1963) comparator model of the orienting response; novelty preferences are interpreted as evidence of retention, whereas null preferences are interpreted as evidence of forgetting. Here the authors capitalized on the verbal nature of human adults to clarify the interpretation of visual preferences in VPC performance. In 2 experiments, adults were tested on either the VPC task or a forced-choice recognition task after delays of 3 min to 12 months. In Experiment 1, adults tested on the VPC task exhibited novelty preferences after short delays, null preferences after intermediate delays, and familiarity preferences after long delays. In Experiment 2, adults tested on the forced-choice recognition task exhibited high levels of accuracy irrespective of delay, but the latency with which they recognized the stimuli increased systematically over the retention interval. These data are inconsistent with a simple Sokolovian interpretation of VPC performance and instead suggest that memory may be expressed as a novelty preference, null preference, or familiarity preference depending on the accessibility of the representation.
The purpose of the study was to assess whether therapist treatment fidelity was a predictor of treatment outcome in a randomized clinical trial of multisystemic therapy with 10- to 16-year-old youths with chronically poorly controlled Type I diabetes (N = 40). Treatment fidelity was assessed by objective ratings of therapy sessions and questionnaires completed by caregivers and by therapists. Relationships between fidelity measures were assessed. Structural equation modeling (SEM) was used to test whether high fidelity would lead to improved regimen adherence and to improved metabolic control outcomes via regimen adherence. Objective ratings of treatment fidelity were significantly related to therapist-reported but not to caregiver-reported treatment fidelity. SEM results supported a completely mediated pathway between treatment fidelity and metabolic control, with regimen adherence mediating the relationship. Results suggest that conducting complex behavioral interventions with a high degree of fidelity can improve treatment outcomes among youths with chronic illnesses.
For over a decade, phosducin's interaction with the betagamma subunits of the G protein, transducin, has been thought to contribute to light adaptation by dynamically controlling the amount of transducin heterotrimer available for activation by photoexcited rhodopsin. In this study we directly tested this hypothesis by characterizing the dark- and light-adapted response properties of phosducin knockout (Pd- / -) rods. Pd- / - rods were notably less sensitive to light than wild-type (WT) rods. The gain of transduction, as measured by the amplification constant using the Lamb-Pugh model of activation, was 32% lower in Pd- / - rods than in WT rods. This reduced amplification correlated with a 36% reduction in the level of transducin betagamma-subunit expression, and thus available heterotrimer in Pd- / - rods. However, commonly studied forms of light adaptation were normal in the absence of phosducin. Thus, phosducin does not appear to contribute to adaptation mechanisms of the outer segment by dynamically controlling heterotrimer availability, but rather is necessary for maintaining normal transducin expression and therefore normal flash sensitivity in rods.


The objective was to investigate and classify headaches in 109 consecutive adult patients with epilepsy. A semi-structured interview was performed in those who confirmed such symptoms (65%). Interictal headaches were present in 52%; 20% had interictal migraine. Postictal headache was reported in 44%. Migraine characteristics were present in 42% of these, and most of them (74%) also suffered from interictal migraine. Six percent had preictal headache. In partial epilepsy, there was an association between headache lateralisation and interictal EEG abnormalities (p=0.02). We conclude that headache, including migraine, is very common in patients with epilepsy. Unilateral headache may represent a lateralising sign in focal epilepsy. Seizures often trigger postictal headaches with migraine features, which often are associated with interictal migraine. Migrainous headaches sometimes proceed into epileptic seizures. The comorbidity of migraine and epilepsy should receive ample clinical attention, as it may influence antiepileptic drug choice, and the headache may need specific treatment.
We report the case of a patient who developed typical cluster headache attacks and was diagnosed as having multiple sclerosis (MS) at the same time. The headache attacks resolved after i.v. treatment with methylprednisolone. MR imaging showed a pontine demyelinating lesion involving the trigeminal nerve root inlet area, on the same side as the pain. The association between cluster headache and MS has been rarely described before. This case suggests that in patients with cluster headache neuroimaging is often useful in order to exclude structural lesions.

Neuroplasticity is the phenomenon in brain where different stimuli lead to increase or decrease in the number of brain cells and remodelling of synapses. Neuroplasticity research has now established beyond doubt that instead being a static cell mass, our brain is actually a dynamic system of neural network that has the capability of significant growth under favourable circumstances. This obviously opens up new possibilities in treatment of disorders where neural loss or synaptic decay is major factor in molecular aetiopathogeneis. Neuroplasticity research unravels the way stress acts. Similarly it gives new hypothesis regarding depression and epilepsy. Novel therapeutic approaches based on neuroplastic findings are also discussed.
Iron- and aluminum-sulfate together, at nanomolar concentrations, trigger the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in cultures of human brain cells. Previous studies have shown that following ROS induction, a family of pathogenic brain genes that promote inflammatory signalling, cellular apoptosis and brain cell death is significantly over-expressed. Notably, iron- and aluminum-sulfate induce genes in cultured human brain cells that exhibit expression patterns similar to those observed to be up-regulated in moderate- to late-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study we have extended our investigations to analyze the expression of micro RNA (miRNA) populations in iron- and aluminum-sulfate treated human neural cells in primary culture. The main finding was that these ROS-generating neurotoxic metal sulfates also up-regulate a specific set of miRNAs that includes miR-9, miR-125b and miR-128. Notably, these same miRNAs are up-regulated in AD brain. These findings further support the idea that iron- and aluminum-sulfates induce genotoxicity via a ROS-mediated up-regulation of specific regulatory elements and pathogenic genes that redirect brain cell fate towards progressive dysfunction and apoptotic cell death.
Spina bifida meningomyelocele (SBM) is a neurodevelopmental disorder associated with adequate development of word reading and single word comprehension, but deficient text and discourse comprehension. Studies of comprehension in children with SBM are reviewed in relation to a comprehension model in which meanings are either activated from the surface code or constructed through resource-intensive integration and revision processes to form representations of the text base and models of the situation described by the text. Two new studies probed the construction of situation models in SBM. Experiment 1 tested the ability to build spatial and affective situation models from single sentences in 86 children with SBM (8 to 18 years of age) and 37 control children (8 to 16 years of age). Experiment 2 tested the ability to integrate across sentences to build spatial situation models in 15 children with SBM and 15 age-matched controls. Compared to age peers, children with SBM did not construct situation models that required integration of information across sentences, even though they could construct such models from single sentences. The data bear on the distinctive SBM neurocognitive profile, and more generally, on the significance of integration processes for the constructive aspects of language comprehension.
Information from many different sensory modalities converges on the medial temporal lobe in the mammalian brain, an area that is known to be involved in the formation of episodic memories. Neurons in this region, called place cells, display location-correlated activity. Because it is not feasible to record all neurons using current electrophysiological techniques, it is difficult to address the mechanisms by which different sensory modalities are combined to form place field activity. To address this limitation, this paper presents an embodied neural simulation of the medial temporal lobe and other cortical structures, in which all aspects of the model can be examined during a maze navigation task. The neural simulation has realistic neuroanatomical connectivity. It uses a rate code model where a single neuronal unit represents the local field potential of a pool of neurons. The dynamics of these neuronal units are based on measured neurophysiological parameters. The model is embodied in a mobile device with multiple sensory modalities. Neural activity and behavior are analyzed both in the normal condition and after sensory lesions. Place field activity arose in the model through plasticity, and it continued even when one or more sensory modalities were lesioned. An analysis that traced through all neural circuits in the model revealed that many different pathways led to the same place activity, i.e., these pathways were degenerate. After sensory lesions, the pathways leading to place activity had even greater degeneracy, but more of this variance occurred in entorhinal cortex and sensory areas than in hippocampus. This model predicts that when examining neurons causing place activity in rodents, hippocampal neurons are more likely than entorhinal or sensory neurons to maintain involvement in the circuit after sensory deprivation.
Flexible spatial behavior requires the ability to orchestrate the interaction of multiple parallel processes. At the sensory level, multimodal inputs must be combined to produce a robust description of the spatiotemporal properties of the environment. At the action-selection level, multiple concurrent navigation policies must be dynamically weighted in order to adopt the strategy that is the most adapted to the complexity of the task. Different neural substrates mediate the processing of spatial information. Elucidating their anatomo-functional interrelations is fundamental to unravel the overall spatial memory function. Here we first address the multisensory integration issue and we review a series of experimental findings (both behavioral and electrophysiological) concerning the neural bases of spatial learning and the way the brain builds unambiguous spatial representations from incoming multisensory streams. Second, we move at the navigation strategy level and present an overview of experimental data that begin to explain the cooperation-competition between the brain areas involved in spatial navigation. Third, we introduce the spatial cognition function from a computational neuroscience and neuro-robotics viewpoint. We provide an example of neuro-computational model that focuses on the importance of combining multisensory percepts to enable a robot to acquire coherent (spatial) memories of its interaction with the environment.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-related apoptosis-inducing ligand/Apo2 ligand (TRAIL/Apo2L) mRNA was induced preferentially by interferon (IFN)-beta but not IFN-alpha in human fibrosarcoma and primary fibroblast cells. To characterize the signaling components mediating the IFN subtype-specific induction of this gene, we used mutant cell lines lacking individual components involved in signaling by type I IFNs. TRAIL was not induced by IFN-beta in mutant cell lines U2A, U3A, U4A, U5A, and U6A, which lack, respectively, IFN regulatory factor-9 (IRF-9), Stat1, Jak1, IFNAR-2.2, and Stat2, indicating transcription factor IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) was essential for the induction of this gene. TRAIL was not induced by IFN-beta in U1A (Tyk2 null) or U1A.R930 cells (that express a kinase-deficient point mutant of Tyk2) but was induced in U1A.wt-5 cells (U1A cells expressing wild-type Tyk2), indicating that Tyk2 protein and kinase activity were both required for induction of the gene. Biochemical and genetic analyses revealed the requirement of transcription factor NF-kappa B and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) but not extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) for the induction of TRAIL by IFN-beta. Furthermore, the antiproliferative but not antiviral effects of IFN-beta required catalytically active Tyk2, suggesting that expression of genes, such as TRAIL, may play an important role in mediating the biologic effects of IFNs.
Under normal conditions, macrophages provide essential innate immune surveillance in tissues. These cells also play key functions during wound healing and in pathological conditions. When macrophages are exposed to thrombin, an enzyme released from leaky blood vessels, they are stimulated to produce inflammatory cytokines, which are critical for wound healing and can also facilitate tumor growth and invasion. Using antibody cytokine arrays, we identified IL-8/CXCL8, a chemokine that plays important functions in inflammation and angiogenesis and consequently in healing and tumor development, as one of the cytokines that is highly stimulated in macrophages by thrombin. Here, we investigated the signal transduction mechanism by which thrombin stimulates IL-8/CXCL8 expression in THP-1-derived and primary human macrophages. We show that JNK is a crucial mediator of the thrombin signaling pathways in macrophages, and the activation of JNK is dependent on stimulation of the Rho small GTPase. The thrombin-induced Rho/JNK cascade is a novel signaling cascade for IL-8/CXCL8 transcription activation. Understanding the molecular mechanism by which thrombin controls the expression of inflammatory cytokines in macrophages can lead to therapeutic interventions, which can provide better management of healing, inflammation, and tumorigenesis.

Endocannabinoids are fatty acid derivatives that have a variety of biological actions, most notably via activation of the cannabinoid receptors. These receptors are also targets for drugs derived from Cannabis sativa. In the nervous system, endocannabinoids act as neuromodulators that depress neurotransmitter release at the presynaptic terminal. In most instances of neural endocannabinoid signaling, the compounds appear to be released from the postsynaptic neuron to act on the presynaptic terminal in a &quot;retrograde&quot; manner. Several common mechanisms involved in postsynaptic endocannabinoid production and presynaptic depression produced via activation of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor have been identified. However, significant problems remain in defining the mechanisms underlying endocannabinoid production, release, and movement across the membrane. These issues are discussed in the present review.

The study of EEG recordings during the interval prior to an epileptic seizure onset--the preictal period--is likely to detect changes in the ongoing brain activity consistent with seizure anticipation. A novel index of spectral instability (ISpI) based on multiple abrupt changes of EEG spectral features is presented here. Based on the analysis of control records, robust M-estimates are used to calculate the threshold and avoid false warnings. The results obtained with a small data set (three patients, ten preictal records per patient) have shown that the ISpI index provided a warning flag that anticipated the seizure onset by 13.1 (SD = 4.0) min on average.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a devastating neurological trauma that is prevalent predominantly in young individuals. Several interventions in the areas of neuroregeneration, pharmacology and rehabilitation engineering/neuroscience are currently under investigation for restoring function after SCI. In this paper, we focus on the use of neuroprosthetic devices for restoring standing and ambulation as well as improving general health and wellness after SCI. Four neuroprosthetic approaches are discussed along with their demonstrated advantages and their future needs for improved clinical applicability. We first introduce surface functional electrical stimulation (FES) devices for restoring ambulation and highlight the importance of these devices for facilitating exercise activities and systemic physiological activation. Implanted muscle-based FES devices for restoring standing and walking that are currently undergoing clinical trials are then presented. The use of implanted peripheral nerve intraneural arrays of multi-site microelectrodes for providing fine and graded control of force during sit-to-stand maneuvers is subsequently demonstrated. Finally, intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS) of the lumbosacral spinal cord for restoring standing and walking is introduced and its results to date are presented. We conclude with a general discussion of the common needs of the neuroprosthetic devices presented in this paper and the improvements that may be incorporated in the future to advance their clinical utility and user satisfaction.
Neural interface technology has made enormous strides in recent years but stimulating electrodes remain incapable of reliably targeting specific cell types (e.g. excitatory or inhibitory neurons) within neural tissue. This obstacle has major scientific and clinical implications. For example, there is intense debate among physicians, neuroengineers and neuroscientists regarding the relevant cell types recruited during deep brain stimulation (DBS); moreover, many debilitating side effects of DBS likely result from lack of cell-type specificity. We describe here a novel optical neural interface technology that will allow neuroengineers to optically address specific cell types in vivo with millisecond temporal precision. Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2), an algal light-activated ion channel we developed for use in mammals, can give rise to safe, light-driven stimulation of CNS neurons on a timescale of milliseconds. Because ChR2 is genetically targetable, specific populations of neurons even sparsely embedded within intact circuitry can be stimulated with high temporal precision. Here we report the first in vivo behavioral demonstration of a functional optical neural interface (ONI) in intact animals, involving integrated fiberoptic and optogenetic technology. We developed a solid-state laser diode system that can be pulsed with millisecond precision, outputs 20 mW of power at 473 nm, and is coupled to a lightweight, flexible multimode optical fiber, approximately 200 microm in diameter. To capitalize on the unique advantages of this system, we specifically targeted ChR2 to excitatory cells in vivo with the CaMKIIalpha promoter. Under these conditions, the intensity of light exiting the fiber ( approximately 380 mW mm(-2)) was sufficient to drive excitatory neurons in vivo and control motor cortex function with behavioral output in intact rodents. No exogenous chemical cofactor was needed at any point, a crucial finding for in vivo work in large mammals. Achieving modulation of behavior with optical control of neuronal subtypes may give rise to fundamental network-level insights complementary to what electrode methodologies have taught us, and the emerging optogenetic toolkit may find application across a broad range of neuroscience, neuroengineering and clinical questions.
Stem cells carry the promise to cure a broad range of diseases and injuries, from diabetes, heart and muscular diseases, to neurological diseases, disorders and injuries. Significant progresses have been made in stem cell research over the past decade; the derivation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) from human tissues, the development of cloning technology by somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) and the confirmation that neurogenesis occurs in the adult mammalian brain and that neural stem cells (NSCs) reside in the adult central nervous system (CNS), including that of humans. Despite these advances, there may be decades before stem cell research will translate into therapy. Stem cell research is also subject to ethical and political debates, controversies and legislation, which slow its progress. Cell engineering has proven successful in bringing genetic research to therapy. In this review, I will review, in two examples, how investigators are applying cell engineering to stem cell biology to circumvent stem cells' ethical and political constraints and bolster stem cell research and therapy.
In anorexia nervosa (AN), hyperactivity is observed in about 80% of patients and has been associated with low leptin levels in the acute stage of AN and in anorexia animal models. To further understand the importance of this correlation in AN, we investigated the relationship between hypoleptinaemia and hyperactivity in AN patients longitudinally and assessed their predictive value for recovery. Body weight, activity levels, and serum leptin levels were assessed in adolescents and adult AN patient groups at the start and during treatment, up to a year. In the adolescent group, initial leptin and activity levels were correlated. This negative correlation changes over time into a positive correlation with physiological recovery. Treatment outcome in both groups could be predicted by initial BMI and leptin levels but not by activity levels. No major relationship of activity with the course of recovery was detected, suggesting that in contrast to the acute stage of the disease, leptin and activity levels during the recovery process are dissociated.
Neurotensin receptor subtype 2 (Ntsr2) is a levocabastine-sensitive neurotensin receptor expressed diffusely throughout the mouse brain. Previously, we found that Ntsr2-deficient mice have an abnormality in the processing of thermal nociception. In this study, to examine the involvement of Ntsr2 in mouse behavior, we performed a fear-conditioning test in Ntsr2-deficient mice. In the contextual fear-conditioning test, the freezing response was significantly reduced in Ntsr2-deficient mice compared with that of wild-type mice. This reduction was observed from 1 h to 3 weeks after conditioning, and neither shock sensitivity nor locomotor activity was altered in Ntsr2-deficient mice. In addition, we found that Ntsr2 mRNA was predominantly expressed in cultured astrocytes and weakly expressed in cultured neurons derived from mouse brain. The combination of in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed that Ntsr2 mRNA was dominantly expressed in glial fibrillary acidic protein positive cells in many brain regions including the hypothalamus, while Ntsr2 gene was co-expressed with neuron-specific microtubule associated protein-2 in limited numbers of cells. These results suggest that Ntsr2 in astrocytes and neurons may have unique function like a modulation of fear memory in the mouse brain.
Chick imprinting behavior is a good model for the study of learning and memory. Imprinting object is recognized and processed in the visual wulst, and the memory is stored in the intermediate medial mesopallium in the dorsal pallium of the telencephalon. We identified chicken cholecystokinin (CCK)-expressing cells localized in these area. The number of CCK mRNA-positive cells increased in chicks underwent imprinting training, and these cells expressed nuclear Fos immunoreactivity at high frequency in these regions. Most of these CCK-positive cells were glutamatergic and negative for parvalbumin immunoreactivity. Semi-quantitative PCR analysis revealed that the CCK mRNA levels were significantly increased in the trained chicks compared with untrained chicks. In contrast, the increase in CCK- and c-Fos-double-positive cells associated with the training was not observed after closure of the critical period. These results indicate that CCK cells in the dorsal pallium are activated acutely by visual training that can elicit imprinting. In addition, the CCK receptor antagonist significantly suppressed the acquisition of memory. These results suggest that the activation of CCK cells in the visual wulst as well as in the intermediate medial mesopallium by visual stimuli is indispensable for the acquisition of visual imprinting.
Heat and cold hyperalgesia is a common feature of inflammatory pain. To investigate whether activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 5 (ERK5), also known as big mitogen-activated protein kinase 1, in primary sensory neurons participates in inflammatory pain, we examined the phosphorylation of ERK5 in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) after peripheral inflammation. Inflammation induced by complete Freund's adjuvant produced heat and cold hyperalgesia on the ipsilateral hind paw and induced an increase in the phosphorylation of ERK5, mainly in tyrosine kinase A-expressing small- and medium-size neurons. In contrast, there was no change in ERK5 phosphorylation in the spinal dorsal horn. ERK5 antisense, but not mismatch, oligodeoxynucleotide decreased the activation of ERK5 and suppressed inflammation-induced heat and cold hyperalgesia. Furthermore, the inhibition of ERK5 blocked the induction of transient receptor potential channel TRPV1 and TRPA1 expression in DRG neurons after peripheral inflammation. Our results show that ERK5 activated in DRG neurons contribute to the development of inflammatory pain. Thus, blocking ERK5 signaling in sensory neurons that has the potential for preventing pain after inflammation.
Erythropoietin is a primary regulator of erythropoiesis in the hematopoietic system. More recently erythropoietin has been shown to play a role in neurogenesis and provide neurotrophic support to injured CNS tissue. Here the effects of large systemic doses of erythropoietin on basal levels of adult hippocampal neurogenesis in mice were examined. A 7-day period of recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) administration increased the number of bromodeoxyuridine [BrdU(+)] cells in the sub-granular zone (SGZ) by 30%. Analysis of cell phenotype revealed an increase in mitotically active doublecortin(+) neuronal progenitor cells and glial fibrillary acidic protein(+) SGZ radial astrocytes/stem cells but not mature S100beta(+) astrocytes. These effects appeared to be mediated, in part, by mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling and potentially regulated by suppressor of cytokine signaling-3. Hippocampal levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal-related kinase 42/44 and suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 were increased 2-6 h after a single systemic rhEPO injection. However, rhEPO had no observed effect on the long-term survival of new born cells in the SGZ, with similar numbers of BrdU(+) cells and BrdU(+)/NeuN(+) co-labeled cells after 4 weeks. Therefore, systemically delivered rhEPO transiently increased adult hippocampal neurogenesis without any apparent long-term effects.
Torpor during hibernation defines the nadir of mammalian metabolism where whole animal rates of metabolism are decreased to as low as 2% of basal metabolic rate. This capacity to decrease profoundly the metabolic demand of organs and tissues has the potential to translate into novel therapies for the treatment of ischemia associated with stroke, cardiac arrest or trauma where delivery of oxygen and nutrients fails to meet demand. If metabolic demand could be arrested in a regulated way, cell and tissue injury could be attenuated. Metabolic suppression achieved during hibernation is regulated, in part, by the central nervous system through indirect and possibly direct means. In this study, we review recent evidence for mechanisms of central nervous system control of torpor in hibernating rodents including evidence of a permissive, hibernation protein complex, a role for A1 adenosine receptors, mu opiate receptors, glutamate and thyrotropin-releasing hormone. Central sites for regulation of torpor include the hippocampus, hypothalamus and nuclei of the autonomic nervous system. In addition, we discuss evidence that hibernation phenotypes can be translated to non-hibernating species by H(2)S and 3-iodothyronamine with the caveat that the hypothermia, bradycardia, and metabolic suppression induced by these compounds may or may not be identical to mechanisms employed in true hibernation.
The cleavage-product of amyloid precursor protein (APP) constitutes the core component of plaques found in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. APP is ubiquitously expressed and its precise physiological functions remain unclear. This protein has been proposed to regulate synaptic function and processes underlying learning and memory. While APP knockout mice show behavioral impairments, these may occur due to early changes during development and/or due to abolition of APP function in adult. To investigate the acute effects of APP knockdown without involving developmental processes, APP expression was reduced using RNA interference in adult mouse brain. Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) that down-regulated mouse APP protein levels (APP-siRNA) were identified using an APP plasmid-siRNA co-transfection assay in mouse NIH/3T3 fibroblast cells. Infusion of APP-siRNAs into the ventricular system for 2 weeks also down-regulated APP mRNA in mouse brain. Highest knockdown of APP mRNA levels was found in the CA2-CA3 regions of the hippocampus. Mice treated with the most active APP-siRNA showed a significant reduction in spontaneous alternation rate in the Y-maze, without effects on forelimb grip strength or locomotor activity. These data suggest that acute knockdown of APP in adult mouse brain impairs hippocampus-dependent spatial working memory.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder. The mutation causing SCA1 is an expansion in the polyglutamine tract of the ATXN1 protein. Previous work demonstrated that phosphorylation of mutant ATXN1 at serine 776 (S776), a putative Akt phosphorylation site, is critical for pathogenesis. To examine this pathway further, we utilized a cell-transfection system that allowed the targeting of Akt to either the cytoplasm or the nucleus. In contrast to HeLa cells, we found that Akt targeted to the cytoplasm increased the degradation of ATXN1 in Chinese hamster ovary cells. However, Akt targeted to the cytoplasm failed to destabilize ATXN1 if Hsp70/Hsc70 was present. Thus, Hsp70/Hsc70 can regulate ATXN1 levels in concert with phosphorylation of ATXN1 at S776.
Neuroinflammation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an inducible enzyme converting arachidonic acid (AA) to prostaglandins, is the key player in neuroinflammation. It has been long thought that the COX-2-mediated neuronal injury/degeneration is attributed to the increased production of AA-derived prostaglandins. Recent studies show that endogenous cannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) is a natural substrate for COX-2, and it can be oxygenated by COX-2 to form prostaglandin glyceryl esters. In this study, we demonstrate that prostaglandin E(2) glyceryl ester (PGE(2)-G), a major COX-2 oxidative metabolite of 2-arachidonoylglycerol, enhanced hippocampal glutamatergic synaptic transmission indicated by the increased frequency of miniature excitatory post-synaptic currents, and induced neuronal injury/death revealed by the terminal transferase dUTP nick end labeling staining and caspase 3 activation. The actions of PGE(2)-G are not mediated via a cannabinoid receptor 1, but mediated through ERK, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, IP(3), and NF-kappaB signal transduction pathways. In addition, the PGE(2)-G-induced neurotoxicity is attenuated by blockade of the NMDA receptors. Our results suggest that the COX-2 oxidative metabolism of endocannabinoids is an important mechanism contributing to the inflammation-induced neurodegeneration.
Neuropathic pain that occurs after peripheral nerve injury is poorly controlled by current therapies. Increasing evidence shows that mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) play an important role in the induction and maintenance of neuropathic pain. Here we show that activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 5 (ERK5), also known as big MAPK1, participates in pain hypersensitivity caused by nerve injury. Nerve injury increased ERK5 phosphorylation in spinal microglia and in both damaged and undamaged dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Antisense knockdown of ERK5 suppressed nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain and decreased microglial activation. Furthermore, inhibition of ERK5 blocked the induction of transient receptor potential channels and brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression in DRG neurons. Our results show that ERK5 activated in spinal microglia and DRG neurons contributes to the development of neuropathic pain. Thus, blocking ERK5 signaling in the spinal cord and primary afferents has potential for preventing pain after nerve damage.
We investigated the role of Na(+)-K(+)-Cl(-) co-transporter isoform 1 (NKCC1) and reversal of Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX(rev)) in glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity in oligodendrocytes obtained from rat spinal cords (postnatal day 6-8). An immunocytochemical characterization showed that these cultures express NKCC1 and Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger isoforms 1, 2, and 3 (NCX1, NCX2, NCX3). Exposing the cultures to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) plus cyclothiazide (CTZ) led to a transient rise in intracellular (), which was followed by a sustained overload, NKCC1 phosphorylation, and a NKCC1-mediated Na(+) influx. In the presence of a specific AMPA receptor inhibitor 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione (CNQX), the AMPA/CTZ failed to elicit any changes in . The AMPA/CTZ-induced sustained rise led to mitochondrial Ca(2+) accumulation, release of cytochrome c from mitochondria, and cell death. The AMPA/CTZ-elicited increase, mitochondrial damage, and cell death were significantly reduced by inhibiting NKCC1 or NCX(rev). These data suggest that in cultured oligodendrocytes, activation of AMPA receptors leads to NKCC1 phosphorylation that enhances NKCC1-mediated Na(+) influx. The latter triggers NCX(rev) and NCX(rev)-mediated overload and compromises mitochondrial function and cellular viability.
Amphiphysin 1 (amph 1) is an endocytic protein enriched in the nerve terminals that functions in the clathrin-mediated endocytosis. It acts as membrane curvature sensor, a linker of clathrin coat proteins, and an enhancer of dynamin Guanosine Triphosphatase (GTPase) activity. Amph 1 undergoes phosphorylation by cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), at five phosphorylation sites, serine 262, 272, 276, 285, and threonine 310, as determined by mass spectrometry (MS). We show here that Cdk5-dependent phosphorylation of amph 1 is enhanced in the presence of lipid membranes. Analysis by tandem liquid chromatograph MS revealed that the phosphorylation occurs at two phosphorylation sites. The phosphorylation was markedly decreased by mutation either Ser276 or Ser285 of amph 1 to alanine (S276A and S285A). Furthermore, mutation of both sites (S276, 285A) completely eliminated the phosphorylation. Functional studies indicated that binding of amph 1 to lipid membrane was attenuated by Cdk5-dependent phosphorylation of wild type amph 1, but not of the S276, 285A form. Interestingly, endocytosis was increased in rat pheochromocytoma cells expressing amph 1 S276, 285A in comparison with wild type. These results suggest that Ser276 and Ser285 are regulatory Cdk5 phosphorylation sites of amph 1 in the lipid-bound state. Phosphorylation at these sites alters binding of amph 1 to lipid membranes, and may be an important regulatory aspect in the regulation of synaptic vesicle endocytosis.
We review the literature for Ran Binding Protein in the Microtubule-Organizing Center (RanBPM; RanBP9), a 90-kDa protein that possesses many characteristics of a scaffolding protein, including protein-interaction motifs, a cytoskeletal-binding domain, and multiple canonical docking sites for signaling intermediates. We focus on studies that have examined functional interactions between RanBPM and other proteins. These studies suggest that RanBPM provides a platform for the interaction of a variety of signaling proteins, including cell surface receptors, nuclear receptors, nuclear transcription factors, and cytosolic kinases. These studies indicate that RanBPM acts as a scaffolding protein and is important in regulating cellular function in both the immune system and the nervous system.
Loss-of-function mutations in the parkin gene have recently been shown to be responsible for autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinsonism. However, the exact mechanism of pathogenesis remains unclear. This study explores the effect of Parkin downregulation on dopaminergic cells in Parkinson's disease. We generated small interfering RNA plasmids that target the parkin gene and transfected them into PC12 cells to mimic in vivo loss-of-function. We found that these small plasmids were able to effectively inhibit endogenous Parkin expression in PC12 cells. Downregulation of Parkin decreased the amount of glutathione and superoxide dismutase activity without affecting the amount of malondialdehyde. Moreover, Parkin knockdown rendered PC12 cells more susceptible to cell death induced by the proteasome inhibitor lactacystin. These results indicate that downregulation of Parkin may damage the antioxidation defenses of dopaminergic cells and increase their susceptibility to proteasome inhibitor-induced toxicity.
Macrophages play an important role in brain immune and inflammatory responses. They are also critical cells in mediating the pathology of neurodegenerative disorders such as HIV-associated dementia. This is largely through their capacity to secrete a variety of bioactive molecules such as cytokines, leading to neuronal dysfunction and/or death. Accumulating evidence indicates that voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels play a pivotal role in the modulation of macrophage proliferation, activation, and secretion. Blockade of Kv channels by specific antagonists decreases macrophage cytokine production and ameliorates macrophage-associated neuronal injury. These results suggest that Kv channels might become a potential target for the development of new therapeutic strategies for chronic inflammatory diseases.
Stromal cell-derived factor 1 alpha (SDF-1alpha, CXCL12) and its receptor CXCR4 play an important role in the central nervous system (CNS) development and adulthood by mediating cell migration, enhancing precursor cell proliferation, assisting in neuronal circuit formation, and possibly regulating migration during repair. The expression pattern of CXCR4 and CXCL12 during neurogenesis has not been thoroughly elucidated. In this study, we investigated the expression of CXCL12 and CXCR4 during neural progenitor cells (NPC) differentiation by microarray analysis and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using human fetal NPC as a model system. The production of CXCL12 was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). CXCR4 expression was determined by florescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis, immunocytochemical staining, and CXCR4-mediated inhibition of cyclic AMP (cAMP) accumulation. Our data demonstrated that CXCR4 expression is significantly upregulated when NPC are differentiated into neuronal precursors, whereas CXCL12 is upregulated when differentiated into astrocytes. We also provide evidence that CXCR4 localization changes as neurons mature. In neuronal precursors, CXCR4 is localized in both neuronal processes and the cell body, whereas in mature neurons, it is primarily expressed on axons and dendrites. This differential expression of CXCR4 and CXCL12 may be important for the temporal regulation of neuronal migration and circuit formation during development and possibly in adult neurogenesis and repair.

Acute and subacute polyneuropathies present diagnostic challenges since many require prompt initiation of treatment in order to limit axonal degeneration and since an exact and detailed diagnosis is a prerequisite for making the correct choice of treatment. It is for instance of utmost importance to recognize whether the underlying pathological changes are due to demyelination or to axonal degeneration and electrodiagnostic tests can thus in most cases contribute considerably to the securing of an exact diagnosis. The specific and characteristic electrophysiological findings in the different types of acute and subacute neuropathies are discussed, and the various electrophysiological pitfalls and technical problems, which are met in these patients, are mentioned.

Although patients with Chronic Idiopathic Axonal Polyneuropathy (CIAP) report a slow deterioration of sensory and motor functions, the impact of this deterioration on daily functioning has not yet been investigated in detail. The first aim of this cross-sectional study involving 56 patients with CIAP was, therefore, to assess patients' functioning with use of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF). The second aim was to find determinants of walking ability, dexterity, and autonomy. Fatigue and limited walking ability were present in most patients and differed considerably. In regression models, age, muscle strength, and fatigue together explained 63% of the variance in walking ability, which by itself explained almost 50% of the variance in patients' autonomy indoors and outdoors (42% and 49%, respectively). Muscle strength and sensory function scores together explained 30% of the variance in dexterity scores, which in turn explained only 13% of the variance in autonomy indoors. The diminished autonomy of patients with CIAP might be improved by reducing fatigue, by means of training, and by improving walking ability.




Multiple sclerosis (MS) is characterized by focal destruction of myelin sheaths, gliotic scars, and axonal damage that contributes to the accumulation of nonremitting clinical deficits. Previous studies have demonstrated coexpression of sodium channel Nav1.6 and the sodium-calcium exchanger (NCX), together with beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP), a marker of axonal damage, in degenerating axons within acute MS lesions. Axonal degeneration is less frequent within chronic MS lesions than in acute plaques, although current evidence suggests that axonal loss in chronic lesions (&quot;slow burn&quot;) is a major contributor to accumulating disability. It is not known, however, whether axonal degenerations in chronic and acute lesions share common mechanisms, despite radically differing extracellular milieus. In this study, the expression of sodium channels Nav1.2 and Nav1.6 and of NCX was examined in chronic MS plaques within the spinal cord. Nav1.2 immunostaining was not observed along demyelinated axons in chronic lesions but was expressed by scar and reactive astrocytes within the plaque. Nav1.6 immunoreactivity, which was intense at nodes of Ranvier in normal appearing white matter in the same sections, was present in approximately one-third of the demyelinated axons within these plaques in a patchy rather than continuous distribution. NCX was not detected in demyelinated axons within chronic lesions, although it was clearly present within the scar astrocytes surrounding the demyelinated axons. beta-APP accumulation occurred in a small percentage of axons within chronic lesions within the spinal cord, but beta-APP was not preferentially present in axons that expressed Nav1.6. These observations suggest that different mechanisms underlie axonal degeneration in acute and chronic MS lesions, with axonal injury occurring at sites of coexpression of Nav1.6 and NCX in acute lesions but independent of coexpression of these 2 molecules in chronic lesions.
Proprioception in the first two joints of crustacean limbs is mediated by chordotonal organs that utilize spike-mediated information coding and transmission and by nonspiking proprioceptive afferents that use graded transmission at information rates in excess of 2,500 bits/s. Chordotonal organs operate in parallel with the graded receptors, but the information rates of the spiking chordotonal afferents have not been previously determined. Lower-bound estimates of chordotonal afferent information rates were calculated using stimulus reconstruction, which assumes linear encoding of the stimulus. The information rate was also directly estimated from the spike train entropy, which makes no a priori assumptions with respect to the coding scheme used by the system. Lower-bound information rate estimates ranged from 43 to 69 bits/s, whereas the direct estimates ranged from 24 to 278 bits/s. Comparison of both estimates derived from the same data set indicates that a linear decoder could recover an average of 59% of the information from the spike train. Afferent spike timing was found to be extremely precise, with spikes evoked with an average timing jitter of 0.55 ms. Information rate was correlated with the mean jitter and the noise entropy of the spike train could be predicted from the mean firing rate and mean jitter. Direct stimulation of single afferents by current injection into the soma revealed that the average timing jitter was &lt;0.1 ms, indicating that intrinsic membrane properties, spike generation, and mechanotransduction mechanisms are the major sources of timing jitter in this system.
The last few years have seen an increase in the variety of in vivo experiments used for studying cerebellar physiological mechanisms. A combination of ketamine and xylazine has become a particularly popular form of anesthesia. However, because nonanesthetized control conditions are lacking in these experiments, so far there has been no evaluation of the effects of these drugs on the physiological activity in the cerebellar neuronal network. In the present study, we used the mossy fiber, parallel fiber, and climbing fiber field potentials evoked in the nonanesthetized, decerebrated rat to serve as a control condition against which the effects of intravenous drug injections could be compared. All anesthetics were applied at doses required for normal maintenance of anesthesia. We found that ketamine substantially depressed the evoked N3 field potential, which is an indicator of the activity in the parallel fiber synapses (-40%), and nearly completely abolished evoked climbing fiber field potentials (-90%). Xylazine severely depressed the N3 field (-75%) and completely abolished the climbing fiber field (-100%). In a combination commonly used for general anesthesia (20:1), ketamine-xylazine injections also severely depressed the N3 field (-75%) and nearly completely abolished the climbing fiber field (-90%). We also observed that lowered body and surface temperatures (&lt;34 degrees C) resulted in a substantial depression of the N3 field (-50%). These results urge for some caution in the interpretations of studies on cerebellar network physiology performed in animals anesthetized with these drugs.
The medial superior temporal (MST) area contains neurons with tuning for complex motion patterns, but very little is known about the generation of such responses. To explore how neuronal responses varied across complex motion pattern coherence, we recorded from single units while varying the strength of the global motion pattern in random dot stimuli. Stimuli were a family of optic flow patterns, consisting of radial motion, rotary motion, or combinations thereof (&quot;spiral space&quot;). We controlled the strength of the motion in the stimuli by varying the coherence--the proportion of dots carrying the signal. This allows motion strength to be varied independently of stimulus size, speed, or contrast. Most neurons' responses were well described as a linear function of stimulus coherence. Although more than half the cells possessed significant nonlinearities, these typically accounted for little additional variance. Nonlinear coherence response functions could either be compressive (e.g., saturating) or expansive and occurred in both the preferred and null direction responses. The presence of nonlinearities was not related to neuronal response properties such as preferred spiral-space direction or tuning bandwidth; however, cells with compressive nonlinearities in both the preferred and null directions tended to have higher response amplitudes and were more sensitive to weak motion signals. These cells did not appear to form a distinct subpopulation within MST. Our results suggest that MST neurons predominantly linearly encode increasing pattern motion energy within their RFs.
Information Theory enables the quantification of how much information a neuronal response carries about external stimuli and is hence a natural analytic framework for studying neural coding. The main difficulty in its practical application to spike train analysis is that estimates of neuronal information from experimental data are prone to a systematic error (called &quot;bias&quot;). This bias is an inevitable consequence of the limited number of stimulus-response samples that it is possible to record in a real experiment. In this paper, we first explain the origin and the implications of the bias problem in spike train analysis. We then review and evaluate some recent general-purpose methods to correct for sampling bias: the Panzeri-Treves, Quadratic Extrapolation, Best Universal Bound, Nemenman-Shafee-Bialek procedures, and a recently proposed shuffling bias reduction procedure. Finally, we make practical recommendations for the accurate computation of information from spike trains. Our main recommendation is to estimate information using the shuffling bias reduction procedure in combination with one of the other four general purpose bias reduction procedures mentioned in the preceding text. This provides information estimates with acceptable variance and which are unbiased even when the number of trials per stimulus is as small as the number of possible discrete neuronal responses.
The functional role of cholinergic input in the modulation of sensory responses was studied using a combination of in vivo and in vitro electrophysiology supplemented by mathematical modeling. The electrosensory system of weakly electric fish recognizes different environmental stimuli by their unique alteration of a self-generated electric field. Variations in the patterns of stimuli are primarily distinguished based on their frequency. Pyramidal neurons in the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL) are often tuned to respond to specific input frequencies. Alterations in the tuning of the pyramidal neurons may allow weakly electric fish to preferentially select for certain stimuli. Here we show that muscarinic receptor activation in vivo enhances the excitability, burst firing, and subsequently the response of pyramidal cells to naturalistic sensory input. Through a combination of in vitro electrophysiology and mathematical modeling, we reveal that this enhanced excitability and bursting likely results from the down-regulation of an A-type potassium current. Further, we provide an explanation of the mechanism by which these currents can mediate frequency tuning.
We report here a novel action of GABAergic synapses in regulating tonic firing in the mammalian brain. By using gramicidin-perforated patch recording in rat brain slices, we show that cells of the medial habenula of the epithalamus generate tonic firing in basal conditions. The GABAergic input onto these cells at postnatal days 18-25 generates a combinatorial activation of fast excitation and slow inhibition. The fast excitation, mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptors (GABA A Rs), is alone capable of triggering robust action potentials to increase cell firing. This excitatory influence of GABAergic input results from the Cl(-) homeostasis that maintains intracellular Cl(-) at high levels. The GABA A excitation is often followed by a slow inhibition mediated by GABA B Rs that suppresses tonic firing. Interestingly, in a subpopulation of the cells, the GABA B inhibition exhibits a remarkably low threshold for synaptic activation in that low-strength GABAergic input often activates selectively the GABA B slow inhibition, whereas the GABA A excitation requires further increases in stimulus strength. Our study demonstrates that the dual activation of GABAergic excitation and inhibition through GABA A Rs and GABA B Rs generates distinct temporal patterns of cell firing that alter the cellular output in an activity-dependent manner.
Cutaneous feedback from the hand could assist with coordination between the arms and legs during locomotion. Previously we used a reduced walking model of combined arm and leg (ARM&amp;LEG) cycling to examine the separate effects of rhythmic arm (ARM) and leg (LEG) movement. Here we use this same paradigm to test the modulation H-reflexes with and without interlimb cutaneous conditioning evoked by stimulating a nerve innervating the hand (superficial radial, SR). It was hypothesized that both ARM and LEG would contribute significantly to suppression of H-reflex amplitude during ARM&amp;LEG. We also predicted a conservation of interlimb cutaneous conditioning during movement and an interaction between arm and leg rhythmic movement control. Subjects were seated in a recumbent ARM&amp;LEG cycle ergometer and maintained a low-level soleus contraction for all tasks. H-reflex amplitude was facilitated by cutaneous conditioning evoked by stimulation of the SR nerve. H-reflex amplitudes were taken from recruitment curves and included modulation of 50% H max and H max. The suppressive effect of arm was less than that for LEG and ARM&amp;LEG, while suppression during LEG and ARM&amp;LEG were generally equivalent. For H-reflexes conditioned by cutaneous input, amplitudes during ARM&amp;LEG instead were in between those for ARM and LEG modulation. Multiple regression analysis revealed a significant contribution for arm only in trials when SR stimulation was used to condition H-reflex amplitudes. We suggest that there is a measurable interaction between neural activity regulating arm and leg movement during locomotion that is specifically enhanced when cutaneous input from the hand is present.
Inferotemporal (IT) cortex plays a critical role in the primate ability to perceive and discriminate between images, but the relationship between responses of single neurons and behavioral capacities is poorly understood. We studied this relationship by recording from IT neurons while monkeys performed a delayed-match-to-sample task with two images. On each day, two sample images were chosen to maximize the selectivity of the neuron and task difficulty was manipulated by varying sample duration and by masking the sample. On each trial, monkeys reported which of the two sample images was presented. Neural performance was described using an ideal-observer analysis. Across the population, neural and behavioral sensitivity to changes in sample duration were indistinguishable. Neural sensitivity was dependent on epoch used to analyze neural response; maximal neural sensitivity was achieved in the 128-ms epoch that began 85 ms after sample onset. At most sample durations, the epoch that yielded optimal neural performance was longer than the sample duration, suggesting that neural selectivity persisted after the presentation of the mask during performance of the task. A control experiment showed that neural and behavioral performance improved in the absence of the mask. These observations suggest that the responses of individual IT neurons contain sufficient information to allow behavioral discrimination of images in a demanding task.
The conversion of silent synapses into active sites is hypothesized to be a primary mechanism underlying learning and memory processes. Here we used an in vitro model of classical conditioning from turtles that demonstrates a neural correlate of eyeblink conditioning to examine whether the conversion of silent synapses has a role in this form of associative learning. This was accomplished by direct visualization of AMPA receptor (AMPAR) and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunits colocalized with synaptophysin (Syn) using immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy. In naive preparations, there was a relatively high level of synapses immunopositive for NR1-Syn alone interpreted to be silent synapses. After early stages of conditioning during acquisition of conditioned responses (CRs), there was a significant increase in the colocalization of GluR1-3 AMPAR subunits at NR1-immunopositive synaptic sites. Later in conditioning, levels of GluR1-3 declined and enhanced colocalization of GluR4-containing AMPAR subunits at synapses was observed. The trafficking of these subunits during conditioning was NMDAR mediated and was accompanied by protein synthesis of GluR4 subunits. Examination of the postsynaptic density fraction confirmed the early and late synaptic insertion of GluR1-3 and GluR4, respectively, during conditioning. These findings suggest that there is differential trafficking of synaptic AMPARs during classical conditioning. Existing GluR1-3 AMPAR subunits are initially delivered to silent synapses early in conditioning to unsilence them followed by synthesis and insertion of GluR4 AMPAR subunits that are required for acquisition and expression of CRs.
The spatial weighting functions of both retinal and lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) X-cell receptive fields have been viewed as the difference of two Gaussians (DOG). We focus on a particular shortcoming of the DOG model, that is, suppression of responses of LGN cells at spatial frequencies above those to which the classical receptive field surround is responsive. By simultaneously recording one of the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) inputs (S-potentials) to an LGN cell, we find that half of this suppression at high spatial frequencies arises from the retinal input and that suppression in LGN cells is greater than that in RGCs, regardless of spatial frequency. We also inactivated the ipsilateral visual cortex and show that one quarter of the suppression at high spatial frequencies arises from corticothalamic feedback. We show that this suppression at high spatial frequencies is colocalized with the classical surround, is not dependent on the relative orientation of the center and surround stimuli, and that the cortical component of this suppression is divisive. We propose that the role of this suppression at high spatial frequencies is to restrict the response to large stimuli composed of high spatial frequencies.
Reports of cholecystokinin (CCK) binding and expression of CCK receptors in neonatal rodent spinal cord suggest that CCK may influence neuronal excitability. In patch-clamp recordings from 19/21 ventral horn motoneurons in neonatal (PN 5-12 days) rat spinal cord slices, we noted a slowly rising and prolonged membrane depolarization induced by bath-applied sulfated CCK octapeptide (CCK-8s; 1 microM), blockable by the CCK B receptor antagonist L-365,260 (1 microM). Responses to nonsulfated CCK-8 or CCK-4 were significantly weaker. Under voltage clamp (V H -65 mV), 22/24 motoneurons displayed a CCK-8s-induced tetrodotoxin-resistant inward current [peak: -136 +/- 28 pA] with a similar time course, mediated via reduction in a potassium conductance. In 29/31 unidentified neurons, CCK-8s induced a significantly smaller inward current (peak: -42.8 +/- 5.6 pA), and I-V plots revealed either membrane conductance decrease with net inward current reversal at 101.3 +/- 4.4 mV (n = 16), membrane conductance increase with net current reversing at 36.1 +/- 3.8 mV (n = 4), or parallel shift (n = 9). Intracellular GTP-gamma-S significantly prolonged the effect of CCK-8s (n = 6), whereas GDP-beta-S significantly reduced the CCK-8s response (n = 6). Peak inward currents were significantly reduced after 5-min perfusion with N-ethylmaleimide. In isolated neonatal mouse spinal cord preparations, CCK-8s (30-300 nM) increased the amplitude and discharge of spontaneous depolarizations recorded from lumbosacral ventral roots. These observations imply functional postsynaptic G-protein-coupled CCK B receptors are prevalent in neonatal rodent spinal cord.
The growth-associated protein, GAP-43, is an axonally localized neuronal protein with high expression in the developing brain and in regenerating neurites. Mice that lack GAP-43 (GAP-43 -/-) fail to form a whisker-related barrel map. In this study, we use GAP-43 -/- mice to examine GAP-43 synaptic function in the context of thalamocortical synapse development and cortical barrel map formation. Examination of thalamocortical synaptic currents in an acute brain slice preparation and in autaptic thalamic neurons reveals that GAP-43 -/- synapses have larger alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor (AMPAR)-mediated currents than controls despite similar AMPAR function and normal probability of vesicular release. Interestingly, GAP-43 -/- synapses are less sensitive to blockade by a competitive glutamate receptor antagonist, suggesting higher levels of neurotransmitter in the cleft during synaptic transmission. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) from GAP-43 -/- thalamocortical synapses reveal a reduced fiber response, and anatomical analysis shows reduced thalamic innervation of barrel cortex in GAP-43 -/- mice. Despite this fact synaptic responses in the field EPSPs are similar in GAP-43 -/- mice and wild-type littermate controls, and the ratio of AMPAR-mediated to N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-mediated currents (AMPAR:NMDAR ratio) is larger than normal. This suggests that GAP-43 -/- mice form fewer thalamocortical synapses in layer IV because of decreased anatomical innervation of the cortex, but the remaining contacts are individually stronger possibly due to increased neurotransmitter concentration in the synaptic cleft. Together, these results indicate that in addition to its well known role in axonal pathfinding GAP-43 plays a functional role in regulating neurotransmitter release.
One of the best-known dichotomies in neuroscience is the division of neurons in the mammalian primary visual cortex into simple and complex cells. Simple cells have receptive fields with separate on and off subregions and give phase-sensitive responses to moving gratings, whereas complex cells have uniform receptive fields and are phase invariant. The phase sensitivity of a cell is calculated as the ratio of the first Fourier coefficient (F1) to the mean time-average (Fo) of the response to moving sinusoidal gratings at 100% contrast. Cells are then classified as simple (F1/Fo &gt;1) or complex (F1/Fo &lt;1). We manipulated cell responses by changing the stimulus contrast or through adaptation. The F(1)/F(0) ratios of cells defined as complex at 100% contrast increased at low contrasts and following adaptation. Conversely, the F1/Fo ratios remained constant for cells defined as simple at 100% contrast. The latter cell type was primarily located in thalamorecipient layers 4 and 6. Many cells initially classified as complex exhibit F1/Fo &gt;1 at low contrasts and after adaptation (particularly in layer 4). The results are consistent with the spike-threshold hypothesis, which suggests that the division of cells into two types arises from the nonlinear interaction of spike threshold with membrane potential responses.
Williams syndrome (WS) is a neurogenetic disorder that stems from a microdeletion on chromosome 7. Recent anatomical studies have found evidence for corpus callosum abnormalities in WS. However, to date, the impact of these structural differences on callosal functionality remains unclear. The aim of the present study was to investigate interhemispheric communication and hemispheric asymmetry in individuals with WS relative to mental age-matched controls. This was assessed using bilateral and unilateral presentations of visual stimuli in a picture-naming task. Results found both groups to exhibit a bilateral field advantage and a left visual advantage on unilateral presentations. However, while a significant performance increase with age was found for controls, no such correlation was found for individuals with WS. Taken together, these findings suggest that despite some evidence for an atypical developmental pathway in WS, both interhemispheric communication and hemispheric asymmetry are functionally intact in this population.
Nerve regeneration after complete transection does not allow for adequate functional recovery mainly because of lack of selectivity of target reinnervation. We assessed if transplanting a nerve segment from either motor or sensory origin may improve specifically the accuracy of sensory and motor reinnervation. For this purpose, the rat sciatic nerve was transected and repaired with a silicone guide containing a predegenerated segment of ventral root (VR) or dorsal root (DR), compared to a silicone guide filled with saline. Nerve regeneration and reinnervation was assessed during 3 months by electrophysiologic and functional tests, and by nerve morphology and immunohistochemistry against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) for labeling motor axons. Functional tests showed that reinnervation was successful in all the rats. However, the two groups with a root allotransplant reached higher degrees of reinnervation in comparison with the control group. Group VR showed the highest reinnervation of muscle targets, whereas Group DR had higher levels of sensory reinnervation than VR and saline groups. The total number of regenerated myelinated fibers was similar in the three groups, but the number of ChAT+ fibers was slightly lower in the VR group in comparison with DR and saline groups. These results indicate that a predegenerated root nerve allotransplant enhances axonal regeneration, leading to faster and higher levels of functional recovery. Although there is not clear preferential reinnervation, regeneration of motor axons is promoted at early times by a motor graft, whereas reinnervation of sensory pathways is increased by a sensory graft.
Although the synapsin phosphoproteins were discovered more than 30 years ago and are known to play important roles in neurotransmitter release and synaptogenesis, a complete picture of their functions within the nerve terminal is lacking. It has been shown that these proteins play an important role in the clustering of synaptic vesicles (SVs) at active zones and function as modulators of synaptic strength by acting at both pre- and postdocking levels. Recent studies have demonstrated that synapsins migrate to the endocytic zone of central synapses during neurotransmitter release, which suggests that there are additional functions for these proteins in SV recycling.
Previous studies demonstrated that neuropeptides are transported with fast axonal transport. Considerable amounts (30-40%) of anterogradely transported peptides accumulated distal to a crush, apparently recycling to the cell bodies. In the present study, we used primary and compartmented cultures of sympathetic cervical ganglia (SCG) to address questions on the origin of the recycling peptides. In primary cultures, distinct labeling of neuropeptide Y (NPY) or secretoneurin (SN) immunoreactivities was detected in varicosities and in cell bodies, after administration of NPY or SN antibodies to the living cultures. Simultaneous addition to the medium with antibody against the N-terminal (lumen) domain of synaptotagmin, resulted in a partial overlapping between synaptotagmin and NPY/SN. In compartmented chamber cultures, in which cell body and proximal segments of the processes are restricted to the central chamber and the distal processes are present in peripheral compartments, antibody administration was performed in the peripheral compartment. KCl (60-120 mM) was added to the central chamber for 10 sec, followed by washing, and 30-60 min later clear labeling was detected in the cell bodies, suggesting that the antibodies were now present in structures that were transported from the distal segments in the peripheral compartment to the cell body. The results indicate 1) that peptide release from large dense cored vesicles is incomplete; 2) that the remaining peptides, together with the membrane, are retrogradely transported to cell bodies; and 3) that the recycling peptides accumulating distal to a crush of a peripheral nerve are most likely to be recycled from the nerve terminals.
The dystrobrevins (alpha and beta) are components of the dystrophin-associated protein complex (DPC), which links the cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix and serves as a scaffold for signaling proteins. The precise functions of the beta-dystrobrevin isoform, which is expressed in nonmuscle tissues, have not yet been determined. To gain further insights into the role of beta-dystrobrevin in brain, we performed a yeast two-hybrid screen and identified pancortin-2 as a novel beta-dystrobrevin-binding partner. Pancortins-1-4 are neuron-specific olfactomedin-related glycoproteins, highly expressed during brain development and widely distributed in the mature cerebral cortex of the mouse. Pancortins are important constituents of the extracellular matrix and are thought to play an essential role in neuronal differentiation. We characterized the interaction between pancortin-2 and beta-dystrobrevin by in vitro and in vivo association assays and mapped the binding site of pancortin-2 on beta-dystrobrevin to amino acids 202-236 of the beta-dystrobrevin molecule. We also found that the domain of interaction for beta-dystrobrevin is contained in the B part of pancortin-2, a central region that is common to all four pancortins. Our results indicate that beta-dystrobrevin could interact with all members of the pancortin family, implying that beta-dystrobrevin may be involved in brain development. We suggest that dystrobrevin, a motor protein receptor that binds kinesin heavy chain, might play a role in intracellular transport of pancortin to specific sites in the cell.
Quinolinic acid (QA) is an endogenous excitotoxin acting on N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) that leads to the pathologic and neurochemical features similar to those observed in Huntington's disease (HD). The mechanism of QA toxicity also involves free radicals formation and oxidative stress. NMDARs are particularly vulnerable to the action of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) that can act as modulators of the activity of protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) and phosphotyrosine phosphatases (PTPs). Because QA is able to activate neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) as well as to stimulate the NMDARs, we evaluated the effect of Nomega-Nitro-l-arginine-methyl ester (l-NAME), a selective nNOS inhibitor, on QA-induced neurotoxicity in rat corticostriatal slices. In electrophysiologic experiments we observed that slice perfusion with QA induced a strong reduction of field potential (FP) amplitude, followed by a partial recovery at the end of the QA washout. In the presence of l-NAME the recovery of FP amplitude was significantly increased with respect to QA alone. In synaptosomes, prepared from corticostriatal slices after the electrophysiologic recordings, we observed that l-NAME pre-incubation reversed the QA-mediated inhibitory effects on protein tyrosine phosphorylation pattern, c-src, lyn, and fyn kinase activities and tyrosine phosphorylation of NMDAR subunit NR2B, whereas the PTP activity was not recovered in the presence of l-NAME. These findings suggest that NO plays a key role in the molecular mechanisms of QA-mediated excitotoxicity in experimental model of HD.
Cytokines, such as tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and lymphotoxin-alpha, have been described widely to play important roles in the brain in physiologic conditions and after traumatic injury. However, the exact mechanisms involved in their function have not been fully elucidated. We give some insight on their role by using animals lacking either Type 1 receptor (TNFR1KO) or Type 2 (TNFR2KO) and their controls (C57Bl/6). Both TNFR1KO and to a greater extent TNFR2KO mice showed increased exploration/activity neurobehavioral traits in the hole board test, such as rearings, head dippings, and ambulations, compared with wild-type mice, suggesting an inhibitory role of TNFR1/TNFR2 signaling. In contrast, no significant differences were observed in the elevated plus maze test, ruling out a major role of these receptors in the control of anxiety. We next evaluated the response to a freeze injury to the somatosensorial cortex. The effect of the cryolesion on motor function was evaluated with the horizontal ladder beam test, and the results showed that both TNFR1KO and TNFR2KO mice made fewer errors, suggesting a detrimental role for TNFR1/TNFR2 signaling for coping with brain damage. Expression of approximately 22600 genes was analyzed using an Affymetrix chip (MOE430A) at 0 (unlesioned), 1, or 4 days post-lesion in the three strains. The results show a unique and major role of both TNF receptors on the pattern of gene expression elicited by the injury but also in normal conditions, and suggest that blocking of TNFR1/TNFR2 receptors may be beneficial after a traumatic brain injury.
In contrast to mammals, teleost fish are able to regrow severed long-range projection axons in the central nervous system (CNS), leading to recovery of function. The optic projection in teleost fish is used to study neuron-intrinsic and environmental molecular factors that determine successful axon regrowth and navigation through a complex CNS pathway back to original targets. Here we review evidence for regeneration-specific regulation and robust expression of growth- and pathfinding-associated genes in regenerating retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons of adult fish. The environment of the CNS in fish appears to contain few inhibitory molecules and at the same time a number of promoting molecules for axon regrowth. Finally, some environmental cues that are used as guidance cues for developing RGC axons are also present in continuously growing adult animals. These molecules may serve as guidance cues for the precise navigation of axons from newly generated RGCs in adult animals as well as of regenerating RGC axons after a lesion. The application of new molecular techniques especially to adult zebrafish, is likely to produce new insights into successful axonal regeneration in the CNS of fish and the absence thereof in mammals.




This review deals with the evolution of psychiatry in Pakistan since its inception in 1947. It describes the situation of psychiatric services, education and research through the years 1947-2006, presenting a picture of existing mental health scenario, suggesting the ways for improvement and comment on possible future developments. It concludes with the prediction of a revolutionary change in the current shape of psychiatry throughout the world and especially in Pakistan whereby psychiatry will change to organic-based discipline of a wider &quot;Neurosciences&quot;.


Among the different families of intracellular molecules that can be modulated during cell damage and repair, mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are particularly interesting because they are involved in several intracellular pathways activated by injury and regeneration signals. Despite most of the studies have been performed in non-neurological models, recently a causal role for MAPKs has been postulated in central nervous system disorders. However, also in some peripheral neuropathies, MAPK changes can occur and these modifications might be relevant in the pathogenesis of the damage as well as during regeneration and repair. In this review, the current knowledge on the role of MAPKs in peripheral neuropathies will be discussed.
Cocaine addicts increase the frequency and amount of drug use over time. This characteristic has been modeled by escalating drug intake in rats that were given extended access to cocaine. However, it remains unclear whether the behavior of escalating drug intake or simply increased drug dose is the relevant aspect of this model. The present study investigated whether the phenomenon of escalated drug-taking enhances cocaine-induced sensitization and reinstatement. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine during daily 1-h sessions for 7 days. A short-access (ShA) group continued to receive 1-h sessions for 10 days while a group of rats was switched to 6 h of drug access, long-access (ShA-LgA) group, for 10 days. In addition, a long-access only (LgA-only) group was added that was not pretrained but was only given extended access for 10 days. ShA subjects maintained stable drug intake; ShA-LgA subjects escalated intake while LgA-only subjects decreased drug intake. All groups displayed an inverted-U shaped cocaine dose-response curve in both the sensitization and reinstatement tests. There was no difference in the expression of behavioral sensitization between groups. Whereas both long-access groups showed reinstatement at more doses of cocaine than the ShA group, the presence of escalation did not affect reinstatement. These results indicate that extended access to cocaine self-administration produces behavioral differences relative to traditional short-access animals in reinstatement, but not sensitization. Furthermore, the differences in reinstatement are predicted more by length of cocaine access than by escalation of drug intake.
Here, we have investigated the in vitro pharmacology of a muscarinic agonist, (3R,4R)-3-(3-hexylsulfanyl-pyrazin-2-yloxy)-1-aza-bicyclo[2.2.1]heptane (WAY-132983), and we demonstrated its activity in several models of pain. WAY-132983 had a similar affinity for the five muscarinic receptors (9.4-29.0 nM); however, in calcium mobilization studies it demonstrated moderate selectivity for M(1) (IC(50) = 6.6 nM; E(max) = 65% of 10 muM carbachol-stimulation) over the M(3) (IC(50) = 23 nM; E(max) = 41%) and M(5) receptors (IC(50) = 300 nM; E(max) = 18%). WAY-132983 also activated the M(4) receptor, fully inhibiting forskolin-induced increase in cAMP levels (IC(50) = 10.5 nM); at the M(2) receptor its potency was reduced by 5-fold (IC(50) = 49.8 nM). In vivo, WAY-132983 demonstrated good systemic bioavailability and high brain penetration (&gt;20-fold over plasma levels). In addition, WAY-1329823 produced potent and efficacious antihyperalgesic and antiallodynic effects in rodent models of chemical irritant, chronic inflammatory, neuropathic, and incisional pain. It is noteworthy that efficacy in these models was observed at doses that did not produce analgesia or ataxia. Furthermore, a series of antagonist studies demonstrated that the in vivo activity of WAY-132983 is mediated through activation of muscarinic receptors primarily through the M(4) receptor. The data presented herein suggest that muscarinic agonists, such as WAY-132983, may have a broad therapeutic efficacy for the treatment of pain.
Principal neurons of the medial superior olive (MSO) convey azimuthal sound localization cues through modulation of their rate of action potential firing. Previous intracellular studies in vitro have shown that action potentials appear highly attenuated at the soma of MSO neurons, potentially reflecting specialized action potential initiation and/or a physically distant site of generation. To examine this more directly, we made dual patch-clamp recordings from MSO principal neurons in gerbil brainstem slices. Using somatic and dendritic whole-cell recordings, we show that graded action potentials at the soma are highly sensitive to the rate of rise of excitation and undergo strong attenuation in their backpropagation into the dendrites (length constant, 76 microm), particularly during strong dendritic excitation. Using paired somatic whole-cell and axonal loose-patch recordings, we show that action potentials recorded in the axon at distances &gt; 25 microm are all-or-none, and uniform in amplitude even when action potentials appear graded at the soma. This proximal zone corresponded to the start of myelination in the axon, as assessed with immunocytochemical staining for myelin basic protein in single-labelled neurons. Finally, the axon was capable of sustaining remarkably high firing rates, with perfect entrainment occurring at frequencies of up to 1 kHz. Together, our findings show that action potential signalling in MSO principal neurons is highly secure, but shows a restricted invasion of the somatodendritic compartment of the cell. This restriction may be important for minimizing distortions in synaptic integration during the high frequencies of synaptic input encountered in the MSO.
We have previously shown that direct vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) reduces the slope of action potential duration (APD) restitution while simultaneously protecting the heart against induction of ventricular fibrillation (VF) in the absence of any sympathetic activity or tone. In the current study we have examined the role of nitric oxide (NO) in the effect of VNS. Monophasic action potentials were recorded from a left ventricular epicardial site on innervated, isolated rabbit hearts (n = 7). Standard restitution, effective refractory period (ERP) and VF threshold (VFT) were measured at baseline and during VNS in the presence of the NO synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NA, 200 microm) and during reversing NO blockade with L-arginine (L-Arg, 1 mm). Data represent the mean +/- S.E.M. The restitution curve was shifted upwards and became less steep with VNS when compared to baseline. L-NA blocked the effect of VNS whereas L-Arg restored the effect of VNS. The maximum slope of restitution was reduced from 1.17 +/- 0.14 to 0.60 +/- 0.09 (50 +/- 5%, P &lt; 0.0001) during control, from 0.98 +/- 0.14 to 0.93 +/- 0.12 (2 +/- 10%, P = NS) in the presence of L-NA and from 1.16 +/- 0.17 to 0.50 +/- 0.10 (41 +/- 9%, P = 0.003) with L-Arg plus L-NA. ERP was increased by VNS in control from 119 +/- 6 ms to 130 +/- 6 ms (10 +/- 5%, P = 0.045) and this increase was not affected by L-NA (120 +/- 4 to 133 +/- 4 ms, 11 +/- 3%, P = 0.0019) or L-Arg with L-NA (114 +/- 4 to 123 +/- 4 ms, 8 +/- 2%, P = 0.006). VFT was increased from 3.0 +/- 0.3 to 5.8 +/- 0.5 mA (98 +/- 12%, P = 0.0017) in control, 3.4 +/- 0.4 to 3.8 +/- 0.5 mA (13 +/- 12%, P = 0.6) during perfusion with L-NA and 2.5 +/- 0.4 to 6.0 +/- 0.7 mA (175 +/- 50%, P = 0.0017) during perfusion with L-Arg plus L-NA. Direct VNS increased VFT and flattened the slope of APD restitution curve in this isolated rabbit heart preparation with intact autonomic nerves. These effects were blocked using L-NA and reversed by replenishing the substrate for NO production with L-Arg. This is the first study to demonstrate that NO plays an important role in the anti-fibrillatory effect of VNS on the rabbit ventricle, possibly via effects on APD restitution.

Previous studies show that the activation of voltage-dependent channels is dependent on the local density of synapses in the dendritic region containing voltage-dependent channels. We hypothesized that the selective innervation of excitatory vestibulospinal (VST) neurons on the medial dendrites of contralateral splenius motoneurons is designed to enhance the activation of persistent inward currents (PICs) mediated by dendritic L-type Ca(2+) channels. Using compartmental models of splenius motoneurons we compared the synaptic current reaching the soma in response to excitatory input generated by synapses with two different distribution patterns. The medial distribution was based on the arrangement of VST synapses on the dendrites of contralateral splenius motoneurons and the uniform distribution was based on an arrangement of synapses with no particular bias to any region of the dendritic tree. The number of synapses in each distribution was designed to match estimates of the number of VST synapses activated by head movements. In the absence of PICs, the current delivered by the synapses in the uniform distribution was slightly greater. However, the maximal currents were small, &lt; or = 4.1 nA, regardless of the distribution of synapses. In models equipped with L-type Ca(2+) channels, PIC activation was largely determined by the local density of synapses in proximity to the L-type Ca(2+) channels. In 3 of 5 cells, this led to a 2- to 4-fold increase in the current generated by synapses in the medial distribution compared to the uniform distribution. In the other two cells, the amplification bias was in favour of the medial distribution but was either small or restricted to a narrow range of frequencies. These simulations suggest that the innervation pattern of VST axons on contralateral splenius motoneurons is arranged to strengthen an otherwise weak synaptic input by increasing the likelihood of activating PICs. Additional simulations suggest that this prediction can be tested using common experimental protocols.
Visual perception of an object depends on the discontinuity between the object and its background, which can be defined by a variety of visual features, such as luminance, colour and motion. While human object perception is largely cue invariant, the extent to which neural mechanisms in the primary visual cortex contribute to cue-invariant perception has not been examined extensively. Here we report that many V1 neurons in the awake monkey are sensitive to the stimulus discontinuity between their classical receptive field (CRF) and non-classical receptive field (nCRF) regardless of the visual feature that defines the discontinuity. The magnitude of this sensitivity is strongly dependent on the strength of nCRF suppression of the cell. These properties of V1 neurons may contribute significantly to cue-invariant object perception.
The sensitivity of brain tissue to weak extracellular electric fields is important in assessing potential public health risks of extremely low frequency (ELF) fields, and potential roles of endogenous fields in brain function. Here we determine the effect of applied electric fields on membrane potentials and coherent network oscillations. Applied DC electric fields change transmembrane potentials in CA3 pyramidal cell somata by 0.18 mV per V m(-1) applied. AC sinusoidal electric fields have smaller effects on transmembrane potentials: sensitivity drops as an exponential decay function of frequency. At 50 and 60 Hz it is approximately 0.4 that for DC fields. Effects of fields of &lt; or = 16 V m(-1) peak-to-peak (p-p) did not outlast application. Kainic acid (100 nm) induced coherent network oscillations in the beta and gamma bands (15-100 Hz). Applied fields of &gt; or = 6 V m(-1) p-p (2.1 V m(-1) r.m.s.) shifted the gamma peak in the power spectrum to centre on the applied field frequency or a subharmonic. Statistically significant effects on the timing of pyramidal cell firing within the oscillation appeared at distinct thresholds: at 50 Hz, 1 V m(-1) p-p (354 mV m(-1) r.m.s.) had statistically significant effects in 71% of slices, and 0.5 V m(-1) p-p (177 mV m(-1) r.m.s.) in 20%. These threshold fields are consistent with current environmental guidelines. They correspond to changes in somatic potential of approximately 70 microV, below membrane potential noise levels for neurons, demonstrating the emergent properties of neuronal networks can be more sensitive than measurable effects in single neurons.
Fluid absorption from the proximal jejunum of the anaesthetised rat was measured in vivo by fluid recovery. As expected, heat stable (STa) enterotoxin from E. coli reduced fluid absorption. Neither intraperitoneal L-NAME, thought to inhibit a putative neurally mediated action of STa, nor similar doses of D-NAME, ameliorated the inhibitory effect on jejunal fluid absorption of STa. Luminally perfused 10 mM sodium nitroprusside (SNP) had no effect on fluid absorption when expressed per gram dry weight per hour but reduced fluid absorption when expressed per cm length per hour. Similarly, 80 but not 40 mg/Kg of L-NAME reduced fluid absorption when expressed per cm length per hour, while the same dose of D-NAME did not. L-NAME and SNP significantly increased the wet weight to dry weight and the length to dry weight ratio of perfused loops. We conjecture that smooth muscle relaxation caused by these compounds increases interstitial fluid volumes that can be misconstrued as changes in absorption when this is expressed per cm length or per tissue wet weight. When fluid absorption is expressed per gram dry weight of tissue, there is no evidence for a role of nitric oxide in normal or STa inhibited fluid absorption.
The mechanisms involved in the neuroprotective effect of serotonin 5-HT1A receptor agonists on brain damage induced by ischemia remain to be fully elucidated. Given that serotonergic drugs may regulate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function, which is implicated in events leading to ischemia-induced neuronal cell death, this study sought to determine the effects of the selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), on the levels of NMDA receptor NR1 subunit in gerbil hippocampus after transient global cerebral ischemia. Pretreatment with 8-OH-DPAT (1 mg/kg) prevented the neuronal loss in CA1 subfield 72 h after ischemia. NMDA receptor NR1 levels in whole hippocampus were not affected 24 h after ischemia, but the levels of the subunit phosphorylated at the protein kinase A (PKA) site, pNR1(Ser897), were significantly increased, and this increase was prevented by the same 8-OH-DPAT dose, a probable consequence of the increased phosphatase 1 (PP1) enzyme activity found in ischemic gerbils pretreated with the 5-HT1A receptor agonist. The results suggest that NR1 subunit phosphorylation plays a role in the neuroprotective effect of 8-OH-DPAT on cell damage induced by global cerebral ischemia in the gerbil hippocampus and support the potential interest of 5-HT1A receptor activation in the search for neuroprotective strategies.
Activation of astrocytes accompanies many brain pathologies. Reactive astrocytes have a beneficial role in acute neurotrauma but later on might inhibit regeneration. 2D-gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry were applied to study the proteome difference in denervated hippocampus in wildtype mice and mice lacking intermediate filament proteins glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin (GFAP-/-Vim-/-) that show attenuated reactive gliosis and enhanced posttraumatic regeneration. Proteomic data and immunohistochemical analyses showed upregulation of the adapter protein 14-3-3 four days postlesion and suggested that 14-3-3 upregulation after injury is triggered by reactive gliosis. Culture-derived isotope tags (CDIT) and mass spectrometry demonstrated that 14-3-3 epsilon was the major isoform upregulated in denervated hippocampus and that its upregulation was attenuated in GFAP-/-Vim-/- mice and thus most likely connected to reactive gliosis.




In order to investigate how the duration of actigraphic recordings affects the reliability of actigraphic estimates of sleep and 24-h activity rhythm variables, two to 3 weeks of actigraphy were recorded, from which pairs of variables derived from two periods of increasing length (1-10 days) were compared. Two groups were studied: (1) 10 subjects suffering from primary insomnia; and (2) 12 demented elderly subjects living semi-independently in group care facilities of homes for the elderly. Actigraphic estimates of primary measures of sleep (duration and efficiency) and of the 24-h activity pattern (interdaily stability, intradaily variability and amplitude) were calculated on variable lengths of the actigraphic recordings. The average absolute difference of two estimates decreased - and reliability increased - strongly with an increasing number of days analysed. An acceptable reliability of the interdaily stability estimate required more than 7 days of recording. It can be concluded that a valuable improvement in the reliability of actigraphic sleep estimates can be obtained by simply increasing the number of recording nights. The results support the importance of day-to-day variability in insomnia and dementia that has already been previously noted by others, and even suggest the presence of 'week-to-week' variability. This variability may have been involved in the equivocal results of treatment studies in insomnia and dementia where outcome measures were based on a limited number of nights. Such studies could profit from extension of the recording duration to, e.g. 2 weeks, and from the inclusion of variability measures as measures of clinical interest.

This study prospectively evaluated long-term outcome 2 years after 6-8 weeks of day hospital rehabilitation (DHR) for stroke in younger patients. Assessment findings after discharge from DHR and at follow-up 2 years later using 3 instruments--the FIM (originally known as the Functional Independence Measure), SF-36, and EuroQol (now known as EQ-5D)--were compared. The study group comprised 50 consecutive patients age 18-60 years at the time of their initial stroke who had participated in a prospective study of the effects of DHR after stroke. Living conditions were assessed using the Riks-Stroke stroke care register. Patient handicaps were graded according to the Oxford Handicap Scale. The patients maintained functional and cognitive capacity, as well as self-rated health and health-related quality of life (HRQoL), 2 years after discharge. A significant improvement was also seen in cognitive capacity and in HRQoL as assessed by EuroQol, but in only 1 of the 8 SF-36 domains. The changes in functional capacity and HRQoL were significantly and inversely correlated with the scores at discharge from DHR. Follow-up scores for EuroQol were correlated with scores for physical and cognitive capacity. Women demonstrated less improvement in EuroQol scores than men. Our findings indicate that most stroke patients who sustained initial acute stroke at age 18-60 years and received 6-8 weeks of DHR poststroke maintained functional and cognitive capacity as well as HRQoL after 2 years. Some patients even may have improved their cognitive capacity and HRQoL.

Generation of infectious arenavirus-like particles requires the virus RING finger Z protein and surface glycoprotein precursor (GPC) and the correct processing of GPC into GP1, GP2, and a stable signal peptide (SSP). Z is the driving force of arenavirus budding, whereas the GP complex (GPc), consisting of hetero-oligomers of SSP, GP1, and GP2, forms the viral envelope spikes that mediate receptor recognition and cell entry. Based on the roles played by Z and GP in the arenavirus life cycle, we hypothesized that Z and the GPc should interact in a manner required for virion formation. Here, using confocal microscopy and coimmunoprecipitation assays, we provide evidence for subcellular colocalization and biochemical interaction, respectively, of Z and the GPc. Our results from mutation-function analysis reveal that Z myristoylation, but not the Z late (L) or RING domain, is required for Z-GPc interaction. Moreover, Z interacted directly with SSP in the absence of other components of the GPc. We obtained similar results with Z and GPC from the prototypical arenavirus lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus and the hemorrhagic fever arenavirus Lassa fever virus.



Excellent and rich reviews of lateralised behaviour in animals have recently been published indexing renewed interest in biological theorising about hemispheric specialisation and yielding rich theory. The present review proposes a new account of the evolution of hemispheric specialisation, a primitive system of &quot;management of the body's energy resources&quot;. This model is distinct from traditionally evoked cognitive science categories such as verbal/spatial, analytic/holistic, etc., or the current dominant neuroethological model proposing that the key is approach/avoidance behaviour. Specifically, I show that autonomic, immune, psychomotor, motivational, perceptual, and memory systems are similarly and coherently specialised in the brain hemispheres in rodents and man. This energy resource management model, extended to human neuropsychology, is termed here the &quot;psychic tonus&quot; model of hemispheric specialisation.
Initial lymphatic vessel endothelial cells are connected to the surrounding elastic fibers by fibrillin anchoring filaments that have been hypothesized to favor interstitial fluid drainage in edema pulling apart interendothelial junctions. We hypothesized a biochemical mechanism involving mechanotransduction. This study was designed to verify whether a relation exists between focal adhesion molecules and anchoring filaments and whether they may transduce extracellular forces to the nucleus. We first performed an immunohistochemical study on human skin cryostat sections to evaluate whether fibrillin and alphav-beta3 integrins, FAK and fibrillin, or alphav-beta3 integrins and FAK co-localize in lymphatic endothelium. We observed that integrins and FAK co-localize and that fibrillin filament attachment sites to endothelial cells merge with these molecules. These data may suggest that fibrillin anchoring filaments are connected to endothelial cells through focal adhesions. Mechanotransduction was investigated applying static stretching to bovine thoracic duct segments and lymphatic endothelial cells cultured on elastic membranes and immunohistochemically evaluating the expression of ERK1/2. Under stretching conditions, ERK1/2 labels the nucleus. Western blotting on cultured cells confirmed the presence of ERK1/2 in stretched cells. Based on our data we speculate that anchoring filaments may trigger a focal adhesion-mediated cascade of mechanotransduction toward the nucleus for genetic modulation and thus contribute to endothelial adaptation to interstitial requirements.
Cathepsin D (CTSD; EC 3.4.23.5) is essential for normal development and/or maintenance of neurons in the central nervous system: its deficiency causes a devastating neurological disorder with severely shortened life span in man, sheep and mouse. Neuropathologically, the CTSD deficiencies are characterized by selective neuronal degeneration, gliosis and accumulation of autofluorescent proteinaceous storage material in neurons. Our aim was to study the dynamics behind the pathological alterations occurring in the brains of CTSD-deficient (CTSD-/-) mice by using in vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and histology. In order to do this, we measured T(2) signal intensity (SI), apparent diffusion coefficient, area and volume of multiple brain structures from MR images acquired using T(2)-, T(1)- and diffusion-weighted sequences at three time points during disease progression. MRI revealed no differences in the brains between CTSD-/- and control mice at postnatal day 15+/-1 (P15+/-1), representing an initial stage of the disease. In the intermediate stage of the disease, P19(+/-1), SI alterations in the thalami of the affected mice became evident in both T(1)- and T(2)-weighted images. The terminal stage of the disease, P25, was characterized by marked alterations in the T(2) SI, apparent diffusion coefficient and volume of multiple brain structures in CTSD-/- mice. In addition, manganese enhanced high-resolution T(1)-weighted 3D sequences (MEMRI) and histological stainings revealed that the hyperintense signal areas in MEMRI matched perfectly with areas of microglial activation in the brains of CTSD-/- mice at the terminal disease stage. In conclusion, the SI alterations in the thalami of CTSD-/- mice preceded other changes, and the degenerative process was greatly enhanced at the age P19(+/-1), leading to severely reduced brain volume in just 6 days.
We described how modern neuroscience has elucidated what is sleep and its implication, and also reviewed histological and current trends in search of sleep mechanism from view of neurocirculatory or hormonary basis studies. We conclude that anesthesia and sleep share some neuronal structure in their action and mechanism of anesthesia could be elucidated through sleep study. In addition, anesthesia-related sleep disturbance must be settled to serve satisfied quality of life of patients and to save economic and medical resources.
Vertebrate gastrulation involves the coordinated movements of populations of cells. These movements include cellular rearrangements in which cells polarize along their medio-lateral axes leading to cell intercalations that result in elongation of the body axis. Molecular analysis of this process has implicated the non-canonical Wnt/Frizzled signaling pathway that is similar to the planar cell polarity pathway (PCP) in Drosophila. Here we describe a zebrafish mutant, colgate (col), which displays defects in the extension of the body axis and the migration of branchiomotor neurons. Activation of the non-canonical Wnt/PCP pathway in these mutant embryos by overexpressing DeltaNdishevelled, rho kinase2 and van gogh-like protein 2 (vangl2) rescues the extension defects suggesting that col acts as a positive regulator of the non-canonical Wnt/PCP pathway. Further, we show that col normally regulates the caudal migration of nVII facial hindbrain branchiomotor neurons and that the mutant phenotype can be rescued by misexpression of vangl2 independent of the Wnt/PCP pathway. We cloned the col locus and found that it encodes histone deacetylase1 (hdac1). Our previous results and studies by others have implicated hdac1 in repressing the canonical Wnt pathway. Here, we demonstrate novel roles for zebrafish hdac1 in activating non-canonical Wnt/PCP signaling underlying axial extension and in promoting Wnt-independent caudal migration of a subset of hindbrain branchiomotor neurons.
Increasing numbers of small animal models are in use in the field of neuroscience research. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides an excellent method for non-invasive imaging of the brain. Using three-dimensional (3D) MR sequences allows lesion volumetry, e.g. for the quantification of tumor size. Specialized small-bore animal MRI scanners are available for high-resolution MRI of small rodents' brain, but major drawbacks of this dedicated equipment are its high costs and thus its limited availability. Therefore, more and more research groups use clinical MR scanners for imaging small animal models. But to achieve a reasonable spatial resolution at an acceptable signal-to-noise ratio with these scanners, some requirements concerning sequence parameters have to be matched. Thus, the aim of this paper was to present in detail a method how to perform MRI of small rodents brain using a standard clinical 1.5 T scanner and clinically available radio frequency coils to keep material costs low and to circumvent the development of custom-made coils.

We have characterized the biochemical function of the melanocortin 1 receptor (MC1R), a critical regulator of melanin synthesis, from 9 phylogenetically diverse primate species with varying coat colors. There is substantial diversity in melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) binding affinity and basal levels of activity in the cloned MC1Rs. MSH binding was lost independently in lemur and New World monkey lineages, whereas high basal levels of MC1R activity occur in lemurs and some New World monkeys and Old World monkeys. Highest levels of basal activity were found in the MC1R of ruffed lemurs, which have the E94K mutation that leads to constitutive activation in other species. In 3 species (2 lemurs and the howler monkey), we report the novel finding that binding and inhibition of MC1R by agouti signaling protein (ASIP) can occur when MSH binding has been lost, thus enabling continuing regulation of the melanin type via ASIP expression. Together, these findings can explain the previous paradox of a predominantly pheomelanic coat in the red ruffed lemur (Varecia rubra). The presence of a functional, MSH-responsive MC1R in orangutan demonstrates that the mechanism of red hair generation in this ape is different from the prevalent mechanism in European human populations. Overall, we have found unexpected diversity in MC1R function among primates and show that the evolution of the regulatory control of MC1R activity occurs by independent variation of 3 distinct mechanisms: basal MC1R activity, MSH binding and activation, and ASIP binding and inhibition. This diversity of function is broadly associated with primate phylogeny and does not have a simple relation to coat color phenotype within primate clades.
Phosphorylation of various AMPA receptor subunits can alter synaptic transmission and plasticity at excitatory glutamatergic synapses in the central nervous system. Here, we identified threonine-840 (T840) on the GluR1 subunit of AMPA receptors as a novel phosphorylation site. T840 is phosphorylated by protein kinase C (PKC) in vitro and is a highly turned-over phosphorylation site in the hippocampus. Interestingly, the high basal phosphorylation of T840 in the hippocampus is maintained by a persistent activity of a protein kinase, which is counter-balanced by a basal protein phosphatase activity. To study the function of T840, we generated a line of mutant mice lacking this phosphorylation site using a gene knock-in technique. The mice generated lack T840, in addition to two previously identified phosphorylation sites S831 and S845. Using this mouse, we demonstrate that T840 may regulate synaptic plasticity in an age-dependent manner.
The muscle wasting associated with long-term intensive care unit (ICU) treatment has a negative effect on muscle function resulting in prolonged periods of rehabilitation and a decreased quality of life. To identify mechanisms behind this form of muscle wasting, we have used a rat model designed to mimic the conditions in an ICU. Rats were pharmacologically paralyzed with a postsynaptic blocker of neuromuscular transmission, and mechanically ventilated for one to two weeks, thereby unloading the limb muscles. Transcription factors were analyzed for cellular localization and nuclear concentration in the fast-twitch muscle extensor digitorum longus (EDL) and in the slow-twitch soleus. Significant muscle wasting and upregulation of mRNA for the ubiquitin ligases MAFbx and MuRF1 followed the treatment. The IkappaB family-member Bcl-3 displayed a concomitant decrease in concentration, suggesting altered kappaB controlled gene expression, although NFkappaB p65 was not significantly affected. The nuclear levels of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and the thyroid receptor alpha1 (TRalpha1) were altered and also suggested as potential mediators of the MAFbx- and MuRF1-induction in the absence of induced Foxo1. We believe that this model, and the strategy of quantifying nuclear proteins, will provide a valuable tool for further, more detailed, analyses of the muscle wasting occurring in patients kept on a mechanical ventilator.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether K(V)3.4 channel subunits are involved in neuronal death induced by neurotoxic beta-amyloid peptides (Abeta). In particular, to test this hypothesis, three main questions were addressed: 1) whether the Abeta peptide can up-regulate both the transcription/translation and activity of K(V)3.4 channel subunit and its accessory subunit, MinK-related peptide 2 (MIRP2); 2) whether the increase in K(V)3.4 expression and activity can be mediated by the nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) family of transcriptional factors; and 3) whether the specific inhibition of K(V)3.4 channel subunit reverts the Abeta peptide-induced neurodegeneration in hippocampal neurons and nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC-12 cells. We found that Abeta(1-42) treatment induced an increase in K(V)3.4 and MIRP2 transcripts and proteins, detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis, respectively, in NGF-differentiated PC-12 cells and hippocampal neurons. Patch-clamp experiments performed in whole-cell configuration revealed that the Abeta peptide caused an increase in I(A) current amplitude carried by K(V)3.4 channel subunits, as revealed by their specific blockade with blood depressing substance-I (BDS-I) in both hippocampal neurons and NGF-differentiated PC-12 cells. The inhibition of NF-kappaB nuclear translocation with the cell membrane-permeable peptide SN-50 prevented the increase in K(V)3.4 protein and transcript expression. In addition, the SN-50 peptide was able to block Abeta(1-42)-induced increase in K(V)3.4 K(+) currents and to prevent cell death caused by Abeta(1-42) exposure. Finally, BDS-I produced a similar neuroprotective effect by inhibiting the increase in K(V)3.4 expression. As a whole, our data indicate that K(V)3.4 channels could be a novel target for Alzheimer's disease pharmacological therapy.
The development of treatment for the symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) has been one of the most notable successes of neurology. Dopaminergic therapies in the form of levodopa, dopamine agonists, or monoamine oxidase B inhibitors significantly improve the characteristic motor symptoms of bradykinesia and rigidity, with a beneficial effect upon tremor in a proportion of patients. Novel delivery of dopaminergic drugs whether in the form of once a day sustained release preparations or transdermal applications ensures that they remain at the forefront of PD treatment. The development of drugs to slow the progression of PD has attracted considerable attention and there appears to be some measure of success although additional studies need to be performed. A range of nondopaminergic drugs including alpha 2-adrenergic antagonists, serotoninergics, and adenosine A2a antagonists are in late-stage development for PD and offer benefit for motor symptoms and motor complications.
Cognitive impairment in multiple sclerosis is difficult to study because of the heterogeneity and variability of this disease. The gold standard for measurement of cognitive function in multiple sclerosis is a full battery of neurocognitive tests, which is time consuming and expensive. Some cognitive tests like the PASAT, a measure of working verbal memory and processing speed, have been proposed for screening and follow-up of cognitive function in clinical trials. We studied whether we could measure cognitive function in multiple sclerosis over the Internet. For this we used the Cognitive Stability Index (CSI)trade mark, developed for persons with known or suspected primary central nervous system illness. The CSI was compared with formal neurocognitive testing (NPsych) and the PASAT in a cross-sectional study of 40 consecutive multiple sclerosis patients with subjective cognitive complaints. NPsych revealed that only 18 of the 40 patients (46%) were cognitively impaired. Although both the CSI and the PASAT were equalivalent in their specificity (86%), the CSI was significantly more sensitive than the PASAT (83% versus 28%). We conclude that the CSI, because of its availability over the Internet, has great potential as a tool for screening and follow up of cognitive function in multiple sclerosis.
Using MRI, we measured disease activity and brain atrophy in nine multiple sclerosis patients treated with autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (AHSCT) for a mean follow up of 63 months. We show that AHSCT is associated to a longlasting suppression of inflammation and to a marked decrease of the rate of brain atrophy after the second year following treatment.
Huntington's disease (HD), which is caused by a triplet-repeat expansion in the IT15 gene (also known as huntingtin or HD), accounts for about 90% of cases of chorea of genetic etiology. In recent years, several other distinct genetic disorders have been identified that can present with a clinical picture indistinguishable from that of HD. These disorders are termed Huntington's disease-like (HDL) syndromes. So far, four such conditions have been recognized, namely disorders attributable to mutations in the prion protein gene (HDL1), the junctophilin 3 gene (HDL2), and the gene encoding the TATA box-binding protein (HDL4/SCA17), and a recessively inherited HD phenocopy in a single family (HDL3), the genetic basis of which is currently poorly understood. These disorders, however, account for only a small proportion of cases with the HD phenotype but a negative genetic test for HD, and the list of HDL genes and conditions is set to grow. In this article, we review the most important HD phenocopy disorders identified to date and discuss the clinical clues that guide further investigation. We will concentrate on the four so-called HDL syndromes mentioned above, as well as other genetic disorders such as dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy, neuroferritinopathy, pantothenate-kinase-associated neurodegeneration and chorea-acanthocytosis.
Multiple sclerosis is a chronic, often disabling, disease of the central nervous system affecting more than 1 in 1,000 people in most western countries. The inflammatory lesions typical of multiple sclerosis show autoimmune features and depend partly on genetic factors. Of these genetic factors, only the HLA gene complex has been repeatedly confirmed to be associated with multiple sclerosis, despite considerable efforts. Polymorphisms in a number of non-HLA genes have been reported to be associated with multiple sclerosis, but so far confirmation has been difficult. Here, we report compelling evidence that polymorphisms in IL7R, which encodes the interleukin 7 receptor alpha chain (IL7Ralpha), indeed contribute to the non-HLA genetic risk in multiple sclerosis, demonstrating a role for this pathway in the pathophysiology of this disease. In addition, we report altered expression of the genes encoding IL7Ralpha and its ligand, IL7, in the cerebrospinal fluid compartment of individuals with multiple sclerosis.
Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-1 (LRP) on brain capillaries clears amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) from brain. Here, we show that soluble circulating LRP (sLRP) provides key endogenous peripheral 'sink' activity for Abeta in humans. Recombinant LRP cluster IV (LRP-IV) bound Abeta in plasma in mice and Alzheimer's disease-affected humans with compromised sLRP-mediated Abeta binding, and reduced Abeta-related pathology and dysfunction in a mouse model of Alzheimer disease, suggesting that LRP-IV can effectively replace native sLRP and clear Abeta.

Recent decades have witnessed tremendous advances in the neuroscience of emotion, learning and memory, and in animal models for understanding depression and anxiety. This review focuses on new rationally designed psychiatric treatments derived from preclinical human and animal studies. Nonpharmacological treatments that affect disrupted emotion circuits include vagal nerve stimulation, rapid transcranial magnetic stimulation and deep brain stimulation, all borrowed from neurological interventions that attempt to target known pathological foci. Other approaches include drugs that are given in relation to specific learning events to enhance or disrupt endogenous emotional learning processes. Imaging data suggest that common regions of brain activation are targeted with pharmacological and somatic treatments as well as with the emotional learning in psychotherapy. Although many of these approaches are experimental, the rapidly developing understanding of emotional circuit regulation is likely to provide exciting and powerful future treatments for debilitating mood and anxiety disorders.
The development of new treatments for depression is predicated upon identification of neural substrates and mechanisms that underlie its etiology and pathophysiology. The heterogeneity of depression indicates that its origin may lie in dysfunction of multiple brain regions. Here we evaluate adult hippocampal neurogenesis as a candidate mechanism for the etiology of depression and as a substrate for antidepressant action. Current evidence indicates that adult hippocampal neurogenesis may not be a major contributor to the development of depression, but may be required for some of the behavioral effects of antidepressants. We next revisit the functional differentiation of the hippocampus along the septo-temporal axis within the context of adult hippocampal neurogenesis and suggest that neurogenesis in the ventral dentate gyrus may be preferentially involved in regulation of emotion. Finally, we speculate on how increased adult hippocampal neurogenesis may modulate dentate gyrus function to confer the behavioral effects of antidepressants.
The gene encoding the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) contains a regulatory variation that has been associated with anxiety-related traits and susceptibility for depression. Here we highlight recent discoveries related to allelic variation of 5-HTT function with respect to emotion regulation and social behavior, drawing from an interdisciplinary perspective of behavioral genetics and cognitive neuroscience. Following a reductionistic path that leads from gene-behavior association studies to neuroimaging and epigenetic studies, we compare two models of 5-HTT-dependent modulation of brain activity and discuss the role of life stress experience in modifying 5-HTT function in the brain. Integration of these findings suggests that the impact of the 5-HTT gene on behavior is much broader than is commonly appreciated and may have a role in social cognition.
The identification of visual contours and surfaces is central to visual scene segmentation. One view of image construction argues that object contours are first identified and then surfaces are filled in. Although there are psychophysical and single-unit data to suggest that the filling-in view is correct, the underlying circuitry is unknown. Here we examine specific spike-timing relationships between border and surface responses in cat visual cortical areas 17 and 18. With both real and illusory (Cornsweet) brightness contrast stimuli, we found a border-to-surface shift in the relative timing of spike activity. This shift was absent when borders were absent and could be reversed with relocation of the stimulus border, indicating that the direction of information flow is highly dependent on stimulus conditions. Furthermore, this effect was seen predominantly in 17-18, and not 17-17, interactions. These results demonstrate a border-to-surface mechanism at early stages of visual processing and emphasize the importance of interareal circuitry in vision.
Fever is a result of the action of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) on the brain and appears to require EP3 prostaglandin receptors (EP3Rs), but the specific neurons on which PGE2 acts to produce fever have not been definitively established. Here we report that selective genetic deletion of the EP3Rs in the median preoptic nucleus of mice resulted in abrogation of the fever response. These observations demonstrate that the EP3R-bearing neurons in the median preoptic nucleus are required for fever responses.
Sensory experience can reorganize cortical sensory representations in an epoch of early development. During this period, cortical sensory neurons may shift their response selectivity and become tuned to more frequently occurring stimuli. Although this enlarged cortical representation is believed to underlie improved sensory processing of the experienced stimuli, its precise perceptual consequences are still unknown. We show that rearing rats in a single-frequency tonal environment results in enlarged cortical representations of the frequencies near that of the experienced tone, but the animals are impaired in perceptual discrimination of the over-represented frequencies. By contrast, discrimination of the neighboring under-represented frequencies is substantially improved. Computational analysis indicated that the altered perceptual ability could be fully accounted for by the sound exposure-induced reorganization of cortical primary auditory representations. These results indicate that early experience shapes sensory perception. The same plasticity processes may be important in optimizing phonemic representations in humans.
Using targeted mouse mutants and pharmacologic inhibition of alphaCaMKII, we demonstrate that the alphaCaMKII protein, but not its activation, autophosphorylation or its ability to phosphorylate synapsin I, is required for normal short-term presynaptic plasticity. Furthermore, alphaCaMKII regulates the number of docked vesicles independent of its ability to be activated. These results indicate that alphaCaMKII has a nonenzymatic role in short-term presynaptic plasticity at hippocampal CA3-CA1 synapses.
To illustrate the usefulness of mathematical models to the microbiology and medical communities, we explain how to construct and apply a simple transmission model of an emerging pathogen. We chose to model, as a case study, a large (&gt;8,000 reported cases) on-going outbreak of community-acquired meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) in the Los Angeles County Jail. A major risk factor for CA-MRSA infection is incarceration. Here, we show how to design a within-jail transmission model of CA-MRSA, parameterize the model and reconstruct the outbreak. The model is then used to assess the severity of the outbreak, predict the epidemiological consequences of a catastrophic outbreak and design effective interventions for outbreak control.
To date, the diagnosis of mental disorders has been based on clinical observation, specifically: the identification of symptoms that tend to cluster together, the timing of the symptoms' appearance, and their tendency to resolve, recur or become chronic. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders and the International Classification of Disease, the manuals that specify these diagnoses and the criteria for making them, are currently undergoing revision. It is thus timely to ask whether neuroscience has progressed to the point that the next editions of these manuals can usefully incorporate information about brain structure and function.
During brain development, one of the most important structures is the subventricular zone (SVZ), from which most neurons are generated. In adulthood the SVZ maintains a pool of progenitor cells that continuously replace neurons in the olfactory bulb. Neurodegenerative diseases induce a substantial upregulation or downregulation of SVZ progenitor cell proliferation, depending on the type of disorder. Far from being a dormant layer, the SVZ responds to neurodegenerative disease in a way that makes it a potential target for therapeutic intervention.
The majority of functional neuroscience studies have focused on the brain's response to a task or stimulus. However, the brain is very active even in the absence of explicit input or output. In this Article we review recent studies examining spontaneous fluctuations in the blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal of functional magnetic resonance imaging as a potentially important and revealing manifestation of spontaneous neuronal activity. Although several challenges remain, these studies have provided insight into the intrinsic functional architecture of the brain, variability in behaviour and potential physiological correlates of neurological and psychiatric disease.
Most computational models of coding are based on a generative model according to which the feedback signal aims to reconstruct the visual scene as close as possible. We here explore an alternative model of feedback. It is derived from studies of attention and thus, probably more flexible with respect to attentive processing in higher brain areas. According to this model, feedback implements a gain increase of the feedforward signal. We use a dynamic model with presynaptic inhibition and Hebbian learning to simultaneously learn feedforward and feedback weights. The weights converge to localized, oriented, and bandpass filters similar as the ones found in V1. Due to presynaptic inhibition the model predicts the organization of receptive fields within the feedforward pathway, whereas feedback primarily serves to tune early visual processing according to the needs of the task.
Interactions between prevalent late-life medical conditions and expansion of the cerebral ventricles are not well understood. Thirty elderly subjects received three magnetic resonance (MR) scans each, in 1997-1999, 2002-2004, and 2003-2005. A linear expansion model of MR-measured lateral ventricle volume was estimated for each subject by fitting a line to a plot of their 1997-1999 and 2002-2004 volumes as a function of time. Acceleration in ventricular expansion was defined as the deviation between the 2003-2005 volumes measured from MR and the 2003-2005 volumes predicted by the linear expansion model. Ventricular acceleration was analyzed in a multivariate model with age, race, history of heart disease, diabetes, and hypertension as fixed effects. Ventricular acceleration was significantly higher in non-whites, diabetics, and those without heart disease (p&lt;0.05). Ventricular acceleration was higher in subjects with a history of hypertension, but the difference was not statistically significant (p=0.08). Acceleration of ventricular expansion in the elderly may be related to demographic and cardiovascular factors.
The mechanisms underlying the generation of febrile seizures are poorly understood. We suggest that high temperature contributes to febrile seizures and specifically tested the hypothesis that hyperthermia suppressed GABAA-receptor-mediated inhibition in hippocampal neurons using whole-cell patch clamp recordings. We found that heating from a baseline temperature of 32 degrees C to 40 degrees C suppressed the peak amplitude of GABAA-receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) by 50+/-4.7% and decreased the decay time constant of IPSCs by 60.6+/-6.7% in immature CA1 neurons in the rat hippocampus. This inhibitory effect partly results from reduced IPSC conductance and increased GABA uptake, as demonstrated by the fact that GABA uptake blocker N-(4,4-diphenyl-3-butenyl)-3-piperidinecarboxylic acid (SKF89976A) significantly reduced the peak suppression and decay time decrease of the IPSC during hyperthermia. In addition, hyperthermia (40 degrees C) produced a significantly larger depression of the IPSC peak than the slope or peak of the excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC), and IPSCs recovered slower than EPSCs after hyperthermia. The larger decrease in GABAA-receptor-mediated inhibition during and after hyperthermia, as compared with excitation, may shift the excitation/inhibition balance and contribute to the generation of febrile seizures.
Mutations in the copper-transporter ATP7A lead to severe neurodegeneration in the mottled brindled hemizygous male (MoBr/y) mouse and human patients with Menkes disease. Our earlier studies demonstrated cell-type- and -stage-specific changes in ATP7A protein expression during postnatal neurodevelopment. Here we examined copper and cuproenzyme levels in MoBr/y mice to search for compensatory responses. While all MoBr/y neocortical subcellular fractions had decreased copper levels, the greatest decrease (8-fold) was observed in cytosol. Immunostaining for ATP7A revealed decreased levels in MoBr/y hippocampal pyramidal and cerebellar Purkinje neurons. In contrast, an upregulation of ATP7A protein occurred in MoBr/y endothelial cells, perhaps to compensate for a lack of copper in the neuropil. MoBr/y astrocytes and microglia increased their physical association with the blood-brain barrier. No alterations in ATP7A levels were observed in ependymal cells, arguing for specificity in the alteration observed at the blood-brain barrier. The decreased expression of ATP7A protein in MoBr/y Purkinje cells was associated with impaired synaptogenesis and dramatic cytoskeletal dysfunction. Immunoblotting failed to reveal any compensatory increase in levels of ATP7B. While total levels of several cuproenzymes (peptide-amidating monooxygenase, SOD1, and SOD3) were unaltered in the MoBr/y brain, levels of amidated cholecystokinin (CCK8) and amidated pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP38) were reduced in a tissue-specific fashion. The compensatory changes observed in the neurovascular unit provide insight into the success of copper injections within a defined neurodevelopmental period.
New neurons are continually produced in the adult mammalian brain from progenitor cells located in specific brain regions, including the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. We hypothesized that neurogenesis occurs in the canine brain and is reduced with age. We examined neurogenesis in the hippocampus of five young and five aged animals using doublecortin (DCX) and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) immunostaining. The total unilateral number of new neurons in the canine SGZ and granule cell layer (GCL) was estimated using stereological techniques based upon unbiased principles of systematic uniformly random sampling. Animals received 25mg/kg of BrdU once a day for 5 days and were euthanized 9 days after the last injection. We found evidence of neurogenesis in the canine brain and that cell genesis and neurogenesis are greatly reduced in the SGZ/GCL of aged animals compared to young. We further tested the hypothesis that an antioxidant fortified food or behavioral enrichment would improve neurogenesis in the aged canine brain and neurogenesis may correlate with cognitive function. Aged animals were treated for 2.8 years and tissue was available for six that received the antioxidant food, five that received the enrichment and six receiving both treatments. There were no significant differences in the absolute number of DCX or DCX-BrdU neurons or BrdU nuclei between the treatment groups compared to control animals. The number of DCX-positive neurons and double-labeled DCX-BrdU-positive neurons, but not BrdU-positive nuclei alone, significantly correlated with performance on several cognitive tasks including spatial memory and discrimination learning. These results suggest that new neurons in the aged canine dentate gyrus may participate in modulating cognitive functions.
Habit memory provides us with a vast repertoire of learned rules, including stimulus-reward associations, that ensures fast and adapted decision making in daily life. Because we share this ability with monkeys, lesion and recording studies in rhesus macaques have played a key role in understanding the neural bases of individual trial-and-error habit learning. Humans, however, can learn new rules at a lower cost via observation of conspecifics. The neural properties underlying this more ecological form of habit learning remain unexplored, and it is unclear whether the rhesus macaque can be a useful model in this endeavor. We addressed this issue by testing four monkeys from the same social group in their usual semi-natural habitat using a well-established marker of habit memory, concurrent discrimination learning. Each monkey learned 24 lists of 10 object-reward associations each. For one list out of two, monkeys could observe the testing session of another member of the group prior to being tested with the same list themselves. Learning was faster for these lists than for those learned solely by trial-and-error. Errors to criterion (9/10 correct responses) were reduced by 39%, and faultless performance could be achieved for up to 5 of the 10 pairs. These data demonstrate that rhesus macaques spontaneously observe a conspecific learning new stimulus-reward associations, and substantially benefit from this observation. They ascertain that the neural underpinnings of socially-mediated forms of habit learning can be explored using the powerful tools of monkey research, including neurophysiological recordings.
The present study examined the clock-speed modulating effects of acute cocaine administration in groups of male rats that received different amounts of baseline training on a 36-s peak-interval procedure prior to initial drug injection. After injection of cocaine (10, 15, or 20mg/kg, ip), rats that had received a minimal amount of training (e.g., &lt;or=30 sessions) prior to drug administration displayed a horizontal leftward shift in their timing functions indicating that the speed of the internal clock was increased. In contrast, rats that had received an extended amount of training (e.g., &gt;or=180 sessions) prior to cocaine (15 mg/kg, ip) administration did not produce this &quot;classic&quot; curve-shift effect, but instead displayed a general disruption of temporal control following drug administration. Importantly, when co-administered with a behaviorally ineffective dose of ketamine (10mg/kg, ip) the ability of cocaine to modulate clock speed in rats receiving extended training was restored. A glutamate &quot;lock/unlock&quot; hypothesis is used to explain the observed dopamine-glutamate interactions as a function of timing behaviors becoming learned habits.
A previous knockout study revealed the critical role of downstream regulatory element antagonist modulator (DREAM) in pain processing in the spinal cord by transcriptional regulation of prodynorphin (PPD) gene. Here, we report that, in contrast to the nuclear localization of other transcription factors, DREAM showed a punctate staining pattern in rat spinal dorsal horn in immunofluorescent analysis, with a membrane localization profile in some neurons and its expression accumulated in the inner zone of lamina II. In an inflammatory pain model induced by complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) injection, we used Western blot analysis and detected transient upregulation of DREAM in the nuclear fraction of ipsilateral spinal dorsal horn at 2 h and 6 h post-injection, and a slow upregulation in the membrane fraction for 7 days. These studies suggest that DREAM might have other roles in pain modulation in the spinal cord in addition to its well-known role as a transcriptional repressor.
In humans, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) delays gastric emptying by inhibiting vagal activity and also increases gastric volumes, by unclear mechanisms. Because GLP-1 inhibits intestinal motility by stimulating the sympathetic nervous system in rats, we assessed the effects of a GLP-1 agonist and yohimbine, an alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist, on gastric volumes in humans. In this double-blind study, 32 healthy volunteers were randomized to placebo, a GLP-1 agonist, yohimbine or GLP-1 and yohimbine. Gastric volumes (fasting predrug and postdrug, and postprandial postdrug) were measured by (99m)Tc single photon emission computed tomography imaging. Plasma catecholamines and haemodynamic parameters were assessed. Compared with placebo, GLP-1 increased (P = 0.03) but yohimbine did not affect fasting gastric volume. However, GLP-1 plus yohimbine increased (P &lt; 0.001) postprandial gastric accommodation vs placebo and vs GLP-1 alone [postprandial volume change = 542 +/- 29 mL (mean +/- SEM, placebo), 605 +/- 31 mL (GLP-1), 652 +/- 54 mL (yohimbine) and 810 +/- 37 mL (GLP-1 and yohimbine)]. Plasma noradrenaline and dihydroxyphenylglycol concentrations were higher for yohimbine vs placebo and for GLP-1 and yohimbine vs GLP-1. Yohimbine stimulates central sympathetic activity and in combination with GLP-1, augments postprandial accommodation in humans.
Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) is an important mediator in the stress response. Previous studies in rodent models demonstrated that stress-induced colonic hypersensitivity was inhibited by CRF1 receptor antagonism. As CRF(1)R-deficient mice have (+/+), CRF(1)R (+/-) and CRF(1)R (-/-) mice colonic sensitivity was assessed via a visceromotor behavioural response (VMR) induced by colorectal distension (CRD, 0-60 mmHg). In the CRF(1)R (+/+) mice there was a pressure-dependent increase in the VMR to CRD that was moderately attenuated in the CRF1R (+/-) mice. However in the CRF(1)R (-/-) mice a VMR to CRD was only observed at the highest distension pressure (60 mmHg). A CRF(1)R antagonist, NBI 30775 (30 mg kg(-1) i.p.) significantly decreased the VMR to CRD in CRF(1)R +/+ mice. An identical inhibitory effect of NBI 30775 was observed in 43% of the CRF(1)R +/- mice. This study provides pharmacological and genetic evidence for the importance of CRF(1)R in colonic sensitivity and suggests a link between stress and visceral perception.
Cognitive neuroscience assumes a correspondence between specific spatio-temporal patterns of neural activity and the states of a mechanism that processes cognitive information. Mechanistic explanations of cognition should therefore translate patterns of neural activity into the components of a formal mechanism: a set of information processing states and their transitions. For the first time, we carried out this research programme with four naive observers instructed to categorise randomly presented face information. With classification image techniques, we revealed the diagnostic features that the brain requires to produce correct behaviour (i.e., two eyes for gender categorisation in one session; the mouth for expression in the other session). With the same techniques applied to brain signals, we revealed the features processing states associated with modulations of oscillatory EEG energy (measured on occipito-temporal face-sensitive electrodes). Here we show how transitions between distinct feature processing states in the theta/alpha [4-12 Hz] oscillatory bands implement two face categorisations. On the left and right occipito-temporal electrodes of each observer, processing of the contra-lateral eye precedes bilateral integration of the features required for behaviour. For the first time, we relate stimulus information to behaviour via sequences of categorisation-specific feature processing states in the brain.
The corticospinal motor evoked potential (MEP) evoked by motor cortex stimulation was investigated as an intraoperative index for the placement of stimulation electrodes in the epidural space over the motor cortex for the treatment of post-stroke pain. A grid of plate electrodes was placed in the epidural space to cover the motor cortex, sensory cortex, and premotor cortex employing a magnetic resonance imaging-guided neuronavigation system in two patients with severe post-stroke pain in the right extremities, a 66-year-old man with dysesthesia manifesting as burning and aching sensation, and a 67-year-old woman with dysesthesia manifesting as pricking sensation. The D-wave of the corticospinal MEP was recorded with a flexible wire electrode placed in the epidural space of the spinal cord during anodal monopolar stimulation of each plate electrode under general anesthesia. The grid electrode was fixed in position with dural sutures and the craniotomy closed. The effect of pain reduction induced by anodal monopolar stimulation of the same plate electrodes was examined using the visual analogue scale (VAS) on a separate day in the awake state without anesthesia. Comparison of the percentage VAS reduction and the recorded amplitude of the D-wave employing the same stimulation electrode revealed significant correlations in Case 1 (r = 0.828, p &lt; 0.01) and Case 2 (r = 0.807, p &lt; 0.01). The grid electrode was then replaced with two RESUME electrodes over the hand and foot areas, and the optimum positions were identified by D-wave recording before electrode fixation. Both patients reported satisfactory pain alleviation with lower stimulation voltages than usually required for patients with similar symptoms. These results indicate the potential of D-wave recording as an intraoperative indicator for the placement of stimulating electrodes over the motor cortex for pain relief.
Prenatal exposure to the CB1 receptor agonist (R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl)-pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazinyl]-(1-naphthalenyl)methanone) mesylate (WIN) at a daily dose of 0.5 mg/kg, and Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC) at a daily dose of 5 mg/kg, reduced dialysate glutamate levels in frontal cerebral cortex of adolescent offspring (40-day-old) with respect to those born from vehicle-treated mothers. WIN treatment induced a statistically significant enhancement of Vmaxl-[3H]glutamate uptake, whereas it did not modify glutamate Km, in frontal cerebral cortex synaptosomes of adolescent rats. Western blotting analysis, performed either in membrane proteins derived from homogenates and in proteins extracted from synaptosomes of frontal cerebral cortex, revealed that prenatal WIN exposure enhanced the expression of glutamate transporter 1 (GLT1) and excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1). Moreover, immunocytochemical analyses of frontal cortex area revealed a more intense GLT1 and EAAC1 immunoreactivity (ir) distribution in the WIN-treated group. Collectively these results show that prenatal exposure to the cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonist WIN increases expression and functional activity of GLT1 and EAAC1 glutamate transporters (GluTs) associated to a decrease of cortical glutamate outflow, in adolescent rats. These findings may contribute to explain the mechanism underlying the cognitive impairment observed in the offspring of mothers who used marijuana during pregnancy.
While hedonic and reward-related processes are central to drug use and dependence, this article focuses on the contribution that cognitive processes may make to addiction. In particular, attention is drawn to those processes involved in exercising control over behavior as drug dependence is characterized by risky, impulsive behavior. Functional neuroimaging implicates prefrontal deficits in cocaine dependence with an emerging picture of cocaine users having attentional biases towards drug-related stimuli, poor performance in laboratory tests of inhibitory control, and compromised monitoring and evaluation of their behavior. Combined, these deficits may contribute to the continuation of use in dependent individuals and may qualify as important targets for therapeutic interventions.
Clinical and epidemiological studies have consistently observed the heterogeneous symptomatology and course of geriatric depression. Given the importance of genetic and environmental risk factors, aging processes, neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular disease processes, and medical comorbidity, the integration of basic and clinical neuroscience research approaches is critical for the understanding of the variability in illness course, as well as the development of prevention and intervention strategies that are more effective. These considerations were the impetus for a workshop, sponsored by the Geriatrics Research Branch in the Division of Adult Translational Research and Treatment Development of the National Institute of Mental Health that was held on September 7-8, 2005. The primary goal of the workshop was to bring together investigators in geriatric psychiatry research with researchers in specific topic areas outside of geriatric mental health to identify priority areas to advance translational research in geriatric depression. As described in this report, the workshop focused on a discussion of the development and application of integrative approaches combining genetics and neuroimaging methods to understand such complex issues as treatment response variability, the role of medical comorbidity in depression, and the potential overlap between depression and dementia. Future directions for integrative research were identified. Understanding the nature of geriatric depression requires the application of translational research and interdisciplinary research approaches. Geriatric depression could serve as a model for translational research integrating basic and clinical neuroscience approaches that would have implications for the study of other neuropsychiatric disorders.
We investigated the effect of low doses of intraperitoneal Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) on anxiety behavior in rats using the elevated plus maze (EPM). An anxiolytic effect was obtained in a range of doses between 0.075 and 1.5 mg/kg, the 0.75 dose being the most effective. Pretreatment with the CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 fully reversed THC's effect, suggesting CB1 receptors were involved. In order to elucidate the neuroanatomical substrates underlying the effect of the maximal effective dose of THC, we investigated cFos expression in anxiety-related brain regions (prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, and hippocampus) of rats exposed to the EPM. THC significantly lowered the amount of cFos in prefrontal cortex and amygdala without affecting the other cerebral areas. As there is increasing evidence that CREB function regulates anxiety-like behavior in rats, the second biochemical parameter we measured was phosphorylated CREB in the same brain areas. Rats treated with THC showed a significant increase in CREB activation in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. In the prefrontal cortex this increased activation was linked to an increase in ERK activation, whereas in the hippocampus there was a drop in the activity of CAMKII, a kinase with inhibitory effect on CREB activation. All these effects were reversed by AM251 pretreatment, suggesting that stimulation of CB1 receptors is fundamental for triggering the biochemical events. Our results suggest that the stimulation of these receptors in the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus with the subsequent activation of different signaling pathways is the first event underlying the effects of cannabinoids on anxious states.
Growing evidence suggests a role for sigma(1) (sigma(1)) receptors in cognitive function, anxiety, depression, regulation of stress responses, and, recently, the appetitive effects of cocaine as measured by conditioned place preference. This study was designed to extend understanding of the role of sigma(1) receptors in addiction-relevant conditioned effects of cocaine by testing the effects of a potent and selective sigma(1) receptor antagonist, BD1047, on conditioned reinstatement of cocaine-seeking. To determine whether modification of conditioned reinstatement by BD1047 is selective for drug-directed behavior or reflects general suppressant effects on motivated behavior, BD1047 was tested also on reinstatement induced by stimuli conditioned to a natural reward, sweetened condensed milk (SCM). Additionally, because sigma(1) receptors have been implicated also in processes linked to the acute reinforcing actions of cocaine, tests of the effects of BD1047 on cocaine self-administration-including a comparison with the sigma(1) antagonist effects on SCM self-administration-were conducted as well. Cocaine self-administering male Wistar rats were trained to associate a discriminative stimulus (S(D)) with the availability of cocaine or SCM, and then subjected to reinstatement tests following extinction of cocaine or SCM-reinforced behavior. BD1047 (1-30 mg/kg) reversed response reinstatement induced by the cocaine S(D) at 20 and 30 mg/kg but did not modify SCM S(D)-induced responding at all but the highest 30 mg dose, at which responding was reversed to extinction levels. BD1047 did not modify responding reinforced directly by SCM or cocaine. The findings support a role for sigma(1) receptors in regulating conditioned responses to cocaine-related contextual stimuli and identify this receptor as a potential treatment target for the prevention of craving and relapse.
Activation of the cAMP/PKA pathway in the dopaminoceptive neurons of the striatum has been proposed to mediate the actions of various classes of drugs of abuse. Here, we show that, in the mouse nucleus accumbens and dorsal striatum, acute administration of morphine resulted in an increase in the state of phosphorylation of the dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) at Thr34, without affecting phosphorylation at Thr75. The ability of morphine to stimulate Thr34 phosphorylation was prevented by blockade of dopamine D1 receptors. DARPP-32 knockout mice and T34A DARPP-32 mutant mice displayed a lower hyperlocomotor response to a single injection of morphine than wild-type controls. In contrast, in T75A DARPP-32 mutant mice, morphine-induced psychomotor activation was indistinguishable from that of wild-type littermates. In spite of their reduced response to the acute hyperlocomotor effect of morphine, DARPP-32 knockout mice and T34A DARPP-32 mutant mice were able to develop behavioral sensitization to morphine comparable to that of wild-type controls and to display morphine conditioned place preference. These results demonstrate that dopamine D1 receptor-mediated activation of the cAMP/DARPP-32 cascade in striatal medium spiny neurons is involved in the psychomotor action, but not in the rewarding properties, of morphine.
The present study was undertaken to examine whether the second generation antibiotic drug minocycline attenuates behavioral changes (eg, acute hyperlocomotion and prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficits) in mice after the administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (+)-MK-801 (dizocilpine). Dizocilpine (0.1 mg/kg)-induced hyperlocomotion was significantly attenuated by pretreatment with minocycline (40 mg/kg). Furthermore, the PPI deficits after a single administration of dizocilpine (0.1 mg/kg) were attenuated by pretreatment with minocycline (10, 20, or 40 mg/kg), in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, in vivo microdialysis study in the free-moving mice revealed that pretreatment with minocycline (40 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly attenuated the increase of extracellular dopamine (DA) levels in the frontal cortex and striatum after administration of dizocilpine (0.1 mg/kg), suggesting that the inhibition of dizocilpine-induced DA release by minocycline may, at least in part, be implicated in the mechanism of action of minocycline with respect to dizocilpine-induced behavioral changes in mice. These findings suggest that minocycline could attenuate behavioral changes in mice after the administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine. Therefore, it is possible that minocycline would be a potential therapeutic drug for schizophrenia.


Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle reflex has been suggested as a neurophysiologic measure of information processing abnormalities in schizophrenia. However, there has been little information on PPI and related measures in Asian patients with schizophrenia. We examined startle response to acoustic stimuli, its habituation, and PPI in 20 Japanese patients with chronic schizophrenia under antipsychotic medication and 16 healthy controls matched for age and sex. We measured PPI with 115 dB of pulse (40 ms), 82, 86, or 90 dB of prepulse (20 ms) and 30, 60, or 120 ms of lead interval (LI). The startle response to pulse alone trials was significantly smaller in schizophrenics than in controls, which may be due, at least in part, to medication. There was no significant difference in habituation of startle response during the test session between the two groups. PPI differed significantly between the two groups when LI was 120 ms. No significant relationship was found on startle response or PPI with age of onset, number of previous admission, medication dosages, or symptom scores assessed with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). Our results confirm impaired PPI in chronic schizophrenia patients compared with controls in Japanese.
The present study investigated oxygenated ([oxy-Hb]) and deoxygenated ([deoxy-Hb]) hemoglobin concentration changes during the performance of a word fluency task in the frontal region of five drug-naive patients with panic disorder with or without agoraphobia and in 33 age-, sex-, and task performance-matched healthy volunteers by using multi-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). The left inferior frontal [oxy-Hb] changes during performance of the task in patients with panic disorder were significantly smaller than those of healthy controls. This pilot study suggests the possibility that the left frontal lobe, required for cognitive function, is impaired in patients with panic disorder.
Progressive and irreversible loss of specific neuronal cell populations is commonly seen in chronic neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Evidence is accumulating that apoptosis is a crucial cellular event responsible for the dysfunction and death of neurons in this disease. Thus, limiting apoptosis may prevent disease pathogenesis. Key to reducing apoptosis is the discovery of neuroprotective compounds that can be given to patients to minimize neuronal damage. In this manuscript, we reviewed the rationale of using an experimental strategy to provide neurotrophic support to injured neurons. Such rationale includes the increase of endogenous production of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF is a potent inhibitor of apoptosis-mediated cell death and neurotoxin-induced degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. However, availability of BDNF may be reduced when dopaminergic neurons degenerate. Therefore, in this work, we have used several well-established neurotoxins for dopaminergic neurons, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, 6-OH-dopamine (6-OHDA), and the HIV protein gp120, to examine whether degeneration of nigrostriatal fibers alters BDNF expression. Our data show that these neurotoxins do not decrease the levels of BDNF in the substantia nigra, suggesting that up-regulation of BDNF synthesis by pharmacological means may be a viable therapy to slow down the progress of PD and other neurodegenerative diseases.
Sodium benzoate (SB) is a commonly used food preservative and anti-microbial agent in many foods from soup to cereals. However, little is known about the SB-induced toxicity and teratogenicity during early embryonic development. Here, we used zebrafish as a model to test the toxicity and teratogenicity because of their transparent eggs; therefore, the organogenesis of zebrafish embryos is easy to observe. After low dosages of SB (1-1000 ppm) treatment, the zebrafish embryos exhibited a 100% survival rate. As the exposure dosages increased, the survival rates decreased. No embryos survived after treatment with 2000 ppm SB. The 50% lethal dose (LD(50)) of zebrafish is found to be in the range of 1400-1500 ppm. Gut abnormalities, malformation of pronephros, defective hatching gland and edema in pericardial sac were observed after treatment with SB. Compared to untreated littermates (vehicle-treated control), SB-treated embryos exhibited significantly reduced tactile sensitivity frequencies of touch-induced movement (vehicle-treated control: 27.60+/-1.98 v.s. 1000 ppm SB: 7.89+/-5.28; N=30). Subtle changes are easily observed by staining with specific monoclonal antibodies F59, Znp1 and alpha6F to detect morphology changes in muscle fibers, motor axons and pronephros, respectively. Our data showed that the treatment of SB led to misalignment of muscle fibers, motor neuron innervations, excess acetyl-choline receptor cluster and defective pronephric tubes. On the basis of these observations, we suggest that sodium benzoate is able to induce neurotoxicity and nephrotoxicity of zebrafish larvae.
The focus of this study was to characterize the impact of gestational exposure to benzo(a)pyrene [B(a)P] on modulation of glutamate receptor subunit expression that is critical for the maintenance of synaptic plasticity mechanisms during hippocampal or cortical development in offspring. Previous studies have demonstrated that hippocampal and/or cortical synaptic plasticity (as measured by long-term potentiation and S1-cortex spontaneous/evoked neuronal activity) and learning behavior (as measured by fixed-ratio performance operant testing) is significantly impaired in polycyclic aromatic or halogenated aromatic hydrocarbon-exposed offspring as compared to controls. These previous studies have also revealed that brain to body weight ratios are greater in exposed offspring relative to controls indicative of intrauterine growth retardation which has been shown to manifest as low birth weight in offspring. Recent epidemiological studies have identified an effect of prenatal exposure to airborne polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons on neurodevelopment in the first 3 years of life among inner-city children [Perera FP, Rauh V, Whyatt RM, Tsai WY, Tang D, Diaz D, et al. Effect of prenatal exposure to airborne polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons on neurodevelopment in the first 3 years of life among inner-city children. Environ Health Perspect 2006;114:1287-92]. The present study utilizes a well-characterized animal model to test the hypothesis that gestational exposure to B(a)P causes dysregulation of developmental ionotropic glutamate receptor subunit expression, namely the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate receptor (AMPAR) both critical to the expression of synaptic plasticity mechanisms. To mechanistically ascertain the basis of B(a)P-induced plasticity perturbations, timed pregnant Long-Evans rats were exposed in an oral subacute exposure regimen to 0, 25 and 150mug/kg BW B(a)P on gestation days 14-17. The first sub-hypothesis tested whether gestational exposure to B(a)P would result in significant disposition in offspring. The second sub-hypothesis tested whether gestational exposure to B(a)P would result in down-regulation of early developmental expression of NMDA and AMPA receptor subunits in the hippocampus of offspring as well as in primary neuronal cultures. The results of these studies revealed significant: (1) disposition to the hippocampus and cortex, (2) down-regulation of developmental glutamate receptor mRNA and protein subunit expression and (3) voltage-dependent decreases in the amplitude of inward currents at negative potentials in B(a)P-treated cortical neuronal membranes. These results suggest that plasticity and behavioral deficits produced as a result of gestational B(a)P exposure are at least, in part, a result of down-regulation of early developmental glutamate receptor subunit expression and function at a time when excitatory synapses are being formed for the first time in the developing central nervous system. The results also predict that in B(a)P-exposed offspring with reduced early glutamate receptor subunit expression, a parallel deficit in behaviors that depend on normal hippocampal or cortical functioning will be observed and that these deficits will be present throughout life.
To better understand the neurotoxic effects of diverse hazards on the developing human nervous system, researchers and clinicians rely on data collected from a number of model species that develop and mature at varying rates. We review the methods commonly used to extrapolate the timing of brain development from experimental mammalian species to humans, including morphological comparisons, &quot;rules of thumb&quot; and &quot;event-based&quot; analyses. Most are unavoidably limited in range or detail, many are necessarily restricted to rat/human comparisons, and few can identify brain regions that develop at different rates. We suggest this issue is best addressed using &quot;neuroinformatics&quot;, an analysis that combines neuroscience, evolutionary science, statistical modeling and computer science. A current use of this approach relates numeric values assigned to 10 mammalian species and hundreds of empirically derived developing neural events, including specific evolutionary advances in primates. The result is an accessible, online resource (http://www.translatingtime.net/) that can be used to equate dates in the neurodevelopmental literature across laboratory species to humans, predict neurodevelopmental events for which data are lacking in humans, and help to develop clinically relevant experimental models.
Prenatal exposure to cigarette smoke is known to produce lasting arousal, attentional and cognitive deficits in humans. The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), as the cholinergic arm of the reticular activating system (RAS), is known to modulate arousal, waking and REM sleep. Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep decreases between 10 and 30 days postnatally in the rat, with the greatest decrease occurring at 12-21 days. Pregnant dams were exposed to 150 ml of cigarette smoke for 15 min, three times per day, from day E14 until parturition, and the pups allowed to mature. We analyzed (a) intrinsic membrane properties of PPN neurons in slices from pups aged 12-21 days, and (b) the sleep state-dependent P13 auditory evoked potential, which is generated by PPN outputs, in animals allowed to age to adolescence. We found significant changes in the intrinsic membrane properties of PPN cells in prenatally exposed animals compared to intact ones, rendering these cells more excitable. In addition, we found disturbances in the habituation to repetitive stimulation in adolescent, freely moving animals, suggestive of a deficit in the process of sensory gating. These findings could explain some of the differences seen in individuals whose parents smoked during pregnancy, especially in terms of their hypervigilance and increased propensity for attentional deficits and cognitive/behavioral disorders.
Chlorisondamine is a charged molecule that acts as long-acting nicotinic antagonist in many species, including pigeon. Evidence indicates that, despite the charged nature of chlorisondamine, it blocks some central effects of nicotine. The present study examined the time course of chlorisondamine's blockade of nicotine-induced c-fos expression in the pigeon brain. Chlorisondamine's central blockade was examined from 1 hr to 28 days prior to nicotine administration. Nicotine stimulated increases in c-fos mRNA in the hippocampus, hyperstriatum accessorium, hyperstriatum ventrale, nucleus accumbens, bulbus olfactorius, paleostriatum augmentatum, and stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale. Nicotinic receptors labeled by [(125)I]-epibatidine were not always found in the same regions as nicotine-induced increases in c-fos expression. Acute chlorisondamine increased the level of c-fos mRNA in the cerebellum, hippocampus, hyperstriatum accessorium, locus parolfactorius, nucleus accumbens, tectum opticum, paleostriatum augmentatum, and stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale but had no effect on its own 24 hr after administration. Chlorisondamine blocked nicotine-induced increases in c-fos RNA for 4 days in the nucleus accumbens, a week in the bulbus olfactorius, and 2 weeks in the stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale. The time course of chlorisondamine's blockade of nicotine-induced c-fos expression is consistent with the time course of the ability of chlorisondamine to block behavioral and physiological responses to nicotine.

Since activation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase has been shown to exert protective effects against the metabolic syndrome, while endothelial nitric oxide synthase knockout mice develop hyperinsulinemia and glucose intolerance, we hypothesised that endothelial nitric oxide might play a protective role against induction of diabetes. The role of endothelial nitric oxide in the development of chemically-induced diabetes has been determined using mice in which the bioavailability of endothelial nitric oxide was either increased, through upregulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase, or absent, through deletion of endothelial nitric oxide synthase gene. Diabetes was induced intraperitoneally with either a single dose of alloxan, streptozotocin, or multiple low doses of streptozotocin and blood glucose monitored twice a week. The role of cyclic guanosine monophosphate was investigated in wildtype mice by treatment with the phosphodiesterase inhibitor, tadalafil, during diabetes induction. Results showed that the incidence of diabetes was markedly decreased in mice overexpressing endothelial nitric oxide synthase, compared to wildtype or endothelial nitric oxide synthase knockout mice, regardless of the method of diabetes induction. Under normal physiological conditions, or during diabetes induction with alloxan or multiple low doses of streptozotocin, blood glucose was significantly lower in mice overexpressing endothelial nitric oxide synthase compared to wildtype or knockout mice. Treatment with tadalafil had no effect on the incidence or severity of diabetes in wildtype mice. We conclude that upregulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase exerts a protective action against diabetes induction through a direct effect of nitric oxide, independently of cyclic guanosine monophosphate.


Caloric restriction has wide-ranging health benefits and may offer protection against age-related neuronal loss and neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, possibly via enhanced adult neurogenesis. While a variety of interventions such as exercise increase neurogenesis, recent work suggests that exercise and caloric restriction may work to enhance neurogenesis by different neurobiological mechanisms, suggesting a role for both diet and exercise in disease prevention.
Metabolic syndrome which includes visceral obesity, elevated triglycerides, elevated fasting blood sugar, high blood pressure and a decrease in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels comprises the most common chronic physical illnesses in modern society. Components of the metabolic syndrome play a role in the pathogenesis of a plethora of medical illnesses. Evidence has emerged highlighting the detrimental effects of metabolic syndrome and its constituent features on the cognitive aspects of neurological function. The precise mechanisms underlying this association are not known but a combination of neuroanatomical changes and neuroendocrine consequences of somatic dysregulation may be relevant. As the population ages and the prevalence of metabolic syndrome increases, it is important that this clinically relevant association be recognized.


The effects of differential aversive Pavlovian conditioning on the functional organization of primary somatosensory cortex (SI) were examined in 17 healthy participants. Neuroelectric source imaging from 60 electrodes was employed while nine subjects received an innocuous electric stimulus (conditioned stimulus, CS) to one finger (left or right) that was followed by painful electric shock to the lower back (unconditioned stimulus, US) and an innocuous stimulus to the other finger that was never followed by pain. Eight subjects received a presentation of the innocuous and painful stimuli with equal probability to both fingers (control group). The data included the electromyogram (EMG) from the left m. corrugator, and judgments of intensity, aversiveness, and CS-US contingency. Only the experimental group displayed EMG conditioning, differential contingency judgments, as well as a change of dipole orientation for the CS and an enhanced dipole moment for the US in the electroencephalogram. Intensity and unpleasantness ratings were altered in a more unspecific manner and did not differ between groups and stimulus conditions. The data suggest that SI contributes to memory processes in associative learning. Pavlovian conditioning of tactile responses might be important in the altered processing of painful stimuli in chronic pain patients where enhanced conditioning has been demonstrated.
Aquaporin 1 (AQP1) is the archetypal member of a family of water channel proteins that contribute to water homeostasis in kidney, lung, and other tissues. Although there is limited evidence that aquaporins are expressed in the nervous system, AQP4 is expressed in glia and AQP9 is present on some neuronal and glial mitochondria. In the present study, we used immunohistochemistry to show that AQP1 is heavily expressed in a population of small diameter primary sensory neurons of dorsal root, trigeminal, and nodose ganglia. AQP1 immunoreactivity is abundant in DRG cell bodies and in both the peripheral and central branches of primary afferent neurons, and colocalizes with markers of nociceptors, notably substance P and IB4. AQP1 expression in DRG is first detectable at embryonic day 15.5, which corresponds to the developmental stage when the majority of fine cutaneous afferents penetrate the dorsal horn. Electron microscopy revealed dense membrane labeling of unmyelinated axons, a few fine diameter myelinated axons, and synaptic terminals in the superficial dorsal horn. Because this restricted and dense expression suggested that AQP1 contributes to nociceptive processing, we studied behavioral responses of wildtype and AQP1 -/- mice in a comprehensive battery of acute and persistent pain tests. We also used in vivo electrophysiology in wildtype and mutant mice to measure the responses of wide dynamic range neurons in lamina V of the dorsal horn to thermal stimulation before and after noxious stimulus-induced sensitization. To date we have not detected a differential phenotype suggestive of a functional contribution of AQP1 to nociceptive processing.


Control of movement depends on the continuous release of dopamine by neurons in the basal ganglia of the brain. The degeneration of these neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD) interferes with the flow of dopamine, leading to classic motor symptoms. In early PD, enough dopaminergic neurons remain to store dopamine provided by periodic dosing with oral levodopa and relatively normal, tonic levels of dopamine release are maintained. PD progression leads to degeneration of remaining dopaminergic terminals and loss of buffering capacity for exogenous levodopa. As a result, there are supraphysiological levels of dopamine after dosing and troughs when the available dopamine has been depleted. These divergent levels are associated with dyskinesia and 'off' states, respectively. Treatment strategies that provide a continuous flow of dopamine and can thus mimic normal physiological dopamine stimulation have potential to improve motor control for patients with advanced PD.
Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) experience progressive disability and reduced quality of life due to both motor and non-motor complications. The cost of illness escalates as PD progresses, placing an economic burden on the healthcare system, society and patients themselves. Overall cost estimates vary from country to country, but the largest component of direct cost is typically inpatient care and nursing home costs, while prescription drugs are the smallest contributor. Indirect costs arising from lost productivity and carer burden tend to be high. The total cost in the UK has been estimated to be between pound 449 million and pound 3.3 billion annually, depending on the cost model and prevalence rate used. Management strategies that minimise the impact of disease progression and maximise quality of life should help ensure optimal resource utilisation.

Initial PACAP-regulated transcriptomes of PACAP-treated cultured chromaffin cells, and the adrenal gland of wild-type versus PACAP-deficient mice, have been assembled using microarray analysis. These were compared to previously acquired PACAP-regulated transcriptome sets from PC12 cells and mouse central nervous system, using the same microarray platform. The Ingenuity Pathways Knowledge Base was then employed to group regulated transcripts into common first and second messenger regulatory clusters. The purpose of our meta-analysis was to identify sets of genes regulated distinctly or in common by the neurotransmitter/neurotrophin PACAP in specific physiological contexts. Results suggest that PACAP participates in both the basal differentiated expression, and the induction upon physiological stimulation, of distinct sets of transcripts in neuronal and endocrine cells. PACAP in both developmental and acute regulatory paradigms acts on target genes also regulated by either TNFalpha or TGFbeta, two first messengers acting on transcription mainly through NFkappaB and Smads, respectively.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNA molecules produced by miR genes which are able to control the expression of a large number of cellular proteins by targeting mRNAs of protein coding genes. It has been suggested that modification of miR gene expression could be an important factor in the development and maintenance of the neoplastic state. It is also reasonable to hypothesize that antineoplastic drugs could be able to alter miR gene expression pattern since most of them are able to interfere with nucleic acid metabolism and gene expression. Here we show that 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), a classical antimetabolite largely used in the clinic, is able to change significantly the expression of several miR genes. In colon cancer cells, at a clinically relevant concentration, the drug up-regulates or down-regulates in vitro the expression of 19 and 3 miR genes, respectively, by a factor of not less than two-fold. In some instances, 5-FU up-regulates miR genes that are already over-expressed in neoplastic tissues, including, for example, miR-21 that is associated with anti-apoptotic functions characterizing malignant cells. In this case, it is possible that drug-induced miR gene dysregulation could be the expression of cellular response to the toxic effects of the agent. On the contrary, in other instances the drug influences the expression of miR genes in a direction that is opposite to that induced by neoplastic transformation. A typical example is provided by miR-200b, that is up-regulated in various tumors and down-regulated by treatment with the antimetabolite. Noteworthy, it is known that miR-200b suppresses a gene that codes for a protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTPN12) that inactivates products of oncogenes, such as c-Abl, Src or Ras. In conclusion, the present results support the hypothesis that 5-FU can alter profoundly miR gene expression pattern. This effect could be responsible, at least in part, of the multi-target pleiotropic influence manifested by the drug on malignant cells.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) comprise the largest family of drug targets. This is not surprising as many signaling systems rely on this class of receptor to convert external and internal stimuli to intracellular responses. As is the case with other membrane proteins, GPCRs are subjected to a stringent quality control mechanism at the endoplasmic reticulum, which ensures that only correctly folded proteins enter the secretory pathway. Because of this quality control system, point mutations resulting in protein sequence variations may result in the production of misfolded and disease-causing proteins that are unable to reach their functional destinations in the cell. There is now a wealth of information demonstrating the functional rescue of misfolded mutant receptors by small nonpeptide molecules originally designed to serve as receptor antagonists; these small molecules (&quot;pharmacoperones&quot;) serve as molecular templates, promoting correct folding and allowing the mutants to pass the scrutiny of the cellular quality control system and be expressed at the cell surface membrane. Two of these systems are especially well characterized: the gonadotropin-releasing hormone and the vasopressin type 2 receptors, which play important roles in regulating reproduction and water homeostasis, respectively. Mutations in these receptors can lead to well defined diseases that are recognized as being caused by receptor misfolding that may potentially be amenable to treatment with pharmacoperones. This review is focused on protein misfolding and misrouting related to various disease states, with special emphasis on these two receptors, which have proved to be of value for development of drugs potentially useful in regulating GPCR trafficking in healthy and disease states.
Recently we have introduced an inductive reasoning game of voluntary yearly vaccination to establish whether or not a population of individuals acting in their own self-interest would be able to prevent influenza epidemics. Here, we analyze our model to describe the dynamics of the collective yearly vaccination uptake. We discuss the mean-field equations of our model and first order effects of fluctuations. We explain why our model predicts that severe epidemics are periodically expected even without the introduction of pandemic strains. We find that fluctuations in the collective yearly vaccination uptake induce severe epidemics with an expected periodicity that depends on the number of independent decision makers in the population. The mean-field dynamics also reveal that there are conditions for which the dynamics become robust to the fluctuations. However, the transition between fluctuation-sensitive and fluctuation-robust dynamics occurs for biologically implausible parameters. We also analyze our model when incentive-based vaccination programs are offered. When a family-based incentive is offered, the expected periodicity of severe epidemics is increased. This results from the fact that the number of independent decision makers is reduced, increasing the effect of the fluctuations. However, incentives based on the number of years of prepayment of vaccination may yield fluctuation-robust dynamics where severe epidemics are prevented. In this case, depending on prepayment, the transition between fluctuation-sensitive and fluctuation-robust dynamics may occur for biologically plausible parameters. Our analysis provides a practical method for identifying how many years of free vaccination should be provided in order to successfully ameliorate influenza epidemics.
Pondweed (Potamogeton distinctus A. Benn.), a monocot aquatic plant species, has turions, which are overwintering buds forming underground as an asexual reproductive organ. Turions not only survive for more than one month but also elongate under strict anoxia, maintaining high-energy charge by activation of fermentation. We cloned 82 cDNA fragments of genes, that are up-regulated during anoxic growth of pondweed turions, by suppression subtractive hybridization. The transcript levels of 44 genes were confirmed to be higher under anoxia than those in air by both Northern blot analysis and a semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method. A homology search for their nucleotide sequences revealed that some of them are highly homologous to known sequences of genes from other plants. They included alcohol dehydrogenase, pyruvate decarboxylase (PDC), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), vacuolar H(+)-translocating pyrophosphatase and a plasma membrane intrinsic protein. Time courses of transcript accumulation of some genes under anoxia were different from those in air. The activity of PDC increased under anoxic conditions but the activities of GAPDH and pyrophosphatase remained constant after anoxic treatment. Anoxically up-regulated genes are possibly involved in physiological events to control energy production, pH regulation and cell growth under anoxia. These results suggest that transcriptional regulation of these genes serves as an essential part of survival and growth of pondweed turions under anoxia.
A fundamental problem in neuroscience is understanding how working memory--the ability to store information at intermediate timescales, like tens of seconds--is implemented in realistic neuronal networks. The most likely candidate mechanism is the attractor network, and a great deal of effort has gone toward investigating it theoretically. Yet, despite almost a quarter century of intense work, attractor networks are not fully understood. In particular, there are still two unanswered questions. First, how is it that attractor networks exhibit irregular firing, as is observed experimentally during working memory tasks? And second, how many memories can be stored under biologically realistic conditions? Here we answer both questions by studying an attractor neural network in which inhibition and excitation balance each other. Using mean-field analysis, we derive a three-variable description of attractor networks. From this description it follows that irregular firing can exist only if the number of neurons involved in a memory is large. The same mean-field analysis also shows that the number of memories that can be stored in a network scales with the number of excitatory connections, a result that has been suggested for simple models but never shown for realistic ones. Both of these predictions are verified using simulations with large networks of spiking neurons.

Eating represents a choice among many alternative behaviors. The purpose of this review is to provide an overview of how food reinforcement and behavioral choice theory are related to eating and to show how this theoretical approach may help organize research on eating from molecular genetics through treatment and prevention of obesity. Special emphasis is placed on how food reinforcement and behavioral choice theory are relevant to understanding excess energy intake and obesity and how they provide a framework for examining factors that may influence eating and are outside of those that may regulate energy homeostasis. Methods to measure food reinforcement are reviewed, along with factors that influence the reinforcing value of eating. Contributions of neuroscience and genetics to the study of food reinforcement are illustrated by using the example of dopamine. Implications of food reinforcement for obesity and positive energy balance are explored, with suggestions for novel approaches to obesity treatment based on the synthesis of behavioral and pharmacological approaches to food reinforcement.

Epidemiological evidence suggests that adolescents and adults perinatally exposed to alcohol, even at low doses, show high prevalence of cognitive impairment and social behavior deficits, which may be in part related to alcohol-induced changes of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurotransmission. The endogenous neurosteroid 3alpha-hydroxy,5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-tetrahydroprogesterone/3alpha,5alpha-THP), a potent positive allosteric modulator of GABA(A) receptor function, is implicated in the physiological tuning of GABA-mediated fast inhibition and in various alcohol's actions in the brain. This study was undertaken to determine whether perinatal exposure to low millimolar blood alcohol concentrations alters cognitive skills (social discrimination and inhibitory avoidance tests), emotional reactivity (elevated plus maze test), and neurosteroid content in brain cortex and hippocampus of adult male offspring. Dams had access to a 3% alcohol solution or to an equicaloric sucrose solution from gestational day 15 to postnatal day 9. Eighty-day old alcohol-exposed male offspring exhibited impaired social recognition memory, but unchanged inhibitory avoidance performance and normal behavior on the elevated-plus maze. The concentrations of 3alpha,5alpha-THP and its precursor progesterone were more than doubled in brain cortex and hippocampus of alcohol-exposed rats, whereas in plasma only progesterone was increased. Thus, exposure to low millimolar blood alcohol concentrations has a long-lasting impact on the developing brain as it causes an impairment of social recognition as well as an increase of brain neurosteroid content in mature animals. The latter may be consequent to altered expression/activity of brain steroidogenic enzymes, as reflected by the enduring increase of the GABA(A) receptor-active neurosteroid 3alpha,5alpha-THP in brain cortex and hippocampus, but not in plasma. It is speculated that, by inducing a greater amplification of GABA(A) receptor function, the elevation of 3alpha,5alpha-THP brain content contributes to the cognitive impairment exhibited by adult alcohol-exposed offspring.

In this study, we examined developmental changes in auditory selective attention using both electrophysiological (Nd, P3b) and behavioral measures while two groups of children (9- and 12-year-olds) and adults were engaged in a two-channel selective attention task. Channel was determined by frequency (1000 or 2000 Hz). Targets in one condition were shorter than the standards (duration target) and in the other were softer (intensity target). We found that the Nd onset and peak latencies for the children were significantly longer than for the adults. Nd amplitude, however, did not differ between the groups. Further, all groups evidenced P3b to attended targets but not to unattended deviants. Hits, reaction times, and false alarms to unattended deviants continued to evidence improvements through adolescence. Taken together, our data are most consistent with a model of developmental improvement in the speed and efficiency of attention allocation.
The earliest reliably occurring event-related brain potential (ERP) correlate of visual awareness (visual awareness negativity, VAN) emerges after 100 ms and peaks between 200 and 300 ms from stimulus onset. In a study using low-contrast stimuli, VAN was significantly delayed, peaking at 460 ms (V. Ojanen, A. Revonsuo, &amp; M. Sams, 2003). In that study physical differences between the conscious and nonconscious stimuli may have confounded the results. Here we explored whether VAN is similarly delayed for physically identical stimuli. We presented low-contrast stimuli near an individually determined subjective contrast threshold. A delayed VAN peaked at 400 ms at occipito-temporal sites to subjectively perceived stimuli. Our results support the interpretation that VAN is the earliest ERP correlate of phenomenal visual awareness. The electrophysiological processes eliciting VAN may become delayed as a function of the difficulty of the early perceptual discrimination.
Increased fracture risk is a recognized complication following stroke. Bone loss following a hemiplegic stroke has been proposed as a major risk factor for post-stroke hip fracture, with a recent focus on the development of novel therapeutic measures to prevent bone loss and fractures after stroke. We briefly review the literature on the epidemiology and pathophysiology of bone loss and hip fracture after stroke, and then critically review recent studies on preventive strategies.
Myelination is critical for the normal functioning of the vertebrate nervous system. In the CNS, myelin is produced by oligodendrocytes, and the loss of oligodendrocytes and myelin results in severe functional impairment. Although spontaneous remyelination occurs in chronic demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis, the repair process eventually fails, often resulting in long-term disability. Two distinct general approaches can be considered to promote myelin repair. In one the target is stimulation of the endogenous myelin repair process through delivery of growth factors, and in the second the target is augmentation of the repair process through the delivery of exogenous cells with myelination potential. In both cases, effective treatment of diseases such as multiple sclerosis requires modulation of the immune system, since demyelination is associated with specific immunological activation. Recent studies have shown that some populations of stem cells, including mesenchymal stem cells, have the capacity of promoting endogenous myelin repair and modulating the immune response, prompting an assessment of their use as therapy in demyelinating diseases such as MS. Other types of demyelinating disorders, such as the leukodystrophies, may require multiple repair strategies including both replacement of dysfunctional cells and delivery or supplementation of growth factors, immune modulators or metabolic enzymes. Here we discuss the use of stem cells for the treatment of demyelinating diseases. While the current number of stem cell-based clinical trials for demyelinating diseases is limited, this is likely to increase significantly in the next few years, and a clear understanding of the applicability, limitations and underlying mechanisms mediating stem cell repair is critical.
Inflammation plays a critical role in the secondary degenerative response to spinal cord injury (SCI). The influx of inflammatory cells following SCI is preceded by the expression of specific chemoattractants, including chemokines. The chemokine CXCL10 is a potent T lymphocyte recruiter and has been strongly implicated in the pathology of many CNS disorders. We have previously demonstrated that CXCL10 exacerbates secondary degeneration by blocking the function of CXCL10 prior to SCI. Here we administered neutralizing antibodies against CXCL10 1 h after SCI in order to investigate the efficacy of this therapeutic intervention in abating histologic and functional deficit following acute SCI and further assess the functional role of CXCL10 in secondary degeneration. Neutralization of CXCL10 significantly reduced inflammation, apoptosis, neuronal loss and whole tissue loss. Notably, this therapeutic treatment also promoted revascularization of the injured spinal cord and functional recovery. These data suggest that anti-CXCL10 antibody treatment is a viable therapeutic strategy for acute SCI.

Nonmotor fluctuations (NMF) in Parkinson's disease are nonmotor symptoms that occur in coincidence with motor fluctuations or independently. Long under-assessed, NMF are now recognized as frequent and sometimes involving a greater degree of disability than motor fluctuations. They can be classified in three categories: dysautonomic, cognitive/psychiatric and sensory/pain. Recognition of these nonmotor fluctuations as part of Parkinson's disease has important implications. Some symptoms such as dyspnea, chest pain, or abdominal pains can mimic cardiac or gastrointestinal emergencies. The underlying pathogenic mechanisms of NMF are not well known. The dopaminergic system is probably involved via modulation of other systems (serotoninergic, adrenergic) since NMF usually respond to dopaminergic treatment. Subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation alleviates NMF-- particularly sensory, dysautonomic and cognitive fluctuations--while psychic fluctuations respond less consistently to this treatment. The development of new instruments that enable a comprehensive and precocious assessment of NMF is important for optimized management of advanced Parkinson's disease.

The goal of this article is to discuss ways to further improve the search for potentially procognitive agents that could be used to enhance cognition and functional outcome in schizophrenia. In particular, we focus on the potential advantages to this process of using a contemporary, cognitive neuroscience-based approach to measuring cognitive function in clinical trials of procognitive agents in schizophrenia. These tools include computer-administered tasks that measure specific cognitive systems (such as attention, working memory, long-term memory, cognitive control) as well as the component cognitive processes that comprise these more overarching systems. The advantages of using these tools include the ability to identify and use homologous animal and human models in the drug discovery and testing process and the ability to incorporate noninvasive functional imaging measures into clinical trial contexts at several different phases of the drug development process. However, despite the clear potential advantages to using such methods, a number of barriers exist to their translation from basic science tools to tools for drug discovery. We discuss the development and implementation of a new project, Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia, designed to identify and overcome these barriers to the translation of cognitive neuroscience measures and methods into regular use in the drug discovery and development process of cognition-enhancing agents for use in schizophrenia.
The legacy of Wayne Fenton will undoubtedly include his broad impact upon the academic community of researchers in psychiatry and neuroscience. Although this impact has already been felt, its full breadth and depth can only be anticipated. Eventually, the most profound impact of Wayne Fenton's legacy will likely be the one Wayne most fervently desired: that people with psychiatric disorders receive better and more effective treatments for their illnesses. By virtue of the MATRICS initiative, this impact will begin in the context of treatments for the cognitive deficits in schizophrenia, which is currently a critical unmet need. Within academic settings, this specific impact is already evident as a resurgence of interest in the neurobiology and pharmacology relevant to cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia. As envisioned by Wayne Fenton, however, the impact of MATRICS and the other programs he initiated will be broader than &quot;only&quot; the treatment of cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. His vision was to target a drug treatment to an individual symptom domain, individualizing treatment regimens for each patient, without requiring a drug to be effective in all domains. Thus, the particular target of opportunity that provided Wayne Fenton's focus in the initiation of the MATRICS program is already having an important impact, but in the longer term these efforts will no doubt lead to parallel developments and improvements in the treatment of other psychiatric disorders.

Sustained attention is affected by schizophrenia. The simplest form of Continuous Performance Test (CPT-X) is a purer test of vigilance than more demanding variants but widely thought too insensitive to detect abnormalities in those with genetic predisposition to schizophrenia. We used a 7-minute CPT to compare 61 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia, 45 of their never-psychotic relatives, and 47 control subjects. We found a significant impairment in stimulus discrimination in both patients (p=0.001) and their relatives (p=0.006). There was no difference in stimulus discrimination between relatives of patients with impaired and unimpaired stimulus discrimination. Relatives of patients with unimpaired stimulus discrimination were still inferior to controls (p=0.02). Reactions slowed in all groups equally as the test progressed. Patients showed increased mean reaction time (p&lt;0.0001) and interquartile range (p=0.003). Relatives showed slower reaction times (p=0.01) but normal interquartile range. Groups did not differ in respect of individuals' fastest reaction times. We conclude that genetic predisposition to schizophrenia reduces performance even during a task placing minimal cognitive load on working memory and perceptual processing, suggesting impaired vigilance. Increased reaction time in the disease and its predisposition appear to be due to changes in response distribution rather than by a limitation of maximum speed. Our results raise the possibility of separating the cognitive components of vigilance, working memory and perceptual processing tapped by more demanding variants of the CPT, and draw attention to the need for consideration of dynamic neurocognitive processes in schizophrenia.


We examine the relevance of evidence-based clinical practice (EBCP) in the field of clinical neurosciences, emphasize feasible methods for neurologists to incorporate EBCP into their practice, draw attention to available EBCP resources for the neurosciences, highlight how EBCP has been incorporated into clinical neuroscience training programs, present other EBCP initiatives in neurology, and describe the Mayo Clinic Evidence-Based Clinical Practice, Research, Informatics, and Training (MERIT) Center EBCP programs.

The quality and quantity of sleep is to a large extent determined by whether the sleep period is in alignment with the most favorable circadian time window for sleep. Misalignment results in compromised sleep. In order to determine this circadian time window, the 24-h profile of melatonin secretion is generally considered to provide the most optimal estimate. Melatonin secretion occurs only during the night, and several methods to determine its onset and offset markers have been proposed. In spite of the usefulness of determining circadian phase estimates from melatonin, its feasibility is somewhat restricted because the required number of repeated measurements comes at a high cost for compliance and laboratory assays. In addition, the complexity of some of the previously proposed methods to analyze data and obtain phase estimates may require a statistician. We here propose a set of novel functions to better describe the typical melatonin profile, which usually has a rather fixed baseline level during the day, has differences in the steepness of its rising and falling limbs, and may have a nocturnal plateau or even two peaks instead of one during the night. The functions can easily be fitted, even to incomplete or noisy melatonin data, with the most common statistical software packages, and the resulting parameters give direct information on the mentioned characteristics, which provide important additions to complete the usual restricted information on phase and amplitude. We show that the proposed curves fit better than single- to three-harmonic cosine curves to the typical melatonin profiles of both healthy subjects (n=13) and subjects diagnosed with Delayed Sleep Phase Syndrome (DSPS, n=27), Disorders of Initiating and Maintaining Sleep (DIMS, n=9), or sleep complaints not otherwise specified (n=7). Of note, because the functions provide a parsimonious description of the melatonin profile, phase estimates derived from them are more reliable (i.e., robust for noise and data loss). We illustrate that phase estimates deviate on average only by about 10 min in case of the loss of some of the data points and in case of the addition of noise. Finally, we introduce a sparse-sampling schedule tailored to capture the most important aspects of the melatonin curve. It is shown that such schedule - reducing the number of samples by more than 50% - in combination with the proposed functions results in reliable melatonin onset phase estimates, deviating only about 10 min from estimates based on 24 samples. The proposed methods strongly contribute to the feasibility, in terms of both cost and analysis availability, for researchers and clinicians to include the most reliable marker of the circadian timing system in their diagnosis and treatment evaluations.
Circadian rhythm disturbances, such as sleep disorders, are frequently seen in aging and are even more pronounced in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Alterations in the biological clock, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), and the pineal gland during aging and AD are considered to be the biological basis for these circadian rhythm disturbances. Recently, our group found that pineal melatonin secretion and pineal clock gene oscillation were disrupted in AD patients, and surprisingly even in non-demented controls with the earliest signs of AD neuropathology (neuropathological Braak stages I-II), in contrast to non-demented controls without AD neuropathology. Furthermore, a functional disruption of the SCN was observed from the earliest AD stages onwards, as shown by decreased vasopressin mRNA, a clock-controlled major output of the SCN. The observed functional disconnection between the SCN and the pineal from the earliest AD stage onwards seems to account for the pineal clock gene and melatonin changes and underlies circadian rhythm disturbances in AD. This paper further discusses potential therapeutic strategies for reactivation of the circadian timing system, including melatonin and bright light therapy. As the presence of melatonin MT1 receptor in the SCN is extremely decreased in late AD patients, supplementary melatonin in the late AD stages may not lead to clear effects on circadian rhythm disorders.
While some recent neuroimaging studies have implicated medial rostral prefrontal cortex (MPFC) in 'mentalizing' and self-reflection, others have implicated this region in attention towards perceptual vs self-generated information. In order to reconcile these seemingly contradictory findings, we used fMRI to investigate MPFC activity related to these two functions in a factorial design. Participants performed two separate tasks, each of which alternated between 'stimulus-oriented phases' (SO), where participants attended to task-relevant perceptual information, and 'stimulus-independent phases' (SI), where participants performed the same tasks in the absence of such information. In half of the blocks ('mentalizing condition'), participants were instructed that they were performing these tasks in collaboration with an experimenter; in other blocks ('non-mentalizing condition'), participants were instructed that the experimenter was not involved. In fact, the tasks were identical in these conditions. Neuroimaging data revealed adjacent but clearly distinct regions of activation within MPFC related to (i) mentalizing vs non-mentalizing conditions (relatively caudal/superior) and (ii) SO vs SI attention (relatively rostral/inferior). These results generalized from one task to the other, suggesting a new axis of functional organization within MPFC.
Computer-animated characters are common in popular culture and have begun to be used as experimental tools in social cognitive neurosciences. Here we investigated how appearance of these characters' influences perception of their actions. Subjects were presented with different characters animated either with motion data captured from human actors or by interpolating between poses (keyframes) designed by an animator, and were asked to categorize the motion as biological or artificial. The response bias towards 'biological', derived from the Signal Detection Theory, decreases with characters' anthropomorphism, while sensitivity is only affected by the simplest rendering style, point-light displays. fMRI showed that the response bias correlates positively with activity in the mentalizing network including left temporoparietal junction and anterior cingulate cortex, and negatively with regions sustaining motor resonance. The absence of significant effect of the characters on the brain activity suggests individual differences in the neural responses to unfamiliar artificial agents. While computer-animated characters are invaluable tools to investigate the neural bases of social cognition, further research is required to better understand how factors such as anthropomorphism affect their perception, in order to optimize their appearance for entertainment, research or therapeutic purposes.



Despite evidence that oxygen regulates neural precursor fate, the effects of changing oxygen tensions on distinct stages in precursor differentiation are poorly understood. We found that 5% oxygen permitted clonal and long-term expansion of mouse fetal cortical precursors. In contrast, 20% oxygen caused a rapid decrease in hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha and nucleophosmin, followed by the induction of p53 and apoptosis of cells. This led to a decrease in overall cell number and particularly a loss of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Clonal analysis revealed that apoptosis in 20% oxygen was due to a complete loss of CD133(lo)CD24(lo) multipotent precursors, a substantial loss of CD133(hi)CD24(lo) multipotent precursors, and a failure of remaining CD133(hi)CD24(lo) cells to generate glia. In contrast, committed neuronal progenitors were not significantly affected. Switching clones from 5% to 20% oxygen only after mitogen withdrawal led to a decrease in total clone numbers but an even greater decrease in oligodendrocyte-containing clones. During this late exposure to 20% oxygen, bipotent glial (A2B5+) and early (platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha) oligodendrocyte progenitors appeared and disappeared more quickly, relative to 5% oxygen, and late stage O4+ oligodendrocyte progenitors never appeared. These results indicate that multipotent cells and oligodendrocyte progenitors are more susceptible to apoptosis at 20% oxygen than committed neuronal progenitors. This has important implications for optimizing ex vivo production methods for cell replacement therapies.



Positron Emission Tomography (PET) with appropriate radiotracers and quantification methods allows the detection of changes in endogenous neurotransmission by determine the reduction in the binding potential (BP) of receptors before and after experimental challenges. These have typically employed psychostimulants and PET with dopamine (DA) receptor radiotracers. However, reductions in BP persist far beyond the increases in the release of the endogenous neurotransmitter, an effect ascribed to receptor internalization and recycling, a possible confound in repeated studies. Here we examined the time-course of changes in BP during a nonpharmacological challenge, moderate levels of sustained pain, shown to induce robust reductions in micro-opioid and DA D2 BP, as measured with [(11)C]carfentanil and [(11)C]raclopride. It was hypothesized that, contrary to pharmacological probes, the use of a more &quot;physiological&quot; stimulus would not be associated with persistent changes in the BP measures. The pain challenge was associated with reductions in micro-opioid receptor BP in several cortical and subcortical regions. These did not persist in a subsequent scan. Similar results were obtained for DA D2 receptor BP, where the pain challenge induced significant reductions in the caudate nucleus. These data demonstrate that changes in receptor BP induced by a nonpharmacological challenge did not persist into subsequent scans. They further suggest differences in the effect of pharmacological and nonpharmacological probes on PET BP measures. These may reflect varying levels of change in receptor affinity, receptor internalization, and recycling depending on the type of challenge employed.
Overt schizophrenia is preceded by a prodromal phase during which juvenile patients display attenuated schizophrenia-related symptoms. Here, we have looked for evidence of a prodromal phase in juvenile STOP null mice, which, during adulthood, imitate features of schizophrenia. We have principally examined locomotor activity, which is abnormal in adult STOP null mice, and its apparent relationship with perturbed glutamatergic and dopaminergic transmission. When compared to corresponding wild-type mice, juvenile STOP null mice did not exhibit the basal hyperlocomotion or locomotor hypersensitivity to mild stress observed in adult mice. Juvenile STOP null mice also lacked disturbed locomotor sensitivity to MK-801, which was evident in adult mice. In contrast, juvenile STOP null mice exhibited a similar hypersensitivity to amphetamine as that found in adult mice. Thus, STOP null mice exhibited both a progression of locomotor activity defects over time and subtle alterations in the prepubertal period. We suggest that the pattern of locomotor disturbances observed in this study is related to altered dopaminergic reactivity in juvenile mice without major disturbance in glutamatergic transmission, whereas both neurotransmitter systems are impaired in adult mice.

Unlike conventional synaptic terminals that release neurotransmitter episodically in response to action potentials, neurons of the visual, auditory and vestibular systems encode sensory information in graded signals that are transmitted at their synapses by modulating the rate of continuous release. The synaptic ribbon, a specialized structure found at the active zones of these neurons, is necessary to sustain the high rates of exocytosis required for continuous release. To maintain the fidelity of synaptic transmission, exocytosis must be balanced by high-capacity endocytosis, to retrieve excess membrane inserted during vesicle fusion. Capacitance measurements following vesicle release in ribbon-type neurons indicate two kinetically distinct phases of compensatory endocytosis, whose relative contributions vary with stimulus intensity. The two phases can be independently regulated and may reflect different underlying mechanisms operating on separate pools of recycling vesicles. Electron microscopy shows diversity among ribbon-type synapses in the relative importance of clathrin-mediated endocytosis versus bulk membrane retrieval as mechanisms of compensatory endocytosis. Ribbon synapses, like conventional synapses, make use of multiple endocytosis pathways to replenish synaptic vesicle pools, depending on the physiological needs of the particular cell type.

The medial temporal lobe (MTL) plays a crucial role in supporting memory for events, but the functional organization of regions in the MTL remains controversial, especially regarding the extent to which different subregions support recognition based on familiarity or recollection. Here we review results from functional neuroimaging studies showing that, whereas activity in the hippocampus and posterior parahippocampal gyrus is disproportionately associated with recollection, activity in the anterior parahippocampal gyrus is disproportionately associated with familiarity. The results are consistent with the idea that the parahippocampal cortex (located in the posterior parahippocampal gyrus) supports recollection by encoding and retrieving contextual information, whereas the hippocampus supports recollection by associating item and context information. By contrast, perirhinal cortex (located in the anterior parahippocampal gyrus) supports familiarity by encoding and retrieving specific item information. We discuss the implications of a 'binding of item and context' (BIC) model for studies of recognition memory. This model argues that there is no simple mapping between MTL regions and recollection and familiarity, but rather that the involvement of MTL regions in these processes depends on the specific demands of the task and the type of information involved. We highlight several predictions for future imaging studies that follow from the BIC model.
Growing evidence points to a link between musical abilities and certain phonetic and prosodic skills in language. However, the mechanisms that underlie these relations are not well understood. A recent study by Wong et al. suggests that musical training sharpens the subcortical encoding of linguistic pitch patterns. We consider the implications of their methods and findings for establishing a link between musical training and phonetic abilities more generally.
The development of stroke drugs has been characterized by success in animal studies and subsequent failure in clinical trials. Animal studies might have overstated efficacy, or clinical trials might have understated efficacy; in either case we need to better understand the reasons for failure. Techniques borrowed from clinical trials have recently allowed the impact of publication and study-quality biases on published estimates of efficacy in animal experiments to be described. On the basis of these data, we propose minimum standards for the range and quality of pre-clinical animal data. We believe the adoption of these standards will lead to improved effectiveness and efficiency in the selection of drugs for clinical trials in stroke and in the design of those trials.
Extremely low-gestational-age newborns have a prominently increased risk of brain dysfunctions attributed to white-matter damage, which is thought to result from the vulnerability of the oligodendrocyte. This white-matter damage now appears to be accompanied by cerebral-cortex and deep-gray-matter abnormalities, including excess apoptosis without replacement and the impairment of surviving neurons and resulting interference with synaptogenesis and connectivity. Recent advances in corticogenesis suggest that neurons migrate from the germinative zones through the white matter to the cortex when the white matter is most vulnerable and perhaps is being injured. Advances in developmental neuroscience also suggest that the excitotoxic and inflammatory processes that probably contribute to white-matter damage are also able to damage developing neurons. Together, these advances support the untested hypothesis that white-matter damage in the preterm newborn is accompanied by the death of neurons as they migrate through the dangerous minefield of white matter undergoing injury.
The ability of neurons to modulate the strength of their synaptic connections has been shown to depend on the relative timing of pre- and postsynaptic action potentials. This form of synaptic plasticity, called spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP), has become an attractive model for learning at the single-cell level. Yet, despite its popularity in experimental and theoretical neuroscience, the influence of dendritic mechanisms in the induction of STDP has been largely overlooked. Several recent studies have investigated how active dendritic properties and synapse location within the dendritic tree influence STDP. These studies suggest the existence of learning rules that depend on firing mode and subcellular input location, adding unanticipated complexity to STDP. Here, we propose a new look at STDP that is focused on processing at the postsynaptic site in the dendrites, rather than on spike-timing at the cell body.
The existence of neurotransmitter receptor heteromers is becoming broadly accepted and their functional significance is being revealed. Heteromerization of neurotransmitter receptors produces functional entities that possess different biochemical characteristics with respect to the individual components of the heteromer. Neurotransmitter receptor heteromers can function as processors of computations that modulate cell signaling. Thus, the quantitative or qualitative aspects of the signaling generated by stimulation of any of the individual receptor units in the heteromer are different from those obtained during coactivation. Furthermore, recent studies demonstrate that some neurotransmitter receptor heteromers can exert an effect as processors of computations that directly modulate both pre- and postsynaptic neurotransmission. This is illustrated by the analysis of striatal receptor heteromers that control striatal glutamatergic neurotransmission.
The reptilian nervous system is relatively simple in structure yet is characterized by great functional diversity. This article describes the reptilian nervous system, highlighting the similarities and differences among species in structures and functions.
Several significant advances in understanding brain-behavior development have made a critical contribution to clinical assessment of companion birds. First, psychobiological health and its dysfunctions now are understood as the product of nature and nurture and therefore exquisitely sensitive to stressors effected by altered socio-ecological conditions within and across generations. Second, discoveries associated with avian brain evolution and ethology show that emotional and cognitive capacities of birds are comparable to mammals. This article presents an overview of these new perspectives and, following, discusses specific, clinically relevant anatomy of the avian central nervous system. By understanding the location of these tracts and their function and the location of the cranial nerves and their nuclei in the brain stem, the clinician can understand and perform the neurological examination, better interpret findings, and localize lesions.
Neurology represents an important specialty within ferret clinical medicine. Veterinarians should become familiar with the unique anatomic and physiologic differences between ferrets to improve their management of theses cases. In addition, veterinarians should use available diagnostic tests to confirm the presence of neurologic diseases. Recent advances in ferret medicine and veterinary neurology offer new capabilities to investigate and treat neurological disease in ferrets.
Completion of a thorough neurological examination of a rabbit is essential for clinicians to determine the location of a neurological problem. Determination of the location of a lesion (whether solitary or multifocal/diffuse) enables a clinician to list the most likely causes of the problem. This article presents the neurological examination of the rabbit, followed by a practical guide to lesion localization in this species.
This article reviews clinically relevant neuroanatomy of the central nervous system of the domestic rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) that will help guide veterinarians in localizing neurological disease in this species. Although the vertebral column, spinal cord and brain of rabbits are similar to those of other mammals, features unique to the rabbit are emphasized where they exist.
Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) display the phenomenon of rebound excitation, which is observed as rebound sodium action potential firing initiated at the termination of a sustained hyperpolarization below the resting membrane potential (RMP). Rebound impulse firing, in contrast to corresponding firing elicited from rest, displayed a lower net voltage threshold, shorter latency and was invariably observed as a phasic burst-like doublet of spikes. The preceding hyperpolarization leads to the recruitment of a Tetrodotoxin-insensitive depolarizing voltage overshoot, termed as the net depolarizing overshoot (NDO). Based on pharmacological sensitivities, we provide evidence that the NDO is composed of two independent but interacting components, including (1) a regenerative low threshold calcium spike (LTCS) and (2) a non-regenerative overshoot (NRO). Using voltage and current clamp recordings, we demonstrate that amphibian RGCs possess the hyperpolarization activated mixed cation channels/current, Ih, and low voltage activated (LVA) calcium channels, which underlie the generation of the NRO and LTCS respectively. At the RMP, the Ih channels are closed and the LVA calcium channels are inactivated. A hyperpolarization of sufficient magnitude and duration activates Ih and removes the inactivation of the LVA calcium channels. On termination of the hyperpolarizing influence, Ih adds an immediate depolarizing influence that boosts the generation of the LTCS. The concerted action of both conductances results in a larger amplitude and shorter latency NDO than either mechanism could achieve on its own. The NDO boosts the generation of conventional sodium spikes which are triggered on its upstroke and crest, thus eliciting rebound excitation.
Visual perception is limited by both the strength of the neural signals, and by the noise in the visual nervous system. Here we use one-dimensional white noise as input, to study the response of amblyopic visual system. We measured the thresholds for detection and discrimination of noise contrast. Using an N-pass reverse correlation technique, we derived classification images and estimated response consistency. Our results provide the first report of the sensitivity of the amblyopic visual system to white noise. We show that amblyopes have markedly reduced sensitivity for detecting noise, particularly at high spatial frequencies, and much less loss for discriminating suprathreshold noise contrast. Compensating for the detection loss almost (but not quite) equates performance of the amblyopic and normal visual system. The classification images suggest that the amblyopic visual system contains adjustable channels for noise, similar to those found in normal vision, but &quot;tuned&quot; to slightly lower spatial frequencies than in normal observers. Our N-pass results show that the predominant factor limiting performance in our task in both normal and amblyopic vision is internal random multiplicative noise. For the detection of white noise the raised thresholds of the amblyopic visual system can be attributed primarily to extra additive noise. However, for the discrimination of suprathreshold white noise contrast, there is surprisingly little additional deficit, after accounting for the visibility of the noise.

A cardinal feature of brain tissue injury in stroke is mitochondrial dysfunction leading to cell death, yet remarkably little is known about the mechanisms underlying mitochondrial injury in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion (IR). Ceramide, a naturally occurring membrane sphingolipid, functions as an important second messenger in apoptosis signaling and is generated by de novo synthesis, sphingomyelin hydrolysis, or recycling of sphingolipids. In this study, cerebral IR-induced ceramide elevation resulted from ceramide biosynthesis rather than from hydrolysis of sphingomyelin. Investigation of intracellular sites of ceramide accumulation revealed the elevation of ceramide in mitochondria because of activation of mitochondrial ceramide synthase via post-translational mechanisms. Furthermore, ceramide accumulation appears to cause mitochondrial respiratory chain damage that could be mimicked by exogenously added natural ceramide to mitochondria. The effect of ceramide on mitochondria was somewhat specific; dihydroceramide, a structure closely related to ceramide, did not inflict damage. Stimulation of ceramide biosynthesis seems to be under control of JNK3 signaling: IR-induced ceramide generation and respiratory chain damage was abolished in mitochondria of JNK3-deficient mice, which exhibited reduced infarct volume after IR. These studies suggest that the hallmark of mitochondrial injury in cerebral IR, respiratory chain dysfunction, is caused by the accumulation of ceramide via stimulation of ceramide synthase activity in mitochondria, and that JNK3 has a pivotal role in regulation of ceramide biosynthesis in cerebral IR.
Biological messengers can be &quot;caged&quot; by adding a single photosensitive group that can be photolyzed by a light flash to achieve spatially and temporally precise biochemical control. Here we report that photolysis of a double-caged form of the second messenger inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) triggers focal calcium release in Purkinje cell somata, dendrites, and spines as measured by two-photon microscopy. In calbindin knock-out Purkinje cells, peak calcium increased with flash energy with higher cooperativity for double-caged IP3 than for conventional single-caged IP3, consistent with a chemical two-photon effect. Spine photolysis of double-caged IP3 led to local calcium release. Uncaging of glycerophosphoryl-myo-inositol 4,5-bisphosphate (gPIP2), a poorly metabolizable IP3 analog, led to less well localized release. Thus, IP3 breakdown is necessary for spine-specificity. IP3- and gPIP2-evoked signals declined from peak with similar, slow time courses, indicating that release lasts hundreds of milliseconds and is terminated not by IP3 degradation but by intrinsic receptor dynamics. Based on measurements of spine-dendrite coupling, IP3-evoked calcium signals are expected to be at least 2.4-fold larger in their spine of origin than in nearby spines, allowing IP3 to act as a synapse-specific second messenger. Unexpectedly, single-caged IP3 led to less release in somata and was ineffective in dendrites and spines. Calcium release using caged gPIP2 was inhibited by the addition of single-caged IP3, suggesting that single-caged IP3 is an antagonist of calcium release. Caging at multiple sites may be an effective general approach to reducing residual receptor interaction.
The dystrophin-related and -associated protein dystrobrevin is a component of the dystrophin-associated protein complex, which directly links the cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix. It is now thought that this complex also serves as a dynamic scaffold for signaling proteins, and dystrobrevin may play a role in this context. Since dystrobrevin involvement in signaling pathways seems to be dependent on its interaction with other proteins, we sought new insights and performed a two-hybrid screen of a mouse brain cDNA library using beta-dystrobrevin, the isoform expressed in non-muscle tissues, as bait. Among the positive clones characterized after the screen, one encodes the regulatory subunit RIalpha of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA). We confirmed the interaction by in vitro and in vivo association assays, and mapped the binding site of beta-dystrobrevin on RIalpha to the amino-terminal region encompassing the dimerization/docking domain of PKA regulatory subunit. We also found that the domain of interaction for RIalpha is contained in the amino-terminal region of beta-dystrobrevin. We obtained evidence that beta-dystrobrevin also interacts directly with RIIbeta, and that not only beta-dystrobrevin but also alpha-dystrobrevin interacts with PKA regulatory subunits. We show that both alpha and beta-dystrobrevin are specific phosphorylation substrates for PKA and that protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) is associated with dystrobrevins. Our results suggest a new role for dystrobrevin as a scaffold protein that may play a role in different cellular processes involving PKA signaling.



Photoconversion, the method by which a fluorescent dye is transformed into a stable, osmiophilic product that can be visualized by transmission electron microscopy, is the most widely used method to enable the ultrastructural analysis of fluorescently labeled cellular structures. Nevertheless, the conventional method of photoconversion using widefield fluorescence microscopy requires long reaction times and results in low resolution cell targeting which limit its utility. Accordingly, we developed a photoconversion method that ameliorates these limitations by adapting confocal laser scanning microscopy to the procedure. We confirmed that photoconversion times were dramatically reduced when using a confocal laser scanning microscope in the photoconversion process. We also demonstrated that the region of interest scanning capabilities of a confocal laser scanning microscope equipped with an acousto-optical tunable filter represented a unique tool to facilitate the targeting of the photoconversion process to individual cellular or subcellular elements within a fluorescent field. Moreover, region of interest scanning greatly reduced the area of the cell exposed to light energy, ameliorating the ultrastructural damage common to this process when widefield microscopes are employed. The potential of this new methodology extends beyond the neurosciences to any scientific modality which requires ultrastructural analysis of fluorescently labeled specimens, especially those where discrete photoconversion on a cellular or subcellular basis could be beneficial.
In CNS neurons most of synaptic integration takes place in thin dendritic branches that are difficult to study with conventional physiological recording techniques (electrodes). When cellular compartments are too small, or too many, for electrode recordings, optical methods bring considerable advantages. Here we focused our experimental effort on the development and utilization of new kinds of voltage-sensitive dyes (VSD). The new VSDs have bluish appearance in organic solvents, and hence are dubbed &quot;blue dyes&quot;. They have preferred excitation windows for voltage recording that are shifted to longer wavelengths (approximately 660nm). Excitation in deep red light and emission in the near-infrared render &quot;blue VSDs&quot; potentially useful in measurements from fluorescent structures below the tissue surface because light scattering is minimized at longer wavelengths. Seven new molecules were systematically tested using intracellular injection. In comparison to the previously used red dye (JPW-3028) the blue dyes have better sensitivity (DeltaF/F) by approximately 40%. Blue dyes take little time to fill the dendritic tree, and in this aspect they are comparable with the fastest red dye JPW-3028. Based on our results, blue VSDs are well suited for experimental exploration of thin neuronal processes in semi intact preparations (brain slice). In some cases only six sweeps of temporal averaging were needed to acquire excellent records of individual action potentials in basal and oblique dendritic branches, or in axons and axon collaterals up to 200microm away from the cell body. Signal-to-noise ratio of these recordings was approximately 10. The combination of blue dyes and laser illumination approach imposed little photodynamic damage and allowed the total number of recording sweeps per cell to exceed 100. Using these dyes and a spot laser illumination technique, we demonstrate the first recording of action potentials in the oblique dendrite and distal axonal segment of the same pyramidal cell.
Automated image-based and biochemical assays have greatly increased throughput for quantifying cell numbers in in vitro studies. However, it has been more difficult to automate the counting of specific cell types with complex morphologies in mixed cell cultures. We have developed a fully automated, fast, accurate and objective method for the quantification of primary human GFAP-positive astrocytes and CD45-positive microglia from images of mixed cell populations. This method, called the complex cell count (CCC) assay, utilizes a combination of image processing and analysis operations from MetaMorph (Version 6.2.6, Molecular Devices). The CCC assay consists of four main aspects: image processing with a unique combination of morphology filters; digital thresholding; integrated morphometry analysis; and a configuration of object standards. The time needed to analyze each image is 1.82s. Significant correlations have been consistently achieved between the data obtained from CCC analysis and manual cell counts. This assay can quickly and accurately quantify the number of human astrocytes and microglia in mixed cell culture and can be applied to quantifying a range of other cells/objects with complex morphology in neuroscience research.
In vitro culture of rodent microglia is a common system used to model proinflammatory changes in the brain. However, typical postnatal brain isolation protocols are time consuming and cell numbers acquired are often a rate-limiting factor for experimental progress. Large studies that rely on the use of primary microglia can, therefore, require excessive numbers of animals at considerable expense, additional technical support and culture incubator space. Although the addition of mitogens such as macrophage colony-stimulating factor, granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor, and epidermal growth factor to the cultures can facilitate a higher yield, this adds additional expense and likely alters the microglial phenotype. We have defined a simple, inexpensive modification of our standard culture protocol that allows us to repetitively isolate microglia. In order to define a method for improving microglia yield, we utilized our standard mixed glial culture preparation derived from postnatal day 1-3 mouse brains. After isolating microglia from mixed cultures at 14 days in vitro, we added fresh media to the cultures for an additional 7 and 14 days to monitor microglial proliferation. We acquired a constant number of cells at each successive time point although the numbers were reduced from the first isolation. More importantly, in order to determine if our successive microglia isolates differed phenotypically we characterized several parameters of function. We compared their ability to secrete the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor alpha after LPS stimulation. We also contrasted the phagocytic ability, morphology, and specific immunoreactivity (CD11b, CD68, CD45 and MHC II) of the culture ages. Our data demonstrate that microglia can be obtained from extended-time cultures provided periodic isolation is performed. Moreover, the cells retain a comparable in vitro phenotype. This demonstrates that cells from all ages can be combined for any given study. These findings are a viable and inexpensive way to increase and extend the microglial yield without increasing the number of animals used or adding costly mitogens. This method will be particularly useful for the preparation of microglia cultures from limited transgenic colonies.
The nuclear protein p68 (also known as Ddx5) is a prototypic member of the 'DEAD box' family of RNA helicases, which has been shown to be abnormally expressed and modified in colorectal tumors and to function as an important transcriptional regulator. Here, we show that p68 is modified in vivo on a single site (K53) by the small ubiquitin-like modifier-2 (SUMO-2). We demonstrate that the SUMO E3 ligase PIAS1 interacts with p68 and enhances its SUMO modification in vivo. To determine the functional consequences of SUMO modification, we compared the transcriptional activity of p68 and a K53R mutant that could not be SUMO-modified. Our data show that SUMO modification enhances p68 transcriptional repression activity and inhibits the ability of p68 to function as a coactivator of p53. These findings may be explained by the ability of wild type, but not K53R p68, to alter the modification state of chromatin by recruitment of histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1).

Ethylene glycol (EG) is nephrotoxic due to its metabolism. Many studies suggest that the toxicity is due to oxalate accumulation, but others have conversely suggested that toxicity results from effects of metabolites such as glycolaldehyde or glyoxylic acid on proximal tubule cells. In vivo studies have indicated that accumulation of calcium oxalate monohydrate (COM) corresponds closely with development of toxicity in renal tissue. The present studies were therefore designed to clarify the roles of various metabolites in the mechanism for EG toxicity in vitro by comparing the relative cytotoxicity of EG metabolites using three measures of cell death, ethidium homodimer uptake, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and the conversion of the tetrazolium salt XTT to a colorimetric dye. Human proximal tubule cells in culture were incubated in physiologic buffers for 6h at 37 degrees C with COM (147-735microg/ml, an oxalate equivalence of 1-5mM), glycolate (5-25mM), glyoxylate (0.2-5mM) and glycolaldehyde (0.2-2mM). To assess the effects of acidity on the cytotoxicity, incubations were carried out at pH 6-7.4. The results show that COM dose-dependently increased LDH release and ethidium homodimer uptake, while the other metabolites did not. Conversely, COM had no effect on the XTT assay, while high concentrations of glycolaldehyde and glyoxylate decreased XTT activity, but the latter only at acidic pH. The correlation between the uptake of ethidium homodimer and the release of LDH suggest that COM is cytotoxic to human kidney cells in culture, while the XTT assay does not validly measure cytotoxicity in this system. These results indicate that COM, and not glyoxylate or glycolaldehyde, is the toxic metabolite responsible for the acute tubular necrosis and renal failure that is observed in EG-poisoned patients.

Expression of the immediate early gene, c-fos, was used to investigate changes in neuronal activity in forebrain regions involved in male sexual behavior following social, hormonal and/or seasonal manipulations in the male green anole. These factors all influence behavior, yet it is unclear how they interact to modify neuronal activity in forebrain regions, including the preoptic area (POA) and ventromedial nucleus of the amygdala (AMY). These regions are involved in the display of sexual behaviors in male green anoles as in many other vertebrates. To determine the effects of seasonal, hormonal and social cues on these brain areas, we investigated c-fos under environmental conditions typical of the breeding or non-breeding season in adult male green anoles that were castrated and implanted with either testosterone (T) or blank (Bl) capsules. We also manipulated social cues by exposing only half of the animals in each group to females. T enhanced courtship and copulatory behaviors, but decreased c-fos expression in the AMY. A similar, although not statistically significant, pattern was observed in the POA, and the density of c-fos+ cells was negatively correlated in that region with the number of extensions of a throat fan (dewlap) used during courtship. Therefore, it appears that in the male green anole, T may diminish c-fos expression (likely in inhibitory neurons) in the POA and AMY to create a permissive environment in which the appropriate behavioral response can be displayed.
One important characteristic of sensory input is frequency, with sensory neurons often tuned to narrow stimulus frequency ranges. Although vital for many neural computations, the cellular basis of such frequency tuning remains mostly unknown. In the electrosensory system of Apteronotus leptorhynchus, the primary processing of important environmental and communication signals occurs in pyramidal neurons of the electrosensory lateral line lobe. Spike trains transmitted by these cells can encode low-frequency prey stimuli with bursts of spikes and high-frequency communication signals with single spikes. Here, we demonstrate that the selective expression of SK2 channels in a subset of pyramidal neurons reduces their response to low-frequency stimuli by opposing their burst responses. Apamin block of the SK2 current in this subset of cells induced bursting and increased their response to low-frequency inputs. SK channel expression thus provides an intrinsic mechanism that predisposes a neuron to respond to higher frequencies and thus specific, behaviorally relevant stimuli.
Tuning curves were recorded with patch electrodes from the inferior colliculus (IC) of awake bats to evaluate the tuning of the inputs to IC neurons, reflected in their synaptic tuning, compared with the tuning of their outputs, expressed in their discharge tuning. A number of unexpected features were revealed with whole-cell recordings. Among these was that most neurons responded to tones with inhibition and/or subthreshold excitation over a surprisingly broad frequency range. The synaptic tuning in many cells was at least 1.5-2.0 octaves wide and, on average, was more than twice as wide as the frequency range that evoked discharges even after inhibition was blocked. In most cells, tones evoked complex synaptic response configurations that varied with frequency, suggesting that these cells were not innervated by congruent excitatory and inhibitory projections. Synaptic tuning was not only wide but was also diverse, in which some cells were dominated by excitation (n = 20), others were dominated by excitation with sideband inhibition (n = 21), but most were dominated by inhibition with little evidence of excitation (n = 31). Another unexpected finding was that some cells responded with inhibition to the onset and offset of tones over a wide frequency range, in which the patterns of synaptic responses changed markedly with frequency. These cells never fired to tones at 50 dB sound pressure level but fired to frequency-modulated sweeps at that intensity and were directionally selective. Thus, the features revealed by whole-cell recordings show that the processing in many IC cells results from inputs spectrally broader and more complex than previously believed.
The rhinal cortices contribute to memory formation by integrating and transferring neocortical information to the hippocampus. Rhinal contributions to memory are likely influenced by the amygdala because strong reciprocal connections exist between these structures. In light of previous data showing that oscillations regulate neuronal activity during memory formation and recall, we tested the possibility that coherent oscillations serve to coordinate amygdalo-rhinal activity during learning. To this end, we performed simultaneous extracellular recordings of basolateral amygdala (BLA), perirhinal, and entorhinal activity. We first tested whether there are correlated fluctuations in the power of BLA and rhinal field activity during the waking state. Correlated power fluctuations were most pronounced in the 35-45 Hz band. Within each structure, firing probability fluctuated rhythmically with the fast oscillations, indicating that they were not volume conducted. To test whether fast oscillations coordinate BLA and rhinal activity during learning, animals were trained on a trace-conditioning task in which a visual conditioned stimulus (CS) predicted a food reward after a delay. The predictive value of the CS was learned gradually over 9 d. As learning progressed, the 35-45 Hz power increased in the BLA and rhinal cortices, particularly during the late part of the CS and delay. Moreover, the firing of BLA and rhinal neurons became rhythmically entrained by BLA oscillations at that time. Thus, our data suggest that neuronal interactions are coordinated by fast oscillations in the BLA-rhinal network. By telescoping the periods of effective neuronal interactions in short recurring time windows, these fast oscillations may facilitate rhinal interactions and synaptic plasticity.
Amyloid beta (Abeta) protein, a 39-43 amino acid peptide deposited in brains of individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD), has been shown to interact directly with a number of receptor targets including neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and glutamate receptors. In this study, we investigated the synaptic effects of Abeta(1-42) on glutamate-mediated neurotransmission in the diagonal band of Broca (DBB), a cholinergic basal forebrain nucleus. Glutamatergic miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs) were recorded using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from identified cholinergic DBB neurons in rat forebrain slices. In 54% of DBB neurons, bath application of Abeta(1-42) (100 nM), but not Abeta(42-1) (inverse fragment), significantly increased the frequency of mEPSCs without affecting amplitude or kinetic parameters (rise or decay time). In 32% of DBB neurons, bath application of Abeta(1-42) significantly decreased only the frequency but not amplitude of mEPSCs. Application of dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE) (an antagonist for the alpha4beta2 subtype of nAChRs) but not alpha-bungarotoxin (an antagonist for the alpha7 subtype of nAChRs) blocked Abeta(1-42)-mediated increases in mEPSC frequency. The Abeta(1-42)-mediated increase in glutamatergic transmission is thus presynaptic and mediated via non-alpha7 AChRs. In contrast, Abeta(1-42)-mediated decreases in mEPSC frequency could not be antagonized by either DHbetaE or alpha-bungarotoxin. However, the Abeta(1-42)-evoked depression in mEPSC frequency was antagonized by (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenyglycine, a nonselective group I/II metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist. These observations provide further insight into the mechanisms whereby Abeta affects synaptic function in the brain and may be relevant in the context of synaptic failure observed in AD.


Interneurons originating from the ganglionic eminence migrate tangentially into the developing cerebral wall as they navigate to their distinct positions in the cerebral cortex. Compromised connectivity and differentiation of interneurons are thought to be an underlying cause in the emergence of neurodevelopmental disorders such as schizophrenia. Previously, it was suggested that tangential migration of interneurons occurs in a radial glia independent manner. Here, using simultaneous imaging of genetically defined populations of interneurons and radial glia, we demonstrate that dynamic interactions with radial glia can potentially influence the trajectory of interneuronal migration and thus the positioning of interneurons in cerebral cortex. Furthermore, there is extensive local interneuronal migration in tangential direction opposite to that of pallial orientation (i.e., in a medial to lateral direction from cortex to ganglionic eminence) all across the cerebral wall. This counter migration of interneurons may be essential to locally position interneurons once they invade the developing cerebral wall from the ganglionic eminence. Together, these observations suggest that interactions with radial glial scaffold and localized migration within the expanding cerebral wall may play essential roles in the guidance and placement of interneurons in the developing cerebral cortex.
Since compounds targeting mitochondria exhibit diverse accumulation mechanisms and chemical features, various questions arise. Do such &quot;mitochondriotropics&quot; have a characteristic chemistry? What are mitochondrial uptake mechanisms? Do mitochondriotropics necessarily accumulate in mitochondria or merely have access? Is the concept &quot;mitochondriotropic&quot; of any practical value? To seek answers, a non-biased sample of &gt;100 mitochondriotropics was generated from the review literature. This dataset was examined using: physicochemical classification; quantitative structure-activity relations (QSAR) models; and a Fick-Nernst-Planck physicochemical model. The ability of the latter two approaches to predict mitochondriotropic behaviour was assessed, and comparisons made between methods, and with current assumptions. All approaches provided instructive pictures of the nature of mitochondriotropics. Thus although lipophilic cations are regarded as the commonest structural type, only a third were such. Much the same proportion were acids, potentially or actually anions. Many mitochondriotropics were electrically neutral compounds. All categorizations involved overall molecular properties, not the presence of &quot;mitochondriotropic tags&quot;--again contrary to literature concepts. Selective mitochondrial accumulation involved electric potential, ion-trapping, and complex formation with cardiolipin; non-specific accumulation involved membrane partitioning. Non-specific access required only low lipophilicity. Mitochondrial targeting did not preclude additional accumulation sites, e.g. lysosomes. The concept &quot;mitochondriotropic&quot; remains useful, although may imply access, not accumulation. QSAR and Fick-Nernst-Planck approaches are complementary--neither is universally applicable. Using both approaches enabled the mitochondriotropic behavior of &gt;80% of the dataset to be predicted, and the physicochemistry of mitochondriotropics to be specified in some detail. This can facilitate guided syntheses and selection of optimal mitochondriotropic structures.


Stroke is among the three leading causes of death worldwide and the most frequent cause of permanent disability. Brain ischemia induces an inflammatory response involving activated complement fragments. Here we show that i.v. Ig (IVIG) treatment, which scavenges complement fragments, protects brain cells against the deleterious effects of experimental ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) and prevents I/R-induced mortality in mice. Animals administered IVIG either 30 min before ischemia or after 3 h of reperfusion exhibited a 50-60% reduction of brain infarct size and a 2- to 3-fold improvement of the functional outcome. Even a single low dose of IVIG given after stroke was effective. IVIG was protective in the nonreperfusion model of murine stroke as well and did not exert any peripheral effects. Human IgG as well as intrinsic murine C3 levels were significantly higher in the infarcted brain region compared with the noninjured side, and their physical association was demonstrated by immuno-coprecipitation. C5-deficient mice were significantly protected from I/R injury compared with their wild-type littermates. Exposure of cultured neurons to oxygen/glucose deprivation resulted in increased levels of C3 associated with activation of caspase 3, a marker of apoptosis; both signals were attenuated with IVIG treatment. Our data suggest a major role for complement-mediated cell death in ischemic brain injury and the prospect of using IVIG in relatively low doses as an interventional therapy for stroke.
Defects in the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (COX) have been associated with Alzheimer's Disease, in which the age-dependent accumulation of beta-amyloid plays an important role in synaptic dysfunction and neurodegeneration. To test the possibility that age-dependent decline in the mitochondrial respiratory function, especially COX activity, may participate in the formation and accumulation of beta-amyloid, we generated mice expressing mutant amyloid precursor protein and mutant presenilin 1 in a neuron-specific COX-deficient background. A neuron-specific COX-deficient mouse was generated by the Cre-loxP system, in which the COX10 gene was deleted by a CamKIIalpha promoter-driven Cre-recombinase. COX10 is a farnesyltransferase involved in the biosynthesis of heme a, required for COX assembly and function. These KO mice showed an age-dependent COX deficiency in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Surprisingly, COX10 KO mice exhibited significantly fewer amyloid plaques in their brains compared with the COX-competent transgenic mice. This reduction in amyloid plaques in the KO mouse was accompanied by a reduction in Abeta42 level, beta-secretase activity, and oxidative damage. Likewise, production of reactive oxygen species from cells with partial COX activity was not elevated. Collectively, our results suggest that, contrary to previous models, a defect in neuronal COX does not increase oxidative damage nor predispose for the formation of amyloidgenic amyloid precursor protein fragments.
Axon-glial interactions are critical for the induction of myelination and the domain organization of myelinated fibers. Although molecular complexes that mediate these interactions in the nodal region are known, their counterparts along the internode are poorly defined. We report that neurons and Schwann cells express distinct sets of nectin-like (Necl) proteins: axons highly express Necl-1 and -2, whereas Schwann cells express Necl-4 and lower amounts of Necl-2. These proteins are strikingly localized to the internode, where Necl-1 and -2 on the axon are directly apposed by Necl-4 on the Schwann cell; all three proteins are also enriched at Schmidt-Lanterman incisures. Binding experiments demonstrate that the Necl proteins preferentially mediate heterophilic rather than homophilic interactions. In particular, Necl-1 on axons binds specifically to Necl-4 on Schwann cells. Knockdown of Necl-4 by short hairpin RNA inhibits Schwann cell differentiation and subsequent myelination in cocultures. These results demonstrate a key role for Necl-4 in initiating peripheral nervous system myelination and implicate the Necl proteins as mediators of axo-glial interactions along the internode.
Action potential initiation and propagation requires clustered Na(+) (voltage-gated Na(+) [Nav]) channels at axon initial segments (AIS) and nodes of Ranvier. In addition to ion channels, these domains are characterized by cell adhesion molecules (CAMs; neurofascin-186 [NF-186] and neuron glia-related CAM [NrCAM]), cytoskeletal proteins (ankyrinG and betaIV spectrin), and the extracellular chondroitin-sulfate proteoglycan brevican. Schwann cells initiate peripheral nervous system node formation by clustering NF-186, which then recruits ankyrinG and Nav channels. However, AIS assembly of this protein complex does not require glial contact. To determine the AIS assembly mechanism, we silenced expression of AIS proteins by RNA interference. AnkyrinG knockdown prevented AIS localization of all other AIS proteins. Loss of NF-186, NrCAM, Nav channels, or betaIV spectrin did not affect other neuronal AIS proteins. However, loss of NF-186 blocked assembly of the brevican-based AIS extracellular matrix, and NF-186 overexpression caused somatodendritic brevican clustering. Thus, NF-186 assembles and links the specialized brevican-containing AIS extracellular matrix to the intracellular cytoskeleton.
Familiarity with a speaker's voice has been shown to enhance its auditory processing, implicating physiological effects at the level of the auditory cortex, although auditory cortical involvement has not previously been demonstrated. Eleven healthy right-handed male participants performed two tasks during blood oxygenation level-dependent functional MRI at 1.5 T. Both tasks used the same vocal stimuli. In task 1, they classified speakers as familiar or unfamiliar. In task 2, they judged stimuli as being in the right or left auditory field. Our analysis showed an area of auditory cortex on the lower bank of the superior temporal sulcus that was preferentially activated by familiar voices in both tasks. Familiar voices may elicit access to detailed sensory expectations, allowing enhanced auditory cortical processing.
This study investigated the serotonergic modulation of face emotion processing using blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) functional MRI. In a placebo-controlled, balanced order design, intravenous citalopram (7.5 mg) was given to 12 male volunteers 60 min before a covert face emotion recognition task. Angry, disgusted and fearful faces produced BOLD signal responses, which were broadly consistent with previous findings. Citalopram enhanced the BOLD signal response in the left posterior insula (together with nonprespecified pulvinar and visual cortex) but attenuated activation in the left amygdala to disgusted faces and right amygdala activation to fearful faces. No citalopram modulation of BOLD responses to angry faces were found. These results suggest that serotonin modulates low-level amygdala activation to aversive stimuli.
The GABA(A) receptors (GABARs) are chloride-permeable ligand-gated ion channels responsible for fast inhibitory neurotransmission. These receptors are structurally heterogeneous, and in mammals can be formed from a combination of sixteen different subunit subtypes. Much of this variety comes from the six different alpha subunit subtypes. All neuronal GABARs contain an alpha subunit, and the identity of the alpha subtype affects the pharmacological properties of the receptors. The expression of each of the different alpha subtypes is regulated developmentally and regionally and changes with both normal physiological processes such development and synaptic plasticity, and pathological conditions such as epilepsy. In order to understand the functional significance of this structural heterogeneity, we examined the effect of the alpha subtype on the receptor's response to GABA. Each of the six alpha subtypes was transiently co-expressed with the beta3 and gamma2L subunits in mammalian cells. The sensitivity to GABA was measured with whole-cell recordings. We also determined the activation, deactivation, desensitization, and recovery kinetics for the six isoforms using rapid application recordings from excised macropatches. We found unique characteristics associated with each alpha subunit subtype. These properties would be expected to influence the post-synaptic response to GABA, creating functional diversity among neurons expressing different alpha subunits.
Nervous system function is mediated by a precisely patterned network of synaptic connections. While several cell-adhesion and secreted molecules promote the assembly of synapses, the contribution of signals that negatively regulate synaptogenesis is not well understood. We examined synapse formation in the Caenorhabditis elegans motor neuron DA9, whose presynapses are restricted to a specific segment of its axon. We report that the Wnt lin-44 localizes the Wnt receptor lin-17/Frizzled (Fz) to a subdomain of the DA9 axon that is devoid of presynaptic specializations. When this signaling pathway, composed of the Wnts lin-44 and egl-20, lin-17/Frizzled and dsh-1/Dishevelled, is compromised, synapses develop ectopically in this subdomain. Conversely, overexpression of LIN-44 in cells adjacent to DA9 is sufficient to expand LIN-17 localization within the DA9 axon, thereby inhibiting presynaptic assembly. These results suggest that morphogenetic signals can spatially regulate the patterning of synaptic connections by subdividing an axon into discrete domains.

Recently, we have shown that 22R-hydroxycholesterol, a steroid intermediate in the pathway of pregnenolone formation from cholesterol, is present at lower levels in Alzheimer's disease (AD) hippocampus and frontal cortex tissue specimens than in age-matched controls, and that this substance protects against cell death induced by amyloid beta-peptide in both rat sympathetic nerve pheochromocytoma (PC12) and differentiated human Ntera2/D1 teratocarcinoma neurons. Herein we report that 22R-hydroxycholesterol inhibits the proliferation of human Ntera2/D1 teratocarcinoma precursor cells (NT2) and induces these cells to differentiate into &quot;neuron-like&quot; or &quot;astrocyte-like&quot; cells. 22R-Hydroxycholesterol-induced differentiation of NT2 cells is associated with increases in the expression of neurofilament protein NF200, the cytoskeletal proteins microtubule-associated protein type II (MAP2) a and MAP2b, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor receptor-alpha 2 (GFRalpha2). These effects of 22R-hydroxycholesterol are considered to be stereospecific because its enantiomer 22S-hydroxycholesterol and other steroids failed to induce differentiation of NT2 cells. 22R-Hydroxycholesterol was found to lack specific binding for numerous receptors, including all steroid receptors tested. However, using a cholesterol protein binding blot assay we demonstrated the presence of a 22R-hydroxycholesterol-binding protein in NT2 cells distinct from the human oxysterol receptors liver X receptor LXRalpha and beta.
At present, little is known about the brain origin of stress-induced cardiac sympathetic drive responsible for stress-induced tachycardia. Our aim was to determine the effect of bilateral microinjections of the GABA(A) receptor agonist, muscimol, into the amygdaloid complex on both the heart rate and cardiac autonomic activity during restraint stress. Experiments were performed in male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=9), with pre-implanted electrocardiographic electrodes. Heart rate increased sharply after the onset of the restraint and reached a peak 1-2 min later (from 344+/-6-440+/-20 BPM). Subsequently, heart rate began to fall, and during the next 10-15 min approached the steady-state level of 384+/-11. After vehicle, mean heart rate during each of three 10-min restraint epochs was significantly higher compared with the pre-restraint level. After muscimol, mean heart rate was significantly elevated only during the first 10 min of restraint. There was no difference in the early peak tachycardia between both conditions. Muscimol substantially accelerated the fall of the HR from the peak to the steady-state level, and thus the area under the curve value for muscimol (503+/-162 BPM x min) was significantly smaller than that for vehicle (1221+/-231 BPM x min); P&lt;0.05. After vehicle, the high-frequency spectral power of the heart rate decreased and the low-frequency power increased during the restraint, resulting in a significant rise of the low frequency/high frequency ratio from 1.2+/-0.2-2.8+/-0.6 (n=9, P&lt;0.05). Muscimol suppressed these stress-induced effects. We conclude that inhibition of the amygdala neurons abolishes the sustained component of tachycardia during the restraint, has no effect on the early tachycardic component, and prevents stress-induced alterations in the heart rate variability indices.
Parasite Toxoplasma gondii blocks the innate aversion of rats for cat urine, putatively increasing the likelihood of a cat predating a rat. This is thought to reflect an adaptive behavioral manipulation, because toxoplasma can reproduce only in cat intestines. While it will be adaptive for the parasite to cause an absolute behavioral change, fitness costs associated with the manipulation itself suggest that the change is optimized and not maximized. We investigate these conflicting suggestions in the present report. Furthermore, exposure to cat odor causes long-lasting acquisition of learnt fear in the rodents. If toxoplasma manipulates emotional valence of cat odor rather than just sensory response, infection should affect learning driven by the aversive properties of the odor. As a second aim of the present study, we investigate this assertion. We demonstrate that behavioral changes in rodents induced by toxoplasma infection do not represent absolute all-or-none effects. Rather, these effects follow a non-monotonous function dependent on strength of stimulus, roughly resembling an inverted-U curve. Furthermore, infection affects conditioning to cat odor in a manner dependent upon strength of unconditioned stimulus employed. Non-monotonous relationship between behavioral manipulation and strength of cat odor agrees with the suggestion that a dynamic balance exists between benefit obtained and costs incurred by the parasite during the manipulation. This report also demonstrates that toxoplasma affects emotional valence of the cat odor as indicated by altered learned fear induced by cat odor.
Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) has an important role in brain development and is thus a good candidate molecule to be involved in the cellular mechanisms mediating the effects of early experiences on the brain. In the present work we employed the model of neonatal handling, which is known to affect the ability of the adult organism to respond to stressful stimuli, and determined its effects on NT-3 levels in the rat hippocampus and cortex 2, 4 and 8 h after handling on postnatal day 1. We also recorded maternal behavior during the 8 h following handling. At both the 4 and 8 h time-points there was an increase in NT-3 positive cells in field 1 of Ammon's horn (CA1 area of the hippocampus) and parietal cortex of the handled animals. In the parietal cortex NT-3 levels increased with time following handling: at 8 h there were more NT-3 positive cells than at 4 h. During the 4 h following the end of handling, handled pups were subject to more maternal licking, indicating that the more intense maternal care could underlie the handling-induced increase in NT-3. In the hippocampus, the handling induced increase in NT-3 was cancelled by inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), AMPA/kainate, or GABA-A receptors, as well as L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. It thus appears that neonatal handling activates these neurotransmitter receptors and channels, leading to increased intracellular Ca(2+) and increased NT-3 expression. NT-3 can then activate downstream effectors and exert its morphogenetic actions and thus imprint the effects of handling on the brain.
Synthesis of phosphatidylcholine, the most abundant brain membrane phosphatide, requires three circulating precursors: choline; a pyrimidine (e.g. uridine); and a polyunsaturated fatty acid. Supplementing a choline-containing diet with the uridine source uridine-5'-monophosphate (UMP) or, especially, with UMP plus the omega-3 fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid (given by gavage), produces substantial increases in membrane phosphatide and synaptic protein levels within gerbil brain. We now compare the effects of various polyunsaturated fatty acids, given alone or with UMP, on these synaptic membrane constituents. Gerbils received, daily for 4 weeks, a diet containing choline chloride with or without UMP and/or, by gavage, an omega-3 (docosahexaenoic or eicosapentaenoic acid) or omega-6 (arachidonic acid) fatty acid. Both of the omega-3 fatty acids elevated major brain phosphatide levels (by 18-28%, and 21-27%) and giving UMP along with them enhanced their effects significantly. Arachidonic acid, given alone or with UMP, was without effect. After UMP plus docosahexaenoic acid treatment, total brain phospholipid levels and those of each individual phosphatide increased significantly in all brain regions examined (cortex, striatum, hippocampus, brain stem, and cerebellum). The increases in brain phosphatides in gerbils receiving an omega-3 (but not omega-6) fatty acid, with or without UMP, were accompanied by parallel elevations in levels of pre- and post-synaptic proteins (syntaxin-3, PSD-95 and synapsin-1) but not in those of a ubiquitous structural protein, beta-tubulin. Hence administering omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids can enhance synaptic membrane levels in gerbils, and may do so in patients with neurodegenerative diseases, especially when given with a uridine source, while the omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acid arachidonic acid is ineffective.
Weber's silver Thaler illusion is the perception that cold objects appear heavier than warm objects. We were interested in studying the pharmacology of mechanoreceptor units that displayed increased spontaneous firing to cold stimuli. An isolated rat sinus hair preparation with intact nerve terminals was used to record the activity of two types of slowly adapting mechanoreceptors (St I and St II) during temperature ramps (0.91-1.73 degrees C/min) from normal bath temperature of 31+/-2 degrees C, cold to 14.5 degrees C and heat to 46 degrees C. Twenty-seven of the 43 mechanoreceptor units displayed marked increases in their spontaneous firing to cold or cooling thermal gradients, and were classified as cold mechanoreceptors. A high proportion (3:1) of St II units were responsive to cold than not, while the ratio was reversed for St I units (1:2). Most cold mechanoreceptor units showed decreases in mechanical responses to cold thermal gradients. Similar to specific cold thermoreceptors, many of the cold mechanoreceptor units briefly displayed increased spontaneous firing at higher (&gt;41 degrees C) temperatures. The spontaneous firing of cold mechanoreceptor units was increased by the transient receptor potential (TRP) channel agonist icilin (30-100 microM) in a dose-dependent manner. Responses to mechanical stimulation were generally unaffected by icilin in these units, although their evoked response latencies were significantly reduced (similar to the effect of K+ channel blocker tetraethylammonium in St II units). TRPM8 channel agonist, (-) menthol 200 microM, had mixed effects on spontaneous firing but consistently enhanced cold responses. Other TRP agonists, cinnamaldehyde 1-2 mM and camphor 0.5-2 microM, reduced spontaneous and evoked responses. TRPA1 agonist allyl isothiocyanate (mustard oil) 50-100 microM and TRPV1 agonist capsaicin 1-3 microM had no effect. A broad spectrum TRP antagonist, Ruthenium Red 30 microM, had no effect. The TRPM8 antagonist, capsazepine 100-200 microM, blocked cold-evoked responses. Although these data generally provide support for the possibility that cooling responses are mediated by TRPM8 channels, the detailed profile of results suggests that another, as yet unidentified TRP channel, is involved. Multiplex coding of mechanical and thermal information by slowly adapting mechanoreceptors may play a functional role in thermal perception, and may explain Weber's silver Thaler illusion.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST)-pi is a cytosolic isoenzyme used as a marker for mature oligodendrocytes in the mammalian brain. However, the cellular properties of GST-pi-immunoreactive [GST-pi (+)] cells in adult brain are not completely understood. We immunohistochemically demonstrated the existence of two subtypes of GST-pi (+) cells in the cerebral cortex of adult rats: one subtype exhibited GST-pi in the cytoplasm (C-type cells), while the other did mainly in the nucleus (N-type cells). The GST-pi (+) C-type cells were also immunopositive for 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase and RIP, indicating that they were mature oligodendrocytes, while the GST-pi (+) N-type cells expressed NG2, indicating that they were oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. Furthermore, observation of the fate of newly-generated cells by 5-bromodeoxyuridine-labeling revealed that the GST-pi (+) N-type cells differentiated into C-type cells. These findings indicate translocation of GST-pi from the nucleus to the cytoplasm during oligodendrocyte maturation.
Horizontal cells form gap junctions with each other in mammalian retina, and lacZ reporter analyses have recently indicated that these cells express the Cx57 gene, which codes for the corresponding gap junctional protein. Using anti-connexin57 antibodies, we detected connexin57 protein in immunoblots of mouse retina, and found punctate immunolabeling of this connexin co-distributed with calbindin-positive horizontal cells in the retinal outer plexiform layer. Double immunofluorescence labeling was conducted to determine the spatial relationships of connexin36, connexin57, the gap junction-associated protein zonula occludens-1 and the photoreceptor ribbon synapse-associated protein bassoon in the outer plexiform layer. Connexin36 was substantially co-localized with zonula occludens-1 in the outer plexiform layer, and both of these proteins were frequently located in close spatial proximity to bassoon-positive ribbon synapses. Connexin57 was often found adjacent to, but not overlapping with, connexin36-positive and zonula occludens-1-positive puncta, and was also located adjacent to bassoon-positive ribbon synapses at rod spherules, and intermingled with such synapses at cone pedicles. These results suggest zonula occludens-1 interaction with connexin36 but not with Cx57 in the outer plexiform layer, and an absence of connexin57/connexin36 heterotypic gap junctional coupling in mouse retina. Further, an arrangement of synaptic contacts within rod spherules is suggested whereby gap junctions between horizontal cell terminals containing connexin57 occur in very close proximity to ribbon synapses formed by rod photoreceptors, as well as in close proximity to Cx36-containing gap junctions between rods and cones.
One-trial conditioning in Hermissenda results in enhanced intrinsic cellular excitability of sensory neurons in the conditioned stimulus pathway, and the phosphorylation of several proteins. Previous results demonstrated that the development of enhanced intrinsic excitability was dependent on the expression of conditioned stimulus pathway phosphoprotein-24 (Csp24), an intracellular protein containing four repeated beta-thymosin homology domains. Consistent with this, antisense oligonucleotide-mediated inhibition of Csp24 expression prevents the reduction in amplitude of the A-type transient K+ current (I(A)) and the depolarized shift in the steady-state activation curve normally produced by one-trial in vitro conditioning of isolated photoreceptors. One-trial conditioning also regulates Csp24 phosphorylation. We now show that purified recombinant Csp24 sequesters G-actin in vitro with an approximate K(d) value of 2.8 microM. We also observed a significant increase in the coprecipitation of actin with Csp24 after one-trial in vitro conditioning using antibodies directed toward either Csp24 or phospho-Csp24. Preincubation with protein kinase C (PKC) selective inhibitors attenuated the increase in Csp24 phosphorylation and coprecipitated actin observed after one-trial conditioning. Our findings indicate that the PKC signaling pathway contributes to the phosphorylation of Csp24 after one-trial conditioning, and that PKC activity modulates an association between Csp24 and actin. These data suggest Csp24 may influence intrinsic excitability by regulating cytoskeletal dynamics.
We used intracellular recording to investigate how muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and the serine kinase signal transduction cascade are involved in regulating transmitter release in the neuromuscular synapses of the levator auris longus muscle from adult rats. Experiments with M1 and M2 selective blockers show that these subtypes of muscarinic receptors were involved in enhancing and inhibiting acetylcholine (ACh) release, respectively. Because the unselective muscarinic blocker atropine considerably increased release, the overall presynaptic muscarinic mechanism seemed to moderate ACh secretion in normal conditions. This muscarinic function did not change when more ACh was released (high external Ca2+) or when there was more ACh in the cleft (fasciculin II). However, when release was low (high external Mg2+ or low external Ca2+) or when there was less ACh in the cleft (when acetylcholinesterase was added, AChE), the response of M1 and M2 receptors to endogenously released ACh shifted to optimize release, thus producing a net potentiation of the Mg2+-depressed level. Protein kinase A (PKA) (but not protein kinase C, PKC) has a constitutive role in promoting a component of normal release because when it is inhibited with N-[2-((p-bromocinnamyl)amino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide, 2 HCl, release diminishes. The imbalance of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) (with the selective block of M1 or M2) inverts the kinase function. PKC can then tonically stimulate transmitter release, whereas PKA is uncoupled. The muscarinic function can be explained by an increased M1-mediated PKC activity-dependent release and a decreased M2-mediated PKA activity-dependent release. In the presence of high external Mg2+ or low Ca2+, or when AChE is added, both mAChRs may potentiate release through an M2-mediated PKC mechanism and an M1-mediated mechanism downstream of the PKC.
Prolonged exposure to nitrous oxide (N2O) results in development of acute tolerance to its antinociceptive effect. Cross-tolerance to N2O-induced antinociception is also observed in morphine-tolerant animals. Despite increasing evidence of tolerance development to N2O-induced antinociception, the details of the mechanisms that underlie this tolerance remain unknown. The present study was conducted to investigate the involvement of brain protein kinase C (PKC) isoform in these two types of tolerance to N2O-induced antinociception in mice. Prolonged exposure (41 min in total, including 30 min pre-exposure and 11 min of antinociceptive testing) to 70% N2O produced a reduction in N2O-induced antinociception, indicating development of acute tolerance. The prolonged exposure to 70% N2O caused an activation of PKCgamma isoform in the brain, but not the PKCepsilon isoform. Pretreatment with a PKCgamma-antisense oligonucleotide but not the corresponding mismatch oligonucleotide (i.c.v.) prevented the development of acute tolerance to N2O-induced antinociception. Chronic morphine treatment (10 mg/kg, s.c., b.i.d. for 5 days) resulted in development of tolerance to morphine-induced antinociception and cross-tolerance to N2O-induced antinociception. The development of tolerance to morphine and cross-tolerance to N2O were both inhibited by pretreatment with PKC inhibitor, chelerythrine (1 nmol, i.c.v.). Morphine-tolerant mice showed an activation of PKC within the brain, which was suppressed by pretreatment with chelerythrine (1 nmol, i.c.v.). Thus, activation of brain PKC, in particular, the PKCgamma isoform, appears to play an important role in the development of both acute tolerance and cross-tolerance to N2O-induced antinociception in mice.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes selective hippocampal cell death which is believed to be associated with the cognitive impairment observed in both clinical and experimental settings. The endogenous neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5), a TrkB ligand, has been shown to be neuroprotective for vulnerable CA3 pyramidal neurons after experimental brain injury. In this study, infusion of recombinant NT-4/5 increased survival of CA2/3 pyramidal neurons to 71% after lateral fluid percussion brain injury in rats, compared with 55% in vehicle-treated controls. The functional outcome of this NT-4/5-mediated neuroprotection was examined using three hippocampal-dependent behavioral tests. Injury-induced impairment was evident in all three tests, but interestingly, there was no treatment-related improvement in any of these measures. Similarly, injury-induced decreased excitability in the Schaffer collaterals was not affected by NT-4/5 treatment. We propose that a deeper understanding of the factors that link neuronal survival to recovery of function will be important for future studies of potentially therapeutic agents.
Accumulating evidence has indicated a link between dopamine signaling and obesity in both animals and humans. We have recently demonstrated heightened avidity to sapid sweet solutions in the obese cholecystokinin (CCK)-1 receptor deficient Otsuka Long Evans Tokushima fatty (OLETF) rat. To investigate the dopamine dependence and the respective contribution of D1 and D2 receptor subtypes in this phenomenon, real and sham intake of 0.3 M sucrose solution was compared between prediabetic, obese OLETF and age-matched lean Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka (LETO) cohorts following peripheral (i.p.) administration of equimolar doses (50-800 nmol/kg) of the D1 (R-(+) 7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine, SCH23390) and D2 (raclopride) selective receptor antagonists. Both antagonists were potent in reducing sucrose intake in both strains with both drugs suppressing sham intake starting at lower doses than real intake (200 nmol/kg vs. 400 nmol/kg for SCH23390, and 400 nmol/kg vs. 600 nmol/kg for raclopride, respectively). Furthermore, when percent suppression of intake, a measure that controlled for the higher baseline sucrose intake by obese rats was analyzed, OLETF rats expressed an increased sensitivity to raclopride in reducing ingestion of sucrose with a 1.7- and 2.9-fold lower inhibitory dose threshold (ID50) for real and sham intake conditions, respectively, compared with LETO controls. In contrast, SCH23390 caused no differential strain effect with respect to dosage whether sucrose was real or sham fed. These findings demonstrate that D2 receptors are involved in heightened increased consumption of sucrose observed in the OLETF obese rat.
The mammalian corticospinal tract is known to contain axons that travel from the cerebral cortex to various levels of the spinal cord and its main function is thought to be the mediation of voluntary movement. The current study describes neuroanatomy related to the corticospinal tract of the giraffe. This animal presents a specific morphology that may present challenges to this neural pathway in terms of the metabolism required for correct functioning and maintenance of potentially very long axons. The spinal cord of the giraffe can be up to 2.6 m long and forms the conus medullaris at the level of the sacral vertebrae. Primary motor cortex was found in a location typical of that of other ungulates, and the cytoarchitectonic appearance of this cortical area was similar to that previously reported for sheep, despite the potential distance that the axons emanating from the layer 5 gigantopyramidal neurons must travel. A typically mammalian dorsal striatopallidal complex was transected by a strongly coalesced internal capsule passing through to the pons and forming clearly identifiable but somewhat flattened (in a dorsoventral plane) pyramidal tracts. These tracts terminated in a spinal cord that exhibited no unique anatomical features related to its length. Our results, at least at the level of organization investigated herein, show that the corticospinal tract of the giraffe resembled that of a typical ungulate.
Subsequent to perinatal hypoxia/ischemia there is an increase in the number of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSP) within the subventricular zone (SVZ). Gene expression analyses have implicated Notch signaling in the expansion of these tripotential cells but there are limited data as to which signals are stimulating Notch activation. There is evidence that the leukemia inhibitory factor receptor (LIFR)/gp130 receptor heterodimer induces Notch1 to maintain NSP populations during normal development. LIF and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) bind to these receptor components and they coordinate injury responses in the CNS. Therefore, the aim of these studies was to investigate whether CNTF and/or leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) participate in NSP expansion in the rat SVZ after hypoxia/ischemia (H/I) as well as to characterize the downstream events that regulate NSP numbers. We report that LIF mRNA is induced 48 h post-insult by 13-fold but that it returns almost to baseline by 72 h. Commensurate with increased LIF expression there is a corresponding increase in phosphorylated Stat-3 within the SVZ. Modeling the changes that occur in vivo, we show that LIF induces Stat-3 phosphorylation in neurospheres to enhance Delta-like-1 and Notch1 expression as well as to increase Notch1 activation. LIF also expands neurosphere number and size in vitro. Whereas CNTF can mimic the effects of LIF in vitro, CNTF expression in the SVZ was unchanged during recovery from H/I. Cumulatively, these data implicate LIF and not CNTF in the expansion of NSPs in the rat SVZ after perinatal brain injury. As both LIF expression and the endogenous regenerative response after brain injury are time-delimited, these findings provide insights into strategies to expand the endogenous pool of NSPs to repopulate the damaged brain.
Quercetin is a substance of low molecular weight found in vascular plants with a wide range of biological activities including antioxidative and anti-inflammatory activities. In the present study, the effects of quercetin on native glycine receptors (GlyRs) in cultured rat hippocampal neurons were investigated using a whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Quercetin reversibly and concentration-dependently depressed glycine-induced current (I(Gly)), with an IC50 of 10.7+/-0.24 microM and a Hill coefficient of 1.08+/-0.12. Quercetin depressed maximum I(Gly) and significantly changed the EC50 for glycine and the Hill coefficient. Kinetic analysis indicated that quercetin accelerated the rates of desensitization. Interestingly, after the end of glycine with quercetin coapplication, a transient rebound occurred. The quercetin effects also displayed voltage-dependence, being greater at positive membrane potentials. These effects suggested that quercetin may act as an open channel blocker. Furthermore, in the sequential application protocol, quercetin inhibited the peak amplitude of I(Gly) to a macroscopic degree while slowing GlyR desensitization. These effects implied that quercetin has a depressant effect independent of GlyR channel's opening, which maybe caused by an allosteric mechanism. Strikingly, quercetin inhibited the amplitude of recombinant-induced current mediated by alpha2-, alpha2beta-, alpha3- and alpha3beta-GlyRs but had no effects on alpha1- and alpha1beta-GlyRs that were expressed in HEK293T cells. We also investigated the effects of quercetin on I(Gly) in spinal neurons during development in vitro. The extent of blockade by quercetin on I(Gly) was slighter in spinal neurons than in hippocampal neurons in a development-dependent manner. Taken together, our results suggest that quercetin has possible effects in information processing within a neuronal network by inhibition of I(Gly) and may be useful as a pharmacological probe for identifying the subunit types of GlyRs.
To survive, food-deprived animals may be forced to forage under hostile conditions. We attempt to use genetically tractable Drosophila melanogaster as a model to elucidate molecular and neural mechanisms that drive a forager to engage in risk-prone food acquisition. Here we describe a paradigm for assessing hunger-driven food acquisition by fly larvae at a deleteriously cold temperature. Genetic analyses reveal that the neural activity of NPFR1, a receptor of neuropeptide F (NPF, the sole fly homolog of neuropeptide Y or NPY), was required for cold-resistant feeding behavior of fasted larvae. Conversely, NPFR1 overexpression in fed larvae was sufficient to trigger cold-resistant feeding activity normally associated with fasted larvae. Furthermore, the fly insulin-like system, implicated in the transduction of hunger signals to the CNS, regulated negatively larval cold-resistant food acquisition. The results from this and our previous studies suggest that the fly NPY-like system is a central mediator of hunger-elicited resistance to diverse stressors that can be of thermal, gustatory or mechanical form.
Bone cancer pain has a strong impact on the quality of life of patients but is difficult to treat. Therefore, the mechanisms of bone cancer pain require elucidation for the purpose of development of new therapeutics. A recent study showed that activation of transient receptor potential vanilloid subfamily 1 (TRPV1) was involved in bone cancer pain. In this study, we re-evaluated the analgesic effects of pharmacological blockade of TRPV1 using the potent TRPV1 antagonist 5-iodoresiniferatoxin (I-RTX) and examined whether bone cancer can change TRPV1 expression and distribution in the primary sensory neurons in a mouse model of bone cancer pain. Implantation of osteosarcoma into the femur induced ongoing and movement-evoked bone cancer-related pain behaviors. These behaviors were significantly reduced by i.p. administration of I-RTX, compared with vehicle. Western blot and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses revealed that TRPV1 level was significantly increased in dorsal root ganglions (DRGs) ipsilateral to sarcoma implantation. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that implantation of osteosarcoma induced not only an increase in the percentage of TRPV1-positive neurons among DRG neurons (24.3+/-1.3% in sham mice and 31.2+/-1.3% in mice with osteosarcoma implantation, P&lt;0.05) but also an overall shift in the distribution of area of profiles to the right. Colocalization study showed that the percentages of colocalization of TRPV1 with neurofilament 200 kD (NF200) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) but not isolectin B4 (IB4) among DRG neurons in mice with osteosarcoma implantation were increased compared with those in sham mice (from 0.8+/-0.1% to 2.1+/-0.3% for TRPV1 and NF200 and from 21.1+/-1.3% to 26.5+/-0.2% for TRPV1 and CGRP). In conclusion, TRPV1 activation plays a critical role in the generation of bone cancer pain, and bone cancer increases TRPV1 expression within distinct subpopulation of DRG neurons. These findings may lead to novel strategies for the treatment of bone cancer pain.
Pups are a highly rewarding stimulus for early postpartum rats. Our previous work supports this notion by showing that suckling activates the mesocorticolimbic system in mothers. In the present study, we tested whether development of behavioral sensitization to cocaine before pregnancy affects the neural response to pups during the early postpartum days (PD). Virgin rats were repeatedly administered cocaine for 14 days (15 mg kg(-1)) and withdrawn from treatment during breeding and pregnancy. The neural response to suckling was measured at PD 4-8 using blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) MRI or microdialysis. Our results show that BOLD activation in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), septum and auditory cortex was curtailed in cocaine-sensitized dams. No differences between cocaine sensitized and saline control dams were observed in the nucleus accumbens, olfactory structures, or in 48 additional major brain regions that were analyzed. Baseline, but not pup-stimulated, dopamine (DA) levels in the medial PFC were lower in cocaine-sensitized dams than in controls. When tested for maternal behaviors, cocaine-sensitized dams showed significantly faster retrieval of pups without changes in other maternal behaviors such as grouping, crouching and defending the nest. Taken together, the present findings suggest that maternal motivation to retrieve pups was enhanced by repeated cocaine exposure and withdrawal, a result reminiscent of 'cross-sensitization' between the drug and a natural reward. Changes in retrieval behavior in cocaine-sensitized mothers might be associated with a hypo-responsive medial PFC.
Apoptosis-associated tyrosine kinase (AATYK) is a protein kinase that is predominantly expressed in the nervous system and is involved in apoptosis and neurite growth of cerebellar granule cells. In this study, we cloned three new members of the mouse AATYK family, AATYK1B, AATYK2 and AATYK3. AATYK1B is a splicing variant of the previously reported AATYK1 (referred to as AATYK1A hereafter). In comparison with AATYK1A, these three AATYK members were characterized by having an extra N-terminal region that consists of a signal peptide-like sequence and a predicted transmembrane (TM) region, which is followed by a kinase domain and a long C-terminal domain. Both TM-containing AATYK isoforms (AATYK(+)TM: AATYK1B, 2, and 3) and TM-lacking isoform (AATYK(-)TM: AATYK1A) were recovered in membrane fractions, suggesting that AATYK(+)TM and AATYK(-)TM are transmembrane- and peripheral-membrane protein kinases, respectively. AATYK1A was recovered in the soluble fraction when the cells were treated with 2-bromo palmitate, suggesting that AATYK1A associates with membrane via palmitoylation. The kinase domain was highly conserved among all AATYK members and was shown to be catalytically active. Three AATYK family members were predominantly expressed in adult mouse brains with almost similar expression profiles: widespread distribution over the various brain regions, especially in the cerebellum and hippocampus, and up-regulated expression during development of the cerebellum. In cultured cerebellar granule cells, AATYK1 was abundantly localized in both soma and axons, AATYK2 distribution was restricted to soma, and AATYK3 was punctately present over the cells. AATYK1 was concentrated in the central domain of growth cones of dorsal root ganglion neurons. Our results indicate that AATYK family members are brain-dominant and membrane-associated kinases with slightly different distribution patterns in the developing and adult mouse brain, which may be involved in fine regulation of neuronal functions including neurite extension and apoptosis.
We have previously observed that migraine attacks impervious to triptan therapy were readily terminated by subsequent i.v. administration of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) ketorolac. Since such attacks were associated with periorbital allodynia--a symptom of central sensitization--we examined whether infusion of the NSAID naproxen can block sensitization of central trigeminovascular neurons in the medullary dorsal horn, using in vivo single-unit recording in the rat. Topical exposure of the cerebral dura to inflammatory soup (IS) for 5 min resulted in a short-term burst of activity (&lt;8 min) and a long-lasting (&gt;120 min) neuronal hyper-responsiveness to stimulation of the dura and periorbital skin (group 1). Infusion of naproxen (1 mg/kg) 2 h after IS (group 1) brought all measures of neuronal responsiveness back to the baseline values recorded prior to IS, and depressed ongoing spontaneous activity well below baseline. When given preemptively 1 h before IS (group 2), naproxen blocked the short-term burst of activity and every long-term measure of neuronal hyper-responsiveness that was studied in the central neurons. The same preemptive treatment, however, failed to block IS-induced short-term bursts of activity in C-unit meningeal nociceptors (group 3). The results suggest that parenteral administration of naproxen, unlike triptan therapy, can exert direct inhibition over central trigeminovascular neurons in the dorsal horn. Though impractical as a routine migraine therapy, parenteral NSAID administration should be useful as a non-narcotic rescue therapy for migraine in the setting of the emergency department.
The cre/loxP system is used routinely to manipulate gene expression in the mouse nervous system. In order to delete genes specifically from the telencephalon, the Foxg1-cre line was created previously by replacing the intron-less Foxg1 coding region with cre, resulting in a Foxg1 heterozygous mouse. As the telencephalon of heterozygous Foxg1 mice was reported to be normal, this genotype often has been used as the control in subsequent analyses. Here we describe substantial disruption of forebrain development of heterozygous mice in the Foxg1-cre line, maintained on the C57BL/6J background. High resolution magnetic resonance microscopy reveals a significant reduction in the volume of the neocortex, hippocampus and striatum. The alteration in the neocortex results, in part, from a decrease in its tangential dimension, although gross patterning of the cortical sheet appears normal. This decrease is observed in three different Foxg1 heterozygous mouse lines, independent of the method of achieving deletion of the Foxg1 gene. Although Foxg1 is not expressed in the diencephalon, three-dimensional magnetic resonance microscopy revealed that thalamic volume in the adult is reduced. In contrast, at postnatal day 4, thalamic volume is normal, suggesting that interactions between cortex and dorsal thalamus postnatally produce the final adult thalamic phenotype. In the Foxg1-cre line maintained on the C57BL/6J background, the radial domain of the cerebral cortex also is disrupted substantially, particularly in supragranular layers. However, neither Foxg1 heterozygous mice of the Foxg1-tet (tetracycline transactivator) line, nor those of the Foxg1-lacZ and Foxg1-cre lines maintained on a mixed background, displayed a reduced cortical thickness. Thus Cre recombinase contributes to the radial phenotype, although only in the context of the congenic C57BL/6J background. These observations highlight an important role for Foxg1 in cortical development, reveal noteworthy complexity in the invocation of specific mechanisms underlying phenotypes expressed following genetic manipulations and stress the importance of including appropriate controls of all genotypes.
The contribution of the auditory cortex to tactile information processing was studied by measuring somatosensory evoked magnetic fields (SEFs). Three kinds of vibrotactile stimuli with frequencies of 180, 280 and 380 Hz were randomly delivered on the right index finger with a probability of 40, 20 and 40%, respectively. Twenty normal subjects participated in four kinds of tasks: a control condition to ignore these stimuli, a simple task to discriminate the 280-Hz stimulus from the other two stimuli (discrimination task for the vibrotactile stimuli, Ts task), a feedback task modified from the Ts task by adding acoustic feedback of the vibratory frequency at 1300 ms poststimulus (tactile discrimination with auditory clues, TA), and an easy version of the TA task (TA-easy) to discriminate the 280-Hz stimulus (20% target) from the 180- or 380-Hz stimuli (80% nontarget). The Ts and TA tasks required accurate perception of the vibrotactile frequencies to discriminate among the three kinds of stimuli. Under such a task demand, the post hoc auditory feedback in the TA task was expected to induce acoustic imagery for the tactile sensation. The SEFs for the nontarget stimuli were analyzed. A middle-latency component (M150/200) was specifically evoked by the three discrimination tasks. In the Ts and TA-easy tasks, the M150/200 source indicated inferior parietal cortical activities (SII area). In the TA task, 11 subjects showed activity in both the SII area and the superior temporal auditory region and increased accuracy of discrimination compared with the Ts task, in contrast with other subjects who showed activity only in the SII area and small changes in task accuracy between the Ts and TA tasks. Asynchronous auditory feedback for the vibrotactile sensation induced the auditory cortex activity in the SEFs in relation to the progress in tactile discrimination, which suggested an induction of acoustic imagery to complement the tactile information processing.
Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) has been shown to enhance memory retention in different animal models and in various learning paradigms. In the present study, we investigated the effect of peripherally administered DHEAS on the acquisition, consolidation and retention of memory using a weak version of the one-trial passive avoidance task in day-old chicks. Intraperitoneally administered DHEAS (20 mg/kg) either 30 min before or 30 min and 4.5 h after training on the weakly aversive stimulus, enhanced recall at 24 h following training, suggesting a potentiation of not only the acquisition but also the early and late phases of memory consolidation. In contrast, when DHEAS was administered at 30 min prior to the 24 h retention test there was no memory enhancement, indicating a lack of effect on memory retrieval. Memory recall was unaltered when DHEAS was administered at 30 min before training in a control group trained on a strongly aversive stimulus, confirming memory-specific effects. Interestingly, the memory enhancement appeared to be sex-specific as male chicks showed higher recall than females. These findings provide further evidence that DHEAS enhances memory and may be involved in the temporal cascade of long-term memory formation.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) dysfunction occurs in individuals with schizophrenia (SZ) and may also affect individuals with bipolar disorder (BP). The molecular mechanisms for these disease-associated cholinergic deficits are not known. In vitro, the protein RIC-3 (resistance to inhibitors of cholinesterase-3) aids the assembly and trafficking of alpha7-nAChRs but has unclear action on the biogenesis of alpha4/beta2-nAChRs. To evaluate RIC-3/nAChR dynamics in diseased and normal human brain tissue, we measured RIC-3, alpha7-, alpha4- and beta2-nAChRs transcript levels in postmortem prefrontal cortex of individuals with SZ (n=31), BP (n=28) and unaffected controls (NC, n=33). Of the 28 individuals with BP, 20 had a history of psychotic symptoms. We compared relative message abundances between diagnostic groups and tested correlations of RIC-3 with each nAChR message subtype. RIC-3 and alpha4 messages were significantly increased in BP compared with NC (RIC-3, P&lt; or =0.002; alpha4, P&lt; or =0.04). RIC-3 message was also upregulated in SZ (P&lt; or =0.04). In BP with psychoses, RIC-3 and alpha4 levels were increased compared with BP without psychoses (both P&lt; or =0.02) and compared with NC (RIC-3, P&lt; or =0.0003; alpha4, P&lt; or =0.004). In correlation regression analyses, RIC-3 expression was very highly correlated to alpha7, alpha4 and beta2 in NC (alpha7, P&lt; or =2.5e-05; alpha4, P&lt; or =2.5e-09; beta2, P&lt; or =0.003) and in SZ (alpha7, P&lt; or =1e-07; alpha4, P&lt; or =7e-07; beta2, P&lt; or =3e-09). RIC-3 also strongly correlated with alpha7 and alpha4 in BP (alpha7, P&lt; or =0.003; alpha4, P&lt; or =3.5e-07). RIC-3 was modestly correlated with beta2 in BP overall (P&lt; or =0.04), but showed no significant correlation in BP with psychoses (P&lt; or =0.31) compared with a significant correlation in BP without psychoses (P&lt; or =0.007). In conclusion, coordinated RIC-3/alpha4 upregulation and discordant RIC-3/beta2 levels suggest that alpha4/beta2 nAChR deficits in BP may occur from dysregulated RIC-3 chaperoning of the beta2 nAChR subunit in a subset of patients affected by psychotic features.
Humans normally experience the conscious self as localized within their bodily borders. This spatial unity may break down in certain neurological conditions such as out-of-body experiences, leading to a striking disturbance of bodily self-consciousness. On the basis of these clinical data, we designed an experiment that uses conflicting visual-somatosensory input in virtual reality to disrupt the spatial unity between the self and the body. We found that during multisensory conflict, participants felt as if a virtual body seen in front of them was their own body and mislocalized themselves toward the virtual body, to a position outside their bodily borders. Our results indicate that spatial unity and bodily self-consciousness can be studied experimentally and are based on multisensory and cognitive processing of bodily information.


Spatial attention shifts receptive fields in monkey extrastriate visual cortex toward the focus of attention (S. Ben Hamed, J. R. Duhamel, F. Bremmer, &amp; W. Graf, 2002; C. E. Connor, J. L. Gallant, D. C. Preddie, &amp; D. C. Van Essen, 1996; C. E. Connor, D. C. Preddie, J. L. Gallant, &amp; D. C. Van Essen, 1997; T. Womelsdorf, K. Anton-Erxleben, F. Pieper, &amp; S. Treue, 2006). This distortion in the retinotopic distribution of receptive fields might cause distortions in spatial perception such as an increase of the perceived size of attended stimuli. Here we test for such an effect in human subjects by measuring the point of subjective equality (PSE) for the perceived size of a neutral and an attended stimulus when drawing automatic attention to one of two spatial locations. We found a significant increase in perceived size of attended stimuli. Depending on the absolute stimulus size, this effect ranged from 4% to 12% and was more pronounced for smaller than for larger stimuli. In our experimental design, an attentional effect on task difficulty or a cue bias might influence the PSE measure. We performed control experiments and indeed found such effects, but they could only account for part of the observed results. Our findings demonstrate that the allocation of transient spatial attention onto a visual stimulus increases its perceived size and additionally biases subjects to select this stimulus for a perceptual judgment.
Radial glia, the neuronal stem cells of the embryonic cerebral cortex, reside deep within the developing brain and extend radial fibres to the pial surface, along which embryonic neurons migrate to reach the cortical plate. Here we show that the gap junction subunits connexin 26 (Cx26) and connexin 43 (Cx43) are expressed at the contact points between radial fibres and migrating neurons, and acute downregulation of Cx26 or Cx43 impairs the migration of neurons to the cortical plate. Unexpectedly, gap junctions do not mediate neuronal migration by acting in the classical manner to provide an aqueous channel for cell-cell communication. Instead, gap junctions provide dynamic adhesive contacts that interact with the internal cytoskeleton to enable leading process stabilization along radial fibres as well as the subsequent translocation of the nucleus. These results indicate that gap junction adhesions are necessary for glial-guided neuronal migration, raising the possibility that the adhesive properties of gap junctions may have an important role in other physiological processes and diseases associated with gap junction function.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is an anxiety-spectrum disorder characterized by persistent intrusive thoughts (obsessions) and repetitive actions (compulsions). Dysfunction of cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuitry is implicated in OCD, although the underlying pathogenic mechanisms are unknown. SAP90/PSD95-associated protein 3 (SAPAP3; also known as DLGAP3) is a postsynaptic scaffolding protein at excitatory synapses that is highly expressed in the striatum. Here we show that mice with genetic deletion of Sapap3 exhibit increased anxiety and compulsive grooming behaviour leading to facial hair loss and skin lesions; both behaviours are alleviated by a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Electrophysiological, structural and biochemical studies of Sapap3-mutant mice reveal defects in cortico-striatal synapses. Furthermore, lentiviral-mediated selective expression of Sapap3 in the striatum rescues the synaptic and behavioural defects of Sapap3-mutant mice. These findings demonstrate a critical role for SAPAP3 at cortico-striatal synapses and emphasize the importance of cortico-striatal circuitry in OCD-like behaviours.

Understanding the mechanisms that regulate feeding is critical to the development of therapeutic interventions for obesity. Many studies indicate that enzymes within fatty acid metabolic pathways may serve as targets for pharmacological tools to treat this epidemic. We, and others have previously demonstrated that C75, a fatty acid synthase (FAS) inhibitor, induced significant anorexia and weight loss by both central and peripheral mechanisms. Because the hypothalamus is important in the regulation of homeostatic processes for feeding control, we have identified pathways that alter the gene expression of FAS in primary hypothalamic neuronal cultures. Insulin, glucose and AICAR (an activator of AMP-activated protein kinase) affected changes in hypothalamic FAS mRNA, which may be regulated via the SREBP1c dependent or independent pathway.
The exploratory behavior of rats on an open field is organized in that animals spend disproportionate amounts of time at certain locations, termed home bases, which serve as centers for excursions. Although home bases are preferentially formed near distinctive cues, including visual cues, animals also visit and pause and move slowly, or linger, at many other locations in a test environment. In order to further examine the organization of exploratory behavior, the present study examined the influence of the point of entry on animals placed on an open field table that was illuminated either by room light or infrared light (a wavelength in which they cannot see) and near which, or on which, distinctive cues were placed. The main findings were that in both room light and infrared light tests, rats visited and lingered at the point of entry significantly more often than comparative control locations. Although the rats also visited and lingered in the vicinity of salient visual cues, the point of entry still remained a focus of visits. Finally, the preference for the point of entry increased as a function of salience of the cues marking that location. That the point of entry influences the organization of exploratory behavior is discussed in relation to the idea that the exploratory behavior of the rat is directed toward optimizing security as well as forming a spatial representation of the environment.
Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) is a naturally occurring human cytokine that is a key therapy in the treatment of several viral diseases and cancers. However, treatment can produce significant neuropsychiatric and neurotoxic adverse events, including depression and anxiety. Here we investigated the effects of a clinically-comparable treatment regime of IFN-alpha on depressive- and anxiety-like behaviour in rats; and also examined frontal-cortical and hippocampal BDNF levels. Rats treated with IFN-alpha for four weeks showed significant increases in depressive- and anxiety-like behaviour. Further experimental investigation revealed that hedonic dysregulation (stronger preference for a sweet solution) did not emerge until the second week of treatment, and became more persistent as treatment progressed. No significant IFN-alpha-induced changes in BDNF levels were found. These results indicate that the affective deficits seen in patients may be modelled in healthy animals. This model may represent a novel tool to investigate the extent of and mechanisms underlying the IFN-alpha psychiatric syndrome.
The objective of the current study was to investigate the behavioral changes of glioma-bearing nude mice and functional outcome from treatment with a novel antiangiogenesis regimen, which is a combination of monoclonal antibodies against both vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR)-1 (MF1) and VEGFR-2 (DC101). The reliability and responsiveness of behavioral measurement with the rearing test were first examined in nude mice bearing two kinds of gliomas--9L gliosarcoma and U87 human glioma, which have different growth rates. Using immunohistochemical staining and fluorescent imaging techniques, upregulation of the angiogenesis marker VEGF, coincident with the abnormal neovascular architecture, was confirmed in the human U87 glioma model. The behavioral measurement was then applied to assess functional outcome with the combination antibody treatment in the orthotopic mouse model of human U87 glioma. The combination antibody therapy retarded tumor progression and delayed the onset of significant behavioral deficits. Histologically, tumor necrosis and apoptosis were increased and tumor cell proliferation was decreased after treatment. In clinical trials for novel interventions, functional end points typically are included in the assessment of potential efficacy. Because certain interventions that successfully treat tumor progression in animal models might interfere with compensatory neuroplasticity, functional measurement may be valuable for improving the clinical relevance of translational brain tumor research.
Rats treated with apomorphine and amphetamine display sensorimotor gating impairments, as measured by prepulse inhibition (PPI), and these impairments can be reversed by antipsychotic treatment. However, it remains unknown whether the dopamine (DA) D(3) receptor plays a role in mediating these effects on PPI, as none of these DA agonists or antipsychotics are exclusively selective at either D(2) or D(3) receptors. To address this question, the current study was designed to investigate whether antipsychotic drugs and selective D(3) antagonists could block the PPI-disruptive effects of PD 128907 (a preferential D(3) agonist) and apomorphine. We found that the effect of PD 128907 on PPI in rats could be antagonized by risperidone, clozapine, and the selective D(3) antagonists SB 277011 and A-691990, but not by raclopride or haloperidol, while the apomorphine-induced PPI deficit could be reversed by risperidone, clozapine and haloperidol, but not by SB 2770111 and A-691990. These results suggest that the D(3) receptor does not mediate apomorphine-induced disruption of PPI in rats, however, given the findings that PD 128907 elicited a PPI-disruptive effect that was blocked by selective D(3) antagonists, a role of D(3) receptor in mediating PPI in rats cannot be ruled out. The possible mechanisms of D(3) receptor involvement in PPI are discussed.
Serotonin, acting through a cAMP-signaling pathway, delayed habituation to criterion of the leech's swim response to touch. This delay was reversed by crushing the connective between serotonin-exposed and serotonin-naive ganglia, and correlated with an increase in spontaneous impulse activity in this connective. We suggest that increased activity in intersegmental interneurons may play a role in maintaining swim responsiveness when concentrations of serotonin are elevated.
The assembly of functional neural circuits in the developing brain requires neurons to extend axons to the correct targets. This in turn requires the navigating tips of axons to respond appropriately to guidance cues present along the axonal pathway, despite being cellular 'outposts' far from the soma. Work over the past few years has demonstrated a critical role for local translation within the axon in this process in vitro, making axon guidance another process that requires spatially localized translation, among others such as synaptic plasticity, cell migration, and cell polarity. This article reviews recent findings in local axonal translation and discusses how new protein synthesis may function in growth cone guidance, with a comparative view toward models of local translation in other systems.
Neural oscillations, which appear in several areas of the nervous system and cover a wide frequency range, are a prominent issue in current neuroscience. Extracellularly recorded oscillations are generally thought to be a manifestation of a neural population with synchronized electrical activity resulting from coupling mechanisms. The vertebrate olfactory neuroepithelium exhibits beta-band oscillations, termed peripheral waves (PWs), in their population response to odor stimulation. Here, we examine PWs in the channel catfish and propose that their properties could be explained as the superposition of asynchronous oscillators. Our model shows that the intriguing random pattern of amplitude-modulated PWs could be explained by Rayleigh fading, an interference phenomenon well known in physics and recognizable using statistical methods and signal analysis. We are proposing a mathematical fingerprint to characterize neural signals generated by the addition of random phase oscillators. Our interpretation of PWs as arising from asynchronous oscillators could be generalized to other neuronal populations, because it suggests that neural oscillations, detected in local field potential recordings within a narrow frequency band, do not necessarily originate from synchronization events.
The amygdala plays a central role in fear conditioning, emotional processing, and memory modulation. A postulated key component of the neurochemical regulation of amygdala function is the neurotransmitter 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), and synaptic levels of 5-HT in the amygdala and elsewhere are critically regulated by the 5-HT transporter (5-HTT). The aim of this study was to directly examine the relationship between 5-HTT availability and amygdala activity using multimodal [positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)] imaging measures in the same individuals. Healthy male volunteers who had previously undergone an [11C]-3-amino-4-(2-dimethylaminomethylphenylsulfanyl)-benzonitrile ([11C]-DASB) PET scan to determine 5-HTT availability completed an fMRI emotion recognition task. [11C]-DASB binding potential values were calculated for the amygdala using arterial input function and linear graphical (Logan) analysis. fMRI was performed on a 3T Philips Intera scanner, and data were analyzed using SPM2 (Wellcome Department Imaging Neuroscience, University College London). Percentage signal change during the task was extracted from the amygdala using MarsBaR (Brett et al., 2002). fMRI analysis revealed significant amygdala activation during the emotion recognition task. Region of interest analyses demonstrated a significant negative correlation between fMRI signal change in the left amygdala and 5-HTT availability in the left amygdala, with 5-HTT availability accounting for approximately 42% of the variability in left amygdala activity. Our novel in vivo data highlight the central importance of the serotonergic system in the responsiveness of the human amygdala during emotional processing.
The cellular pathways of motor neuronal injury have been investigated in the SOD1 G93A murine model of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) using laser-capture microdissection and microarray analysis. The advantages of this study include the following: analysis of changes specifically in motor neurons (MNs), while still detecting effects of interactions with neighboring cells; the ability to profile changes during disease progression, an approach not possible in human ALS; and the use of transgenic mice bred on a homogeneous genetic background, eliminating the confounding effects arising from a mixed genetic background. By using this rigorous approach, novel changes in key cellular pathways have been detected at both the presymptomatic and late stages, which have been validated by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR. At the presymptomatic stage (60 d), MNs extracted from SOD1 G93A mice show a significant increase in expression of genes subserving both transcriptional and translational functions, as well as lipid and carbohydrate metabolism, mitochondrial preprotein translocation, and respiratory chain function, suggesting activation of a strong cellular adaptive response. Mice 90 d old still show upregulation of genes involved in carbohydrate metabolism, whereas transcription and mRNA processing genes begin to show downregulation. Late in the disease course (120 d), important findings include the following: marked transcriptional repression, with downregulation of multiple transcripts involved in transcriptional and metabolic functions; upregulation of complement system components; and increased expression of key cyclins involved in cell-cycle regulation. The changes described in the motor neuron transcriptome evolving during the disease course highlight potential novel targets for neuroprotective therapeutic intervention.
Several murine genetic models of Huntington's disease (HD) have been developed. Murine genetic models are crucial for identifying mechanisms of neurodegeneration in HD and for preclinical evaluation of possible therapies for HD. Longitudinal analysis of mutant phenotypes is necessary to validate models and to identify appropriate periods for analysis of early events in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration. Here we report longitudinal characterization of the murine Hdh(CAG)150 knock-in model of HD. A series of behavioral tests at five different time points (20, 40, 50, 70, and 100 weeks) demonstrates an age-dependent, late-onset behavioral phenotype with significant motor abnormalities at 70 and 100 weeks of age. Pathological analysis demonstrated loss of striatal dopamine D1 and D2 receptor binding sites at 70 and 100 weeks of age, and stereological analysis showed significant loss of striatal neuron number at 100 weeks. Late-onset behavioral abnormalities, decrease in striatal dopamine receptors, and diminished striatal neuron number observed in this mouse model recapitulate key features of HD. The Hdh(CAG)150 knock-in mouse is a valid model to evaluate early events in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration in HD.
We demonstrated previously that, by suppressing cAMP levels, metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) play a crucial role in opioid receptor trafficking on GABAergic nerve terminals within gastric brainstem vagal circuits. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings, we aimed to correlate the influence of sensory vagal afferent fibers with the functional organization of mGluRs on the synaptic connections between the nucleus tractus solitarius and dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Group II mGluRs were identified on both excitatory and inhibitory synapses; the receptor-selective agonist APDC [(2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate] induced a concentration-dependent decrease in glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission (EC50, approximately 20 microM for both). The group II mGluRs were activated tonically on GABAergic, but not glutamatergic synapses, as the receptor-selective antagonist (2S)-alpha-ethylglutamic acid (EGLU; 200 microM) modulated GABA currents only. After selective vagal deafferentation, EGLU was without effect, suggesting that vagal afferent (sensory) fibers are the source of this tonic input. Conversely, group III mGluRs, although not activated tonically, were present on excitatory, but not inhibitory, synapses; in fact, the receptor-selective agonist L-AP-4 [L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonbutyric acid] induced a concentration-dependent decrease in glutamatergic synaptic transmission (EC50, approximately 2 microM) but had no effect on GABAergic synaptic transmission. Together with our previous results on receptor trafficking, these data suggest that visceral information plays a fundamental role in shaping the response of homeostatic brainstem circuits that receive inputs from higher integrative neuronal centers.
We review a diversity of studies of human social interaction and highlight the importance of social signals. We also discuss recent findings from social cognitive neuroscience that explore the brain basis of the capacity for processing social signals. These signals enable us to learn about the world from others, to learn about other people, and to create a shared social world. Social signals can be processed automatically by the receiver and may be unconsciously emitted by the sender. These signals are non-verbal and are responsible for social learning in the first year of life. Social signals can also be processed consciously and this allows automatic processing to be modulated and overruled. Evidence for this higher-level social processing is abundant from about 18 months of age in humans, while evidence is sparse for non-human animals. We suggest that deliberate social signalling requires reflective awareness of ourselves and awareness of the effect of the signals on others. Similarly, the appropriate reception of such signals depends on the ability to take another person's point of view. This ability is critical to reputation management, as this depends on monitoring how our own actions are perceived by others. We speculate that the development of these high level social signalling systems goes hand in hand with the development of consciousness.

The relation between brain structure and function is of fundamental importance in neuroscience. Comparisons between behavioral and brain-imaging measures suggest that variation in brain structure correlates with the presence of specific skills. Behavioral measures, however, reflect the integrated function of multiple brain regions. Rather than behavior, a physiological index of function could be a more sensitive and informative measure with which to compare structural measures. Here, we test for a relationship between a physiological measure of functional connectivity between two brain areas during a simple decision-making task and a measure of structural connectivity. Paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation indexed functional connectivity between two regions important for action choices: the premotor and motor cortex. Fractional anisotropy (FA), a marker of microstructural integrity, indexed structural connectivity. Individual differences in functional connectivity during action selection show highly specific correlations with FA in localized regions of white-matter interconnecting regions, including the premotor and motor cortex. Probabilistic tractography, a technique for identifying fiber pathways from diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), was used to reconstruct the anatomical networks linking the component brain regions involved in making decisions. These findings demonstrate a relationship between individual differences in functional and structural connectivity within human brain networks central to action choice.
Synchrotron stereotactic radiotherapy (SSR) is a radiotherapy technique that makes use of the interactions of monochromatic low energy x-rays with high atomic number (Z) elements. An important dose-enhancement can be obtained if the target volume has been loaded with a sufficient amount of a high-Z element, such as iodine. In this study, we compare experimental dose measurements, obtained with normoxic polymer gel (nPAG), with Monte Carlo computations. Gels were irradiated within an anthropomorphic head phantom and were read out by magnetic resonance imaging. The dose-enhancement due to the presence of iodine in the gel (iodine concentration: 5 and 10 mg ml(-1)) was measured at two radiation energies (35 and 80 keV) and was compared to the calculated factors. nPAG dosimetry was shown to be efficient for measuring the sharp dose gradients produced by SSR. The agreement between 3D gel dosimetry and calculated dose distributions was found to be within 4% of the dose difference criterion and a distance to agreement of 2.1 mm for 80% of the voxels. Polymer gel doped with iodine exhibited higher sensitivity, in good agreement with the calculated iodine-dose enhancement. We demonstrate in this preliminary study that iodine-doped nPAG could be used for measuring in situ dose distributions for iodine-enhanced SSR treatment.
Hibernation is a fascinating, yet enigmatic, physiological phenomenon during which body temperature and metabolism are reduced to save energy. During the harsh season, this strategy allows substantial energy saving by reducing body temperature and metabolism. Accordingly, biological processes are considerably slowed down and reduced to a minimum. However, the persistence of a temperature-compensated, functional biological clock in hibernating mammals has long been debated. Here, we show that the master circadian clock no longer displays 24-h molecular oscillations in hibernating European hamsters. The clock genes Per1, Per2, and Bmal1 and the clock-controlled gene arginine vasopressin were constantly expressed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus during deep torpor, as assessed by radioactive in situ hybridization. Finally, the melatonin rhythm-generating enzyme, arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase, whose rhythmic expression in the pineal gland is controlled by the master circadian clock, no longer exhibits day/night changes of expression but constantly elevated mRNA levels over 24 h. Overall, these data provide strong evidence that in the European hamster the molecular circadian clock is arrested during hibernation and stops delivering rhythmic output signals.

The innate immune system senses the invasion of pathogenic microorganisms and tissue injury through Toll-like receptors (TLR), a mechanism thought to be limited to immune cells. We now report that neurons express several TLRs, and that the levels of TLR2 and -4 are increased in neurons in response to IFN-gamma stimulation and energy deprivation. Neurons from both TLR2 knockout and -4 mutant mice were protected against energy deprivation-induced cell death, which was associated with decreased activation of a proapoptotic signaling cascade involving jun N-terminal kinase and the transcription factor AP-1. TLR2 and -4 expression was increased in cerebral cortical neurons in response to ischemia/reperfusion injury, and the amount of brain damage and neurological deficits caused by a stroke were significantly less in mice deficient in TLR2 or -4 compared with WT control mice. Our findings establish a proapoptotic signaling pathway for TLR2 and -4 in neurons that may render them vulnerable to ischemic death.
The self-renewal and differentiation potential of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) suggests that hESCs could be used for regenerative medicine, especially for restoring neuronal functions in brain diseases. However, the functional properties of neurons derived from hESC are largely unknown. Moreover, because hESCs were derived under diverse conditions, the possibility arises that neurons derived from different hESC lines exhibit distinct properties, but this possibility remains unexplored. To address these issues, we developed a protocol that allows stepwise generation from hESCs of cultures composed of approximately 70-80% human neurons that exhibit spontaneous synaptic network activity. Comparison of neurons derived from the well characterized HSF1 and HSF6 hESC lines revealed that HSF1- but not HSF6-derived neurons exhibit forebrain properties. Accordingly, HSF1-derived neurons initially form primarily GABAergic synaptic networks, whereas HSF6-derived neurons initially form glutamatergic networks. microRNA profiling revealed significant expression differences between the two hESC lines, suggesting that microRNAs may influence their distinct differentiation properties. These observations indicate that although both HSF1 and HSF6 hESCs differentiate into functional neurons, the two hESC lines exhibit distinct differentiation potentials, suggesting that they are preprogrammed. Information on hESC line-specific differentiation biases is crucial for neural stem cell therapy and establishment of novel disease models using hESCs.
Disturbed sleep is a common subjective complaint among individuals diagnosed with anxiety disorders. In rodents, sleep is often recorded after exposure to various foot-shock paradigms designed to induce an anxiety state. Although differences in sleep-wake architecture are noted, the relationship to specific level of anxiety is often assumed or absent. Utilizing the elevated plus-maze (EPM) after exposure to escapable shock (ES), inescapable shock (IS) or fear conditioning (FC), resulting differences in sleep architecture were compared to an objective measure of anxiety. Male Wistar rats were implanted with EEG, EMG and hippocampal theta electrodes to record sleep-wake behavior. After recovery and recording of baseline sleep, rats were exposed to one of five manipulations: ES, IS, FC or control (CES or CIS; utilizing either chamber with no shock exposure). Shortly after experimental manipulation, the EPM was employed to quantify traditional and ethological measures of anxiety and polygraphic signs of sleep-wake behavior were recorded continuously for 6 h. Although no significance was observed in EPM measurements across groups, profound differences in sleep architecture were present. Individual correlation analysis revealed no differences in anxiety level and total percentage of time spent in sleep-wake states. These results indicate that differences in sleep architecture after foot-shock exposure may not be simply due to increased anxiety. Rather, individual anxiety may be exacerbated by disrupted sleep. To fully understand the relationship between anxiety and sleep-wake behavior, a more objective analysis of anxiety after stressor exposure is mandated.
Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) has demonstrated age-related changes in brain metabolites that may underlie micro-structural brain changes, but few studies have examined their relationship with cognitive decline. We performed a cross-sectional study of brain metabolism and cognitive function in 82 healthy adults (aged 50-90) participating in the GENIE (St GEorge's Neuropsychology and Imaging in the Elderly) study. Absolute metabolite concentrations were measured by proton chemical shift imaging within voxels placed in the centrum semiovale white matter. Cognitive abilities assessed were executive function, working memory, information processing speed, long-term memory and fluid intelligence. Correlations showed that all cognitive domains declined with age. Total creatine (tCr) concentration increased with age (r=0.495, p&lt;0.001). Regression analyses were performed for each cognitive variable, including estimated intelligence and the metabolites, with age then added as a final step. A significant relationship was observed between tCr and executive function, long-term memory, and fluid intelligence, although these relationships did not remain significant after age was added as a final step in the regression. The regression analysis also demonstrated a significant relationship between N-acetylaspartate (NAA) and executive function. As there was no age-related decline in NAA, this argues against axonal loss with age; however the relationship between NAA and executive function independent of age and estimated intelligence is consistent with white matter axonal integrity having an important role in executive function in normal individuals.
Visual deprivation alters retinal-ganglion-cell response properties through changes in spontaneous wave-like activity (Sernagor and Grzywacz [1996] Curr Biol 6:1503-1508). This activity depends on cholinergic synaptic transmission in the turtle retina (ibid; Sernagor and Mehta [ 2001] J Anat 199:375-383). We studied the expression of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) by immunocytochemistry and Western blot in developing retinas of control and dark-reared turtles. At postnatal day 0 (P0), right after hatching, ChAT-immunoreactivity was present in the ganglion cell layer (GCL), in the inner nuclear layer (INL), and in two distinct bands of the inner plexiform layer (IPL). In P14- and P28-control, and P14- and P28-dark-reared retinas, ChAT-immunoreactivity showed similar patterns to those in P0. However, in P14- and P28-dark-reared retinas the density of ChAT-immunoreactive cells was higher in both the INL and GCL than in P14- and P28-control retinas, respectively. Moreover, Western blotting showed that ChAT protein levels were significantly increased in the dark-reared retina compared to those of the control. TUNEL studies indicated that the difference between normal and dark-reared conditions was not due to extra apoptosis in the former. In turn, proliferating-cell nuclear antigen immunocytochemistry showed no extra proliferating cells in the latter. Finally, nearest-neighbor analysis revealed that the denser population of cholinergic cells in dark-reared turtles formed a mosaic as regular as the normal ones in the GCL. Thus, light deprivation increases the expression of ChAT, increasing the apparent density of cholinergic neurons in the developing turtle retina.
Fast excitatory neurotransmission to sympathetic and parasympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN and PPN) is glutamatergic. To characterize this innervation in spinal autonomic regions, we localized immunoreactivity for vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) 1 and 2 in intact cords and after upper thoracic complete transections. Preganglionic neurons were retrogradely labeled by intraperitoneal Fluoro-Gold or with cholera toxin B (CTB) from superior cervical, celiac, or major pelvic ganglia or adrenal medulla. Glutamatergic somata were localized with in situ hybridization for VGLUT mRNA. In intact cords, all autonomic areas contained abundant VGLUT2-immunoreactive axons and synapses. CTB-immunoreactive SPN and PPN received many close appositions from VGLUT2-immunoreactive axons. VGLUT2-immunoreactive synapses occurred on Fluoro-Gold-labeled SPN. Somata with VGLUT2 mRNA occurred throughout the spinal gray matter. VGLUT2 immunoreactivity was not noticeably affected caudal to a transection. In contrast, in intact cords, VGLUT1-immunoreactive axons were sparse in the intermediolateral cell column (IML) and lumbosacral parasympathetic nucleus but moderately dense above the central canal. VGLUT1-immunoreactive close appositions were rare on SPN in the IML and the central autonomic area and on PPN. Transection reduced the density of VGLUT1-immunoreactive axons in sympathetic subnuclei but increased their density in the parasympathetic nucleus. Neuronal cell bodies with VGLUT1 mRNA occurred only in Clarke's column. These data indicate that SPN and PPN are densely innervated by VGLUT2-immunoreactive axons, some of which arise from spinal neurons. In contrast, the VGLUT1-immunoreactive innervation of spinal preganglionic neurons is sparse, and some may arise from supraspinal sources. Increased VGLUT1 immunoreactivity after transection may correlate with increased glutamatergic transmission to PPN.
Gene expression signatures in the mammalian brain hold the key to understanding neural development and neurological diseases. We have reconstructed two-dimensional images of gene expression for 20,000 genes in a coronal slice of the mouse brain at the level of the striatum by using microarrays in combination with voxelation at a resolution of 1 mm3. Good reliability of the microarray results were confirmed using multiple replicates, subsequent quantitative RT-PCR voxelation, mass spectrometry voxelation, and publicly available in situ hybridization data. Known and novel genes were identified with expression patterns localized to defined substructures within the brain. In addition, genes with unexpected patterns were identified, and cluster analysis identified a set of genes with a gradient of dorsal/ventral expression not restricted to known anatomical boundaries. The genome-scale maps of gene expression obtained using voxelation will be a valuable tool for the neuroscience community.
The proteolytic cleavage of a precursor protein into alpha- and beta-subunits by furin is required to form functional insulin receptor (IR). In this study, we examined if IR undergoes the additional presenilin (PS)/gamma-secretase-dependent processing. In cells treated with gamma-secretase inhibitors or expressing the dominant-negative PS1 variant led to the accumulation of an endogenous IR C-terminal fragment. In the presence of proteasome inhibitors, we detected a PS/gamma-secretase cleavage product of the IR, termed the IR intracellular domain (ICD). Cellular fractionation and confocal microscopy analyses showed that the IR-ICD is predominantly detected in the nucleus. These data indicate that IR is a tyrosine kinase receptor, which undergoes PS/gamma-secretase-dependent processing. We also show that the autophosphorylation levels of the IR beta-subunit upon insulin stimulation were decreased by the inactivation of PS/gamma-secretase, raising the possibility that the PS/gamma-secretase proteolysis of IR may play a modulatory role in insulin signaling.
Recent studies indicate that astrocytes can play a much more active role in neuronal circuits than previously believed, by releasing neurotransmitters such as glutamate and ATP. Here we report that local application of glutamate or glutamine synthetase inhibitors induces astrocytic release of glutamate, which activates a slowly decaying transient inward current (SIC) in CA1 pyramidal neurons and a transient inward current in astrocytes in hippocampal slices. The occurrence of SICs was accompanied by an appearance of large vesicles around the puffing pipette. The frequency of SICs was positively correlated with [glutamate]o. EM imaging of anti-glial fibrillary acid protein-labeled astrocytes showed glutamate-induced large astrocytic vesicles. Imaging of FM 1-43 fluorescence using two-photon laser scanning microscopy detected glutamate-induced formation and fusion of large vesicles identified as FM 1-43-negative structures. Fusion of large vesicles, monitored by collapse of vesicles with a high intensity FM 1-43 stain in the vesicular membrane, coincided with SICs. Glutamate induced two types of large vesicles with high and low intravesicular [Ca2+]. The high [Ca2+] vesicle plays a major role in astrocytic release of glutamate. Vesicular fusion was blocked by infusing the Ca2+ chelator, 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid, or the SNARE blocker, tetanus toxin, suggesting Ca2+- and SNARE-dependent fusion. Infusion of the vesicular glutamate transport inhibitor, Rose Bengal, reduced astrocytic glutamate release, suggesting the involvement of vesicular glutamate transports in vesicular transport of glutamate. Our results demonstrate that local [glutamate]o increases induce formation and exocytotic fusion of glutamate-containing large astrocytic vesicles. These large vesicles could play important roles in the feedback control of neuronal circuits and epileptic seizures.
The function of the KCNQ4 channel in the auditory setting is crucial to hearing, underpinned by the finding that mutations of the channel result in an autosomal dominant form of nonsyndromic progressive high frequency hearing loss. The precise function of KCNQ4 in the inner ear has not been established. However, recently we demonstrated that there is differential expression among four splice variants of KCNQ4 (KCNQ4_v1-v4) along the tonotopic axis of the cochlea. Alternative splicing specifies the outcome of functional channels by modifying the amino acid sequences within the C terminus at a site designated as the membrane proximal region. We show that variations within the C terminus of splice variants produce profound differences in the voltage-dependent phenotype and functional expression of the channel. KCNQ4_v4 lacks exons 9-11, resulting in deletion of 54 amino acid residues adjacent to the S6 domain compared with KCNQ4_v1. Consequently, the voltage-dependent activation of KCNQ4_v4 is shifted leftward by approximately 20 mV, and the number of functional channels is increased severalfold compared with KCNQ4_v1. The properties of KCNQ4_v2 and KCNQ4_v3 fall between KCNQ4_v1 and KCNQ4_v4. Because of variations in the calmodulin binding domains of the splice variants, the channels are differentially modulated by calmodulin. Co-expression of these splice variants yielded current magnitudes suggesting that the channels are composed of heterotetramers. Indeed, a dominant negative mutant of KCNQ4_v1 cripples the currents of the entire KCNQ4 channel family. Furthermore, the dominant negative KCNQ4 mutant stifles the activity of KCNQ2-5, raising the possibility of a global disruption of KCNQ channel activity and the ensuing auditory phenotype.
Of the GTPases involved in the regulation of the fusion machinery, mitofusin 2 (Mfn2) plays an important role in the nervous system as point mutations of this isoform are associated with Charcot Marie Tooth neuropathy. Here, we investigate whether Mfn2 plays a role in the regulation of neuronal injury. We first examine mitochondrial dynamics following different modes of injury in cerebellar granule neurons. We demonstrate that neurons exposed to DNA damage or oxidative stress exhibit extensive mitochondrial fission, an early event preceding neuronal loss. The extent of mitochondrial fragmentation and remodeling is variable and depends on the mode and the severity of the death stimuli. Interestingly, whereas mitofusin 2 loss of function significantly induces cell death in the absence of any cell death stimuli, expression of mitofusin 2 prevents cell death following DNA damage, oxidative stress, and K+ deprivation induced apoptosis. More importantly, whereas wild-type Mfn2 and the hydrolysis-deficient mutant of Mfn2 (Mfn2(RasG12V)) function equally to promote fusion and lengthening of mitochondria, the activated Mfn2(RasG12V) mutant shows a significant increase in the protection of neurons against cell death and release of proapoptotic factor cytochrome c. These findings highlight a signaling role for Mfn2 in the regulation of apoptosis that extends beyond its role in mitochondrial fusion.
Detection of innocuous temperatures allows an organism to select an appropriate environmental climate, while the ability to recognize noxious temperature extremes warns of impending tissue damage. For temperatures considered cold, the menthol receptor TRPM8 is activated when temperatures drop below approximately 26 degrees C, thus making it an intriguing candidate as the molecular mediator of cold perception. However, confirmation of this hypothesis in vivo has eluded researchers until recently. Three independent research groups have reported that mice lacking this single gene are severely impaired in their ability to detect cold temperatures. Remarkably, these animals are deficient in many diverse aspects of cold signaling, including cool and noxious cold perception, injury-evoked sensitization to cold, and cooling-induced analgesia. These animals provide a great deal of insight into the molecular signaling pathways that participate in the detection of cold and painful stimuli.



Impaired adult neurogenesis has been observed in several neurodegenerative diseases, including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1)-associated dementia (HAD). Here we report that the HIV-envelope glycoprotein gp120, which is associated with HAD pathogenesis, inhibits proliferation of adult neural progenitor cells (aNPCs) in vitro and in vivo in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus of HIV/gp120-transgenic mice. We demonstrate that HIV/gp120 arrests cell-cycle progression of aNPCs at the G1 phase via a cascade consisting of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) --&gt; MAPK-activated protein kinase 2 (a cell-cycle checkpoint kinase) --&gt; Cdc25B/C. Our findings define a molecular mechanism that compromises adult neurogenesis in this neurodegenerative disorder.
Nitric oxide (NO) participates in the control of contractility and heart rate, limits cardiac remodeling after an infarction and contributes to the protective effect of ischemic pre- and postconditioning. Low concentrations of NO, with production of small amounts of cGMP, inhibit phosphodiesterase III, thus preventing the hydrolysis of cAMP. The subsequent activation of a protein-kinase A causes the opening of sarcolemmal voltage-operated and sarcoplasmic ryanodin receptor Ca(2+) channels, thus increasing myocardial contractility. High concentrations of NO induce the production of larger amounts of cGMP which are responsible for a cardiodepression in response to an activation of protein kinase G (PKG) with blockade of sarcolemmal Ca(2+) channels. NO is also involved in reduced contractile response to adrenergic stimulation in heart failure. A reduction of heart rate is an evident effect of NO-synthase (NOS) inhibition. It is noteworthy that the direct effect of NOS inhibition can be altered if baroreceptors are stimulated by increases in blood pressure. Finally, NO can limit the deleterious effects of cardiac remodeling after myocardial infarction possibly via the cGMP pathway. The protective effect of NO is mainly mediated by the guanylyl cyclase-cGMP pathway resulting in activation of PKG with opening of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels and inhibition of the mitochondrial permeability transition pores. NO acting on heart is produced by vascular and endocardial endothelial NOS, as well as neuronal and inducible synthases. In particular, while in the basal control of contractility, endothelial synthase has a predominant role, the inducible isoform is mainly responsible for the cardiodepression in septic shock.
Action potentials are binary signals that transmit information via their rate and temporal pattern. In this context, the axon is thought of as a transmission line, devoid of a role in neuronal computation. Here, we show a highly localized role of axonal Kv1 potassium channels in shaping the action potential waveform in the axon initial segment (AIS) of layer 5 pyramidal neurons independent of the soma. Cell-attached recordings revealed a 10-fold increase in Kv1 channel density over the first 50 microm of the AIS. Inactivation of AIS and proximal axonal Kv1 channels, as occurs during slow subthreshold somatodendritic depolarizations, led to a distance-dependent broadening of axonal action potentials, as well as an increase in synaptic strength at proximal axonal terminals. Thus, Kv1 channels are strategically positioned to integrate slow subthreshold signals, providing control of the presynaptic action potential waveform and synaptic coupling in local cortical circuits.
We investigated the effects of atropine, a muscarinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor antagonist, on the level of serotonin in discrete brain regions, the nucleus raphe dorsalis (NRD), nucleus caudatus putamen (NCP), cerebral cortex and the cerebellum. Biogenic amines were assayed employing HPLC electrochemistry in these regions 30 min following different doses of atropine (5, 10, 25mg/kg; i.p.), and at various time points (15, 30, 60, 120 min) after 25mg/kg of the drug. The cholinergic receptor antagonist caused a dose-dependent alteration in the level of serotonin in NRD, but the increase was not dose-dependent for other regions studied. The metabolite of serotonin, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid was unaffected. Atropine did not affect the levels of dopamine or its metabolites dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid and homovanillic acid. The present study suggests significant effect of this antimuscarinic agent on the synthesis of serotonin in the central serotoninergic pathways, which may have clinical relevance.
Currently, regulation of immune response after grafting has become a hot topic in Parkinson's disease (PD) transplantation research. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is an important regulator of immune system. Presently, we transplanted c17.2 neural stem cells transfected with pcDNA3.1-Hygro-IL-10 vector (IL-10-c17.2 cells) or Mock-c17.2 cells (c17.2 cells transfected with pcDNA3.1-Hygro vector) into the brains of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned PD model rats. From days 10 to 60 after grafting, double immunohistochemistry showed that IL-10 expression was detected in IL-10-c17.2 cells in vivo. Further immunohistochemistry analyses revealed that intracerebral cellular (ED1 and CD8) and humoral (C3 and IgM) immune responses were down-regulated in the rats treated with IL-10-c17.2 cells compared with controls treated with Mock-c17.2 cells. The reduction in ED1 immunostaining in the rats treated with IL-10-c17.2 cells remained significant until day 60 after transplantation. Our results suggest the potential application value of IL-10 in the transplantation treatment of PD.
The Web-Based GeneChip Analysis System (WGAS) is developed to overcome limitations in analysis setup efficiency, data and procedure sharing, as well as security issues in existing commercial and public domain solutions. It also incorporates unique functions and resources for more accurate and flexible GeneChip analysis. Availability: WGAS is freely available at: http://arrayanalysis.mbni.med.umich.edu/arrayanalysis.html.

Little is known about age-related changes in red blood cell (RBC) membrane transport and homeostasis. We investigated first whether the known large variation in plasma membrane Ca(2+) (PMCA) pump activity was correlated with RBC age. Glycated hemoglobin, Hb A1c, was used as a reliable age marker for normal RBCs. We found an inverse correlation between PMCA strength and Hb A1c content, indicating that PMCA activity declines monotonically with RBC age. The previously described subpopulation of high-Na(+), low-density RBCs had the highest Hb A1c levels, suggesting it represents a late homeostatic condition of senescent RBCs. Thus, the normal densification process of RBCs with age must undergo late reversal, requiring a membrane permeability increase with net NaCl gain exceeding KCl loss. Activation of a nonselective cation channel, Pcat, was considered the key link in this density reversal. Investigation of Pcat properties showed that its most powerful activator was increased intracellular Ca(2+). Pcat was comparably selective to Na(+), K(+), choline, and N-methyl-D-glucamine, indicating a fairly large, poorly selective cation permeability pathway. Based on these observations, a working hypothesis is proposed to explain the mechanism of progressive RBC densification with age and of the late reversal to a low-density condition with altered ionic gradients.

The Drosophila alphaPS2betaPS integrin is required for diverse development events, including muscle attachment. We characterized six unusual mutations in the alphaPS2 gene that cause a subset of the null phenotype. One mutation changes a residue in alphaPS2 that is equivalent to the residue in alphaV that contacts the arginine of RGD. This change severely reduced alphaPS2betaPS affinity for soluble ligand, abolished the ability of the integrin to recruit laminin to muscle attachment sites in the embryo and caused detachment of integrins and talin from the ECM. Three mutations that alter different parts of the alphaPS2 beta-propeller, plus a fourth that eliminated a late phase of alphaPS2 expression, all led to a strong decrease in alphaPS2betaPS at muscle ends, but, surprisingly, normal levels of talin were recruited. Thus, although talin recruitment requires alphaPS2betaPS, talin levels are not simply specified by the amount of integrin at the adhesive junction. These mutations caused detachment of talin and actin from integrins, suggesting that the integrin-talin link is weaker than the ECM-integrin link.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh), a secreted morphogen and mitogen, is essential for nervous system development and neural stem cell (NSC) self-renewal. As the intracellular signal transduction of Shh in NSCs is largely unknown, we sought to characterize pathway targets using ligand stimulation and genetic models of activation. NSCs haploinsufficient for Patched (Ptc), a receptor repressive to Shh signaling, showed enhanced proliferation of a magnitude similar to Shh-treated wild-type (Wt) NSCs. Analysis of the Gli zinc-finger transcription factors, primary mediators of Shh activity, demonstrated differential induction between models of pathway activation. Gli1 was significantly induced in Wt NSCs exposed to Shh, whereas Gli2 was elevated and Gli1 expression did not change in Ptc(+/-) NSCs. Other Shh targets (Nmyc, Id factors) were induced under both conditions of pathway activation. Interestingly, Shh-treated Ptc(+/-) NSCs induced expression of Gli1 but failed to increase proliferation, suggesting that the NSCs may have reached a physiologic plateau in proliferative capacity. Thus, our data demonstrate that Ptc(+/-) mice have an expanded progenitor cell niche in vivo and that NSCs maintain a cell-intrinsic increase in basal proliferation in vitro that is sustained by a Gli transduction signature distinct from that of exogenous Shh stimulation. Additionally, Ptc(+/-) NSCs maintain tight control over mitosis and do not further augment proliferation in the presence of mitogenic stimulation.
The potential interplay of glial cells with T cells during viral induced inflammation was assessed by comparing major histocompatibility complex molecule upregulation and retention on astrocytes and microglia. Transgenic mice expressing green fluorescent protein under control of the astrocyte-specific glial fibrillary acidic protein promoter were infected with a neurotropic coronavirus to facilitate phenotypic characterization of astrocytes and microglia using flow cytometry. Astrocytes in the adult central nervous system up-regulated class I surface expression, albeit delayed compared with microglia. Class II was barely detectable on astrocytes, in contrast to potent up-regulation on microglia. Maximal MHC expression in both glial cell types correlated with IFN-gamma levels and lymphocyte accumulation. Despite a decline of IFN-gamma concomitant to virus clearance, MHC molecule expression on glia was sustained. These data demonstrate distinct regulation of both class I and class II expression by microglia and astrocytes in vivo following viral induced inflammation. Furthermore, prolonged MHC expression subsequent to viral clearance implies a potential for ongoing presentation.
There is increasing evidence that different phases of brain development depend on neuron-glia interactions including postnatal key events like synaptogenesis. To address how glial cells influence synapse development, we analyzed whether and how glia-derived factors affect gene expression in primary cultures of immunoisolated rat retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) by oligonucleotide microarrays. Our results show that the transcript pattern matched the developmental stage and characteristic properties of RGCs in vitro. Glia-conditioned medium (GCM) and cholesterol up- and downregulated a limited number of genes that influence the development of dendrites and synapses and regulate cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism. The oligonucleotide microarrays detected the transcriptional regulation of neuronal cholesterol homeostasis in response to GCM and cholesterol treatment. Surprisingly, our study revealed neuronal expression and glial regulation of matrix gla protein (Mgp). Together, our results suggest that glial cells promote different aspects of neuronal differentiation by regulating transcription of distinct classes of genes.
The novel multiple sclerosis (MS) therapeutic natalizumab has taken neurologists and their MS patients on a roller-coaster ride: initial encouraging efficacy data led to expedited release in the United States, followed by suspension of dosing with the unexpected occurrence of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in three clinical trial participants. The drug was re-released in 2006, in a restricted distribution format. Aside from PML, natalizumab treatment was not associated with opportunistic infections, suggesting the possibility that PML in these individuals was mechanism-based, and was not a consequence of generalized immunosuppression. This commentary proposes a hypothesis to account for PML in natalizumab-treated patients.
Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory/demyelinating and neurodegenerative disease. Treatment of MS is currently based on various different therapeutic algorithms of a sequential or escalating therapy with immunomodulators or immunosuppressants, generated partly from evidence based medicine and partly from expert's consensus. However, these therapies are not always effective as monotherapies. An alternative would be the combination of agents which already have some proven efficacy in MS therapy, are directed against different mechanisms of the pathogenic chain, and ideally result in synergic effects and a profile of reduced toxicity. Combination therapy in multiple sclerosis can be: Combination of two or more anti-inflammatory agents or combination of anti-inflammatory agents plus neuroprotective agents. Many combinations of drugs have been or are being tested in multiple sclerosis. Clinical trials have included a low number of patients for short periods of time. Preliminary studies on safety suggest that some combination therapies might be safe and efficacious. Ongoing and new phase III clinical trials involving a greater number of patients for longer periods of time are needed to verify this hypothesis. A wise balance between efficacy and safety and extremely clear information to patients should drive clinical decisions.
The matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are implicated in the pathology of multiple sclerosis (MS). This review summarizes the consequences of upregulation of MMP members in MS as well as in an animal model of the disease, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). The pathogenic roles of MMPs are considered, especially in the transmigration of leukocytes into the CNS. We review the evidence that interferon-beta, an immunomodulator that is commonly used in MS, affects MMP expression in the disease. The potential of minocycline as a therapy in MS, based on its activity as an MMP inhibitor, is discussed. Besides affecting MMPs, minocycline may have other actions that help account for its possible utility in MS.
Sensory hair cells of the inner ear express multiple physiologically defined conductances, including mechanotransduction, Ca(2+), Na(+), and several distinct K(+) conductances, all of which are critical for normal hearing and balance function. Yet, the molecular underpinnings and their specific contributions to sensory signaling in the inner ear remain obscure. We sought to identify hair-cell conductances mediated by KCNQ4, which, when mutated, causes the dominant progressive hearing loss DFNA2. We used the dominant-negative pore mutation G285S and packaged the coding sequence of KCNQ4 into adenoviral vectors. We transfected auditory and vestibular hair cells of organotypic cultures generated from the postnatal mouse inner ear. Cochlear outer hair cells and vestibular type I cells that expressed the transfection marker, green fluorescent protein, and the dominant-negative KCNQ4 construct lacked the M-like conductances that typify nontransfected control hair cells. As such, we conclude that the M-like conductances in mouse auditory and vestibular hair cells can include KCNQ4 subunits and may also include KCNQ4 coassembly partners. To examine the function of M-like conductances in hair cells, we recorded from cells transfected with mutant KCNQ4 and injected transduction current waveforms in current-clamp mode. Because the M-like conductances were active at rest, they contributed to the very low potassium-selective input resistance, which in turn hyperpolarized the resting potential and significantly attenuated the amplitude of the receptor potential. Modulation of M-like conductances may allow hair cells the ability to control the amplitude of their response to sensory stimuli.
Coordinated proteolysis of synaptic proteins is required for synaptic plasticity, but a mechanism for recruiting the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) into dendritic spines is not known. NAC1 is a cocaine-regulated transcriptional protein that was found to complex with proteins in the UPS, including cullins and Mov34. NAC1 and the proteasome were cotranslocated from the nucleus into dendritic spines in cortical neurons in response to proteasome inhibition or disinhibiting synaptic activity with bicuculline. Bicuculline also produced a progressive accumulation of the proteasome and NAC1 in the postsynaptic density. Recruitment of the proteasome into dendrites and postsynaptic density by bicuculline was prevented in neurons from mice harboring an NAC1 gene deletion or in neurons transfected with mutated NAC1 lacking the proteasome binding domain. These experiments show that NAC1 modulates the translocation of the UPS from the nucleus into dendritic spines, thereby suggesting a potential missing link in the recruitment of necessary proteolysis machinery for synaptic remodeling.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in the generation and amplification of pain caused in part by injury-induced changes in neuronal excitability at multiple levels along the sensory neuraxis. We have previously shown that activated microglia, through an ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase)-regulated PGE(2) (prostaglandin E(2)) signaling mechanism, maintain neuronal hyperexcitability in the lumbar dorsal horn. Here, we examined whether microglial cells in the thalamus contribute to the modulation of chronic pain after SCI, and whether microglial activation is governed by spinally mediated increases in the microglial activator cysteine-cysteine chemokine ligand 21 (CCL21). We report that CCL21 is upregulated in dorsal horn neurons, that tissue levels are increased in the dorsal horn and ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus 4 weeks after SCI, and that the increase can be differentially reduced by spinal blockade at T1 or L1. In intact animals, electrical stimulation of the spinothalamic tract induces increases in thalamic CCL21 levels. Recombinant CCL21 injected into the VPL of intact animals transiently activates microglia and induces pain-related behaviors, effects that could be blocked with minocycline. After SCI, intra-VPL antibody-mediated neutralization of CCL21 decreases microglial activation and evoked hyperexcitability of VPL neurons, and restores nociceptive thresholds to near-normal levels. These data identify a novel pathway by which SCI triggers upregulation of the neuroimmune modulator CCL21 in the thalamus, which induces microglial activation in association with pain phenomena.
Behavioral processes regulate immune system function in part via direct sympathetic innervation of lymphoid organs, but little is known about the factors that regulate the architecture of neural fibers in lymphoid tissues. In the present study, we find that experimentally imposed social stress can enhance the density of catecholaminergic neural fibers within axillary lymph nodes from adult rhesus macaques. This effect is linked to increased transcription of the key sympathetic neurotrophin nerve growth factor and occurs predominately in extrafollicular regions of the paracortex that contain T-lymphocytes and macrophages. Functional consequences of stress-induced increases in innervation density include reduced type I interferon response to viral infection and increased replication of the simian immunodeficiency virus. These data reveal a surprising degree of behaviorally induced plasticity in the structure of lymphoid innervation and define a novel pathway by which social factors can modulate immune response and viral pathogenesis.
Repeated stress enhances vulnerability to neural dysfunction that is cumulative over the course of the lifespan. This dysfunction contributes to cognitive deficits observed during aging. In addition, aging is associated with dysregulation of the limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (LHPA) axis, leading to a delayed termination of the stress response. This delay, in turn, increases exposure to glucocorticoids and exacerbates the likelihood of neural damage. Here we asked whether similar effects could emerge at an early age as a result of genetic variations in the level or function of the brain glucocorticoid receptor (GR). We investigated the effect of forebrain-specific overexpression of GR on LHPA axis activity. Transgenic mice with GR overexpression in forebrain (GRov) display normal basal circulating adrenocorticotropic hormone and corticosterone levels. However, young GRov mice exhibit a number of LHPA alterations, including a blunted initial response to acute restraint stress followed by a delayed turn-off of the stress response. This deficit in negative feedback is paradoxical in the face of elevated GR levels, resembles the stress response in aged animals, and continues to worsen as GRov mice age. The neuroendocrine dysregulation in young GRov mice is coupled with a mild cognitive deficit, also consistent with the accelerated aging hypothesis. The molecular basis of this phenotype was examined using microarray analysis of the hippocampus, which revealed a broad downregulation of glutamate receptor signaling in GRov mice. Thus, even in the absence of chronic stress, elevation of GR gene expression can lead to an increased allostatic load and result in an &quot;aging-like&quot; phenotype in young animals.
Methamphetamine abuse in young adults has long-term deleterious effects on brain function that are associated with damage to monoaminergic neurons. Administration of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) protects dopamine neurons from the toxic effects of methamphetamine in animal models. Therefore, we hypothesized that a partial GDNF gene deletion would increase the susceptibility of mice to methamphetamine neurotoxicity during young adulthood and possibly increase age-related deterioration of behavior and dopamine function. Two weeks after a methamphetamine binge (4 x 10 mg/kg, i.p., at 2 h intervals), GDNF(+/-) mice had a significantly greater reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in the medial striatum, a proportionally greater depletion of dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) levels in the striatum, and a greater increase in activated microglia in the substantia nigra than wild-type mice. At 12 months of age, methamphetamine-treated GDNF(+/-) mice exhibited less motor activity and lower levels of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity, dopamine, DOPAC, and serotonin than wild-type mice. Greater striatal dopamine transporter activity in GDNF(+/-) mice may underlie their differential response to methamphetamine. These data suggest the possibility that methamphetamine use in young adults, when combined with lower levels of GDNF throughout life, may precipitate the appearance of parkinsonian-like behaviors during aging.
Our movements are variable, but the origin of this variability is poorly understood. We examined the sources of variability in human saccadic eye movements. In two experiments, we measured the spatiotemporal variability in saccade trajectories as a function of movement direction and amplitude. One of our new observations is that the variability in movement direction is smaller for purely horizontal and vertical saccades than for saccades in oblique directions. We also found that saccade amplitude, duration, and peak velocity are all correlated with one another. To determine the origin of the observed variability, we estimated the noise in motor commands from the observed spatiotemporal variability, while taking into account the variability resulting from uncertainty in localization of the target. This analysis revealed that uncertainty in target localization is the major source of variability in saccade endpoints, whereas noise in the magnitude of the motor commands explains a slightly smaller fraction. In addition, there is temporal variability such that saccades with a longer than average duration have a smaller than average peak velocity. This noise model has a large generality because it correctly predicts the variability in other data sets, which contain saccades starting from very different initial locations. Because the temporal noise most likely originates in movement planning, and the motor command noise in movement execution, we conclude that uncertainty in sensory signals and noise in movement planning and execution all contribute to the variability in saccade trajectories. These results are important for understanding how the brain controls movement.
Cultured neurons have been used for investigating synaptic plasticity due to their accessibility to biochemical and immunochemical assays. In addition, recording spontaneous postsynaptic miniature events provides important information about the mechanisms involved in the modulation of synaptic transmission. To automatically detect the spontaneous events, we developed a technique in which a weighted least squares algorithm was used instead of an ordinary one. In addition, multiple templates were used simultaneously to scan the data to increase the accuracy of the fit between the data and templates. An important outcome of the weighted template technique is that the detection rate is not as sensitive to the length of templates and this technique is capable of detection overlapping events reliably.
The correlation between post-mortem data and in-vivo brain images is of high interest for studying neurodegenerative diseases. This paper describes a protocol that matches a series of stained histological slices of a baboon brain with an anatomical MRI scan of the same subject using an intermediate 3D-consistent volume of &quot;blockface&quot; photographs taken during the sectioning process. Each stained histological section of the baboon brain was first registered to its corresponding blockface photograph using a novel &quot;hemi-rigid&quot; transformation. This piecewise rigid 2D transformation was specifically adapted to the registration of slices which contained both hemispheres. Subsenquently, to correct the global 3D deformations of the brain caused by histological preparation and fixation, a 3D elastic transformation was estimated between the blockface volume and the MRI data. This 3D elastic transformation was then applied to the histological volume previously aligned using the hemi-rigid method to complete the registration of the series of stained histological slices with the MRI data. We assessed the efficacy of our method by evaluating the quality of matching of anatomical features as well as the difference of volume measurements between the MRI and the histological images. Two complete baboon brains (with the exception of cerebellum) were successfully processed using our protocol.
We report on the system integration of a CMOS chip that is capable of bidirectionally communicating (stimulation and recording) with electrogenic cells such as neurons or cardiomyocytes and that is targeted at investigating electrical signal propagation within cellular networks in vitro. The overall system consists of three major subunits: first, the core component is a 6.5 mm x 6.5 mm CMOS chip, on top of which the cells are cultured. It features 128 bidirectional electrodes, each equipped with dedicated analog filters and amplification stages and a stimulation buffer. The electrodes are sampled at 20 kHz with 8-bit resolution. The measured input-referred circuitry noise is 5.9 microV root mean square (10 Hz to 100 kHz), which allows to reliably detect the cell signals ranging from 1 mVpp down to 40 microVpp. Additionally, temperature sensors, a digital-to-analog converter for stimulation, and a digital interface for data transmission are integrated. Second, there is a reconfigurable logic device, which provides chip control, event detection, data buffering and an USB interface, capable of processing the 2.56 million samples per second. The third element includes software that is running on a standard PC performing data capturing, processing, and visualization. Experiments involving the stimulation of neurons with two different spatio-temporal patterns and the recording of the triggered spiking activity have been carried out. The response patterns have been successfully classified (83% correct) with respect to the different stimulation patterns. The advantages over current microelectrode arrays, as has been demonstrated in the experiments, include the capability to stimulate (voltage stimulation, 8 bit, 60 kHz) spatio-temporal patterns on arbitrary sets of electrodes and the fast stimulation reset mechanism that allows to record neuronal signals on a stimulating electrode 5 ms after stimulation (instantaneously on all other electrodes). Other advantages of the overall system include the small number of needed electrical connections due to the digital interface and the short latency time that allows to initiate a stimulation less than 2 ms after the detection of an action potential in closed-loop configurations.
The secreted fragment of the amyloid precursor protein (sAPPalpha) generated following cleavage by alpha-secretase is an important mediator of cell function and is both neurotrophic and neuroprotective. HEK 293T cells have been stably integrated with a fragment of the APP gene to produce and secrete either sAPPalpha, or the alternative cleavage product sAPPbeta. Heparin binding domains on the proteins have been utilised to develop a one-step fast-performance-liquid-chromatography (FPLC) purification of sAPPs from the conditioned media. Immunoblotting analyses with a sAPP specific antibody coupled with highly sensitive silver staining techniques have validated the expression and purification strategy. Functional activity of the purified fragments was demonstrated by their ability to protect COS-7 and SH-SY5Y (neuroblastoma) cells against the adverse effects of glucose deprivation in a cell viability assay. The purified sAPPs also activated the NFkappaB transcription factor in COS-7 cells transfected with a luciferase reporter plasmid, with sAPPalpha the more potent activator as expected. The simple protocol to produce these mammalian expressed proteins will facilitate their use as potential neuropharmacological reagents in the elucidation of biochemical pathways modulated by sAPPs, and in the study of Alzheimer's disease mechanisms in general.
Functional repair of neurotmesis has been proven most challenging in regenerative medicine. Progress in this field has shown that functional repair not only requires axon regeneration, but also selectivity in target reinnervation. Although selectivity in target reinnervation still involves relatively unexplored avenues, evidence-based medicine, in the end, requires behavioral proof of repair. Therefore, there is a need for tests assessing behavioral deficits after neurotmesis. To date, behavioral tests for detecting both dynamic and static parameters are limited. The CatWalk gait analysis has been shown to detect a multitude of speed-controlled dynamic and static gait deficits after experimental spinal cord injury. Therefore, we here evaluated its use in detecting both dynamic and static gait deficits after neurotmesis. After rat sciatic nerve resection CatWalk testing was performed for 8 weeks. A large amount of dynamic and static gait parameters were detected to be immediately and severely affected in the ipsilateral paw, sometimes reaching levels of only 15% of those of the unaffected paw. We conclude that the CatWalk objectively detects dynamic and static gait impairments after sciatic nerve resection and future experiments are now required to prove which of these parameters are of particular interest to detect functional repair.
We suggest a new method for calculation of extracellular field potentials generated by a large population of pyramidal cells (PCs), using a single PC compartmental model. Similar methods described earlier use the assumption that the intracellular potential or current distributions of the cells within the population are much alike as a result of simultaneous activation at about the same longitudinal location (i.e., all the PCs in the population are located on the same level and are ideally synchronized). However, the degree of synchronization of natural firing even during synchronized rhythmic discharges in the cortex is not as high. We introduce the possibility to vary the degree of synchronization of the PCs' activity in the population, thus taking into account disperse timing of cortical pyramidal cells' firing. The temporal variability in cell firing is described by a Gaussian distribution, the width of which defines the degree of synchronization/desynchronization. In addition, the suggested method allows for certain spatial spread of PCs in the population along longitudinal axis of the PCs. The method was applied to test the assumption that the transition from sleep spindles to rhythmic spike and wave discharges (SWDs) observed in absence epilepsy may occur due to an increase in pyramidal cells' firing synchronization. We show that in case of weak synchronization of PC firing in the population, the shape of field potential during rhythmic thalamic input is similar to the oscillations during a sleep spindle, while at stronger synchronization of PCs, it looks much more as a SWD, with clear expressed spikes and waves. This suggests that in large population of pyramidal cells the changes in the degree of synchronization of cell firing may explain the changes in the shape of field potential from spindle oscillations to SWDs and vice versa.
Since it was discovered that the hematopoietic hormone erythropoetin (EPO) exerts neuroprotective effects in the CNS, many studies on the EPO receptor (EPOR) function and localisation in the CNS have been performed. For this purpose, commercially available anti-EPOR antibodies have often been applied. As the literature data on these antibodies show inconsistencies, we here systematically compared six frequently used, commercially available EPOR antibodies for different applications. Five of the antibodies appeared to specifically recognize recombinant rat and human EPOR in HEK293 cells by Western blotting, but the same antibodies yielded different and inconsistent results when human UT-7 cells or rat brain tissue were applied. Immunocytochemical staining of EPOR-transfected HEK cells only produced consistent results with three of the six antibodies. All antibodies stained neurons in rat brain sections, but with large differences in the staining pattern and only the C-20 EPOR antibody was found to label astrocytes. Since EPOR antibodies have been applied in several studies as EPOR antagonists, we further tested the antibodies for their capacity to functionally block the EPO-EPOR interaction in a cellular signalling system with STAT-5 phosphorylation as readout. Here, only the MAB307 antibody showed a partial effect at concentrations of 5-50 microg/ml.
A new stereological probe, the saucer, was used for estimating three-dimensional (3D) spatial distributions of particles around particles. The advantages of the saucer include that the measurements and the results are in 3D and the size and design of the probe enables the investigator to sample a proportion of a suitable size to have a reasonable relationship between workload and the information obtained. In this paper the method is used on vertical sections to investigate the spatial distribution of astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, microglial cells, endothelial cells and secondary neurons around primary neurons in the human neocortex (divided into frontal-, temporal-, parietal- and occipital cortex) of young and old subjects free of neurological or psychological disease to test if age and gender has any influence on the cell distribution in human neocortex. Plots of the spatial distribution of the densities of all cell types did not show any difference between women and men and no difference between brains of young and old subjects. Thus it is concluded that in this small study the spatial distribution of the densities of the different types of cells in brains from individuals free of neurological disorders was independent of age and gender.
Elevated cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an endogenous inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), are assumed to be related to delayed vasospasm after subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). However, data on CSF concentrations of L-arginine, ADMA and its structural isomer symmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA) are very sparse in humans. We here present a new hydrophilic interaction chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HILIC-MS-MS) method for the precise determination of these substances in CSF. The method requires only minimal sample preparation and features isotope labeled internal standards. First data of patients with SAH showed that on the day of admission CSF concentration values of L-arginine and ADMA were not significantly different from controls, but increased markedly during the course of the hospital stay. The decrease of the L-arginine to ADMA ratio points to a progressive impairment of the NO production rate in the brain after SAH which is confirmed by a simultaneous decrease in nitrate and nitrite concentrations in CSF.
In multiple cell recordings identifying the number of neurons and assigning each action potential to a particular source, commonly referred to as 'spike sorting', is a highly non-trivial problem. Density grid contour clustering provides a computationally efficient way of locating high-density regions of arbitrary shape in low-dimensional space. When applied to waveforms projected onto their first two principal components, the algorithm allows the extraction of templates that provide high-dimensional reference points that can be used to perform accurate spike sorting. Template matching using subtractive waveform decomposition can locate these templates in waveform samples despite the influence of noise, spurious threshold crossing and waveform overlap. Tests with a large synthetic dataset incorporating realistic challenges faced during spike sorting (including overlapping and phase-shifted spikes) reveal that this strategy can consistently yield results with less than 6% false positives and false negatives (and less than 2% for high signal-to-noise ratios) at processing speeds exceeding those previously reported for similar algorithms by more than an order of magnitude.
An unavoidable consequence of enzymatic dispersion of sensory neurons from intact ganglia is loss of the axon and thus the ability to classify afferent fiber type based upon conduction velocity (CV). An intact rat nodose ganglion preparation was used to randomly sample neurons (n=76) using the patch clamp technique. Reliable electrophysiological and chemophysiological correlates of afferent fiber type were established for use with isolated neuron preparations. Myelinated afferents (approximately 25%) formed two groups exhibiting strikingly different functional profiles. One group (n=10) exhibited CVs in excess of 10 m/s and narrow (&lt;1 ms) action potentials (APs) while the other (n=9) had CVs as low as 4m/s and broad (&gt;2 ms) APs that closely approximated those identified as unmyelinated afferents (n=57) with CVs less than 1m/s. A cluster analysis of select measures from the AP waveforms strongly correlated with CV, producing three statistically unique populations (p&lt;0.05). These groupings aligned with our earlier hypothesis (Jin et al., 2004) that a differential sensitivity to the selective purinergic and vanilloid receptor agonists can be used as reliable pharmacological indicators of vagal afferent fiber type. These metrics were further validated using an even larger population of isolated (n=240) nodose neurons. Collectively, these indicators of afferent fiber type can be used to provide valuable insight concerning the relavence of isolated cellular observations to integrated afferent function of visceral organ systems.
Previous reports establishing raphe cultures typically yield less than 1% serotonin (5-HT)-positive neurons and are impractical for transcriptional studies. In this study, we have established primary cultures enriched in 5-HT neurons and quantified the proportion of cells expressing serotonergic and non-serotonergic markers. We have also shown the feasibility of using the multiplex real-time PCR technique to measure the relative amounts of RNA for some of these markers. Rostral raphe cells derived from E13-15 rat embryos were cultured for 7 days and analyzed by quantitative immunofluorescence and western blot analysis. In these cultures, approximately 8% of neurons were immunopositive for serotonergic markers (5-HT or tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH)). The percentage of cells labeled for GFAP (glial marker), tyrosine hydroxylase (catecholaminergic), and GAD65/67 (GABAergic) was 5, 1, and 54%, respectively. Transcription factors REST/NRSF and Deaf-1 were present in 9 and 98% of cells, respectively. Multiplex quantitative RT-PCR (Q-PCR) analysis was done for TPH2, 5-HT1A receptor or Deaf-1 RNAs paired with GAPDH RNA as control. Using this approach, standard curves for each RNA were obtained over 200-fold concentration range of dilution with r2 values &gt;0.99. The relative abundances determined by Q-PCR are consistent with the expression of TPH2&gt;Deaf-1&gt;5-HT1A receptor RNA in serotonergic raphe cells. The standard error of TPH2 RNA levels between cultures was &lt;20%, indicating a consistent purity of 5-HT neurons. Thus, we have generated a highly consistent and reproducible model system that is enriched in 5-HT neurons and that will be valuable in future investigation of serotonergic regulation.
A beam-walking apparatus has been evaluated for its ability to detect motor impairments in mice acutely treated with the dopaminergic neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP, 30 mg/kg, s.c., single or double administration). Mice subjected to MPTP lesioning showed deficits in motor performance on the beam-walking task, for up to 6 days post-MPTP administration, as compared to saline-treated controls. In addition, MPTP-treated mice were detected to have a marked depletion in striatal dopamine levels and a concomitant reduction in substantia nigra (SN) tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity, at 7 days post-MPTP administration, indicative of dopaminergic neuronal loss. Pre-administration of the potent MAO-B inhibitor R-(-)-deprenyl at 3 or 10 mg/kg, 30 min, s.c, significantly inhibited the MPTP-induced reduction in SN TH-immunoreactivity, striatal dopamine depletions and impairments in mouse motor function. The data described in the present study provides further evidence that functional deficits following an acute MPTP dosing schedule in mice can be quantified and are related to nigro-striatal dopamine function.
Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in conjunction with carbon fiber microelectrode has been used to study dopamine (DA) release and uptake mechanisms in rat brains because of the smaller size of the electrode and the subsecond resolution. Current voltammetry data were analyzed by a DA kinetic model assuming a zero baseline, which is in conflict with existing microdialysis findings and a recent claim of the striatal extracellular DA concentration at micromolar levels. This work applied a new analysis approach based on a modified DA kinetic model to analyze the kinetics of electrically evoked DA overflow in the caudate-putamen of anesthetized rats. The DA uptake parameters were fitted from the electrical stimulation phase, and subsequently used to calculate theoretical DA uptake rates. Comparison of the theoretical uptake rates with experimental clearance rates allows for the study of the tonic DA release process following electrical stimulations. Analyses of DA voltammetry data suggest that the locally averaged basal level of extracellular DA in the rat striatum might be confined between 95 and 220 nM. The disparate time scales in the clearance kinetics of endogenous and exogenous DA were investigated. Long-distance diffusion could only partially explain the slow clearance time course of exogenous DA. Model simulations and parameter analyses on evoked DA responses indicate that suppression of the nonevoked DA release process immediately following electrical stimulation cannot completely account for the rapid clearance of the electrically evoked DA. Inconsistency in the measured uptake strengths in the literature studying endogenous and exogenous DA remains to be investigated in the future.
To develop a novel and effective drug that could enhance cognitive function and neuroprotection, we newly synthesized maltolyl p-coumarate by the esterification of maltol and p-coumaric acid. In the present study, we investigated whether maltolyl p-coumarate could improve cognitive decline in scopolamine-injected rats and in amyloid beta peptide(1-42)-infused rats. Maltolyl p-coumarate was found to attenuate cognitive deficits in both rat models using passive avoidance test and to reduce apoptotic cell death observed in the hippocampus of the amyloid beta peptide(1-42)-infused rats. We also examined the neuroprotective effects of maltolyl p-coumarate in vitro using SH-SY5Y cells. Cells were pretreated with maltolyl p-coumarate, before exposed to amyloid beta peptide(1-42), glutamate or H2O2. We found that maltolyl p-coumarate significantly decreased apoptotic cell death and reduced reactive oxygen species, cytochrome c release, and caspase 3 activation. Taking these in vitro and in vivo results together, our study suggests that maltolyl p-coumarate is a potentially effective candidate against Alzheimer's disease that is characterized by wide spread neuronal death and progressive decline of cognitive function.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) released in the brain by HIV-activated macrophages/microglia is suspected to compromise neuronal survival. Previously, we have demonstrated that activated receptor for insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-IR) protects neurons from TNFalpha-induced neuronal damage (Wang et al. [ 2006] J. Neurosci. Res. 83:7-18). Because TNFalpha triggers phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS-1) on serine residues (pS-IRS-1; Rui et al. [ 2001] J. Clin. Invest. 107:181-189), and pS-IRS-1 binds integrins (Reiss et al. [ 2001] Oncogene 20:490-500), we asked how these events affect neuronal processes. We show that beta1-integrin and pS-IRS-1 colocalize in PC12 cells and in primary cortical neurons. TNFalpha treatment elevated membrane-associated pS-IRS-1, enhanced pS-IRS-1 interaction with beta1-integrin, and attenuated cell attachment to collagen IV. In contrast, IGF-I inhibited pS-IRS-1-beta1-integrin complexes and improved cell attachment. The domain of IRS-1 involved in beta1-integrin binding mapped between amino acids 426 and 740, and the expression of 426-740/IRS-1 mutant attenuated neuronal outgrowth. Our results indicate that TNFalpha facilitates the interaction of pS-IRS-1 and beta1-integrin and destabilizes neuronal processes. IGF-I counteracts TNFalpha-mediated accumulation of pS-IRS-1-beta1-integrin complexes supporting the stability of neuronal processes.
Mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) gene are associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and the SOD1(G93A) transgenic mouse has been widely used as one animal model for studies of this neurodegenerative disorder. Recently, several reports have shown that abnormalities in neuronal development in other models of neurodegeneration occur much earlier than previously thought. To study the role of mutant SOD1 in glial progenitor biology, we immortalized glial restricted precursors (GRIPs) derived from mouse E11.5 neural tubes of wild-type and SOD1(G93A) mutant mice. Immunocytochemistry using cell lineage markers shows that these cell lines can be maintained as glial progenitors, because they continue to express A2B5, with very low levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (astrocyte), betaIII-tubulin (neuron), and undetected GalC (oligodendrocyte) markers. RT-PCR and immunoblot analyses indicate that the chemokine receptor CXCR4 is reduced in SOD1(G93A) GRIPs. Subsequently, SOD1(G93A) GRIPs are unable to respond to SDF1alpha to activate ERK1/2 enzymes and the transcription factor CREB. This may be one pathway leading to a reduction in SOD1(G93A) cell migration. These data indicate that the abnormalities in SOD1(G93A) glial progenitor expression of CXCR4 and its mediated signaling and function occur during spinal cord development and highlight nonneuronal (glial) abnormalities in this ALS model.
The connections of the main olfactory bulb (OB) of the mouse were studied with iontophoretic injections of biotinylated dextran amine. To sort efferences from mitral cells and tufted cells, the Purkinje cell degeneration (PCD) mouse was used. This mutant animal undergoes a specific neurodegeneration of mitral cells, whereas tufted cells do not degenerate. The unilateral tracer injections used were small and confined largely to the OB of both PCD and control mice at P120. Seven days after tracer injection, the efferences from the OB and the centrifugal afferences from secondary olfactory structures to it were studied. Although there is a large overlap of their target fields, mitral cell axons innervated more caudal regions of the olfactory cortex than tufted cell axons, thus providing definitive evidence of the differential projections of olfactory output neurons. Additionally, an important increase in retrogradely-labeled neurons was detected in the ipsilateral anterior olfactory nucleus of the mutant animals. This was not observed in any other secondary olfactory structure, suggesting a strengthening of the centrifugal input to the OB from that central area after mitral cell loss. Moreover, we recorded a complete loss of bilaterality in the olfactory connections of the PCD mice due to degeneration of the anterior commissure. These results point to an important reorganization of this essential olfactory circuit between the anterior olfactory nucleus and the OB, and hint at a transsynaptic level of plasticity not considered previously in literature.
The higher prevalence and risk for Alzheimer's disease in women relative to men has been partially attributed to the precipitous decline in gonadal hormone levels that occurs in women following the menopause. Although considerable attention has been focused on the consequence of estrogen loss, and thus estrogen's neuroprotective potential, it is important to recognize that the menopause results in a precipitous decline in progesterone levels as well. In fact, progesterone is neuroprotective, although the precise mechanisms involved remain unclear. Based on our previous observation that progesterone elicits the phosphorylation of ERK and Akt, key effectors of the neuroprotective mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3-K) pathways, respectively, we determined whether activation of either of these pathways was necessary for progesterone-induced protection. With organotypic explants (slice culture) of the cerebral cortex, we found that progesterone protected against glutamate-induced toxicity. Furthermore, these protective effects were inhibited by either the MEK1/2 inhibitor UO126 or the PI3-K inhibitor LY294002, supporting the requirement for both the MAPK and PI3-K pathways in progesterone-induced protection. In addition, at a concentration and duration of treatment consistent with our neuroprotection data, progesterone also increased the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), at the level of both protein and mRNA. This induction of BDNF may be relevant to the protective effects of progesterone, in that inhibition of Trk signaling, with K252a, inhibited the protective effects of progesterone. Collectively, these data suggest that progesterone is protective via multiple and potentially related mechanisms. (c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
The use of conformation-specific ligands has been closely linked to progress in the molecular characterization of neurodegenerative diseases. Deposition of misfolded or misprocessed proteins is now recognized as a hallmark of all neurodegenerative diseases. Initially, dyes like Congo red and thioflavin T were used as crudely conformation-specific ligands for staining the beta-sheeted protein components of amyloid deposits in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease (AD) and prion disease, the two diseases in which protein conformations were distinguished early on. This conformational characterization of extracellular protein deposits with dyes ultimately led to the identification of key players in the disease processes. The recent discovery of intermediate conformational species, i.e., soluble oligomers for AD and PK-sensitive PrP(Sc) for prion disease, whose conformation and assembly are thought to be distinct from both the physiological and the fibrillar conformational states, replaced the former notion that the microscopic protein deposits themselves caused disease. This insight and the generation of conformation-specific monoclonal antibodies to these conformers further advanced diagnosis and the understanding of molecular mechanisms of AD and are likely to do so in other neurodegenerative diseases. Here we review how conformer distinction performed by a variety of different techniques, including biophysical, biochemical, and antibody-based methods, led to the current molecular concepts of AD and the prion diseases. We provide an outlook on the application of these techniques in advancing the understanding of molecular mechanisms of other neurodegenerative diseases or degenerative brain conditions.
The expression and functions of kainate-type glutamate receptors (KARs) in the hippocampus are developmentally regulated. In particular, presynaptic KARs depressing glutamate release are tonically activated during early postnatal development, and this activity is down-regulated in parallel with maturation of the synaptic circuitry. In order to understand the physiological relevance of the tonic KAR-mediated signalling, we have here studied the effect of long-term pharmacological activation of KARs on glutamatergic synaptic connectivity in hippocampal slice cultures where presynaptic KARs are expressed but not endogenously activated. Prolonged (16-20 h) activation of the GluR5 subunit-containing KARs using the agonist ATPA (1 microM) caused a specific and enduring increase in the number of glutamatergic synapses in area CA1, evidenced as an increase in the frequency of action potential-independent spontaneous EPSCs (mEPSCs) and in immunostaining against synaptic marker proteins. The long-term ATPA treatment had no detectable effect on GABAergic transmission or on glutamate release probability. Further, the effect of ATPA on synaptic density was independent of action potential firing and dependent on protein kinase C. A critical role of endogenous KAR activity in synaptic development was revealed by chronic treatment of the cultures with the selective GluR5 antagonist LY382884, which caused a significant impairment of glutamatergic transmission to CA1 pyramidal neurons. Together, these data suggest a role for the GluR5 subunit-containing KARs in the formation and/or stabilization of functional glutamatergic synapses in area CA1.
Previous results using paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) have suggested that the excitability of transcallosal (TC) connections between the hand areas of the two motor cortices is modulated by intracortical inhibitory circuits in the same way as corticospinal tract (CTS) projections to spinal motoneurons. Here we describe two further similarities in TC and CTS control using (1) an I-wave facilitation protocol and (2) preconditioning with rTMS. In experiment 1, excitability of TC pathways was measured using interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) and the ipsilateral silent period (iSP), whilst excitability of CTS pathways was measured by recording the EMG response evoked in the first dorsal interosseous muscle contralateral to the conditioning stimulus (cMEP). The intensity of the conditioning stimulus was first adjusted to threshold for evoking IHI and iSP, then pairs of conditioning stimuli were applied randomly at interstimulus intervals (ISIs) from 1.3 to 4.3 ms. IHI and iSP were facilitated at ISI=1.5 ms and 3.0 ms, respectively, as was the MEP evoked by the conditioning stimuli in the contralateral hand. We suggest that TC projections receive I-wave-like facilitation similar to that seen in CTS projections. In experiment 2, short interval inhibition of the iSP (SICIiSP), and short interval intracortical inhibition of the cMEP (SICIcMEP) were examined before and after 600 pulses of 5 Hz rTMS at 90% resting motor threshold. Both SICIiSP and SICIcMEP were reduced, as was the iSP; the cMEP was unchanged. This shows that the population of inhibitory interneurons that control TC neurons respond in the same way to 5 Hz rTMS as those that control CTS neurons. Taken together, the data from the two experiments suggest that the layer III and layer V pyramidal neurons that give rise to TC and CTS pathways, respectively, are controlled by neuronal circuitry with similar properties.
In four patients an inabilitating standing tremor appeared years before that parkinsonian symptoms were evidenced. This tremor was refractory to gabapentin and dramatically responded to Levodopa administration. Its dominant frequency was 6.2 to 6.9 Hz with sporadic subharmonics at 8 to 18 Hz. Three patients were affected by different genetic mutations (Park 2, Park 6, mtDNA deletion) in one no genetic or metabolic alterations could be evidenced. All patients had dopamine transporter abnormalities. We suggest that the term &quot;Pseudo-Orthostatic Tremor&quot; could be used to define this Dopa responsive, 6 to 7 Hz standing tremor.
Anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is a nexus of information processing and regulation in the brain. Reflecting this central role, ACC is structurally and functionally heterogeneous, a fact long appreciated in studies of non-human primates. Human neuroimaging studies also recognize this functional heterogeneity, with meta-analyses and task-based studies demonstrating the existence of motor, cognitive and affective subdivisions. In contrast to task-based approaches, examinations of resting-state functional connectivity enable the characterization of task-independent patterns of correlated activity. In a novel approach to understanding ACC functional segregation, we systematically mapped ACC functional connectivity during rest. We examined patterns of functional connectivity for 16 seed ROIs systematically placed throughout caudal, rostral, and subgenual ACC in each hemisphere. First, our data support the commonly observed rostral/caudal distinction, but also suggest the existence of a dorsal/ventral functional distinction. For each of these distinctions, more fine-grained patterns of differentiation were observed than commonly appreciated in human imaging studies. Second, we demonstrate the presence of negatively predicted relationships between distinct ACC functional networks. In particular, we highlight negative relationships between rostral ACC-based affective networks (including the &quot;default mode network&quot;) and dorsal-caudal ACC-based frontoparietal attention networks. Finally, interhemispheric activations were more strongly correlated between homologous regions than in non-homologous regions. We discuss the implications of our work for understanding ACC function and potential applications to clinical populations.
Current multidimensional models of women's sexual function acknowledge the implicit impact of psychosocial factors on women's sexual function. Interaction between human sexual function and intensity of love has been also assumed, even if love is not an absolute condition. Yet, whereas great insights have been made in understanding the central mechanisms of the peripheral manifestations of women's sexual response, including orgasm, the cerebral correlates sustaining the interaction between women's sexual satisfaction and the unconscious role of the partner in this interpersonal experience remain unknown. Using functional imaging, we assessed brain activity elicited when 29 healthy female volunteers were unconsciously exposed to the subliminal presentation of their significant partner's name (a task known to elicit a partner-related neural network) and correlated it with individual scores obtained from different sexual dimensions: self-reported partnered orgasm quality (ease, satisfaction, frequency), love intensity and emotional closeness with that partner. Behavioral results identified a correlation between love and self-reported partnered orgasm quality. The more women were in love/emotionally close to their partner, the more they tended to report being satisfied with the quality of their partnered orgasm. However, no relationship was found between intensity of love and partnered orgasm frequency. Neuroimaging data expanded these behavioral results by demonstrating the involvement of a specific left-lateralized insula focus of neural activity correlating with orgasm scores, irrespective of dimension (frequency, ease, satisfaction). In contrast, intensity of being in love was correlated with a network involving the angular gyrus. These findings strongly suggest that intimate and sexual relationships are sustained by partly different mechanisms, even if they share some emotional-related mechanisms. The critical correlation between self-reports of orgasm quality and activation of the left anterior insula, a part of the partner-related neural network known to play a pivotal role in somatic processes, suggests the importance of somatic information in the integration of sexual experience. On the other hand, the correlation between activation of the angular gyrus and love intensity reinforces the assumption that the representation of love calls for higher order cognitive levels, such as those related to the generation of abstract concepts. By highlighting the specific role of the anterior insula in the way women integrate components of physical satisfaction in the context of an intimate relationship with a partner, the current findings take a step in the understanding of a woman's sexual pleasure.
Previous neuroimaging studies comparing pain observation with directly-experienced pain have shown conjoint activations in the cingulate cortex between felt and seen pain. However, whereas this phenomenon may be due to the functional-anatomical overlap of a shared neural substrate, it may also reflect neighboring but distinct activations for felt and seen pain respectively, the co-localization of which is made more likely in group-averaged, spatially-smoothed data. This study explores responses to felt and seen pain, and their spatial overlap, on unsmoothed data from single subjects. Significant activation for the statistical conjunction of felt and seen pain effects was present both at the group level and in six of the eleven individual subjects. However, although each subject showed distinct felt and seen pain areas in the cingulate, a conjunction between these activations was not found in every individual. Among those that showed a felt-seen pain conjunction, its location along the gyrus was variable and the conjunction always fell in a spatially intermediate location between the felt and seen pain activations. These results suggest that the BOLD signal conjunction originates from the intersection of adjacent and partially distinct activations--which do not necessarily always overlap-- rather than from a single neural population coding equally for felt and seen pain. This has implications for the interpretation of BOLD data in addressing &quot;mirrorlike&quot; activations in general, whether in action-related or pain-related areas.
Preliminary data suggest an association of posterior cortical gray matter reduction with poor outcome in schizophrenia. We made a systematic MRI assessment of regional gray and white matter volumes, parcellated into 40 Brodmann's areas, in 104 patients with schizophrenia (51 with good outcomes, 53 with poor outcomes) and 41 normal comparison subjects, and investigated correlations of regional morphometry with outcome and severity of the illness. Schizophrenia patients displayed differential reductions in frontal and to a lesser degree temporal gray matter volumes in both hemispheres, most pronounced in the frontal pole and lateral temporal cortex. White matter volumes in schizophrenia patients were bilaterally increased, primarily in the frontal, parietal, and isolated temporal regions, with volume reductions confined to anterior cingulate gyrus. In patients with schizophrenia as a group, higher illness severity was associated with reduced temporal gray matter volumes and expanded frontal white matter volumes in both hemispheres. In comparison to good-outcome group, patients with poor outcomes had lower temporal, occipital, and to a lesser degree parietal gray matter volumes in both hemispheres and temporal, parietal, occipital, and posterior cingulate white matter volumes in the right hemisphere. While gray matter deficits in the granular cortex were observed in all schizophrenia patients, agranular cortical deficits in the left hemisphere were peculiar to patients with poor outcomes. These results provide support for frontotemporal gray matter reduction and frontoparietal white matter expansion in schizophrenia. Poor outcome is associated with more posterior distribution (posteriorization) of both gray and white matter changes, and with preferential impairment in the unimodal visual and paralimbic cortical regions.
Recent work has shown that time-of-day influences drug-seeking behavior. The present experiments tested the hypothesis that the master circadian pacemaker located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus (SCN) is required for generating day:night differences in drug-seeking behavior, specifically the acquisition, extinction, and reinstatement of cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP). Sham and SCN-lesioned (SCNx) rats were trained for cocaine-induced CPP behavior at either ZT4 (Zeitgeber time 4, 4 h after lights-on) or ZT12 (lights-off). After being tested for side preference, rats were allowed to extinguish CPP. This was followed by cocaine-induced reinstatement with 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg of cocaine. SCNx animals exhibited no 24-h locomotor activity rhythm. Acquisition of CPP behavior did not vary with time-of-day, but was greater in SCNx animals. Sham rats tested at ZT12 took significantly longer to extinguish CPP behavior compared to ZT4, an effect completely abolished by SCN lesions. Cocaine-induced reinstatement of CPP did not vary with time of day in sham rats. However, SCNx animals tested at ZT4 trended towards greater reinstatement to the low dose of cocaine, and displayed significantly less reinstatement to the higher dose of cocaine than sham rats. Additionally, SCNx rats tested for reinstatement to the lower dose of cocaine displayed greater reinstatement at ZT4 than at ZT12. We conclude that: 1) acquisition of CPP behavior does not vary between the two times of day tested but is influenced tonically by the SCN, 2) extinction of cocaine CPP varies with time-of-day and this variation depends critically on the SCN, and 3) reinstatement of cocaine CPP does not vary between the two times of day tested. However, day:night differences in reinstatement are unmasked in animals lacking an SCN, suggesting the possibility that an extra-SCN oscillator is responsible for generating variation in this cocaine-seeking behavior.
Green anoles (Anolis carolinensis) possess two sexually dimorphic neuromuscular systems involved in reproductive behaviors. One controls extension of a red throat fan (dewlap), which males employ during courtship, and the other controls intromission of copulatory organs (hemipenes). Although seasonal changes in circulating androgens mediate both courtship and copulatory behaviors, testosterone has differential effects on the underlying neuromuscular morphology. The present experiments were designed to test whether changes in muscle fiber type correspond to seasonal and androgenic regulation of reproductive behaviors in gonadally intact males (Experiment 1) or castrated males treated with either testosterone propionate or vehicle (Experiment 2). Gonadally intact males housed in breeding environmental conditions had a higher percentage of fast oxidative glycolytic fibers in the dewlap muscle than non-breeding males, but no effect of season on copulatory fibers was detected. Interestingly, testosterone treatment increased the percentage of fast oxidative glycolytic dewlap fibers independent of season, suggesting that routine changes in this hormone may mediate fiber type in gonadally intact males. In contrast, testosterone manipulation had little to no effect on copulatory muscle fiber type, demonstrating that a change in this feature is not the primary mediator for seasonal changes in male copulatory behaviors.
To study the pathogenesis of chronic wasting disease (CWD) in deer and elk, transgenic (tg) mice were generated that expressed the prion protein (PrP) of deer containing a glycine at amino acid (aa) 96 and a serine at aa 225 under transcriptional control of the murine PrP promoter. This construct was introduced into murine PrP-deficient mice. As anticipated, neither non-tg mice nor PrP ko mice were susceptible when inoculated intracerebrally (i.c.) or orally with CWD brain material (scrapie pool from six mule deer) and followed for 600+ days (dpi). Deer PrP tg mice were not susceptible to i.c. inoculation with murine scrapie. In contrast, a fatal neurologic disease occurred accompanied by conversion of deer PrPsen to PrPres by western blot and immunohistochemistry after either i.c. inoculation with CWD brain into two lines of tg mice studied (312+32 dpi [mean+2 standard errors] for the heterozygous tg line 33, 275+46 dpi for the heterozygous tg line 39 and 210 dpi for the homozygous tg line 33) or after oral inoculation (381+55 dpi for the homozygous tg line 33 and 370+26 dpi for the homozygous tg line 39). Kinetically, following oral inoculation of CWD brain, PrPres was observed by day 200 when mice were clinically healthy in the posterior surface of the dorsum of the tongue primarily in serous and mucous glands, in the intestines, in large cells at the splenic marginal zone that anatomically resembled follicular dendritic cells and macrophages and in the olfactory bulb and brain stem but did not occur in the cerebellum, cerebral cortex or hippocampus or in hearts, lungs and livers of infected mice. After 350 days when mice become clinically ill the cerebellum, cerebral cortex and hippocampus became positive for PrPres and displayed massive spongiosis, neuronal drop out, gliosis and florid plaques.



This article begins the synthesis of two currently unrelated literatures: the human capital approach to health economics and the economics of cognitive and noncognitive skill formation. A lifecycle investment framework is the foundation for understanding the origins of human inequality and for devising policies to reduce it.
Expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 has been shown to increase in the hippocampus and cortex following chronic administration of mood stabilizers such as lithium and valproate, but the effects of long-term antidepressant administration have not been demonstrated. CD1 mice were dosed either acutely or chronically with either antidepressants or 5-HT receptor subtype selective antagonists. Cortex, hippocampus and hypothalamus from these mice were analysed by Western blot for changes in expression of Bcl-2 and Bax protein. Fourteen day but not acute treatment with citalopram (20 mg/kg), imipramine (10 mg/kg) and amitriptyline (10 mg/kg) in mice significantly elevated hippocampal Bcl-2 protein expression as compared to vehicle treated animals (59, 48 and 42% respectively). Similarly, fourteen day but not acute treatment with the 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2C/2B) receptor antagonists WAY100635 (0.3 mg/kg) and SB221284 (1 mg/kg) also markedly and significantly increased hippocampal Bcl-2 expression (95 and 52% respectively). Bcl-2 expression was unaffected in cortex by any treatment. There was a smaller increase of hippocampal Bax protein levels following treatment with imipramine after 1 or 14 days, and following citalopram and amitriptyline after 14 but not 1 day. These data present the first substantive evidence that clinically used antidepressants increase the expression of hippocampal Bcl-2 as did chronic blockade of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2C/2B) receptors, which may be involved in the mechanism of action of antidepressants. The induction of hippocampal Bcl-2 expression by long-term antidepressant treatment may contribute to the clinical efficacy of such compounds via its well described neurotrophic and/or anti-apoptotic effects on neuronal function.
Tau in Alzheimer disease brain is highly phosphorylated and aggregated into paired helical filaments comprising characteristic neurofibrillary tangles. Here we have analyzed insoluble Tau (PHF-tau) extracted from Alzheimer brain by mass spectrometry and identified 11 novel phosphorylation sites, 10 of which were assigned unambiguously to specific amino acid residues. This brings the number of directly identified sites in PHF-tau to 39, with an additional six sites indicated by reactivity with phosphospecific antibodies to Tau. We also identified five new phosphorylation sites in soluble Tau from control adult human brain, bringing the total number of reported sites to nine. To assess which kinases might be responsible for Tau phosphorylation, we used mass spectrometry to determine which sites were phosphorylated in vitro by several kinases. Casein kinase 1delta and glycogen synthase kinase-3beta were each found to phosphorylate numerous sites, and each kinase phosphorylated at least 15 sites that are also phosphorylated in PHF-tau from Alzheimer brain. A combination of casein kinase 1delta and glycogen synthase kinase-3beta activities could account for over three-quarters of the serine/threonine phosphorylation sites identified in PHF-tau, indicating that casein kinase 1delta may have a role, together with glycogen synthase kinase-3beta, in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease.
Cells in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) facilitate motivated behaviors, and the activity of VTA neurons is regulated by dense projections from the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA). Orexin (Orx) neurons in the lateral and perifornical hypothalamus play important roles in arousal, feeding, and energy metabolism. Orx cells contribute substantially to the LHA projection to the rat midbrain. However, the morphological features of Orx fibers in the VTA and whether they synapse onto dopamine (DA) or gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons have not yet been investigated. We utilized immunoperoxidase and immunogold-silver staining to examine the morphological features and synaptic incidence of Orx-labeled axons in the VTA. We then combined immunoperoxidase labeling for Orx with immunogold-silver labeling for GABA or for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in DA neurons. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that most Orx-labeled axons in the VTA were passing fibers. The less common Orx varicosities were occasionally apposed to TH- or GABA-labeled dendrites without synapsing. Only a small proportion of Orx-positive axons synapsed onto dendrites or soma. The synapses included both asymmetric and symmetric types and targeted TH- and GABA-labeled profiles with equal frequency. These findings suggest that most Orx fibers in the VTA are axons passing to caudal brainstem structures. However, Orx does mediate some direct synaptic influence on VTA DA and GABA neurons. Additional nonsynaptic effects are suggested by the presence of numerous dense-cored vesicles. These studies have important implications for understanding the mechanisms whereby Orx can alter behavior through regulating VTA DA and GABA cell activity.
Presynaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid type B receptors (GABA(B)Rs) regulate transmitter release at many central synapses by inhibiting Ca(2+) channels. However, the mechanisms by which GABA(B)Rs modulate neurotransmission at descending terminals synapsing on motoneurons in the spinal cord remain unexplored. To address this issue, we characterized the effects of baclofen, an agonist of GABA(B)Rs, on the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked in motoneurons by stimulation of the dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) terminals in a slice preparation from the turtle spinal cord. We found that baclofen depressed neurotransmission in a dose-dependent manner (IC(50) of approximately 2 microM). The membrane time constant of the motoneurons did not change, whereas the amplitude ratio of the evoked EPSPs in response to a paired pulse was altered in the presence of the drug, suggesting a presynaptic mechanism. Likewise, the use of N- and P/Q-type Ca(2+) channel antagonists (omega-conotoxin GVIA and omega-agatoxin IVA, respectively) also depressed EPSPs significantly. Therefore, these channels are likely involved in the Ca(2+) influx that triggers transmitter release from DLF terminals. To determine whether the N and P/Q channels were regulated by GABA(B)R activation, we analyzed the action of the toxins in the presence of baclofen. Interestingly, baclofen occluded omega-conotoxin GVIA action by approximately 50% without affecting omega-agatoxin IVA inhibition, indicating that the N-type channels are the target of GABA(B)Rs. Lastly, the mechanism underlying this effect was further assessed by inhibiting G-proteins with N-ethylmaleimide (NEM). Our data show that EPSP depression caused by baclofen was prevented by NEM, suggesting that GABA(B)Rs inhibit N-type channels via G-protein activation.
Most excitatory inputs onto pyramidal neurons are made on dendritic spines. The geometry of dendritic spines modulates synaptic function; yet we know little regarding the molecular signals that regulate spine geometry. Here we report that neurons coordinately regulate the geometry of spines to compensate for variability in spine number, by a process requiring the transcription factor CREB and the kinase MKK1. We find that CREB function is induced, whereas MKK1 is inhibited, by activity blockade. To obtain evidence that CREB and MKK1 regulate dendritic spine geometry in vivo, we coexpressed green fluorescent protein and dominant negative CREB or MKK1 in pyramidal neurons of the intact rat visual cortex. Spines on apical dendrites of layer 3 neurons were then characterized by confocal microscopy. We find that CREB and MKK1 regulate spine geometry in opposite ways. MKK1 is required to reduce spine head size when spine density is high, whereas CREB is required to enlarge spines when spine density is low. Our data suggest that CREB and MKK1 might function as complementary negative feedback mechanisms to maintain synaptic drive within bounds.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is a well-known inflammatory mediator that enhances the excitability of DRG neurons. Homomeric P2X3 and heteromeric P2X2/3 receptors are abundantly expressed in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons and participate in the transmission of nociceptive signals. The interaction between PGE2 and P2X3 receptors has not been well delineated. We studied the actions of PGE2 on ATP-activated currents in dissociated DRG neurons under voltage-clamp conditions. PGE2 had no effects on P2X2/3 receptor-mediated responses, but significantly potentiated fast-inactivating ATP currents mediated by homomeric P2X3 receptors. PGE2 exerted its action by activating EP3 receptors. To study the mechanism underlying the action of PGE2, we found that the adenylyl cyclase activator, forskolin and the membrane-permeable cAMP analogue, 8-Br-cAMP increased ATP currents, mimicking the effect of PGE2. In addition, forskolin occluded the enhancement produced by PGE2. The protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitors, H89 and PKA-I blocked the PGE2 effect. In contrast, the PKC inhibitor, bisindolymaleimide (Bis) did not change the potentiating action of PGE2. We further showed that PGE2 enhanced alpha,beta-meATP-induced allodynia and hyperalgesia and the enhancement was blocked by H89. These observations suggest that PGE2 binds to EP3 receptors, resulting in the activation of cAMP/PKA signaling pathway and leading to an enhancement of P2X3 homomeric receptor-mediated ATP responses in DRG neurons.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a stress-related mental disorder caused by traumatic experience, and presents with characteristic symptoms, such as intrusive memories, a state of hyperarousal, and avoidance, that endure for years. Single-prolonged stress (SPS) is one of the animal models proposed for PTSD. Rats exposed to SPS showed enhanced inhibition of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, which has been reliably reproduced in patients with PTSD, and increased expression of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in the hippocampus. In this study, we characterized further neuroendocrinologic, behavioral and electrophysiological alterations in SPS rats. Plasma corticosterone recovered from an initial increase within a week, and gross histological changes and neuronal cell death were not observed in the hippocampus of the SPS rats. Behavioral analyses revealed that the SPS rats presented enhanced acoustic startle and impaired spatial memory that paralleled the deficits in hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and depression. Contextual fear memory was enhanced in the rats 1 week after SPS exposure, whereas LTP in the amygdala was blunted. Interestingly, blockade of GR activation by administering 17-beta-hydroxy-11-beta-/4-/[methyl]-[1-methylethyl]aminophenyl/-17-alpha-[prop-1-ynyl]estra-4-9-diene-3-one (RU40555), a GR antagonist, prior to SPS exposure prevented potentiation of fear conditioning and impairment of LTP in the CA1 region. Altogether, SPS caused a number of behavioral changes similar to those described in PTSD, which marks SPS as a putative PTSD model. The preventive effects of a GR antagonist suggested that GR activation might play a critical role in producing the altered behavior and neuronal function of SPS rats.
The spatial and temporal patterns of action potential initiations were studied in a behaving leech preparation to determine the basis of increased firing that accompanies sensitization, a form of non-associative learning requiring the S-interneurons. Little is known at the network level about mechanisms of behavioral sensitization. The S-interneurons, one in each ganglion and linked by electrical synapses with both neighbors to form a chain, are interposed between sensory and motor neurons. In sensitized preparations the strength of shortening is related to S-cell firing, which itself is the result of impulses initiating in several S-cells. Because the S-cells, as independent initiation sites, all contribute to activity in the chain, it was hypothesized that during sensitization, increased multi-site activity increased the chain's firing rate. However, it was found that during sensitization, the single site with the largest initiation rate, the S-cell in the stimulated segment, suppressed initiations in adjacent ganglia. Experiments showed this was both because (1) it received the earliest, greatest input and (2) the delayed synaptic input to the adjacent S-cells coincided with the action potential refractory period. A compartmental model of the S-cell and its inputs showed that a simple, intrinsic mechanism of inexcitability after each action potential may account for suppression of impulse initiations. Thus, a non-synaptic competition between neurons alters synaptic integration in the chain. In one mode, inputs to different sites sum independently, whereas in another, synaptic input to a single site precisely specifies the overall pattern of activity.
Rab3a is a small GTP binding protein associated with presynaptic vesicles that is thought to regulate vesicle targeting to active zones. Although this rab3a function implies that vesicle docking and action potential-evoked release might be inhibited in rab3a gene-deleted synapses, such inhibition has never been demonstrated. To investigate vesicle docking at the neuromuscular junction of rab3a gene-deleted (rab3a(-)) mice, we performed electron microscopy analysis of the diaphragm slow-fatigue (type I) synapses. We found a significant (26%) reduction in the number of vesicles docked to the presynaptic membrane in rab3a(-) terminals, although intraterminal vesicles were not affected. Aiming to detect possible changes in quantal release due to rab3a gene deletion, we minimized the variability between preparations employing focal recordings of synaptic responses from visualized type I endplates. We found a significant decrease in both evoked (27% reduction in quantal content) and spontaneous (28% reduction in mini frequency) quantal release. The decrease in the evoked release produced by rab3a deletion was most pronounced at reduced extracellular Ca(2+) concentrations (over 50% decrease at 0.5 and 0.2 mM Ca(2+)). By manipulating extracellular calcium, we demonstrated that calcium cooperativity is not altered in rab3a(-) synapses, however calcium sensitivity of quantal release is affected. Thus, we demonstrated that rab3a positively regulates docking and basal quantal release at the mouse neuromuscular junction. This result is consistent with the proposed role of rab3a in trafficking and targeting vesicles to the active zones.
While activation of alpha7 nicotinic receptors protects neurons from a variety of apoptotic insults in vitro, little is known about this neuroprotective action in vivo, especially under amyloidogenic conditions that mimic Alzheimer's disease. We therefore investigated the effects of 4OH-GTS-21, a selective partial agonist for these receptors, on septohippocampal cholinergic and GABAergic neuron survival following fimbria fornix (FFX) lesions in three strains of mice: C57BL/6J wild type mice; human presenilin-1 mutant M146L (PS1) transgenic mice; and mice expressing both mutant PS1 and Swedish mutant K670N/M671L amyloid precursor protein (APP). Initial studies to demonstrated that 4OH-GTS-21 is likely brain permeant based on its ability to improve passive avoidance and Morris water task behaviors in nucleus basalis-lesioned rats. In FFX-lesioned mice, twice per day i.p. injections of 1 mg/kg of 4OH-GTS-21 for 2 weeks promoted the survival and prevented the atrophy of septal cholinergic neurons. Septal parvalbumin-staining GABAergic neurons were not protected by this treatment, although they also express alpha7 nicotinic receptors, suggesting an indirect, nerve growth factor (NGF)-mediated mechanism. No protection of cholinergic neurons was observed in similarly treated PS1 or APP/PS1 transgenic mice. 4OH-GTS-21 treatment actually reduced cholinergic neuronal size in APP/PS1 mice. Hippocampal amyloid deposition was not affected by FFX lesions or treatment with this alpha7 nicotinic receptor agonist in APP/PS1 mice under these conditions. These results indicate that brain alpha7 nicotinic receptors are potential targets for protecting at-risk brain neurons in Alzheimer's disease, perhaps via their effects on NGF receptors; however, this protection may be sensitive under some conditions to environmental factors such as inhibitory amyloid-peptides.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARPs) are members of a family of enzymes that utilize nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) as substrate to form large ADP-ribose polymers (PAR) in the nucleus. PAR has a very short half-life due to its rapid degradation by poly(ADP-ribose) glycohydrolase (PARG). PARP-1 mediates acute neuronal cell death induced by a variety of insults including cerebral ischemia, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced Parkinsonism, and CNS trauma. While PARP-1 is localized to the nucleus, PARG resides in both the nucleus and cytoplasm. Surprisingly, there appears to be only one gene encoding PARG activity, which has been characterized in vitro to generate different splice variants, in contrast to the growing family of PARPs. Little is known regarding the spatial and functional relationships of PARG and PARP-1. Here we evaluate PARG expression in the brain and its cellular and subcellular distribution in relation to PARP-1. Anti-PARG (alpha-PARG) antibodies raised in rabbits using a purified 30 kDa C-terminal fragment of murine PARG recognize a single band at 111 kDa in the brain. Western blot analysis also shows that PARG and PARP-1 are evenly distributed throughout the brain. Immunohistochemical studies using alpha-PARG antibodies reveal punctate cytosolic staining, whereas anti-PARP-1 (alpha-PARP-1) antibodies demonstrate nuclear staining. PARG is enriched in the mitochondrial fraction together with manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and cytochrome C (Cyt C) following whole brain subcellular fractionation and Western blot analysis. Confocal microscopy confirms the co-localization of PARG and Cyt C. Finally, PARG translocation to the nucleus is triggered by NMDA-induced PARP-1 activation. Therefore, the subcellular segregation of PARG in the mitochondria and PARP-1 in the nucleus suggests that PARG translocation is necessary for their functional interaction. This translocation is PARP-1 dependent, further demonstrating a functional interaction of PARP-1 and PARG in the brain.
To date, the neurochemical basis underlying the motor and cognitive deficits described in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) is unclear. Since the neuropeptide somatostatin (SRIF) and the striatum have been implicated in movement control and implicit memory, the aim of this study was to analyze the striatal somatostatinergic system in an animal model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Female Lewis rats were immunized with an emulsion containing myelin basic protein (MBP) in complete Freund's adjuvant to induce the disease. The animals were decapitated when limp tail (grade 1) or severe hind limb paralysis (grade 3) was observed. Acute EAE in grade 3 did not modify striatal somatostatin-like immunoreactivity (SRIF-LI) content but decreased the overall SRIF receptor density, without affecting the apparent affinity, in the rat striatal membranes. A selective reduction in the protein levels of the SRIF receptor subtype sst2, analyzed by Western blotting, was detected in the EAE rats, which correlated with decreased sst2 mRNA levels. The expression of the receptor subtypes sst1, sst3 or sst4 was unaltered by the disease. The decrease in the SRIF receptor density was accompanied by an attenuated capacity of SRIF to inhibit both basal and forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity. No significant changes, however, were found in the protein levels of Gi proteins (G(ialpha1), G(ialpha2) or G(ialpha3)) nor in those of the G-protein-coupled receptor kinase subtypes GRK2, GRK5 or GRK6. Acute EAE in grade 1 did not modify any of the parameters studied. In conclusion, these data demonstrate that acute EAE, in grade 3, disrupts the rat striatal SRIF receptor-effector system. These findings provide new insight into the molecular basis of EAE which might contribute to a better understanding of multiple sclerosis in humans.
The adult hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) is a site of continuing neurogenesis. This process is influenced by a variety of physiological and experiential stimuli including total sleep deprivation (TSD). In humans, sleep fragmentation (SF) is a more common sleep condition than TSD. SF is associated with several prevalent diseases. We assessed a hypothesis that SF would suppress adult neurogenesis in the DG of the adult rat. An intermittent treadmill system was used; the treadmill was on for 3 s and off for 30 s (SF). For sleep fragmentation control (SFC), the treadmill was on for 15 min and off for 150 min. SF was conducted for three durations: 1, 4 and 7 days. To label proliferating cells, the thymidine analog, 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU), was injected 2 h prior to the end of each experiment. Expression of the intrinsic proliferative marker, Ki67, was also studied. SF rats exhibited an increased number of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep bouts with no change in the percent of time spent in this stage. The numbers of both BrdU-positive cells and Ki67-positive cells were reduced by approximately 70% (P&lt;0.05) in the SF groups after 4 and 7 days of experimental conditions whereas no differences were observed after 1 day. In a second experiment, we found that the percentage of new cells expressing a neuronal phenotype 3 weeks after BrdU administration was lower in the SF in comparison with the SFC group for all three durations of SF. We also examined the effects of SF on proliferation in adrenalectomized (ADX) animals, with basal corticosterone replacement. ADX SF animals exhibited a 55% reduction in the number of BrdU-positive cells when compared with ADX SFC. Thus, elevated glucocorticoids do not account for most of the reduction in cell proliferation induced by the SF procedure, although a small contribution of stress is not excluded. The results show that sustained SF induced marked reduction in hippocampal neurogenesis.
We investigated the cellular and subcellular distributions of neuregulin tyrosine kinase receptor ErbB4 in the postnatal rat frontal cortex and hippocampus by light-, confocal- and electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry. At birth, ErbB4-immunoreactivity (ErbB4-IR) was prominent in the apical cytoplasm and dendrites of cortical plate neurons and hippocampal pyramidal cells. Throughout postnatal development and in adulthood, ErbB4-IR in both regions remained confined to the somatodendritic compartment of neurons, which increased in number to reach the adult pattern by the end of the first postnatal month (P30). At all ages examined, double-labeling experiments revealed that ErbB4-IR always co-localized with the neuronal marker neuronal nuclei (NeuN) and never with glial markers Nestin or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Immunoperoxidase labeling at the ultrastructural level confirmed the exclusive localization of ErbB4-IR in somatodendrites, and notably in dendritic spines. Immunogold labeling showed preponderant ErbB4-IR in the cytoplasm, where it was associated with microtubules. Furthermore, ErbB4-IR was abundant in the nucleus of adult cortical and hippocampal neurons, suggesting a role for ErbB4 nuclear signaling in the brain beyond embryonic development. Taken together, these results show that ErbB4 is expressed by neuronal somatodendrites in cerebral cortex and hippocampus from birth to adulthood, and support a role for neuregulins in dendritic growth and plasticity.
Neurotransmitter release at CNS synapses occurs via both action potential-dependent and independent mechanisms, and it has generally been accepted that these two forms of release are regulated in parallel. We examined the effects of activation of group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) on stimulus-evoked and spontaneous glutamate release onto entorhinal cortical neurones in rats, and found a differential regulation of action potential-dependent and independent forms of release. Activation of presynaptic mGluRs depressed the amplitude of stimulus-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents, but concurrently enhanced the frequency of spontaneous excitatory currents. Moreover, these differential effects on glutamate release were mediated by pharmacologically separable mechanisms. Application of the specific activator of adenylyl cyclase, forskolin, mimicked the effect of mGluR activation on spontaneous, but not evoked release, and inhibition of adenylyl cyclase with 9-tetrahydro-2-furanyl)-9H-purin-6-amine (SQ22536) blocked mGluR-mediated enhancement of spontaneous release, but not depression of evoked release. Occlusion studies with calcium channel blockers suggested that the group III mGluRs might depress evoked release through inhibition of both N and P/Q, but not R-type calcium channels. We suggest that the concurrent depression of action potential-evoked, and enhancement of action potential-independent glutamate release operate through discrete second messenger/effector systems at excitatory entorhinal terminals in rat brain.
The N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors plays an important role in brain physiology, but excessive receptor stimulation results in seizures and excitotoxic nerve cell death. NMDA receptor-mediated neuronal excitation and injury can be prevented by high, non-physiological concentrations of the neuroinhibitory tryptophan metabolite kynurenic acid (KYNA). Here we report that endogenous KYNA, which is formed in and released from astrocytes, controls NMDA receptors in vivo. This was revealed with the aid of the dopaminergic drugs d-amphetamine and apomorphine, which cause rapid, transient decreases in striatal KYNA levels in rats. Intrastriatal injections of the excitotoxins NMDA or quinolinate (but not the non-NMDA receptor agonist kainate) at the time of maximal KYNA reduction resulted in two- to threefold increases in excitotoxic lesion size. Pre-treatment with a kynurenine 3-hydroxylase inhibitor or with dopamine receptor antagonists, i.e., two classes of pharmacological agents that prevented the reduction in brain KYNA caused by dopaminergic stimulation, abolished the potentiation of neurotoxicity. Thus, the present study identifies a previously unappreciated role of KYNA as a functional link between dopamine receptor stimulation and NMDA neurotoxicity in the striatum.
Using voltage-sensitive dye recording, we surveyed neural responses related to the vagus nerve in the embryonic chick brainstem. In our previous studies, we identified four vagus nerve-related response areas in the brainstem. On the stimulated side, they included (1) the nucleus of the tractus solitarius (NTS: the primary sensory nucleus) and (2) the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve (DMNV), whereas on the contralateral side, they corresponded to (3) the parabrachial nucleus (PBN: the second/higher-ordered nucleus) and (4) the medullary non-NTS region. In the present study, in addition to these areas, we identified another response area circumflex to the obex. The intensity of the optical signal in the response area was much smaller than that in the NTS/DMNV, and the spatio-temporal pattern could be discerned after signal averaging. The conduction rate to the response area was slower than that to the other four areas. Ontogenetically, the response area was distributed on the stimulated side at the 6-day embryonic stage, and it spread into the contralateral side in 7- and 8-day embryonic stages. These distribution patterns were consistent with projection patterns of vagal afferent fibers stained with a fluorescent tracer, suggesting that the response area included a primary sensory nucleus. In comparison with the functional development of the other four response areas, we traced the functional organization of vagus nerve-related nuclei in the embryonic brainstem.
Simultaneous electrophysiology and confocal microscopy were used to investigate purinergic neurotransmission at single smooth muscle cells (SMCs) in mouse isolated vas deferens, and to explore the relationship between two high-resolution P2X-receptor-mediated measures of per pulse ATP release: transient peaks in the first time derivative of the rising phase of excitatory junction potentials (EJPs) recorded in single SMCs ('discrete events'; DEs) and neuroeffector Ca(2+) transients (NCTs) in the impaled SMCs. This study shows that discrete events represent neurotransmitter release onto the impaled cell. First, the median amplitude of the first derivative of the EJP was larger when there was a coincident NCT in the impaled cell, compared with instances when no coincident NCT occurred. Second, the time-to-peak amplitude of the first derivative was shorter if there was a coincident NCT in the impaled cell, compared with when no coincident NCT was observed within the field. Surprisingly, first derivative amplitude increased with the distance (of the corresponding NCT) from the microelectrode. The microelectrode did not locally inhibit the functional quantal size as there was no effect of distance on the normalized NCT amplitude. When the significant effect of distance (between the microelectrode and NCTs) on the first derivative amplitude was removed, there was no correlation between the unstandardized residual (of distance vs. first derivative amplitude) and NCT amplitude. The absence of a correlation between DE and NCT amplitudes suggests that the NCT amplitude is a poor measure of quantal size. The usefulness of NCTs hence lies primarily in locating neurotransmitter release and measuring changes in local release probability.
T1R2/T1R3 heterodimers are selectively responsive to sweet substances whereas T1R1/T1R3 receptors are selective for umami substances, represented by monosodium glutamate (MSG), and for L-amino acids. If a single receptor is responsible for detection of umami and L-amino acids, then it would be predicted that MSG and L-amino acids elicit similar tastes in rats. The present study compared the taste profile of MSG with four amino acids (glycine, L-proline, L-serine and L-arginine) using conditioned taste aversion, detection threshold, and taste discrimination methods. These experiments were designed to either reduce or neutralize the taste of sodium associated with MSG and the other amino acids. Detection threshold studies showed that rats were most sensitive to L-arginine and least sensitive to L-proline. Glycine and L-serine thresholds were similar to those previously reported for MSG. Like MSG, a conditioned taste aversion to each of the four amino acids generalized to sucrose in the presence of amiloride, a sodium channel blocker. Rats showed moderate generalization of aversion between MSG and L-arginine, suggesting that these two amino acids taste only moderately alike. However, the taste aversion experiments indicated that glycine, L-serine, and L-proline elicit taste sensations similar to MSG when amiloride is present. Discrimination experiments further compared the tastes of these three amino acids with MSG. When the sodium taste associated with MSG was reduced or neutralized, glycine and L-proline elicited tastes very similar but not identical to the taste of MSG. Low (but not higher) concentrations of L-serine were also difficult for rats to discriminate from MSG. While there are taste qualities common to all of these amino acids, the perceptual differences found in this study, combined with previous reports, suggest either multiple taste receptors and/or multiple signaling pathways may be involved in umami and amino acid taste perception in rats.
Two novel mutations (R85C and R85H) on the extracellular immunoglobulin-like domain of the sodium channel beta1 subunit have been identified in individuals from two families with generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+). The functional consequences of these two mutations were determined by co-expression of the human brain NaV1.2 alpha subunit with wild type or mutant beta1 subunits in human embryonic kidney (HEK)-293T cells. Patch clamp studies confirmed the regulatory role of beta1 in that relative to NaV1.2 alone the NaV1.2+beta1 currents had right-shifted voltage dependence of activation, fast and slow inactivation and reduced use dependence. In addition, the NaV1.2+beta1 current entered fast inactivation slightly faster than NaV1.2 channels alone. The beta1(R85C) subunit appears to be a complete loss of function in that none of the modulating effects of the wild type beta1 were observed when it was co-expressed with NaV1.2. Interestingly, the beta1(R85H) subunit also failed to modulate fast kinetics, however, it shifted the voltage dependence of steady state slow inactivation in the same way as the wild type beta1 subunit. Immunohistochemical studies revealed cell surface expression of the wild type beta1 subunit and undetectable levels of cell surface expression for both mutants. The functional studies suggest association of the beta1(R85H) subunit with the alpha subunit where its influence is limited to modulating steady state slow inactivation. In summary, the mutant beta1 subunits essentially fail to modulate alpha subunits which could increase neuronal excitability and underlie GEFS+ pathogenesis.
Previous studies indicated that the expression of neuropsin, a serine protease, is induced in mature oligodendrocytes after injury to the CNS. The pathophysiology of spinal cord injury (SCI) involves primary and secondary mechanisms, the latter contributing further to permanent losses of function. To explore the role of neuropsin after SCI, histochemical and behavioral analyses were performed in wild-type (WT) and neuropsin-deficient (neuropsin(-/-)) mice using a crush injury model, a well-characterized and consistently reproducible model of SCI. In situ hybridization revealed that neuropsin mRNA expression was induced in the spinal cord white matter from WT mice after crush SCI, peaking at day 4. Neuropsin(-/-) mice showed attenuated demyelination, oligodendrocyte death, and axonal damage after SCI. Although axonal degeneration in the corticospinal tract was obvious caudal to the lesion site in both strains of mice after SCI, the number of surviving nerve fibers caudal to the lesion was significantly larger in neuropsin(-/-) mice than WT mice. Behavioral analysis revealed that the recovery at days 10-42 was significantly improved in neuropsin(-/-) mice compared with WT mice in spite of the severe initial hindlimb impairments due to SCI in both strains. These observations suggest that neuropsin is involved in the secondary phase of the pathogenesis of SCI mediated by demyelination, oligodendrocyte death, and axonal degeneration.
Interrupting a focal, chronic infusion of GABA to the rat motor cortex initiates the progressive emergence of a sustained spiking electroencephalographic (EEG) activity, associated with myoclonic jerks of the corresponding body territory. This activity is maintained over several hours, has an average frequency of 1.5 Hz, is localized to the infusion site and never generalizes. The GABA withdrawal syndrome (GWS) has therefore features of partial status epilepticus. Changes in EEG signals associated with the GWS were studied in freely moving rats by measuring the phase synchrony between bilateral epidural records from the neocortex. Our results showed (i) epileptic activity was associated with a striking decrease in phase synchrony between all pairs of electrodes including the focus, predominantly in the 1-6 Hz frequency range. There was a mean decrease of 75.34+/-5.26% in phase synchrony levels between the period before GABA interruption and the period after epileptic activity appeared. (ii) This reduction in synchrony contrasted with an increase of power spectral density in the corresponding EEG channels over the same 1-6 Hz frequency range, (iii) neither changes in synchrony nor in nonlinear dynamics were detected before the first EEG spikes, (iv) systemic injection of ketamine, an antagonist of N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors, modified transiently both epileptic activity and the synchrony profile. (v) Spiking activity and synchrony changes were suppressed by reperfusion of GABA. Our data suggest that, during a partial status epilepticus, interactions between the epileptic focus and connected neocortical neuronal populations are dramatically decreased in low frequencies.
4-Aminopyridine (4-AP), a potassium channel blocker, is capable of restoring conduction in the injured spinal cord. However, the maximal tolerated level of 4-AP in humans is 100 times lower than the optimal dose in in vitro animal studies due to its substantially negative side effects. As an initial step toward the goal of identifying alternative potassium channel blockers with a similar ability of enhancing conduction and with fewer side effects, we have synthesized structurally distinct pyridine-based blockers. Using isolated guinea-pig spinal cord white matter and a double sucrose gap recording device, we have found three pyridine derivatives, N-(4-pyridyl)-methyl carbamate (100 microM), N-(4-pyridyl)-ethyl carbamate (100 microM), and N-(4-pyridyl)-tertbutyl (10 microM) can significantly enhance conduction in spinal cord white matter following stretch. Similar to 4-AP, the derivatives did not preferentially enhance conduction based on axonal caliber. Unlike 4-AP, the derivatives did not change the overall electrical responsiveness of axons to multiple stimuli, indicating the axons recruited by the derivatives conducted in a manner similar to healthy axons. These results demonstrate the ability of novel constructs to serve as an alternative to 4-AP for the purpose of reversing conduction deficits.
OFF-center retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) occupy a smaller proportion than ON RGCs when RGCs regenerate axons into a transplanted peripheral nerve. We examined whether the regeneration ability of OFF RGCs in adult cats was promoted when the numbers of regenerating RGCs were increased with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)+ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF)+forskolin (BCF) or 3,4-dihydro-8-(2-hydroxy-3-isopropylamino)-propoxy-3-nitroxy-2H-1-benzopyran (nipradilol), an anti-glaucoma drug. ON or OFF RGCs were morphologically determined on the basis of their dendritic ramification in the inner plexiform layer using computational analysis. In the normal intact retina the ratio of ON and OFF RGCs (ON/OFF ratio) was 1.25 (55%/44%); whereas, it was 2.61 in regenerating RGCs with saline injection (control) 6 weeks after peripheral nerve transplantation. Estimated numbers of regenerating ON and OFF RGCs were 2149 and 895, respectively. An injection of BCF increased only numbers of ON RGCs into 5766 (2.7-fold to control) but not that of OFF RGCs, n=858. Nipradilol increased both estimated numbers of ON (11,518, 5.4-fold to control) and OFF RGCs (7330, 8.2-fold to control). In the retinas with optic nerve (OpN) transection and intravitreal saline-, BCF- or nipradilol-injection, numbers of ON and OFF RGCs surviving axotomy showed similar trend to that in regenerating RGCs. Thus, nipradilol promoted the survival and regeneration abilities of both of ON and OFF RGCs whereas BCF only did the abilities of ON RGCs. The distribution of tropo-myosin-related kinase B, BDNF receptor, was sparser in the outer two thirds of inner plexiform layer. The lower surviving ability of OFF-RGCs may be attributed in part to the distribution.
Although male reproductive function is primarily androgen dependent, many studies suggest that estrogens have direct actions on the male reproductive organs. Pelvic autonomic neurons provide the motor control of the internal reproductive organs and the penis and various properties of these neurons are affected by endogenous androgens. However, the possible role of estrogens at this site has not been examined. Here we have investigated the significance of estrogens produced by aromatization of testosterone (T) in the physiological actions of androgens on adult male rat pelvic ganglion neurons. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) studies showed that aromatase and both estrogen receptors (ERalpha and ERbeta) are expressed in these ganglia. Western blotting also showed that aromatase is expressed in male pelvic ganglia. Using immunohistochemical visualization, ERalpha was predominantly expressed by nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-positive parasympathetic pelvic ganglion neurons. In vivo studies showed that the decrease in pelvic ganglion soma size caused by gonadectomy could be prevented by administration of T or dihydrotestosterone (DHT), but not 17beta-estradiol (E2), showing that this maintenance action of testosterone is mediated entirely by androgenic mechanisms. However, in vitro studies of cultured pelvic ganglion neurons revealed that T, DHT and E each stimulated the growth of longer and more complex neurites in both noradrenergic and cholinergic NOS-expressing neurons. The effects of T were attenuated by either androgen or estrogen receptor antagonists, or by inhibition of aromatase. Together these studies demonstrate that estrogens are likely to be synthesized in the male pelvic ganglia, produced from T by local aromatase. The effects of androgens on axonal growth are likely to be at least partly mediated by estrogenic mechanisms, which may be important for understanding disease-, aging- and injury-induced plasticity in this part of the nervous system.

We investigated epileptogenesis after cortical photothrombotic stroke induced with Rose Bengal dye in adult Sprague-Dawley rats. To detect spontaneous seizures, video-electroencephalograms were recorded at 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 months for 7-14 days (24 h/day). At the end, spatial and emotional learning and memory were assessed using the Morris water-maze and fear-conditioning test, respectively, and the brains were processed for histologic analysis. Seizures were detected in 18% of rats that received photothrombosis. The average seizure frequency was 0.39 seizures per recording day and mean seizure duration was 117 s. Over 60% of seizures occurred during the dark hours. Rats with photothrombotic lesions were impaired in the water-maze (P&lt;0.05) but not in the fear-conditioning test as compared with controls. Histology revealed that lesion depth varied from cortical layers I to VI in photothrombotic rats with epilepsy. Epileptic rats had light mossy fiber sprouting in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus both ipsilateral and contralateral to the lesion. This study extends the current understanding of epileptogenesis and functional impairment after cortical lesions induced by photothrombosis. Our observations support the hypothesis that photothrombotic stroke in rats is a useful animal model for investigating the mechanisms of post-stroke epileptogenesis.
We previously reported that orthovanadate composed of vanadate (V(5+)) activates phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) signaling through inhibition of protein tyrosine phosphatases, thereby eliciting neuroprotection in brain ischemia/reperfusion injury. However, therapeutic doses of orthovanadate are associated with diarrhea due to inhibition of ATPase. By contrast, vanadyl (V(4+)) organic compounds show low cytotoxicity. Since both vanadate and vanadyl inhibit protein tyrosine phosphatases, we tested whether bis(1-oxy-2-pyridinethiolato)oxovanadium(IV) [VO(OPT)] in a vanadyl form elicits a neuroprotection in brain ischemia. In a mouse transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model, pre- and post-treatments with VO(OPT) significantly reduced infarct volume in a dose-dependent manner. Like orthovanadate, activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway mediated neuroprotective action. VO(OPT) treatment inhibited reduced Akt phosphorylation at Ser-473 following brain ischemia and restored decreased phosphorylation of forkhead box class O (FOXO) family members such as FKHR, FKHRL1, and AFX. Consistent with inhibition of FOXO dephosphorylation, VO(OPT) treatment blocked elevated expression of Fas-ligand, Bim and active caspase-3 24 h after ischemia/reperfusion. Taken together, a vanadyl compound, VO(OPT) elicits neuroprotective effects on brain ischemia/reperfusion injury without apparent side effects.
Metallothioneins (MTs) are small cysteine-rich proteins found widely throughout the mammalian body, including the CNS. MT-1 and -2 protect against reactive oxygen species and free radicals. We investigated the role of MT-1 and -2 using MT-1,-2 knockout (KO) mice. MT-1,-2 KO mice exhibited greater neuronal damage after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) than wild-type mice. MT-2 mRNA was significantly increased at 6, 12, and 24 h after MCAO in the wild-type mouse brain [as detected by real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)], while MT-1 and MT-3 were decreased at 12 and 24 h. In an immunohistochemical study, MT expression displayed colocalization with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells (astrocytes) in the penumbra area in wild-type mice. Since erythropoietin (EPO) has been reported to induce MT-1 and -2 gene expression in vitro, we examined its effect after permanent MCAO, and explored the possible underlying mechanism by examining MT-1 and -2 induction in vivo. In wild-type mice, EPO significantly reduced both infarct area and volume at 24 h after the ischemic insult. However, in MT-1,-2 KO mice EPO-treatment did not alter infarct volume (vs. vehicle-treatment). In wild-type mice at 6 h after EPO administration, real-time RT-PCR revealed increased MT-1 and -2 mRNA expression in the cerebral cortex (without MCAO). Further, MT-1 and -2 immunoreactivity was increased in the cortex of EPO-treated mice. These findings indicate that MTs are induced, and may be neuroprotective against neuronal damage, after MCAO. Furthermore, EPO is neuroprotective in vivo during permanent MCAO, and this may be at least partly mediated by MTs.
Brainstem networks generating the respiratory rhythm in lampreys are still not fully characterized. In this study, we described the patterns of respiratory activities and we identified the general location of underlying neural networks. In a semi-intact preparation including the brain and gills, rhythmic discharges were recorded bilaterally with surface electrodes placed over the vagal motoneurons. The main respiratory output driving rhythmic gill movements consisted of short bursts (40.9+/-15.6 ms) of discharge occurring at a frequency of 1.0+/-0.3 Hz. This fast pattern was interrupted by long bursts (506.3+/-174.6 ms) recurring with an average period of 37.4+/-24.9 s. After isolating the brainstem by cutting all cranial nerves, the frequency of the short respiratory bursts did not change significantly, but the slow pattern was less frequent. Local injections of a glutamate agonist (AMPA) and antagonists (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) or D,L-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5)) were made over different brainstem regions to influence respiratory output. The results were similar in the semi-intact and isolated-brainstem preparations. Unilateral injection of AP5 or CNQX over a rostral rhombencephalic region, lateral to the rostral pole of the trigeminal motor nucleus, decreased the frequency of the fast respiratory rhythm bilaterally or stopped it altogether. Injection of AMPA at the same site increased the rate of the fast respiratory rhythm and decreased the frequency of the slow pattern. The activity recorded in this area was synchronous with that recorded over the vagal motoneurons. After a complete transverse lesion of the brainstem caudal to the trigeminal motor nucleus, the fast rhythm was confined to the rostral area, while only the slow activity persisted in the vagal motoneurons. Our results support the hypothesis that normal breathing depends on the activity of neurons located in the rostral rhombencephalon in lampreys, whereas the caudal rhombencephalon generates the slow pattern.
Recent studies have shown the presence of growth hormone (GH) in the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) of the neural retina in chick embryos at the end of the first trimester [embryonic day (E) 7] of the 21 day incubation period. In this study the presence of GH in fascicles of the optic fiber layer (OFL), formed by axons derived from the underlying RGCs, is shown. Immunoreactivity for GH is also traced through the optic nerve head, at the back of the eye, into the optic nerve, through the optic chiasm, into the optic tract and into the stratum opticum and the retinorecipient layer of the optic tectum, where the RGC axons synapse. The presence of GH immunoreactivity in the tectum occurs prior to synaptogenesis with RGC axons and thus reflects the local expression of the GH gene, especially as GH mRNA is also distributed within this tissue. The distribution of GH-immunoreactivity in the visual system of the E7 embryo is consistent with the distribution of the GH receptor (GHR), which is also expressed in the neural retina and tectum. The presence of a GH-responsive gene (GHRG-1) in these tissues also suggests that the visual system is not just a site of GH production but a site of GH action. These results support the possibility that GH acts as a local growth factor during early embryonic development of the visual system.
Narcolepsy is linked to a widespread loss of neurons containing the neuropeptide hypocretin (HCRT), also named orexin. A transgenic (TG) rat model has been developed to mimic the neuronal loss found in narcoleptic humans. In these rats, HCRT neurons gradually die as a result of the expression of a poly-glutamine repeat under the control of the HCRT promoter. To better characterize the changes in HCRT-1 levels in response to the gradual HCRT neuronal loss cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) HCRT-1 levels were measured in various age groups (2-82 weeks) of wild-type (WT) and TG Sprague-Dawley rats. TG rats showed a sharp decline in CSF HCRT-1 level at week 4 with levels remaining consistently low (26%+/-9%, mean+/-S.D.) thereafter compared with WT rats. In TG rats, HCRT-1 levels were dramatically lower in target regions such as the cortex and brainstem (100-fold), indicating decreased HCRT-1 levels at terminals. In TG rats, CSF HCRT-1 levels significantly increased in response to 6 h of prolonged waking, indicating that the remaining HCRT neurons can be stimulated to release more neuropeptide. Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep in TG rats (n=5) was consistent with a HCRT deficiency. In TG rats HCRT immunoreactive (HCRT-ir) neurons were present in the lateral hypothalamus (LH), even in old rats (24 months) but some HCRT-ir somata were in various stages of disintegration. The low output of these neurons is consistent with a widespread dysfunction of these neurons, and establishes this model as a tool to investigate the consequences of partial hypocretin deficiency.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is abundant in the central terminals of primary afferents. However, the function of CGRP receptors in the spinal cord remains unclear. CGRP receptors are heterodimers of calcitonin receptor-like receptor (CRLR) and receptor activity modifying protein 1 (RAMP1). We studied the localization of CRLR and RAMP1 in the rat dorsal horn using well-characterized antibodies against them, which labeled numerous puncta in laminae I-II. In addition, RAMP1 was found in cell bodies, forming patches at the cell surface. The CRLR- and RAMP1-immunoreactive puncta were further characterized using double and triple labeling. Colocalization was quantified in confocal stacks using Imaris software. CRLR did not colocalize with primary afferent markers, indicating that these puncta were not primary afferent terminals. CRLR- and RAMP1-immunoreactive puncta contained synaptophysin and vesicular glutamate transporter-2 (VGLUT2), showing that they were glutamatergic presynaptic terminals. Electron microscopic immunohistochemistry confirmed that CRLR immunoreactivity was present in axonal boutons that were not in synaptic glomeruli. Using tyramide signal amplification for double labeling with the CRLR and RAMP1 antibodies, we found some clear instances of colocalization of CRLR with RAMP1 in puncta, but their overall colocalization was low. In particular, CRLR was absent from RAMP1-containing cells. Many of the puncta stained for CRLR and RAMP1 were labeled by anti-opioid and anti-enkephalin antibodies. CRLR and, to a lesser extent, RAMP1 also colocalized with adrenergic alpha(2C) receptors. Triple label studies demonstrated three-way colocalization of CRLR-VGLUT2-synaptophysin, CRLR-VGLUT2-opioids, and CRLR-opioids-alpha(2C) receptors. In conclusion, CRLR is located in glutamatergic presynaptic terminals in the dorsal horn that contain alpha(2C) adrenergic receptors and opioids. Some of these terminals contain RAMP1, which may form CGRP receptors with CRLR, but in others CRLR may form other receptors, possibly by dimerizing with RAMP2 or RAMP3. These findings suggest that CGRP or adrenomedullin receptors modulate opioid release in the dorsal horn.
Recurring patterns of neural activity, a potential substrate of both information transfer and transformation in cortical networks, have been observed in the intact brain and in brain slices. Do these patterns require the inherent cortical microcircuitry of such preparations or are they a general property of self-organizing neuronal networks? In networks of dissociated cortical neurons from rats--which lack evidence of the intact brain's intrinsic cortical architecture--we have observed a robust set of spontaneously repeating spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity, using a template-matching algorithm that has been successful both in vivo and in brain slices. The observed patterns in cultured monolayer networks are stable over minutes of extracellular recording, occur throughout the culture's development, and are temporally precise within milliseconds. The identification of these patterns in dissociated cultures opens a powerful methodological avenue for the study of such patterns, and their persistence despite the topological and morphological rearrangements of cellular dissociation is further evidence that precisely timed patterns are a universal emergent feature of self-organizing neuronal networks.
The Tottering (cacna1a(tg)) mouse arose as a consequence of a spontaneous mutation in cacna1a, the gene encoding the pore-forming subunit of the pre-synaptic P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channel (VGCC, Ca(V)2.1). The mouse phenotype includes ataxia and intermittent myoclonic seizures which have been attributed to impaired excitatory neurotransmission at cerebellar granule cell (CGC) parallel fiber-Purkinje cell (PF-PC) synapses [Zhou YD, Turner TJ, Dunlap K (2003) Enhanced G-protein-dependent modulation of excitatory synaptic transmission in the cerebellum of the Ca(2+)-channel mutant mouse, tottering. J Physiol 547:497-507]. We hypothesized that the expression of cerebellar GABA(A) receptors may be affected by the mutation. Indeed, abnormal GABA(A) receptor function and expression in the cacna1a(tg) forebrain has been reported previously [Tehrani MH, Barnes EM Jr (1995) Reduced function of gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptors in tottering mouse brain: role of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Epilepsy Res 22:13-21; Tehrani MH, Baumgartner BJ, Liu SC, Barnes EM Jr (1997) Aberrant expression of GABA(A) receptor subunits in the tottering mouse: an animal model for absence seizures. Epilepsy Res 28:213-223]. Here we show a deficit of 40.2+/-3.6% in the total number of cerebellar GABA(A) receptors expressed (gamma2+delta subtypes) in adult cacna1a(tg) relative to controls. [(3)H]Muscimol autoradiography identified that this was partly due to a significant loss of CGC-specific alpha6 subunit-containing GABA(A) receptor subtypes. A large proportion of this loss of alpha6 receptors was attributable to a significantly reduced expression of the CGC-specific benzodiazepine-insensitive Ro15-4513 (BZ-IS) binding subtype, alpha6betagamma2 subunit-containing receptors. BZ-IS binding was reduced by 36.6+/-2.6% relative to controls in cerebellar membrane homogenates and by 37.2+/-3.7% in cerebellar sections. Quantitative immunoblotting revealed that the steady-state expression level of alpha6 and gamma2 subunits was selectively reduced relative to controls by 30.2+/-8.2% and 38.8+/-13.1%, respectively, alpha1, beta3 and delta were unaffected. Immunohistochemically probed control and cacna1a(tg) cerebellar sections verified that alpha6 and gamma2 subunit expression was reduced and that this deficit was restricted to the CGC layer. Thus, we have shown that abnormal cerebellar P/Q-type VGCC activity results in a deficit of CGC-specific subtype(s) of GABA(A) receptors which may contribute to, or may be a consequence of the impaired cerebellar network signaling that occurs in cacna1a(tg) mice.

The global situation for people with mental illness - in developing and developed countries - is dire. Legislative and human rights protections are frequently lacking. Mental health budgets are inadequate. There are insufficient numbers of skilled policy makers, managers and clinicians. Communities are poorly informed about mental health and illness and not well organised for purposes of advocacy. In most of the world, mental health services are inaccessible or of poor quality. Most people who would benefit from psychiatric treatment and rehabilitation do not have affordable access to such services. Leadership - at all levels - for mental health system development needs to be greatly strengthened. While mental health research attention and funds are devoted predominantly to neuroscience and clinical research, we believe that the highest global mental health research priority is mental health systems research. There is an urgent need to focus on the development of effective, appropriate, affordable mental health services. The evidence base for such development is currently weak. The International Journal of Mental Health Systems aims to stimulate greater attention to the central importance of building functioning mental health systems. Rapid publication and global reach through open access will make this journal a resource for all those who wish to contribute to such development.


We have developed a novel type of duplex enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the quantitation of the major plasma proteins, IgG and albumin, in edematous brain tissue. We test this duplex ELISA on our porcine intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) model and show that it is as accurate and sensitive as independent single ELISAs. This method is useful as a marker of edema in brain tissue and the same design can be applied to other proteins and sample types.
Neuronal autofluorescence, which results from the oxidation of flavoproteins in the electron transport chain, has recently been used to map cortical responses to sensory stimuli. This approach could represent a substantial improvement over other optical imaging methods because it is a direct (i.e., nonhemodynamic) measure of neuronal metabolism. However, its application to functional imaging has been limited because strong responses have been reported only in rodents. In this study, we demonstrate that autofluorescence imaging (AFI) can be used to map the functional organization of primary visual cortex in both mouse and cat. In cat area 17, orientation preference maps generated by AFI had the classic pinwheel structure and matched those generated by intrinsic signal imaging in the same imaged field. The spatiotemporal profile of the autofluorescence signal had several advantages over intrinsic signal imaging, including spatially restricted fluorescence throughout its response duration, reduced susceptibility to vascular artifacts, an improved spatial response profile, and a faster time course. These results indicate that AFI is a robust and useful measure of large-scale cortical activity patterns in visual mammals.
Encoding the serial order of events is an essential function of working memory, but one whose neural basis is not yet well understood. In the present work, we advance a new model of how serial order is represented in working memory. Our approach is predicated on three key findings from neurophysiological research: (1) prefrontal neurons that code conjunctively for item and order, (2) parietal neurons that represent count information through a graded and compressive code, and (3) multiplicative gain modulation as a mechanism for information integration. We used an artificial neural network, integrating across these three findings, to simulate human immediate serial recall performance. The model reproduced a core set of benchmark empirical findings, including primacy and recency effects, transposition gradients, effects of interitem similarity, and developmental effects. The model moves beyond previous accounts by bridging between neuroscientific findings and detailed behavioral data, and gives rise to several testable predictions.
In the developing forebrain, neuronal polarization is a stepwise and initially reversible process that underlies correct migration and axon specification. Many aspects of cytoskeletal changes that accompany polarization are currently molecularly undefined and thus poorly understood. Here we reveal that the p21-activated kinase (Pak1) is essential for the specification of an axon and dendrites. In hippocampal neurons, activation of Pak1 is spatially restricted to the immature axon despite its uniform presence in all neurites. Hyperactivation of Pak1 at the membrane of all neurites or loss of Pak1 expression disrupts both neuronal morphology and the distinction between an axon and dendrites. We reveal that Pak1 acts on polarity in a kinase-dependent manner, by affecting the F-actin and microtubule cytoskeleton at least in part through Rac1 and cofilin. Our data are the first to demonstrate the importance of localized Pak1 kinase activation for neuronal polarization and differentiation.
Calcineurin is a serine/threonine phosphatase that contributes to the effects of nicotine on calcium signaling in cultured cortical neurons; however, the role of calcineurin in behavioral responses to nicotine in vivo has not been examined. We therefore determined whether calcineurin blockade could alter nicotine-mediated locomotor sensitization in Sprague Dawley rats using systemic or brain region-specific administration of the calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporine or FK506. Systemic cyclosporine administration decreased calcineurin activity in the brain, attenuated nicotine-mediated locomotor sensitization, and blocked the effects of nicotine on DARPP32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32) activation in the striatum. Direct infusion of calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporine or FK506 into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) also attenuated nicotine-mediated locomotor sensitization, whereas infusion of rapamycin, which binds to FK-binding protein but does not inhibit calcineurin, did not affect sensitization. Together, the data suggest that activation of calcineurin, particularly in the VTA, is a novel signaling event important for nicotine-mediated behavior and intracellular signaling.
Mutations in the parkin gene are a predominant cause of familial parkinsonism. Although initially described as a recessive disorder, emerging evidence suggest that single parkin mutations alone may confer increased susceptibility to Parkinson's disease. To better understand the effects of parkin mutations in vivo, we generated transgenic Drosophila overexpressing two human parkin missense mutants, R275W and G328E. Transgenic flies that overexpress R275W, but not wild-type or G328E, human parkin display an age-dependent degeneration of specific dopaminergic neuronal clusters and concomitant locomotor deficits that accelerate with age or in response to rotenone treatment. Furthermore, R275W mutant flies also exhibit prominent mitochondrial abnormalities in their flight muscles. Interestingly, these defects caused by the expression of human R275W parkin are highly similar to those triggered by the loss of endogenous parkin in parkin null flies. Together, our results provide the first in vivo evidence demonstrating that parkin R275W mutant expression mediates pathogenic outcomes and suggest the interesting possibility that select parkin mutations may directly exert neurotoxicity in vivo.
The fetal brain is sensitive to a variety of teratogens, including ethanol. We showed previously that ethanol induced mitosis and stem cell maturation, but not death, in fetal cerebral cortex-derived progenitors. We tested the hypothesis that micro-RNAs (miRNAs) could mediate the teratogenic effects of ethanol in a fetal mouse cerebral cortex-derived neurosphere culture model. Ethanol, at a level attained by alcoholics, significantly suppressed the expression of four miRNAs, miR-21, -335, -9, and -153, whereas a lower ethanol concentration, attainable during social drinking, induced miR-335 expression. A GABA(A) receptor-dependent mechanism mediated miR-21, but not miR-335 suppression, suggesting that divergent mechanisms regulate ethanol-sensitive miRNAs. Antisense-mediated suppression of miR-21 expression resulted in apoptosis, suggesting that miR-21 is an antiapoptotic factor. miR-335 knockdown promoted cell proliferation and prevented death induced by concurrently suppressing miR-21, indicating that miR-335 is a proapoptotic, antimitogenic factor whose actions are antagonistic to miR-21. Computational analyses identified two genes, Jagged-1, a Notch-receptor ligand, and embryonic-lethal abnormal vision, Drosophila-like 2 (ELAVL2), a brain-specific regulator of RNA stability, as presumptive targets of three of four ethanol-sensitive micro-RNAs. Combined knockdown of miR-335, -21, and -153 significantly increased Jagged-1 mRNA. Furthermore, ethanol induced both Jagged-1 and ELAVL2 mRNA. The collective suppression of micro-RNAs is consistent with ethanol induction of cell cycle and neuroepithelial maturation in the absence of apoptosis. These data identify a role for micro-RNAs as epigenetic intermediaries, which permit teratogens to shape complex, divergent developmental processes, and additionally demonstrate that coordinately regulated miRNAs exhibit both functional synergy and antagonism toward each other.
Experience-dependent changes in the response properties of ventral visual stream neurons are thought to underlie our ability to rapidly and efficiently recognize visual objects. How these neural changes are related to efficient visual processing during natural vision remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate a neurophysiological correlate of efficient visual search through highly familiar object arrays. Humans and monkeys are faster at locating the same target when it is surrounded by familiar compared with unfamiliar distractors. We show that this behavioral enhancement is driven by an increased sensitivity of target-selective neurons in inferior temporal cortex. This results from an increased &quot;signal&quot; for target representations and decreased &quot;noise&quot; from neighboring familiar distractors. These data highlight the dynamic properties of the inferior temporal cortex neurons and add to a growing body of evidence demonstrating how experience shapes neural processing in the ventral visual stream.
Alzheimer's disease is late life dementia associated with significant neurodegeneration in both cortical and subcortical regions. During the approximately 10 year course of the disease, neurons are lost in a progressive pattern that is relatively consistent among individuals. One example of this is the progression of disease pathology found in both the neocortex and archicortex. In these structures, the earliest problems can be found in superficial cortical layers (II-IV), whereas later the disease advances to involve the deeper cortical layers (V-VI). It is unclear whether these apparent differences in sensitivity are intrinsic to the neurons or imposed by external factors such as the pattern of connections. We used beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide treatment of cultured mouse neurons as our model system. We show first that, as in hippocampus, dissociated cultures of embryonic cortical neurons are biased toward the survival of cells that were finishing division in the ventricular zone at the time of harvest. Thus, embryonic day 13.5 (E13.5) cultures contain primarily deep-layer neurons whereas E16.5 cultures contain cells destined for upper layers. We use this cell-type specific segregation to our advantage and show, using both differences in gene expression profiles and Abeta survival curves, that deeper layer neurons are significantly more resistant to the toxic effects of Abeta than are cells from the more superficial strata. This suggests that an intrinsic underlying biology drives at least part of the AD progression pattern and that the time of harvest is a crucial variable in the interpretation of any cortical culture experiment.

Chemokine IL-8 (CXCL8) binds to its cognate receptors CXCR1 and CXCR2 to induce inflammatory responses, wound healing, tumorogenesis, and neuronal survival. Here we identify the N-loop residues in IL-8 (H18 and F21) and the receptor N-termini as the major structural determinants regulating the rate of receptor internalization, which in turn controlled the activation profile of ERK1/2, a central component of the receptor/ERK signaling pathway that dictates signal specificity. Our data further support the idea that the chemokine receptor core acts as a plastic scaffold. Thus, the diversity and intensity of inflammatory and noninflammatory responses mediated by chemokine receptors appear to be primarily determined by the initial interaction between the receptor N-terminus and the N-loop of chemokines.

Vision looms large in neuroscience--it is the subject of a gigantic literature and four Nobel prizes--but there is a growing realization that there are problems with the textbook explanation of how mammalian vision works. Here we will summarize the evidence behind this disquiet. In effect, we shall present a portrait of a field that is 'stuck'. Our initial focus, because it is our area of expertise, is on evidence that the early steps of mammalian vision are more diverse and more interesting than is usually imagined, so that our understanding of the later stages is in trouble right from the start. But we will also summarize problems, raised by others, with the later stages themselves.
In C. elegans, loss-of-function (lf) mutations of the stomatin-like protein (SLP) UNC-1 and the innexin UNC-9 inhibit locomotion [1, 2] and modulate sensitivity to volatile anesthetics [3, 4]. It was unknown why unc-1(lf) and unc-9(lf) mutants have similar phenotypes. We tested the hypothesis that UNC-1 is a regulator of gap junctions formed by UNC-9. Analyses of junctional currents between body-wall muscle cells showed that electrical coupling was inhibited to a similar degree in unc-1(lf), unc-9(lf), and unc-1(lf);unc-9(lf) double mutants, suggesting that UNC-1 and UNC-9 function together. Expression of Punc-1::DsRED2 and Punc-9::GFP transcriptional fusions suggests that unc-1 and unc-9 are coexpressed in neurons and body-wall muscle cells. Immunohistochemistry showed that UNC-1 and UNC-9 colocalized at intercellular junctions and that unc-1(lf) did not alter UNC-9 expression or subcellular localization. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays suggest that UNC-1 and UNC-9 are physically very close at intercellular junctions. Targeted rescue experiments suggest that UNC-9 and UNC-1 function predominantly in neurons to control locomotion. Thus, in addition to the recently reported function of regulating mechanosensitive ion channels [5, 6], SLPs might have a novel function of regulating gap junctions.
The podosome and invadopodium are dynamic cell-adhesion structures that degrade the extracellular matrix (ECM) and promote cell invasion. We recently reported that the actin-binding protein caldesmon is a pivotal regulator of podosome formation. Here, we analyzed the caldesmon's involvement in podosome/invadopodium-mediated invasion by transformed and cancer cells. The ectopic expression of caldesmon reduced the number of podosomes/invadopodia and decreased the ECM degradation activity, resulting in the suppression of cell invasion. Conversely, the depletion of caldesmon facilitated the formation of podosomes/invadopodia and cell invasion. Taken together, our results indicate that caldesmon acts as a potent repressor of cancer cell invasion.
Engineered nanoparticles are emerging as useful tools for different purposes in life sciences, medicine and agriculture. Nanomedicine, an emerging discipline, involves the application of nanotechnology (usually regarded within the size range of 1-1000 nm) in the design of systems and devices that can facilitate our understanding of disease pathophysiology, nano-imaging, nanomedicines and nano-diagnostics. Among the different nanomaterials used to construct nanoparticles, are organic polymers, co-polymers and metals. Some of these materials can self assemble, and depending on the conditions under which the self-assembly process occurs, a vast array of shapes can be formed. Frequently, the nanoparticle morphology is spherical or tubular, mimicking the shape, but thus far, not the functions of subcellular organelles. We discuss here several representative nanoparticles, made of block copolymers and metals, highlighting some of their current uses, advantages and limitations in medicine. Nano-oncology and nano-neurosciences will also be discussed in more detail in the context of the intracellular fate of nanoparticles and possible long-term consequences on cell functions.
Interval timing--sensitivity to elapsing durations--has recently been found to occur in an invertebrate pollinator, the bumble-bee (Bombus impatiens). Here, bumble-bees were required to time the interval between the start of foraging in a patch of low-quality artificial flowers providing 25% sucrose and the availability of a high-quality flower (HQF) that provided 50% sucrose after a fixed delay. The delay changed after every 20 foraging bouts in the order 30-150-30 s. Bees visited the HQF sooner when the delay was 30 s than when it was 150 s, and visits to the HQF peaked near the end of both delays. When the delay changed to 150 s, bees appeared to time both the previous 30 s delay and the new delay. To examine whether bees also learned what kind of reward was provided at the HQF, its usual reward was replaced with 25% sucrose in a final foraging bout. Bumble-bees rejected the HQF on the reward-replacement test. These results show that bumble-bees remembered both when reward was produced by the HQF and what type of reward was produced. These findings indicate that bumble-bees can learn both the timing and content of reward production.
Integrity of retinal pigment epithelial cells is necessary for photoreceptor survival and vision. The essential omega-3 fatty acid, docosahexaenoic acid, attains its highest concentration in the human body in photoreceptors and is assumed to be a target for lipid peroxidation during cell damage. We have previously shown, in contrast, that docosahexaenoic acid is also the precursor of neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1), which now we demonstrate, acts against apoptosis mediated by A2E, a byproduct of phototransduction that becomes toxic when it accumulates in aging retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells and in some inherited retinal degenerations. Furthermore, we show that neurotrophins, particularly pigment epithelium-derived factor, induce NPD1 synthesis and its polarized apical secretion. Moreover, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) elicits a concentration-dependent and selective potentiation of pigment epithelial-derived factor-stimulated NPD1 synthesis and release through the apical RPE cell surface. The bioactivity of signaling activated by pigment epithelium-derived factor and DHA uncovered synergistic cytoprotection with concomitant NPD1 synthesis when cells were challenged with oxidative stress. Also, DHA and pigment epithelium-derived factor synergistically modify the expression of Bcl-2 family members, activating antiapoptotic proteins and decreasing proapoptotic proteins, and by attenuating caspase 3 activation during oxidative stress. Thus, our findings demonstrate that DHA-derived NPD1 protects against RPE cell damage mediated by aging/disease-induced A2E accumulation. Also, our results identify neurotrophins as regulators of NPD1 and of its polarized apical efflux from RPE cells. Taken together, these findings imply NPD1 may elicit autocrine actions on RPE cells and paracrine bioactivity in cells located in the proximity of the interphotoreceptor matrix.
Photoreceptor cell (rods and cones) renewal is accompanied by intermittent shedding of the distal tips of the outer segment followed by their phagocytosis in the retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. This renewal is essential for vision, and it is thought that it fosters survival of photoreceptors and of RPE cells. However, no specific survival messenger/mediators have as yet been identified. We show here that photoreceptor outer segment (POS) phagocytosis markedly attenuates oxidative stress-induced apoptosis in ARPE-19 cells in culture. This phenomenon does not seem to be a generalized outcome of phagocytosis because nonbiological (polystyrene microsphere) phagocytosis did not elicit protection. The free docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) pool size and neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1) content increased during POS phagocytosis but not during microspheres phagocytosis. We have also explored other lipid mediators [lipoxin A4 and 15(S)- and 12(S)-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acids] under these conditions and found them unchanged upon POS phagocytosis. Moreover, oxidative stress challenge to RPE cells undergoing POS phagocytosis further increased DHA and NPD1 content. Under these conditions, NPD1 was found within the RPE cells as well as in the culture medium, suggesting autocrine and paracrine bioactivity. Furthermore, using deuterium-labeled DHA, we show that as the availability of free DHA increases during oxidative stress, NPD1 synthesis is augmented in ARPE-19 cells. Our data suggest a distinct signaling that promotes survival of photoreceptor and RPE cells by enhancing the synthesis of NPD1 during phagocytosis. Taken together, NPD1 may be a mediator that promotes homeostatic regulation of cell integrity during photoreceptor cell renewal.
The interaction of membrane-embedded voltage-activated potassium channels (Kv) with intracellular scaffold proteins, such as the postsynaptic density 95 (PSD-95) protein, is mediated by the channel C-terminal segment. This interaction underlies Kv channel clustering at unique membrane sites and is important for the proper assembly and functioning of the synapse. In the current study, we address the molecular mechanism underlying Kv/PSD-95 interaction. We provide experimental evidence, based on hydrodynamic and spectroscopic analyses, indicating that the isolated C-terminal segment of the archetypical Shaker Kv channel (ShB-C) is a random coil, suggesting that ShB-C belongs to the recently defined class of intrinsically disordered proteins. We show that isolated ShB-C is still able to bind its scaffold protein partner and support protein clustering in vivo, indicating that unfoldedness is compatible with ShB-C activity. Pulldown experiments involving C-terminal chains differing in flexibility or length further demonstrate that intrinsic disorder in the C-terminal segment of the Shaker channel modulates its interaction with the PSD-95 protein. Our results thus suggest that the C-terminal domain of the Shaker Kv channel behaves as an entropic chain and support a &quot;fishing rod&quot; molecular mechanism for Kv channel binding to scaffold proteins. The importance of intrinsically disordered protein segments to the complex processes of synapse assembly, maintenance, and function is discussed.
At early developmental stages, correlated neuronal activity is thought to exert a critical control on functional and structural refinement of synaptic connections. In the hippocampus, between postnatal day 2 (P2) and P6, network-driven giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs) are generated by the synergistic action of glutamate and GABA, which is depolarizing and excitatory. Here the rising phase of GDPs was used to trigger Schaffer collateral stimulation in such a way that synchronized network activity was coincident with presynaptic activation of afferent input. This procedure produced a persistent increase in spontaneous and evoked alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxadepropionic acid-mediated glutamatergic currents, an effect that required calcium influx through postsynaptic L-type calcium channels. No potentiation was observed when a delay of 3 sec was introduced between GDPs and afferent stimulation. Pairing-induced potentiation was prevented by scavengers of endogenous BDNF or tropomyosin-related kinase receptor B (TrkB) receptor antagonists. Blocking TrkB receptors in the postsynaptic cell did not prevent the effects of pairing, suggesting that BDNF, possibly secreted from the postsynaptic cell during GDPs, acts on TrkB receptors localized on presynaptic neurons. Application of exogenous BDNF mimicked the effects of pairing on synaptic transmission. In addition, pairing-induced synaptic potentiation was blocked by ERK inhibitors, suggesting that BDNF activates the MAPK/ERK cascade, which may lead to transcriptional regulation and new protein synthesis in the postsynaptic neuron. These results support the hypothesis that, during a critical period of postnatal development, GABAA-mediated GDPs are instrumental in tuning excitatory synaptic connections and provide insights into the molecular mechanisms involved in this process.

Maternal infection during pregnancy is a risk factor for some psychiatric illnesses of neurodevelopmental origin such as schizophrenia and autism. In experimental animals, behavioral and neuropathological outcomes relevant to schizophrenia have been observed in offspring of infected dams. However, the type of infectious agent used and gestational age at time of administration have varied. The objective of the present study was to compare the effects of prenatal challenge with different immune agents given at different time windows during gestation on behavioral outcomes in offspring. For this, pregnant rats were administered bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS), the viral mimic polyinosinic: polycytidylic acid (poly I:C), or turpentine, an inducer of local inflammation, at doses known to produce fever, at three different stages in pregnancy: embryonic day (E)10-11, E15-16 and E18-19. Prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle (PPI) was later measured in male adult offspring. PPI was significantly decreased in offspring after prenatal LPS treatment at E15-16 and E18-19. Intramuscular injection of pregnant dams with turpentine at E15-16 also decreased PPI in adult offspring. Maternal poly I:C administration had no significant effect on PPI in offspring. In contrast to prenatal LPS exposure, acute LPS administration to naive adult males had no effect on PPI. Thus, prenatal exposure both to a systemic immunogen and to local inflammation at brief periods during later pregnancy produced lasting deficits in PPI in rat offspring. These findings support the idea that maternal infection during critical windows of pregnancy could contribute to sensorimotor gating deficits in schizophrenia.
In the neuroscience community interest for using the pig is growing. Several disease models have been developed creating a need for validation of behavioural paradigms in these animals. Here, we report the effect of different inter-phase delay intervals on the performance of Gttingen minipigs in the spontaneous object recognition test. The test consisted of a sample and a test phase. First, the pigs explored two similar objects. After a 10-min, 1-h, or 24-h delay two different objects were presented; one familiar from the sample phase and one novel. An exploration-time difference between the novel and the familiar object was interpreted as recognition of the familiar object. We scored the exploration times both manually and automatically, and compared the methods. A strong discrimination between novel and familiar objects after a 10-min inter-phase delay interval and no discrimination after 24h were found in our set-up of the spontaneous object recognition test. After a 1-h delay, the pigs still showed a significant habituation to the familiar object, but no discrimination was observed. Discrimination between the two objects was mainly confined to the first half of the test phase, and we observed a high between-subject variation. Furthermore, automatic tracking was valid for determination of habituation and discrimination parameters but lead to an overestimation of individual measurements. We conclude that the spontaneous object recognition test for pigs is sensitive to increasing inter-phase delay intervals, and that automatic data acquisition can be applied.

Stressors increase corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) functioning in hypothalamic and frontal cortical brain regions, and thus may contribute to the provocation of anxiety and depressive disorder. As the effects of stressors on these behavioral changes are more pronounced in some strains of mice (e.g., BALB/cByJ) than in others (e.g., C57BL/6ByJ), the present investigation assessed whether acute and chronic stressors would differentially influence CRH receptor immunoreactivity (ir-CRHr) and CRH receptor mRNA expression (CRH(1) and CRH(2)) in the orbital frontal cortex (OFC) of these strains. An acute noise stressor, and to a greater extent a chronic, variable stressor regimen reduced ir-CRHr in BALB/cByJ mice. In contrast, in the hardier C57BL/6ByJ mice the acute stressor increased ir-CRHr in portions of the OFC, whereas a chronic stressor tended to reduce ir-CRHr. However, whereas the acute stressor did not influence CRH(1) mRNA expression, the chronic stressor increased CRH(1) mRNA expression in both mouse strains. The CRH(2) expression appeared in low abundance in both strains and was unaltered by the stressor. In addition to the OFC variations, quantitative immunohistochemistry indicated that the chronic stressor treatment increased CRH immunoreactivity in the median eminence of C57BL/6ByJ mice, but co-expression of CRH and arginine vasopressin (AVP) immunoreactivity was not provoked by the stressors. The data support the view that stressors provoke marked variations of ir-CRHr in the OFC that might contribute to the differential anxiety/depression-like profiles ordinarily apparent in the stressor-vulnerable and -resilient mouse strains.
The nervous system is of fundamental importance in the adaptive (hormesis) responses of organisms to all types of stress, including environmental &quot;toxins&quot;. Phytochemicals present in vegetables and fruits are believed to reduce the risk of several major diseases including cardiovascular disease, cancers and neurodegenerative disorders. Although antioxidant properties have been suggested as the basis of health benefits of phytochemicals, emerging findings suggest a quite different mechanism of action. Many phytochemicals normally function as toxins that protect the plants against insects and other damaging organisms. However, at the relatively low doses consumed by humans and other mammals these same &quot;toxic&quot; phytochemicals activate adaptive cellular stress response pathways that can protect the cells against a variety of adverse conditions. Recent findings have elucidated hormetic mechanisms of action of phytochemicals (e.g., resveratrol, curcumin, sulforaphanes and catechins) using cell culture and animal models of neurological disorders. Examples of hormesis pathways activated by phytochemicals include the transcription factor Nrf-2 which activates genes controlled by the antioxidant response element, and histone deacetylases of the sirtuin family and FOXO transcription factors. Such hormetic pathways stimulate the production of antioxidant enzymes, protein chaperones and neurotrophic factors. In several cases neurohormetic phytochemicals have been shown to suppress the disease process in animal models relevant to neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, and can also improve outcome following a stroke. We are currently screening a panel of biopesticides in order to establish hormetic doses, neuroprotective efficacy, mechanisms of action and therapeutic potential as dietary supplements.
Upon cerebral hypoxia-ischemia (HI), apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) can move from mitochondria to nuclei, participate in chromatinolysis, and contribute to the execution of cell death. Previous work (Cande, C., N. Vahsen, I. Kouranti, E. Schmitt, E. Daugas, C. Spahr, J. Luban, R.T. Kroemer, F. Giordanetto, C. Garrido, et al. 2004. Oncogene. 23:1514-1521) performed in vitro suggests that AIF must interact with cyclophilin A (CypA) to form a proapoptotic DNA degradation complex. We addressed the question as to whether elimination of CypA may afford neuroprotection in vivo. 9-d-old wild-type (WT), CypA(+/-), or CypA(-/-) mice were subjected to unilateral cerebral HI. The infarct volume after HI was reduced by 47% (P = 0.0089) in CypA(-/-) mice compared with their WT littermates. Importantly, CypA(-/-) neurons failed to manifest the HI-induced nuclear translocation of AIF that was observed in WT neurons. Conversely, CypA accumulated within the nuclei of damaged neurons after HI, and this nuclear translocation of CypA was suppressed in AIF-deficient harlequin mice. Immunoprecipitation of AIF revealed coprecipitation of CypA, but only in injured, ischemic tissue. Surface plasmon resonance revealed direct molecular interactions between recombinant AIF and CypA. These data indicate that the lethal translocation of AIF to the nucleus requires interaction with CypA, suggesting a model in which two proteins that normally reside in separate cytoplasmic compartments acquire novel properties when moving together to the nucleus.
Neuroadaptations affecting dopamine transmission within the prefrontal cortex and striatum are thought to underlie relapse to cocaine seeking after extended periods of abstinence. Regulator of G-protein signaling 4 (RGS4) is a forebrain-enriched protein known to be dynamically regulated by dopamine receptors in response to acute psychostimulant administration. In this report, chronic noncontingent (cocaine binge) or response-contingent (self-administration) delivery of cocaine followed by 2-3 weeks of abstinence resulted in a decrease of RGS4 mRNA in the dorsal striatum and prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, re-exposure to the cocaine-associated context after abstinence renewed the drug seeking and restored the levels of RGS4 mRNA to control values. Changes in RGS4 mRNA levels might signal abnormal receptor G-protein coupling that impacts cocaine seeking.
The frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) in cultured hippocampal neurons increases under the action of drugs that trigger a rise in the intracellular concentration of cyclicAMP. It is generally believed that this type of effect is mediated by protein kinase A. Here, we show that it largely depends on the activation of hyperpolarization-activated cation channels (Ih) by cyclicAMP. In mammals, Ih channels control membrane excitability, thanks to their function as ionic channels. Here, we show that the effect of Ih channels on glutamate release is not mediated by the depolarization induced by their activation and thus is not linked to the ionic channel aspect of Ih channels. This suggests that the Ih channel could be a bifunctional protein.
Recent research has identified neurons in the visual system that remap their receptive fields before a saccade. The activity of these neurons may signal a prediction of postsaccadic visual input, derived from an efference copy of saccadic motor output. Such a prediction is often thought to underlie our perception of a stable visual world, by compensating for the shifts in retinal image that accompany each eye movement. Here we review the evidence, and conclude that prediction does not in fact play a significant role in maintaining visual stability. Instead, we consider a novel perspective in which the primary function of spatial remapping is to support three key nonperceptual processes: action control, sensorimotor adaptation and spatial memory.
Polypeptide elongation factor 2 (EF-2) plays an essential role in protein synthesis and is believed to be indispensable for cell proliferation. Recently, it has been demonstrated that there are two kinds of EF-2 (EF-2A and EF-2B with 76.6% of sequence identity at the amino acid level) in Dictyostelium discoideum. Although the knockout of EF-2A slightly impaired cytokinesis, EF-2A null cells exhibited almost normal protein synthesis and cell growth, suggesting that there is another molecule capable of compensating for EF-2 function. Since EF-2B is the most likely candidate, we examined its function using ef-2b knockdown cells prepared by the RNAi method. Our results strongly suggest that EF-2B is required for protein synthesis and cell proliferation, functioning as the real EF-2. Interestingly, the expressions of ef-2a and ef-2b mRNAs during development are reversely regulated, and the ef-2b expression is greatly augmented in ef-2a null cells.
The KAI1/CD82 protein has been documented as the tumor metastasis suppressor in many types of human cancers. KAI1/CD82 regulates cell motility and invasiveness; however, the mechanism by which this occurs remains to be fully established. Several studies have shown that KAI1/CD82 modulates integrin-dependent signaling. It was suggested that KAI1/CD82 might function to attenuate the beta1 integrin function of inducing cellular migration. A wound-healing and modified Boyden chamber assays were performed to investigate the mechanism of the KAI1/CD82-mediated inhibition of cell migration. It was found that the migratory ability of H1299/CD82 was inhibited. The immunoblotting and biotinylation assays revealed that H1299/CD82 showed significantly decreased expression of the mature form of beta1, which was functional at the cell surface. It was confirmed that KAI1/CD82 regulates the maturation of the beta1 integrin using CD82-specific si-RNA. These results support a model in which KAI1/CD82 attenuates the maturation of the beta1 integrin precursor and thereby suppresses cell migration.
To investigate the sources of conscious awareness of action, participants made judgments about the initiation times of active and passive key press movements that were either forceful or soft. After each trial, participants made judgments about when they moved by reporting the position of a rotating clock hand at the time they pressed the key. Judgment error was calculated as the difference between the actual and judged time of movement. Results showed that awareness of action for both active and passive movements was anticipatory and identical and that judgments of forceful movements were less anticipatory than judgments of soft movements. This suggests that the signal underlying conscious awareness of movement initiation in this experiment was not premotor, but instead related to sensory feedback arising from the movement. This work, in conjunction with other studies, suggests that the brain can use various sources of information to make conscious decisions about the timing of actions and that the source(s) used depend on prevailing task and operator constraints.
AMPA glutamate ion channels are tetrameric receptors in which activation to form the open channel depends on the binding of possibly multiple glutamate molecules. However, it is unclear whether AMPA receptors bound with a different number of glutamate molecules (i.e. one being the minimal and four being the maximal number of glutamate molecules) open the channels with different kinetic constants. Using a laser pulse photolysis technique that provides microsecond time resolution, we investigated the channel-opening kinetic mechanism of a nondesensitizing AMPA receptor, i.e. GluR1Q(flip) L497Y or a leucine-to-tyrosine substitution mutant, in the entire range of glutamate concentrations to ensure receptor saturation. We found that the minimal number of glutamate molecules required to bind to the receptor and to open the channel is two (or n = 2), and that the entire channel-opening kinetics can be adequately described by just one channel-opening rate constant, k(op), which correlates to n = 2. This result suggests that higher receptor occupancy (n = 3 and 4) does not give rise to different k(op) values or, at least, not appreciably if the k(op) values are different. Furthermore, compared with the wild-type receptor (Li, G., and Niu, L. (2004) J. Biol. Chem. 279, 3990-3997), the channel-opening and channel-closing rate constants of the mutant are 1.5- and 13-fold smaller, respectively. Thus, the major effect of this mutation is to decrease the channel-closing rate constant by stabilizing the open channel conformation.
Previously we demonstrated that insulin-like growth factor-I mediates the sustained phosphorylation of Akt, which is essential for long term survival and protection of glial progenitors from glutamate toxicity. These prosurvival effects correlated with prolonged activation and stability of the insulin-like growth factor type-I receptor. In the present study, we investigated the mechanisms whereby insulin-like growth factor-I signaling, through the insulin-like growth factor type-I receptor, mediates the sustained phosphorylation of Akt. We showed that insulin-like growth factor-I stimulation induced loss of receptors from the cell surface but that surface receptors recovered over time. Blocking receptor internalization inhibited Akt phosphorylation, whereas inhibition of receptor trafficking blocked receptor recovery at the cell surface and the sustained phosphorylation of Akt. Moreover the insulin-like growth factor type-I receptor localized with the transferrin receptor and Rab11-positive endosomes in a ligand-dependent manner, further supporting the conclusion that this receptor follows a recycling pathway. Our results provide evidence that ligand stimulation leads to internalization of the insulin-like growth factor type-I receptor, which mediates Akt phosphorylation, and that receptor recycling sustains Akt phosphorylation in glial progenitors. Mathematical modeling of receptor trafficking further supports these results and predicts an additional kinetic state of the receptor consistent with sustained Akt phosphorylation.
A rodent's survival depends upon its ability to perceive odor cues necessary to guide mate selection, sexual behavior, foraging, territorial formation, and predator avoidance. Arguably, the need to discriminate odor cues in a complex olfactory environment requires a highly adaptable olfactory system. Indeed, it has been proposed that context-dependent modulation of the initial sensory relay could alter olfactory perception. Interestingly, 40% of the adrenergic innervation from the locus coeruleus, fibers that are activated by contextual cues, innervates the first relay station in the olfactory system (the main olfactory bulb). Here we utilize restricted pharmacological inhibition of olfactory bulb noradrenergic receptors in awake-behaving animals. We show that combined blockade of alpha and beta adrenergic receptors does not impair two-odor discrimination behavior per se but does impair the ability to discriminate perceptually similar odors. Thus, contextual cues conveyed by noradrenergic fibers alter processing before the second synapse in the olfactory cortex, resulting in tuning of the ability to discriminate between similar odors.
We acquired large data sets of calendar performance from two autistic calendar savants, DG and RN. An analysis of their errors and reaction times revealed that (1) both individuals had knowledge of calendar information from a limited range of years; (2) there was no evidence for the use of memorized anchor dates that could, by virtue of counting away from the anchors, allow correct responses to questions about other dates; and (3) the two individuals differed in their calendar knowledge, as well as in their ability to perform secondary tasks in which calendar knowledge was assessed indirectly. In view of the fact that there are only 14 possible annual calendars, we suggest that both savants worked by memorizing these 14 possible calendar arrangements.
Widespread loss of cerebral connectivity is assumed to underlie the failure of brain mechanisms that support communication and goal-directed behaviour following severe traumatic brain injury. Disorders of consciousness that persist for longer than 12 months after severe traumatic brain injury are generally considered to be immutable; no treatment has been shown to accelerate recovery or improve functional outcome in such cases. Recent studies have shown unexpected preservation of large-scale cerebral networks in patients in the minimally conscious state (MCS), a condition that is characterized by intermittent evidence of awareness of self or the environment. These findings indicate that there might be residual functional capacity in some patients that could be supported by therapeutic interventions. We hypothesize that further recovery in some patients in the MCS is limited by chronic underactivation of potentially recruitable large-scale networks. Here, in a 6-month double-blind alternating crossover study, we show that bilateral deep brain electrical stimulation (DBS) of the central thalamus modulates behavioural responsiveness in a patient who remained in MCS for 6 yr following traumatic brain injury before the intervention. The frequency of specific cognitively mediated behaviours (primary outcome measures) and functional limb control and oral feeding (secondary outcome measures) increased during periods in which DBS was on as compared with periods in which it was off. Logistic regression modelling shows a statistical linkage between the observed functional improvements and recent stimulation history. We interpret the DBS effects as compensating for a loss of arousal regulation that is normally controlled by the frontal lobe in the intact brain. These findings provide evidence that DBS can promote significant late functional recovery from severe traumatic brain injury. Our observations, years after the injury occurred, challenge the existing practice of early treatment discontinuation for patients with only inconsistent interactive behaviours and motivate further research to develop therapeutic interventions.
Thalamic relay cells transmit information from retina to cortex by firing either rapid bursts or tonic trains of spikes. Bursts occur when the membrane voltage is low, as during sleep, because they depend on channels that cannot respond to excitatory input unless they are primed by strong hyperpolarization. Cells fire tonically when depolarized, as during waking. Thus, mode of firing is usually associated with behavioral state. Growing evidence, however, suggests that sensory processing involves both burst and tonic spikes. To ask if visually evoked synaptic responses induce each type of firing, we recorded intracellular responses to natural movies from relay cells and developed methods to map the receptive fields of the excitation and inhibition that the images evoked. In addition to tonic spikes, the movies routinely elicited lasting inhibition from the center of the receptive field that permitted bursts to fire. Therefore, naturally evoked patterns of synaptic input engage dual modes of firing.
Previous studies suggest that glia may be required for normal circadian behavior, but glial factors required for rhythmicity have not been identified in any system. We show here that a circadian rhythm in Drosophila Ebony (N-beta-alanyl-biogenic amine synthetase) abundance can be visualized in adult glia and that glial expression of Ebony rescues the altered circadian behavior of ebony mutants. We demonstrate that molecular oscillator function and clock neuron output are normal in ebony mutants, verifying a role for Ebony downstream of the clock. Surprisingly, the ebony oscillation persists in flies lacking PDF neuropeptide, indicating it is regulated by an autonomous glial oscillator or another neuronal factor. The proximity of Ebony-containing glia to aminergic neurons and genetic interaction results suggest a function in dopaminergic signaling. We thus suggest a model for ebony function wherein Ebony glia participate in the clock control of dopaminergic function and the orchestration of circadian activity rhythms.
How objects are represented in the visual system is one of the big questions in cognitive neuroscience. In this issue of Neuron, Mahon and colleagues present an intriguing study that suggests that properties of objects other than shape can influence the arrangement of object selectivities in visual areas. In the process, the study also points to important caveats regarding the ability of standard fMRI studies to make inferences about neuronal selectivity.
Transcranial Doppler (TCD) is widely used to investigate the effects of anesthetic drugs on cerebral blood flow. Its repeatability and non-invasivity makes it an ideal, first choice method. Anesthesia providers are required to be conscious of the cerebral hemodynamic effects of drugs given in their practice, especially in neurosurgery and in subjects with impaired brain functions. The purpose of this review is to present the basic concepts of the TCD technique and the effects on cerebral hemodynamics of the most popular anesthetic drugs evaluated using TCD ultrasonography.
Peduncular hallucinosis is characterized by striking visual images, highly colored and mobile, which are recognized by the patient as imaginary. A 50-year-old-man underwent microvascular decompression for a classical right sided trigeminal neuralgia. During the procedure, the petrosal vein and a transverse pontine vein were sacrificed for trigeminal decompression. On the second postoperative day, the patient developed peduncular hallucinosis that disappeared on the forth postoperative day. This is the third case in the literature of peduncular hallucinosis after obliteration of veins of the petrosal venous complex for trigeminal neuralgia. The best policy in cerebellopontine angle surgery is to preserve the petrosal vein whenever possible to avoid complications related to venous congestion.



The diagnostic approach to patients with dysphagia is well established and relies mainly on videofluoroscopy and endoscopy. Oro-pharyngo-oesophageal scintigraphy permits both a functional and a semi-quantitative study of the various stages of swallowing. Moreover, by means of this investigation, it is possible to estimate the amount of inhaled bolus. Oro-pharyngo-oesophageal scintigraphy with 99mTc-nanocolloid has been found to be easy to use, economical, well tolerated and, supplying precise indications regarding the extent of the swallowing disorder, then permits a better clinical definition of the patient. The limitations of swallowing scintigraphy are: poor definition in visualizing anatomic structures and low specificity when used as the only diagnostic test. Scintigraphy plays an important role in the diagnosis and follow-up of dysphagia, and its use, together with other diagnostic techniques, increases diagnostic accuracy. In this study, the role of oro-pharyngo-oesophageal scintigraphy has been analysed in patients with post-surgical, neurological and oesophageal dysphagia.
Despite increasing demand for questionnaires for assessing hearing handicap and the effectiveness of some tools across different languages, empirical studies to evaluate the reliability and the validity of translations of original English questionnaires into an Italian version have not been reported in the literature, thus making comparisons of Italian experimental and clinical data across cultures and countries impossible. This study tested the global assumption that the Hearing Handicap Inventory for Adults (HHIA), that is one of the most widely used instruments in English-speaking countries, can be adapted to the Italian language maintaining the reliability and clinical validity of the original version. The English version of this 25-item, self-assessment questionnaire was developed by Newman et al. in 1990 and special emphasis was placed on emotional reaction and social limitations perceived by hearing-impaired subjects and scored separately. This tool was translated into the Italian language by a forward and backward technique, as established by the IQOLA (International Quality of Life Assessment) project. Overall, 94 subjects, aged 18-65 years, with acquired hearing impairment and 104 individuals with no hearing problems, well-matched for socio-demographic variables, were enrolled in the study in a case-control design. Reliability of the Italian version of HHIA was tested by measuring internal consistency and test-retest reproducibility. Validity was assessed by using construct, convergent and discriminant methods. A Cronbach's alpha coefficient near 0.90 confirmed a more than acceptable internal consistency and a highly statistically significant Spearman's correlation coefficient (&lt; 0.005) between scores of the two administrations at an interval of one month documented an excellent stability of the questionnaire over time. Construct validity was demonstrated by a correlation between the severity of hearing loss and the score of questionnaire (&lt; 0.005) and convergent validity was supported by a significant correlation between the scores of the emotional and socio/situational subscales of the HHIA to the analogous subscales of a health-related quality of life questionnaire (MOS 36-Item Short Form Health Survey) (&lt; 0.005). Finally, since hearing-impaired subjects scored significantly higher than controls on HHIA (&lt; 0.005), it clearly emerged that also the Italian version of HHIA differentiates the two populations (those with and those without hearing problems) demonstrating a robust discriminant validity. Given the lack of appropriate measures to assess hearing handicap in Italy, the results achieved in this study, confirm that the HHIA, Italian version, is suitable for both experimental and clinical use.

The paper reviews findings in humans regarding interindividual differences in sympathetic nerve activity. Data come predominantly from microneurographic multi- or single fibre recordings of sympathetic nerve activity in healthy subjects. Findings relate to interindividual differences in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) during resting conditions and in response to surprising sensory stimuli. At rest there are marked interindividual differences in the number of multiunit MSNA bursts. At the single fibre level the differences are because of more vasoconstrictor fibres being active in subjects with high than in subjects with low number of bursts. There are inverse relationships between (i) sympathetic burst incidence and cardiac output (CO) and (ii) between sympathetic burst incidence and vascular responsiveness to noradrenaline. Both findings contribute to explaining the absence of correlation between resting levels of MSNA and blood pressure. Surprising visual, somatosensory or auditory stimuli of sufficient strength cause a short lasting inhibition of MSNA in approx. 50-60% of healthy subjects. In subjects who display significant inhibition, the stimulus-induced blood pressure increase is smaller than in subjects without inhibition. The underlying mechanism may be related to fear of blood/injury. It is concluded that analysis of interindividual differences in sympathetic activity improves the understanding of central nervous control of the circulation.
Objective: Optochiasmatic arachnoiditis (OCA) is a serious complication that can occur after wrapping of aneurysms in the proximity of the optic pathways. This paper seeks to illustrate one such case with a view to drawing attention to the dangers of this practice. Method: Single case report and review of the literature. Results: The clinical and radiological features of OCA are presented and discussed, which in this patient involved failing visual acuity as well as an inflammatory mass of the suprasellar area with oedema of the optic apparatus. Conclusion: Optochiasmatic arachnoiditis and its attendant visual morbidity is a serious condition. In the setting described, it arose as a result of wrapping an unclippable aneurysm. The tide of aneurysm management has turned, and presently more and more of them are being obliterated by endovascular techniques. Among other benefits, this reduces the likelihood of such complications as OCA.
We tested whether observation of the presence and relationship of attendants (i.e. those that accompany upon admission) and visitors to a sample of 230 (128 male, 102 female) married HIV-positive people in an HIV care centre provides an indicator of caregiving, AIDS-related stigma and discrimination. Sensitivity to gender, location (urban vs. rural), age (&lt;35 yrs vs. &gt;35) and source of infection (spouse vs. non-spouse) were factors considered to modulate AIDS-related stigma and assess discrimination. HIV-positive people were accompanied by their spouse (53%), mother (14%), father (7%), with only 7% attending alone. Immediate family most commonly accompanied on admission (80%), but visitors were mainly from the 'extended' family (32%) with many receiving no visitors (48%). Females (11%) were more likely than males to attend alone (11% vs. 4%; p&lt;0.05). No effect of location, age or infector was obtained. Females were more likely to be visited by their mother (14% vs. 6%; p&lt;0.01) and non-immediate family (39% vs. 27%; p&lt;0.05) than males were. In contrast, fathers (0% vs. 6%; p &lt;0.05) and spouses were less likely (3% vs. 10%; p&lt;0.05) to visit females than males. No effect of location or age upon visitation was obtained. Non-spouse infected persons were less likely than spouse-infected to be visited by their spouse (3% vs. 10%; p&lt;0.05) but more likely to receive 'extended' family visitation (43% vs. 24%; p&lt;0.01). Spouse-infected persons had a higher rate of no visitors than persons not infected by their spouse (54% vs. 40%; p&lt;0.05). Observation of the presence and relationship of attendants and visitors to HIV-positive people has potential as an indicator of caregiving AIDS-related stigma and discrimination. The measure appears particularly sensitive to the gender of the HIV-positive person. Such a measure may aid healthcare professionals to focus resources such as relational counselling upon the family and close friends of people experiencing AIDS-related stigma and discrimination, with the aim of improving the provision of care within the community.

We report on a 9.5-year-old Italian boy affected by creatine transporter deficit (CT1), due to a de novo mutation in SLC6A8 gene. The patient was investigated by means of a comprehensive neuropsychological protocol and presented with an unusual alteration of speech and expressive-language function, associated with mental retardation, that differed from CT1 patients described to date. In particular, he exhibited a developmental apraxia of speech (DAS) with motor planning and execution deficit, while receptive language was consistent with his mental age.
Angiotensin II (ANG II) inhibits bTREK-1 (bovine KCNK2) K(+) channels in bovine adrenocortical cells through a Gq-coupled AT(1) receptor by activation of separate Ca(2+)- and ATP hydrolysis-dependent signaling pathways. Whole cell patch-clamp recording from bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells was used to characterize the ATP-dependent signaling mechanism for inhibition of bTREK-1 by ANG II. We discovered that ATP-dependent inhibition of bTREK-1 by ANG II occurred through a novel mechanism that was independent of PLC and its established downstream effectors. The ATP-dependent inhibition of bTREK-1 by ANG II was not reduced by the PLC antagonists edelfosine and U73122, or by the PKC antagonists bisindolylmaleimide I (BIM) or calphostin C. bTREK-1 was partially inhibited ( approximately 25%) by the PKC activator phorbol 12,13 dibutyrate (PDBu) through an ATP-dependent mechanism that was blocked by BIM. Addition of Phosphatidylinositol(4,5) bisphosphate diC8 [DiC(8)PI(4,5)P(2)], a water-soluble derivative of phosphotidyl inositol 4,5 bisphosphate (PIP(2)) to the pipette solution failed to alter inhibition by ANG II. bTREK-1 inhibition by ANG II was also insensitive to antagonists of other protein kinases activated by ANG II in adrenocortical cells but was completely blocked by inorganic polytriphosphate PPPi. DiC(8)PI(4,5)P(2) was a weak activator of bTREK-1 channels, compared with the high-affinity ATP analog N(6)-(2-phenylethyl)adenosine-5'-O-triphosphate (6-PhEt-ATP). These results demonstrate that the modulation of bTREK-1 channels in bovine AZF cells is distinctive with respect to activation by phosphoinositides and nucleotides and inhibition by Gq-coupled receptors. Importantly, ANG II inhibits bTREK-1 channels through a novel pathway that is different from that described for inhibition of native TREK-1 channels in neurons, or cloned channels expressed in cell lines. They also indicate that, under physiological conditions, ANG II inhibits bTREK-1 and depolarizes AZF cells by two, novel, independent pathways that diverge proximal to the activation of PLC.
Presence of appetite-regulating peptides orexin-A and orexin-B in mucosal endocrine cells suggests a role in physiological control of the intestine. Our aim was to characterize orexin-induced stimulation of duodenal bicarbonate secretion and modulation of secretory responses and mucosal orexin receptors by overnight food deprivation. Lewis x Dark Agouti rats were anesthetized and proximal duodenum cannulated in situ. Mucosal bicarbonate secretion (pH stat) and mean arterial blood pressure were continuously recorded. Orexin-A was administered intra-arterially close to the duodenum, intraluminally, or into the brain ventricles. Total RNA was extracted from mucosal specimens, reverse transcribed to cDNA and expression of orexin receptors 1 and 2 (OX1 and OX2) measured by quantitative real-time PCR. OX1 protein was measured by Western blot. Intra-arterial orexin-A (60-600 nmol.h(-1).kg(-1)) increased (P &lt; 0.01) the duodenal secretion in fed but not in fasted animals. The OX1 receptor antagonist SB-334867, which was also found to have a partial agonist action, abolished the orexin-induced secretory response but did not affect secretion induced by the muscarinic agonist bethanechol. Atropine, in contrast, inhibited bethanechol but not orexin-induced secretion. Orexin-A infused into the brain ventricles (2-20 nmol.kg(-1).h(-1)) or added to luminal perfusate (1.0-100 nM) did not affect secretion, indicating that orexin-A acts peripherally and at basolateral receptors. Overnight fasting decreased mucosal OX1 and OX2 mRNA expression (P &lt; 0.01) as well as OX1 protein expression (P &lt; 0.05). We conclude that stimulation of secretion by orexin-A may involve both receptor types and is independent of cholinergic pathways. Intestinal OX receptors and secretory responses are markedly related to food intake.
It is known that cholecystokinin (CCK) acts in a paracrine fashion to increase pancreatic exocrine secretion via vagal circuits. Recent evidence, however, suggests that CCK-8s actions are not restricted to afferent vagal fibers, but also affect brain stem structures directly. Within the brain stem, preganglionic neurons of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) send efferent fibers to subdiaphragmatic viscera, including the pancreas. Our aims were to investigate whether DMV neurons responded to exogenously applied CCK-8s and, if so, the mechanism of action. Using whole cell patch-clamp recordings we show that perfusion with CCK-8s induced a concentration-dependent excitation in approximately 60% of identified pancreas-projecting DMV neurons. The depolarization was significantly reduced by tetrodotoxin, suggesting both direct (on the DMV membrane) and indirect (on local synaptic circuits) effects. Indeed, CCK-8s increased the frequency of miniature excitatory currents onto DMV neurons. The CCK-A antagonist, lorglumide, prevented the CCK-8s-mediated excitation whereas the CCK-B preferring agonist, CCK-nonsulfated, had no effect, suggesting the involvement of CCK-A receptors only. In voltage clamp, the CCK-8s-induced inward current reversed at -106 +/- 3 mV and the input resistance increased by 150 +/- 15%, suggesting an effect mediated by the closure of a potassium conductance. Indeed, CCK-8s reduced both the amplitude and the time constant of decay of a calcium-dependent potassium conductance. When tested with pancreatic polypeptide (which reduces pancreatic exocrine secretion), cells that responded to CCK-8s with an excitation were, instead, inhibited by pancreatic polypeptide. These data indicate that CCK-8s may control pancreas-exocrine secretion also via an effect on pancreas-projecting DMV neurons.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) has been proposed to act in a vagally dependent manner to increase pancreatic exocrine secretion via actions exclusively at peripheral vagal afferent fibers. Recent evidence, however, suggests the CCK-8s may also affect brain stem structures directly. We used an in vivo preparation with the aims of 1) investigating whether the actions of intraduodenal casein perfusion to increase pancreatic protein secretion also involved direct actions of CCK at the level of the brain stem and, if so, 2) determining whether, in the absence of vagal afferent inputs, CCK-8s applied to the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) can also modulate pancreatic exocrine secretion (PES). Sprague-Dawley rats (250-400 g) were anesthetized and the common bile-pancreatic duct was cannulated to collect PES. Both vagal deafferentation and pretreatment with the CCK-A antagonist lorglumide on the floor of the fourth ventricle decreased the casein-induced increase in PES output. CCK-8s microinjection (450 pmol) in the DVC significantly increased PES; the increase was larger when CCK-8s was injected in the left side of the DVC. Protein secretion returned to baseline levels within 30 min. Microinjection of CCK-8s increased PES (although to a lower extent) also in rats that underwent complete vagal deafferentation. These data indicate that, as well as activating peripheral vagal afferents, CCK-8s increases pancreatic exocrine secretion via an action in the DVC. Our data suggest that the CCK-8s-induced increases in PES are due mainly to a paracrine effect of CCK; however, a relevant portion of the effects of CCK is due also to an effect of the peptide on brain stem vagal circuits.
The aims of this study were to quantify the change in resting membrane potential (RMP) across the thickness of the circular muscle layer in the mouse and human small intestine and to determine whether the gradient in RMP is dependent on the endogenous production of carbon monoxide (CO). Conventional sharp glass microelectrodes were used to record the RMPs of circular smooth muscle cells at different depths in the human small intestine and in wild-type, HO2-KO, and W/W(V) mutant mouse small intestine. In the wild-type mouse and human intestine, the RMP of circular smooth muscle cells near the myenteric plexus was -65.3 +/- 2 mV and -58.4 +/- 2 mV, respectively, and -60.1 +/- 2 mV and -49.1 +/- 1 mV, respectively, in circular smooth muscle cells at the submucosal border. Oxyhemoglobin (20 microM), a trapping agent for CO, and chromium mesoporphyrin IX, an inhibitor of heme oxygenase, abolished the transwall gradient. The RMP gradients in mouse and human small intestine were not altered by N(G)-nitro-l-arginine (200 microM). No transwall RMP gradient was found in HO2-KO mice and W/W(V) mutant mice. TTX (1 microM) and 1H-[1,2,4-]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (10 microM) had no effect on the RMP gradient. These data suggest that the gradient in RMP across the thickness of the circular muscle layer of mouse and human small intestine is CO dependent.
Growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH), its receptor (GHRHR), and other members of the somatotropic axis are involved in non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREMS) regulation. Previously, studies established the involvement of hypothalamic GHRHergic mechanisms in NREMS regulation, but cerebral cortical GHRH mechanisms in sleep regulation remained uninvestigated. Here, we show that unilateral application of low doses of GHRH to the surface of the rat somatosensory cortex ipsilaterally decreased EEG delta wave power, while higher doses enhanced delta power. These actions of GHRH on EEG delta wave power occurred during NREMS but not during rapid eye movement sleep. Further, the cortical forms of GHRH and GHRHR were identical to those found in the hypothalamus and pituitary, respectively. Cortical GHRHR mRNA and protein levels did not vary across the day-night cycle, whereas cortical GHRH mRNA increased with sleep deprivation. These results suggest that cortical GHRH and GHRHR have a role in the regulation of localized EEG delta power that is state dependent, as well as in their more classic hypothalamic role in NREMS regulation.
Activation of the neurokinin 3 receptor (NK3R) by a receptor agonist, hypotension, and hyperosmolarity results in the internalization of NK3R expressed by magnocellular neurons and the release of vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT) into the circulation. The contribution of NK3R activation to the release of VP and OT in response to hyperosmolarity and hypotension was evaluated by measuring the release of both hormones following pretreatment with a selective NK3R antagonist, SB-222200. Freely behaving male rats were given an intraventricular injection of either 0.15 M NaCl or 250, 500, or 1,000 pmol SB-222200, and then were administered an intravenous infusion of 2 M NaCl or 0.15 M NaCl (experiment 1), or a bolus intra injection of 0.15 M NaCl or hydralazine (HDZ), a hypotension-inducing drug (experiment 2). Blood samples were taken from indwelling arterial catheters at various time points for 1-2 h, both before and after treatments. Plasma VP and OT levels were determined by ELISA. Blockade of NK3R did not affect the baseline levels of either hormone. In contrast, pretreatment with SB-222200 significantly reduced ( approximately 60%) or abolished the release of VP and OT, respectively, to 2 M NaCl infusion. HDZ-induced VP and OT release was eliminated by pretreatment with 500 pmol SB-222200. Therefore, NK3R activation contributes significantly to the systemic release of both VP and OT in response to osmotic and hypotensive challenges.

We report a case of a 47-year-old male undergoing endoscopic removal of a third ventricular colloid cyst. After uneventful surgery, the patient remained drowsy and was transferred to the intensive care unit for supportive care. In the postoperative period, the patient developed hydrocephalus due to clot in the region of the cyst. A posterior fossa haematoma and further neurological deterioration complicated external ventricular drainage, presumably due to sudden intracranial hypotension. Gradual ventricular decompression is recommended to reduce the risk of this complication.
Albinism is due to a lack of pigmentation in hair, skin and eye, and has been shown to occur in several animal species. Mutations of the tyrosinase (TYR) gene account for albinism in domestic cats, rabbits, cattle, mice and rats. In this study, we demonstrate that a TYR mutation accounts for albinism in the ferret (Mustela putorius furo). The coding sequence of the five exons of TYR was determined in genomic DNA from wild-type pigmented 'sable' coloured and albino ferrets. It was not possible to amplify TYR exon 4 in albino ferrets originating from different breeds. The deletion of exon 4 in albino ferrets was confirmed by Southern blot hybridization of genomic DNA from albino and pigmented ferrets. This is the first report of a deletion of a TYR exon in a non-human mammal.




High-resolution cerebral vasculature imaging has applications ranging from intraoperative procedures to basic neuroscience research. Laser speckle, with spatial contrast processing, has recently been used to map cerebral blood flow. We present an application of the technique using temporal contrast processing to image cerebral vascular structures with a field of view a few millimeters across and approximately 20 microm resolution through a thinned skull. We validate the images using fluorescent imaging and demonstrate a factor of 2-4 enhancement in contrast-to-noise ratios over reflectance imaging using white or spectrally filtered green light. The contrast enhancement enables the perception of approximately 10%-30% more vascular structures without the introduction of any contrast agent.


The assessment of patients with disorders of consciousness, including the vegetative state, is difficult and depends frequently on subjective interpretations of the observed spontaneous and volitional behavior. For those patients who retain peripheral motor function, rigorous behavioral assessment supported by structural imaging and electrophysiological findings is usually sufficient to establish a patient's level of wakefulness and awareness. However, it is becoming increasingly apparent that in some patients damage to the peripheral motor system may prevent overt responses to command although the cognitive ability to perceive and understand such commands may remain intact. Recent advances in functional neuroimaging suggest a novel solution to this problem; in several cases, so-called activation studies have been used to identify residual cognitive function and conscious awareness in patients who are assumed to be in a vegetative state yet retain cognitive abilities that have evaded detection using standard clinical methods.

Our aim was to describe psychiatric nursing care of suicidal patients from an action-theoretical and confirmatory perspective using the Sympathy-Acceptance-Understanding-Competence (SAUC) model for confirming nursing. Twenty-nine nurses were interviewed and asked to answer a questionnaire. The interview results showed that the nurses' care consisted of 83% of person support, 16% of self-support, and less than 1% of self-perspective support. However, the questionnaire responses showed that the nurses regarded all levels of support as equally important. Theoretical frameworks, such as the SAUC model, facilitate descriptions of nursing and may be used to improve the care of suicidal patients by making it deliberate and possible to evaluate.

Systemic or intra-hippocampal administration of the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin generally leads to impairments in memory tested 24 hr or more after training but spares memory for a few hours after training. Thus, amnesia does not appear immediately after training but develops with time, findings most often interpreted as evidence for distinct short- and long-term memory processes. However, time courses for the onset of amnesia vary substantially after treatment with protein synthesis inhibitors. Some of the variability across experiments may reflect task-related differences or, perhaps relatedly, may reflect memory processing mediated by different neural systems. In the present experiments, anisomycin was infused into either the hippocampus or the amygdala 20 min before inhibitory avoidance training. Similar to previous findings, intra-hippocampus injections of anisomycin impaired memory tested 48 hr after training yet spared memory tested 4 hr after training. In contrast, intra-amygdala injections of anisomycin impaired memory tested at 0.5, 4, and 48 hr after training, revealing no evidence for spared memory at short times after training. The distinct temporal properties for amnesia following anisomycin injections into the hippocampus or amygdala may reflect different consequences for memory of perturbations of the neural system in which the manipulation is made.
The cognitive and emotional effects of amygdala or frontal cortex lesions were compared in rats trained to time both a 50-s visual signal paired with food and an embedded 10- or 20-s auditory signal that was paired with either appetitive (food) or aversive (footshock) outcomes. When both auditory and visual signals were paired with food, control and amygdalar-lesioned rats were able to divide attention and to time both signals simultaneously, whereas when the embedded auditory signal was paired with footshock, control rats were impaired in their ability to divide attention and were able to time only one signal at a time. In contrast, amygdalar inactivation blocked this fear-related impairment and allowed rats to time both signals simultaneously, whereas rats with frontal cortex lesions demonstrated sequential processing under all conditions. These results support the proposal that the frontal cortex exerts executive control over the allocation of attentional resources, but that under stressful conditions the amygdala is crucial for the emergence of fear-evoked increments in selective attention leading to deficits in the ability to time 2 or more signals simultaneously.
Male and female heroin-dependent patients (HDPs) matched with &quot;normal&quot; people were tested on 4 topographical orientation tasks: schematic map-following, map-memory, schematic picture-following, and picture-memory tasks. The results showed that, in general, female HDPs demonstrated greater performance deficits in map-following and map-picture-memory tasks than did other participants. In the map-picture-following tasks, participants showed a preference for turning right versus turning left, reflected by lower correct scores and longer latencies in completing left-oriented tasks. In contrast, no difference in orientation preference was found for participants in memory tasks, except for female HDPs. Asymmetric dopamine receptor distribution in the brain, sex steroidal hormone, brain areas related to motor functioning and working memory, and gender-dependent lateralization may be involved in the different effects of heroin and rightward bias between men and women.
The design and development of selective agonists acting at the OT (oxytocin)/AVP (vasopressin) receptors has been and continues to be a difficult task because of the great similarity among the different receptor subtypes as well as the high degree of chemical similarity between the active ligands. In recent decades, at least a thousand synthetic peptides have been synthesized and examined for their ability to bind to and activate the different OT/AVP receptors; an effort that has led to the identification of several receptor subtype-selective agonists in the rat. However, owing to species differences between rat and human AVP/OT receptors, these peptides do not exhibit the same selectivities in human receptor assays. Furthermore, the discovery of receptor promiscuity, which is the ability of a single receptor subtype to couple to several different G-proteins, has led to the definition of a completely new class of compounds, referred to here as coupling-selective ligands, which may activate, within a single receptor subtype, only a specific signalling pathway. Finally, the accumulating evidence that GPCRs (G-protein-coupled receptors) do not function as monomers, but as dimers/oligomers, opens up the design of another class of specific ligands, bivalent ligands, in which two agonist and/or antagonist moieties are joined by a spacer of the appropriate length to allow the simultaneous binding at the two subunits within the dimer. The pharmacological properties and selectivity profiles of these bivalent ligands, which remain to be investigated, could lead to highly novel research tools and potential therapeutic agents.




Novel triazole amino acids were synthesized as probes to investigate ligand-protein binding interactions of the neutral amino acid transporter SN1. The bonding hypothesis to be tested was that the side chains of endogenous substrates are acting as H-bond acceptors. Although limited inhibition of (3)H-L-glutamine uptake by SN1 expressing oocytes was observed, the synthetic compounds show a trend that suggests a hydrogen bond interaction just outside the endogenous ligand binding pocket.
Our HTS effort yielded a preferential mGluR1 pyrimidinone antagonist 1 with lead-like characteristics. Rapid hit to lead (HTL) study identified compounds with improved functional activity and selectivity such as 1b with little improvements in ADME properties. Addition of an aminosulfonyl group on the N-1 aromatic ring led to 2f, a compound with similar in vitro biochemical profiles as those of 1b but drastically improved in vitro ADME properties. These improvements were paralleled by rat PK study characterized by low clearance and quantitative bioavailability. Compound 2f represented a true lead-like molecule that is amenable for further lead optimization (LO) evaluation.
Voltage-gated sodium channels (Nav) are modulated by many bilayer mechanical amphiphiles, but whether, like other voltage-gated channels (Kv, HCN, Cav), they respond to physical bilayer deformations is unknown. We expressed human heart Nav1.5 pore alpha-subunit in oocytes (where, unlike alphaNav1.4, alphaNav1.5 exhibits normal kinetics) and measured small macroscopic currents in cell-attached patches. Pipette pressure was used to reversibly stretch the membrane for comparison of I(Na)(t) before, during, and after stretch. At all voltages, and in a dose-dependent fashion, stretch accelerated the I(Na)(t) time course. The sign of membrane curvature was not relevant. Typical stretch stimuli reversibly accelerated both activation and inactivation by approximately 1.4-fold; normalization of peak I(Na)(t) followed by temporal scaling ( approximately 1.30- to 1.85-fold) resulted in full overlap of the stretch/no-stretch traces. Evidently the rate-limiting outward voltage sensor motion in the Nav1.5 activation path (as in Kv1) accelerated with stretch. Stretch-accelerated inactivation occurred even with activation saturated, so an independently stretch-modulated inactivation transition is also a possibility. Since Nav1.5 channel-stretch modulation was both reliable and reversible, and required stretch stimuli no more intense than what typically activates putative mechanotransducer channels (e.g., stretch-activated TRPC1-based currents), Nav channels join the ranks of putative mechanotransducers. It is noteworthy that at voltages near the activation threshold, moderate stretch increased the peak I(Na) amplitude approximately 1.5-fold. It will be important to determine whether stretch-modulated Nav current contributes to cardiac arrhythmias, to mechanosensory responses in interstitial cells of Cajal, to touch receptor responses, and to neuropathic (i.e., hypermechanosensitive) and/or normal pain reception.
Gene delivery vectors based on adeno-associated virus (AAV) have significant therapeutic potential, but much room for improvement remains in the areas of vector engineering and production. AAV production requires complementation with either helper virus, such as adenovirus, or plasmids containing helper genes, and helper virus-based approaches have distinct advantages in the use of bioreactors to produce large quantities of AAV vectors for clinical applications. However, helper viruses must eventually be inactivated and removed from AAV preparations to ensure safety. The current practice of thermally inactivating adenovirus is problematic as it can also inactivate AAV. Here, we report a novel method using high hydrostatic pressure (HHP) to selectively and completely inactivate helper adenovirus without any detectable loss of functional AAV vectors. The pressure inactivation kinetics of human adenovirus serotype 5 and the high-pressure stabilities of AAV serotypes 2 and 5 (AAV2, AAV5), which were previously unknown, were characterized. Adenovirus was inactivated beyond detection at 260 MPa or higher, whereas AAV2 was stable up to approximately 450 MPa, and surprisingly, AAV5 was stable up to at least 700 MPa. The viral genomic DNA of pressure-inactivated AAV2 was made sensitive to DNAse I digestion, suggesting that gross changes in particle structure had occurred, and this hypothesis was further supported by transmission electron microscopy. This approach should be useful in the laboratory- and clinical-scale production of AAV gene delivery vectors. Moreover, HHP provides a tool for probing the biophysical properties of AAV, which may facilitate understanding and improving the functions of this important virus.
Since the isolation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), this proline-directed serine/threonine kinase has been demonstrated as an important regulator of neuronal migration, neuronal survival and synaptic functions. Recently, a number of players implicated in dendrite and synapse development have been identified as Cdk5 substrates. Neurite extension, synapse and spine maturation are all modulated by a myriad of extracellular guidance cues or trophic factors. Cdk5 was recently demonstrated to regulate signaling downstream of some of these extracellular factors, in addition to modulating Rho GTPase activity, which regulates cytoskeletal dynamics. In this communication, we summarize our existing knowledge on the pathways and mechanisms through which Cdk5 affects dendrite, synapse and spine development.







Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is an immune-mediated disorder characterized by slowly progressive asymmetrical limb weakness. Treatment with immunoglobulins (IVIg) leads to improvement of muscle strength. Anecdotal evidence suggests that immunosuppressive drugs as adjunctive therapy may be beneficial. Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is a potent and safe immunosuppressant. Safety and efficacy of MMF as adjunctive therapy for MMN patients receiving IVIg maintenance treatment were evaluated in a randomized controlled trial. MMN patients responding to IVIg treatment were eligible for randomization. Muscle strength and functional status were assessed at monthly intervals for 1 year. Three months after the start of MMF or placebo treatment, IVIg doses were reduced stepwise, until a deterioration of functioning or decline in muscle strength could be observed. An IVIg dose reduction of 50% during adjunctive treatment was defined as a primary endpoint. Secondary outcome measures were improvement in muscle strength and functional status after 3 months and reduction of anti GM1-IgM titres after 12 months of MMF treatment. Twenty-eight patients were randomized. One patient allocated to MMF reached the primary endpoint of 50% IVIg dose reduction. After 12 months IVIg reduction did not differ significantly between the two treatment groups. Patients did not experience drug toxicity and none of the patients showed significant disease progression after 12 months. Muscle strength and functional scores after 3 months and anti GM1-IgM titres after 12 months did not change. Adjunctive treatment of MMN patients with MMF at a dose of 1 g twice daily is safe but does not alter disease course or allow significant reduction of IVIg doses.
We have examined dopaminergic cell survival after alteration of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated monkeys. The STN was lesioned with kainic acid (B series) or underwent deep brain stimulation (DBS) at high frequency (C series). In another series, MPTP-treated and non-MPTP-treated monkeys had no STN alteration (intact animals; A series). Animals were treated with MPTP either after (B1, C1) or before (B2, C2) STN alteration. We also explored the long-term ( approximately 7 months) effect of DBS in non-MPTP-treated monkeys (D series). Brains were aldehyde-fixed and processed for routine Nissl staining and tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry. Our results showed that there were significantly more (20-24%) dopaminergic cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) of the MPTP-treated monkeys that had STN alteration, either with kainic acid lesion or DBS, compared to the non-MPTP-treated monkeys (intact animals). We suggest that this saving or neuroprotection was due to a reduction in glutamate excitotoxicity, as a result of the loss or reduction of the STN input to the SNc. Our results also showed that SNc cell number in the B1 and C1 series were very similar to those in the B2 and C2 series. In the cases that had long-term DBS of the STN (D series), there was no adverse impact on SNc cell number. In summary, these results indicated that STN alteration offered neuroprotection to dopaminergic cells that would normally die as part of the disease process.
Sherrington's late writings are often described as dualistic, yet Sherrington was deeply uneasy with theories that radically separate mind and brain. His questioning, open-minded and historically-informed approach to their relationship eschews dogmatic solutions.
Brain microbleeds (BMBs) are seen as small, homogeneous, round foci of low signal intensity on magnetic resonance imaging gradient echo (GRE) T2 sequences. BMBs might only be a biomarker for microangiopathy, or alternatively BMBs might provide useful diagnostic and prognostic information, potentially with therapeutic implications for the treatment of stroke. Because of the rapid expansion in recent BMB research, we systematically reviewed and critically appraised the published literature according to QUADAS, STARD and Cochrane principles. Our selection criteria were met by 54 studies of 53 case series involving 9073 participants, 4432 of whom were people with cerebrovascular diseases. There were significant biases in many of the studies: variation in MRI magnet strength, flip angle, slice gap and slice thickness; inconsistent definitions of BMB size (23% did not define size at all, and of those that did 44% chose a diameter of &lt; or =5 mm); only 30% included participants who were representative of the disease under study; and only 53% mentioned that BMB evaluation was blinded to other factors of interest. By pooling data from similar studies, we found that the prevalence of BMBs was 5% [95% confidence interval (CI) 4-6] in healthy adults, 34% (95% CI 31-36) in people with ischaemic stroke, and 60% (95% CI 57-64) in people with non-traumatic intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH). In the studies where a distinction could be made, BMBs were more prevalent among recurrent strokes than first-ever strokes: they affected 23% (95% CI 18-29) with first-ever ischaemic stroke but 44% (95% CI 34-54) with recurrent ischaemic stroke, and 52% (95% CI 47-56) with first-ever ICH but 83% (95% CI 71-90) with recurrent ICH. By pooling data that could be extracted from similar studies, it appears that BMBs are associated with hypertension (OR 3.9, 95% CI 2.4-6.4) and diabetes mellitus (OR 2.2, 95% CI 1.2-4.2) in otherwise healthy adults, and that they are associated with hypertension (OR 2.3, 95% CI 1.7-3.0) in adults with cerebrovascular diseases. The association with hypertension was robust in sensitivity analyses. There is a pressing need for better designed studies to assess the diagnostic utility of BMBs, disentangle the many likely influences on their occurrence, and determine their prognostic utility and whether they should influence treatment. We conclude by proposing criteria for ideal study design and reporting.

The central nervous system (CNS) has been shown to be vulnerable to a variety of insults in animals exposed to glucocorticoids. For example, psychological stress, a known inducer of glucocorticoid production, enhances the susceptibility of mice to herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1) infection and results in the development of HSV-1 encephalitis (HSE). To determine the immune mechanisms by which stress promotes the development of HSE, we examined the role of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in the development of HSE. Our findings demonstrate that blockade of either the GR or the NMDA receptor enhances survival following HSV-1 infection in stressed mice to levels similar to non-stressed mice. Subsequent studies determined the effect of GR and NMDA receptor blockade on immune function by specifically examining both microglia and CD8(+) T cell activation. Stress inhibited the expression of MHC class I by microglia and other brain-derived antigen presenting cells (CD45(hi)) independent of either the glucocorticoid receptor or the NMDA receptor, suggesting that stress-induced suppression of MHC class I expression in the brain does not affect survival during HSE. Blockade of the NMDA receptor, however, diminished HSV-1-induced increases in class I expression by CD45(hi) cells, suggesting that blockade of the NMDA receptor may limit CNS inflammation. Also, while CD8(+) T cell activation and function in the brain were not affected by stress, the number of CD8(+) T cells in the superficial cervical lymph nodes (SCLN) was decreased in stressed mice via GR-mediated mechanisms. These findings indicate that stress-induced hypocellularity is mediated by the GR while NMDA receptor activation is responsible for enhancing CNS inflammation. The combined effects of GR-mediated hypocellularity of the SCLN and NMDA receptor-mediated CNS inflammation during stress promote the development of HSE.
One of the defining cognitive characteristics of the chromosome 22q deletion syndrome (DS22q11.2) is visuospatial processing impairments. The purpose of this study was to investigate and extend the specific attentional profile of children with this disorder using both an object-based attention task and an inhibition of return task. A group of children with the disorder was compared in these tasks with a group of age-matched typically developing children. The children with DS22q11.2 demonstrated impaired spatially based orienting which is consistent with previous findings in this group. Strikingly, the children with DS22q11.2 also demonstrated an improved ability to use object-based cues, relative to the typically developing group. Finally, the children with DS22q11.2 demonstrated an intact inhibition of return system, however, it appears to be delayed developmentally.
Imitation ability has consistently been shown to be impaired in individuals with autism. A dysfunctional execution/observation matching system has been proposed to account for this impairment. The EEG mu rhythm is believed to reflect an underlying execution/observation matching system. This study investigated evidence of differential mu rhythm attenuation during the observation, execution, and imitation of movements and examined its relation to behaviorally assessed imitation abilities. Fourteen high-functioning adults with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and 15 IQ- and age-matched typical adults participated. On the behavioral imitation task, adults with ASD demonstrated significantly poorer performance compared to typical adults in all domains of imitation ability. On the EEG task, both groups demonstrated significant attenuation of the mu rhythm when executing an action. However, when observing movement, the individuals with ASD showed significantly reduced attenuation of the mu wave. Behaviorally assessed imitation skills were correlated with degree of mu wave attenuation during observation of movement. These findings suggest that there is execution/observation matching system dysfunction in individuals with autism and that this matching system is related to degree of impairment in imitation abilities.
Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has been associated with executive functioning and sustained and divided attention deficits. In order to clarify the questions on neurocognitive impairment in ADHD, we investigated the presence of specific executive functions (EFs) and attention deficit patterns in ADHD clinical subtypes. 50 patients with ADHD and 44 controls were evaluated. All subjects were boys and performed a clinical-psychopathological and neuropsychological battery. Five main domains of EFs and attention were studied. Executive functions-related neurocognitive abilities were used as control tasks. ADHD patients, inattentive and combined subtypes differ from controls on response inhibition, divided attention, phonological, and visual object working memory and on variability of reaction times measured with CPT. Comparison of ADHD subtypes, in five main domains of EFs, did not show evidence of different executive functioning profiles. Response inhibition can predict performance on working memory tests but it cannot predict performance on divided attention/set shifting and on sustained attention. ADHD boys exhibit a selective impairment on executive functions and attention tasks. These data suggest the involvement of partially independent neural circuits which control inhibition and divided attention in ADHD. Since right prefrontal cortex seems to be crucial in controlling response inhibition, while left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex seems important in modulating divided attention, these areas are deputated to be involved in the pathogenesis of neuropsychological deficits in ADHD subtypes. In addition, this study candidates the impairment in phonological and visual-object working memory as a possible neuropsychological trait in ADHD males with inattentive or combined subtypes.
Well-regulated blood flow within the brain is vital to normal function. The brain's requirement for sufficient blood flow is ensured by a tight link between neural activity and blood flow. The link between regional synaptic activity and regional cerebral blood flow, termed functional hyperemia, is the basis for several modern imaging techniques that have revolutionized the study of human brain activity. Here, we review the mechanisms of functional hyperemia and their implications for interpreting the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) contrast signal used in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).
In recent years a number of multivariate approaches have been introduced to map neural systems in health and disease. In this review, we focus on spatial covariance methods applied to functional imaging data to identify patterns of regional activity associated with behavior. In the rest state, this form of network analysis can be used to detect abnormal topographies reflecting regional changes in distributed neural systems. In activation experiments, this approach can be used to quantify network-performance relationships in normal and disease cohorts. Functional changes in the relevant neural systems are likely to underlie the behavioral abnormalities observed in a variety of disease and treatment conditions.
Microglia are the resident inflammatory cells of the central nervous system (CNS) extending a network of processes in the CNS parenchyma. Following axon lesion to neurons, most extensively studied in motoneurons, there is a typical retrograde response at the cell body level, including the removal or 'stripping' of synapses from the perikaryon and dendrites of affected cells. Microglia have been attributed a main and active role in this process, although also an involvement of activated astrocytes has been suggested. The signaling pathways for this 'synaptic stripping' have so far been unknown, but recently some classical immune recognition molecules, the MHC class I molecules, have been shown to have a strong influence on the strength and pattern of the synapse elimination response. Since there is an expression of MHC class I in both neurons and glia, in particular microglia, as well as MHC class I related receptors in axons and microglia, there are good reasons to believe that classical immune recognition signaling between neurons and glia underlies part of the 'stripping' response. A role for microglia in an interplay with synapses based on this type of signaling is further exemplified by the fact that, in the absence of some MHC class I related receptors normally found on microglia during development, profound effects on synaptic function and biochemistry have been demonstrated. Such effects may be linked to the development of various disorders of the CNS, such as degenerative disease.
Morphological and morphometrical studies of neural shape and texture are becoming more and more important in the field of neurosciences due to the recognized close link between shape and function at molecular, cellular and tissutal level. Indeed, some different morphological classes of neurons are known to be correlated to well defined functional classes; several neurological pathologies are associated with modification of neuronal shape; during a neural development, cells impose geometrical and physical constrains at one another. The understanding of these fundamental processes requires morphological/morphometrical analysis. In addition, the geometric properties at the individual level plays a relevant role in defining the actual and the potential global connectivity of the system. From this standpoint it will be important to study the relationship between the shape descriptors illustrated in this paper and the potential global connectivity of the system. In such a context, the classical multivariate statistical tools of analysis (and probably new ones) will become necessary to correctly utilize huge set of information provided from shape and texture descriptors. In this review, avoiding to consider some common measures of shape, such as area, perimeter, perimeter/area ratio, eccentricity, we considered only shape and texture analysis methods classified within the set of scalar transform techniques, discussing their advantages and limitations, especially regarding their application to neuromorphometry.
In 1906, the Spaniard Santiago Ramn y Cajal and the Italian Camillo Golgi shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, in recognition of their work on the structure of the nervous system. Although both were well-known scientists who had made a large number of important discoveries regarding the anatomy of the nervous system, each defended a different and conflicting position in relation to the intimate organization of the grey matter that makes up the brain. In this communication we will review the importance of Cajal's studies using the method of impregnation discovered by Golgi, as well as the relevant studies carried out by Golgi, the concession of the Nobel Prize and the events that occurred during the Nobel conferences. In summary, we will prcis the important contribution of both scientists to the founding of modern Neuroscience.
Since the discovery and mapping of the neuronal circuits of the brain by Golgi and Cajal neuroscientists have clearly spelled the fundamental questions which should be answered to delineate the arena for a scientific understanding of brain function: How neurons communicate with each other in a network? Is there some basic principle according to which brain networks are organised? Is it possible to map out brain regions specialised in carrying out some specific task? As far as the first point is concerned it is well known that Golgi and Cajal had opposite views on the interneuronal communication. Golgi suggested protoplasmic continuity and/or electrotonic spreading of currents between neurons. Cajal proposed the so-called &quot;neuron doctrine&quot;, which maintained that neurons could communicate only via a specialised region of contiguity, namely the synapse. The present paper has the first and second points as main topics and last century progresses in these fields are viewed as developments of Golgi and Cajal's findings and above all, hypotheses. Thus, we will briefly discuss these topics moving from the transmitter based mapping, which brought neurochemistry into the Golgi-Cajal mapping of the brain with silver impregnation techniques. The mapping of transmitter-identified neurons in the brain represents one of the major foundations for neuropsychopharmacology and a reference frame for the biochemical and behavioural investigations of brain function. Biochemical techniques allowed giving evidence for multiple transmission lines in synapses interacting via receptor-receptor interactions postulated to be based on supramolecular aggregates, called receptor mosaics. Immunocytochemical and autoradiographic mapping techniques allowed the discovery of extra-synaptic receptors and of transmitter-receptor mismatches leading to the introduction of the volume transmission concept by Agnati-Fuxe teams. The Volume Transmission theory proposed the existence of a three-dimensional diffusion of e.g. transmitter and ion signals, released by any type of cell, in the extra-cellular space and the cerebrospinal fluid of the brain. Thus, a synthesis between Golgi and Cajal's views became possible, by considering two main modes of intercellular communication: volume transmission (VT) and wiring transmission (WT) (a prototype of the latter one is synaptic transmission) and two types of networks (cellular and molecular networks) in the central nervous system. This was the basis for the suggestion of two fundamental principles in brain morphological and functional organisation, the miniaturisation and hierarchic organisation. Finally, moving from Apathy's work, a new model of brain networks has recently been proposed. In fact, it has been proposed that a network of fibrils enmeshes the entire CNS forming a global molecular network (GMN) superimposed on the cellular networks.
The historical analysis of Golgi's research work reveals that his contribution to the progress of science is not confined to neurosciences and to cellular biology. In fact, Golgi was a passionate and a skillful student of medical problems, in particular of those posed by infectious diseases. Golgi approached these problems with a rigorous method of observation and experimentation with the aim of understanding the genesis of the symptoms and their significance for the progress of the disease. His fundamental contribution to medicine is to be found in his researches on malaria, in which he clarified the biological cycle of the parasite within the blood cells, and discovered the relation between the biological cycle of the parasite and the onset of the fever, thus providing the basis for therapy.
After Golgi-Cajal mapped neural circuits, the discovery and mapping of the central monoamine neurons opened up for a new understanding of interneuronal communication by indicating that another form of communication exists. For instance, it was found that dopamine may be released as a prolactin inhibitory factor from the median eminence, indicating an alternative mode of dopamine communication in the brain. Subsequently, the analysis of the locus coeruleus noradrenaline neurons demonstrated a novel type of lower brainstem neuron that monosynaptically and globally innervated the entire CNS. Furthermore, the ascending raphe serotonin neuron systems were found to globally innervate the forebrain with few synapses, and where deficits in serotonergic function appeared to play a major role in depression. We propose that serotonin reuptake inhibitors may produce antidepressant effects through increasing serotonergic neurotrophism in serotonin nerve cells and their targets by transactivation of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK), involving direct or indirect receptor/RTK interactions. Early chemical neuroanatomical work on the monoamine neurons, involving primitive nervous systems and analysis of peptide neurons, indicated the existence of alternative modes of communication apart from synaptic transmission. In 1986, Agnati and Fuxe introduced the theory of two main types of intercellular communication in the brain: wiring and volume transmission (WT and VT). Synchronization of phasic activity in the monoamine cell clusters through electrotonic coupling and synaptic transmission (WT) enables optimal VT of monoamines in the target regions. Experimental work suggests an integration of WT and VT signals via receptor-receptor interactions, and a new theory of receptor-connexin interactions in electrical and mixed synapses is introduced. Consequently, a new model of brain function must be built, in which communication includes both WT and VT and receptor-receptor interactions in the integration of signals. This will lead to the unified execution of information handling and trophism for optimal brain function and survival.
'Local module' is a fundamental functional unit of the central nervous system that can be defined as the minimal portion of one or more neurons and/or one or more glial cells that operates as an independent integrative unit. This review focuses on the importance of neurotransmitter receptor heteromers for the operation of local modules. To illustrate this, we use the striatal spine module (SSM), comprised of the dendritic spine of the medium spiny neuron (MSN), its glutamatergic and dopaminergic terminals and astroglial processes. The SSM is found in the striatum, and although aspects such as neurotransmitters and receptors will be specific to the SSM, some general principles should apply to any local module in the brain. The analysis of some of the receptor heteromers in the SSM shows that receptor heteromerization is associated with particular elaborated functions in this local module. Adenosine A(2A) receptor-dopamine D(2) receptor-glutamate metabotropic mGlu(5) receptor heteromers are located adjacent to the glutamatergic synapse of the dendritic spine of the enkephalin MSN, and their cross-talk within the receptor heteromers helps to modulate postsynaptic plastic changes at the glutamatergic synapse. A(1) receptor-A(2A) receptor heteromers are found in the glutamatergic terminals and the molecular cross-talk between the two receptors in the heteromer helps to modulate glutamate release. Finally, dopamine D(2) receptor-non-alpha(7) nicotinic acetylcholine receptor heteromers, which are located in dopaminergic terminals, introduce the new concept of autoreceptor heteromer.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are a family of cation channels widely distributed in the brain, whose subunit composition and biophysical properties vary depending on the subtype and the area of the brain in which they are found. Brain nAChRs are also the target of nicotine, the most widespread drug of abuse. Chronic nicotine exposure differentially affects the number, subunit composition, stoichiometry and functional state of some nAChR subtypes, leaving others substantially unaffected. In this review, we will summarise recent data concerning the nAChR subtypes expressed in the CNS, and how they are regulated by means of chronic nicotine and/or nicotinic drugs. We will particularly focus on the possible mechanisms involved in the up-regulation of nAChRs.


Myelination in the nervous system is a tightly regulated process that is mediated by both soluble and non-soluble factors acting on axons and glial cells. This process is bi-directional and involves a variety of neurotrophic and gliotrophic factors acting in paracrine and autocrine manners. Neuron-derived trophic factors play an important role in the control of early proliferation and differentiation of myelinating glial cells. At later stages of development, same molecules may play a different role and act as inducers of myelination rather than cell survival signals for myelinating glial cells. In return, myelinating glial cells provide trophic support for axons and protect them from injury. Chronic demyelination leads to secondary axonal degeneration that is responsible for long-term disability in primary demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis and inherited demyelinating peripheral neuropathies. A better understanding of the molecular mechanisms controlling myelination may yield novel therapeutic targets for demyelinating nervous system disorders.
The antiplatelet drugs, commonly used in the prevention and treatment of cerebrovascular disease, possess a number of effects that are independent of direct antiplatelet actions. Beneficial and detrimental effects both occur. The endothelium is an important mediator of these non-antiplatelet effects. We performed a literature search to locate articles related to acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin), clopidogrel, ticlopidine, and dipyridamole and the interactions of these medications with the endothelium. The role of each of the above medications is explored in relation to vasodilation, inflammation, oxidation, platelet-leukocyte interactions, and thrombogenic tendency via platelet-vessel wall interactions.

Progastrin (PG) exerts proliferative and antiapoptotic effects on intestinal epithelial and colon cancer cells via Annexin II (ANX-II). In here, we show that ANX-II similarly mediates proliferative and antiapoptotic effects of PG on a pancreatic cancer cell line, AR42J. The role of several signaling molecules was examined in delineating the biological activity of PG. PG (0.1-1.0 nmol/L) caused a significant increase (2- to 5-fold) in the phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), Akt (Thr(308)), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK; Thr(180)/Tyr(182)), extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK; Thr(202)/Tyr(204)), IkappaB kinase alpha/beta (IKKalpha/beta; Ser(176)/(180)), IkappaBalpha (Ser(32)), and p65 nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB; Ser(536)). Inhibition of p44/42 ERKs (PD98059), p38 MAPK (SB203580), Akt, and PI3K (LY294002), individually or combined, partially reversed antiapoptotic effects of PG. The kinetics of phosphorylation of IKKalpha/beta in response to PG matched the kinetics of phosphorylation and degradation of IkappaBalpha and correlated with phosphorylation, nuclear translocation, and activation of p65 NF-kappaB. NF-kappaB essential modulator-binding domain peptide (an inhibitor of IKKalpha/beta) effectively blocked the activity of p65 NF-kappaB in response to PG. Activation of p65 NF-kappaB, in response to PG, was 70% to 80% dependent on phosphorylation of MAPK/ERK and PI3K/Akt molecules. Down-regulation of p65 NF-kappaB by specific small interfering RNA resulted in the loss of antiapoptotic effects of PG on AR42J cells. These studies show for the first time that the canonical pathway of activation of p65 NF-kappaB mediates antiapoptotic effects of PG. Therefore, targeting PG and/or p65 NF-kappaB may be useful for treating cancers, which are dependent on autocrine or circulating PGs for their growth.
Receptor-activated Ca(2+) influx is mediated largely by store-operated channels (SOCs). TRPC channels mediate a significant portion of the receptor-activated Ca(2+) influx. However, whether any of the TRPC channels function as a SOC remains controversial. Our understanding of the regulation of TRPC channels and their function as SOCs is being reshaped with the discovery of the role of STIM1 in the regulation of Ca(2+) influx channels. The findings that STIM1 is an ER resident Ca(2+) binding protein that regulates SOCs allow an expanded and molecular definition of SOCs. SOCs can be considered as channels that are regulated by STIM1 and require the clustering of STIM1 in response to depletion of the ER Ca(2+) stores and its translocation towards the plasma membrane. TRPC1 and other TRPC channels fulfill these criteria. STIM1 binds to TRPC1, TRPC2, TRPC4 and TRPC5 but not to TRPC3, TRPC6 and TRPC7, and STIM1 regulates TRPC1 channel activity. Structure-function analysis reveals that the C-terminus of STIM1 contains the binding and gating function of STIM1. The ERM domain of STIM1 binds to TRPC channels and a lysine-rich region participates in the gating of SOCs and TRPC1. Knock-down of STIM1 by siRNA and prevention of its translocation to the plasma membrane inhibit the activity of native SOCs and TRPC1. These findings support the conclusion that TRPC1 is a SOC. Similar studies with other TRPC channels demonstrate their regulation by STIM1 and indicate that all TRPC channels, except TRPC7, function as SOCs.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are a diverse superfamily of membrane-bound receptors. The second largest subgroup of GPCRs, the Adhesion GPCRs, has 33 members in humans. Phylogenetic analysis of the entire repertoire of the seven transmembrane- domain (7TM) regions of GPCRs shows that the Adhesion GPCRs form a distinct family. Adhesion GPCRs are characterised by (1) long N termini with multiple functional domains often found in other proteins such as tyrosine kinases, integrins and cadherins, (2) highly complex genomic structure with multiple introns and splice variants and (3) a 7TM region that has no clear similarities with 7TM from other GPCRs. Several Adhesion GPCRs are known to have a role in the immune system but it is becoming more evident that many have important roles in the CNS. We speculate that the overall structural construction of the Adhesion GPCRs allows them to participate in different types of cell guidance.
(1) This study investigated the functional genomics of glucocorticoid and opioid receptor stimulation in cellular adaptations using a cultured neuronal cell model. (2) Human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells grown in hormone-depleted serum were treated for 2-days with the glucocorticoid receptor-II agonist dexamethasone (30 nM); the mu-opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5-ol]-Enkephalin acetate (DAMGO; 1 nM); or dexamethasone (30 nM) plus DAMGO (1 nM). RNA was extracted; purified, reverse transcribed, and labeled cDNA was hybridized to a 10,000-oliogonucleotide-array human gene chip. Gene expression changes that were significantly different between treatment groups and were of interest due to biological function were verified by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Five relevant genes were identified for which the combination of dexamethasone plus DAMGO, but neither one alone, significantly up-regulated gene expression (ANOVA, P &lt; 0.05). (3) Proteins coded by the identified genes: FRS2 (fibroblast growth factor receptor substrate-2; CTNNB1 (beta1-catenin); PRCP (prolyl-carboxypeptidase); MPHOSPH9 (M-phase phosphoprotein 9); and ZFP95 (zinc finger protein 95) serve important neuronal functions in signal transduction, synapse formation, neuronal growth and development, or transcription regulation. Neither opioid, glucocorticoid nor combined treatments significantly altered the cell growth rate determined by cell counts and protein. (4) We conclude that sustained mu-opioid receptor stimulation accompanied by glucocorticoids can synergistically regulate genes that influence neuronal function. Future studies are warranted to determine if combined influences of glucocorticoid fluctuations and opioid receptor stimulation in vivo can orchestrate exagerated neuroadaptation to reinforcing drugs under chronic mild stress conditions.
Studies in experimental animals have suggested that the hypocretin/orexin system may be involved in migraine pathophysiology. Using a case-control design study, we genotyped 246 migraine patients and 239 healthy controls for the 1246G--&gt;A polymorphism of the hypocretin receptor 2 (HCRTR2) gene. Genotypic and allelic frequencies of the examined polymorphism were similarly distributed between cases and controls (chi2 = 2.22, P = 0.14 and chi2 = 2.45, P = 0.29, respectively). When different migraine subgroups were compared (migraine with aura vs. migraine without aura and episodic vs. chronic migraine) no significant difference was found. Comparison of the clinical features of the disease with the 1246G--&gt;A genotypes showed no significant difference. Our data suggest that the HCRTR2 gene is not a genetic risk factor in migraine.
We have previously shown decreased, nocturnal lipolysis in both phases of cluster headache (CH). Lipolysis is stimulated by noradrenaline (NA), growth hormone (GH) and cortisol, and inhibited by insulin, hormones which are directly or indirectly regulated by the hypothalamus. Our aim was to investigate the nocturnal secretion of NA, GH, cortisol and insulin in nine CH patients in remission and 10 healthy controls. Nocturnal venous blood samples were collected in hourly intervals for analysis of NA, cortisol and insulin and in 30-min intervals for GH. We found a reduced increase in GH between 24.00 h and 01.00 h (anova, P &lt; 0.05) in CH patients. Nocturnal secretion of NA, cortisol and insulin did not differ significantly between the groups. The altered nocturnal GH pattern that was seen in CH patients in remission might in part explain the altered nocturnal lipolysis previously found and further indicate a permanent hypothalamic disturbance in CH.
In this work we have developed and characterized primary cultures of neonatal rat trigeminal ganglia neurones; calcitonin-gene-related-peptide (CGRP) released from cells was taken as a marker of neuronal function. A significant and consistent increase in CGRP secretion was elicited by non-specific (56 mm KCl or veratridine) or specific (capsaicin) depolarizing stimuli. This paradigm was subsequently used to investigate the effects of nociceptin, an opioid-like peptide involved in central and peripheral control of nociception. We found that the nociceptin analogue nociceptin (1-13)NH2 (NOC) did not affect baseline CGRP release, but it reduced in a concentration-dependent manner CGRP release induced by all tested stimuli. NOC-induced reduction was statistically significant from 0.01 nm onward and achieved maximal effects at 10 nm. Such effects of NOC were seemingly mediated by the activation of specific ORL1 receptors, as a well-known nociceptin antagonist, N(Phe1)nociceptin (1-13)NH2, was able to completely revert NOC inhibition of capsaicin-stimulated CGRP release.
This study investigates the associations between obesity and migraine. A neurologist clinically assessed 684 women aged 40-74 years attending a population-based mammography screening programme. Body height and weight were measured and body mass index (BMI) calculated. Obesity was defined as a BMI &gt; or = 30 kg/m2. The proportion of obesity did not differ between women with active migraine, women with inactive migraine or women who had never experienced migraine (P = 0.96). The distribution of frequency, intensity, duration or severity of attacks did not differ between obese and non-obese women with migraine. In this study there were no significant associations between migraine or migraine characteristics on the one hand and obesity on the other.
Spatial attention modulates the activity of inferior parietal neurons. A statistically rigorous approach to classical retinotopic mapping was used to quantify the receptive fields of area 7a neurons under 2 attentional conditions. Measurements were made with retinal stimulation held constant and the locus of attention manipulated covertly. Both tasks required central fixation but differed in the locus of covert attention (either on the center fixation point or on a peripheral square target in one of 25 locations). The neuron's identity over the recording session was confirmed using chaos theory to characterize unique temporal patterns. Sixty-six percent of the neurons changed prestimulus activity based on task state. Retinotopic mapping showed no evidence for foveal sparing. Attentional factors influenced visual responses for approximately 30% of the neurons. Two types of modulation were equally observed. One group of cells had a multiplicative scaling of response, with equal instances of enhancement and suppression. A second group of cells had a complex interaction of visual and attentional signals, such that spatial tuning was subject to a nonlinear modulation across the visual field based on attentional constraints. These 2 cell groups may have different roles in the shift of attention preceding motor behaviors and may underlie shifts in parietal retinotopic maps observed with intrinsic optical imaging.
The 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (velocardiofacial/DiGeorge syndrome, 22q11.2DS) involves cardiac and craniofacial anomalies, marked deficits in visuospatial cognition, and elevated rates of psychosis. Although the mechanism is unknown, characteristic brain alterations may predispose to development of psychosis and cognitive deficits in 22q11DS. We applied cortical pattern matching and new methods for measuring cortical thickness in millimeters to structural magnetic resonance images of 21 children with confirmed 22q11.2 deletions and 13 demographically matched healthy comparison subjects. Thickness was mapped at 65 536 homologous points, based on 3-dimensional distance from the cortical gray-white matter interface to the external gray-cerebrospinal fluid boundary. A pattern of regionally specific cortical thinning was observed in superior parietal cortices and right parietooccipital cortex, regions critical for visuospatial processing, and bilaterally in the most inferior portion of the inferior frontal gyrus (pars orbitalis), a key area for language development. Several of the 30 genes encoded in the deleted segment are highly expressed in the developing brain and known to affect early neuronal migration. These brain maps reveal how haploinsufficiency for such genes can affect cortical development and suggest a possible underlying pathophysiology of the neurobehavioral phenotype.
Persistent neuronal firing has been modeled in relation to observed brain rhythms, especially to theta oscillations recorded in behaving animals. Models of short-term memory that are based on such persistent firing properties of specific neurons can meet the requirements of spike-timing-dependent potentiation of synaptic strengths during the encoding of a temporal sequence of spike patterns. We show that such a spiking buffer can be simulated with integrate-and-fire neurons that include a leak current even when different numbers of spikes represent successive items. We propose a mechanism that successfully replaces items in the buffer in first-in-first-out (FIFO) order when the distribution of spike density in a theta cycle is asymmetric, as found in experimental data. We predict effects on the function and capacity of the buffer model caused by changes in modeled theta cycle duration, the timing of input to the buffer, the strength of recurrent inhibition, and the strength and timing of after-hyperpolarization and after-depolarization (ADP). Shifts of input timing or changes in ADP parameters can enable the reverse-order buffering of items, with FIFO replacement in a full buffer. As noise increases, the simulated buffer provides robust output that may underlie episodic encoding.

Augusta Djerine-Klumpke, the wife of Joseph Jules Dejerine, an eminent French neurologist, was an American and the first woman to intern in a Parisian hospital. She is known for Klumpke's radicular palsy, which is a neuropathy involving the lower nerve roots of the brachial plexus. The neuroanatomical treatise that she wrote together with her husband is considered a masterpiece. Klumpke won several awards in medical science, the first of which was in the field of anatomy when she was a student. She was a pioneer of rehabilitation therapy after spinal cord injuries and contributed much to our current knowledge of spinal cord diseases. We review the current English and French literature regarding this neuroanatomist who was the first woman to directly contribute to the writing of a neuroanatomy textbook.





Epilepsy is a neurological disorder in which normal brain function is disrupted as a consequence of intensive and synchronous burst activity from neuron assemblies. Epilepsies result from long-lasting plastic changes in the brain affecting neurotransmitter release, the properties of receptors and channels, synaptic reorganization and astrocyte activity. There is considerable evidence for alterations in glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission in the origin of the paroxysmal depolarization shifts that initiate epileptic activity. However, recent studies on non-synaptic transmission, receptor mobility and glia-neuron signaling pathways suggest that extrasynaptic GABA and glutamate receptors may play an important role in seizure initiation, maintenance and arrest. Extracellular aminoacids such as glutamate, aspartate, glycine and GABA seem to communicate neurons and glial cells acting primarily on extrasynaptic receptors. Synaptic and extrasynaptic glutamate and GABA receptors have been show to play different roles in neuronal excitability. NMDA and GABAA receptors expressed in a single neuron can be differentially regulated based on subcellular localization, and it has been proposed that distinct regulation of synaptic versus extrasynaptic receptors provides a mechanism for receptor adaptation in response to a variety of stimuli. Furthermore, glutamate and GABA receptors are highly mobile, and the number and composition of extrasynaptic receptors can be modulated by several factors. This review addresses recent advances in our understanding of the role of extrasynaptic receptors in epilepsy, suggesting that extrasynaptic receptors and their mechanisms of regulation are expected to be important pharmacological targets.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common and debilitating degenerative disease resulting from massive degenerative loss of dopamine neurons, particularly in the substantia nigra. The most classic therapy for PD is levodopa administration, but the efficacy of levodopa treatment declines as the disease progresses. The neuroprotective strategies to rescue nigral dopamine neurons from progressive death are currently being explored, and among them, the Chinese herbs and herbal extracts have shown potential clinical benefit in attenuating the progression of PD in human beings. Growing studies have indicated that a range of Chinese herbs or herbal extracts such as green tea polyphenols or catechins, panax ginseng and ginsenoside, ginkgo biloba and EGb 761, polygonum, triptolide from tripterygium wilfordii hook, polysaccharides from the flowers of nerium indicum, oil from ganoderma lucidum spores, huperzine and stepholidine are able to attenuate degeneration of dopamine neurons and sympotoms caused by the neurotoxins 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in vitro and in vivo conditions. In addition, accumulating data have suggested that Chinese herbs or herbal extracts may promote neuronal survival and neurite growth, and facilitate functional recovery of brain injures by invoking distinct mechanisms that are related to their neuroprotective roles as the antioxidants, dopamine transporter inhibitor, monoamine oxidase inhibitor, free radical scavengers, chelators of harmful metal ions, modulating cell survival genes and signaling, anti-apoptosis activity, and even improving brain blood circulation. New pharmaceutical strategies against PD will hopefully be discovered by understanding the various active entities and valuable combinations that contribute to the biological effects of Chinese herbs and herbal extracts.
How does seeing a painful event happening to someone else influence the observer's own motor system? To address this question, we measured simple reaction times following videos showing noxious or innocuous implements contacting corporeal or noncorporeal objects. Key releases in a go/nogo task were speeded, and key presses slowed, after subjects saw a video of a needle pricking a fingertip. No such effect was seen when the observed hand was replaced by a sponge, nor when the needle was replaced by a cotton bud. These findings demonstrate that pain observation modulates the motor system by speeding withdrawal movements and slowing approach movements of the finger. This illustrates a basic mechanism by which visual information about pain is used to facilitate appropriate behavioral responses.
This study was aimed at revealing which cognitive processes are lateralized in visual categorizations of &quot;humans&quot; by pigeons. To this end, pigeons were trained to categorize pictures of humans and then tested binocularly or monocularly (left or right eye) on the learned categorization and for transfer to novel exemplars (Experiment 1). Subsequent tests examined whether they relied on memorized features or on a conceptual strategy, using stimuli composed of new combinations of familiar and novel humans and backgrounds (Experiment 2), whether the hemispheres processed global or local information, using pictures with different levels of scrambling (Experiment 3), and whether they attended to configuration, using distorted human figures (Experiment 4). The results suggest that the left hemisphere employs a category strategy and concentrates on local features, while the right hemisphere uses an exemplar strategy and relies on configuration. These cognitive dichotomies of the cerebral hemispheres are largely shared by humans, suggesting that lateralized cognitive systems already defined the neural architecture of the common ancestor of birds and mammals.
In this study we investigated the effects of long-term memory (LTM) verbal knowledge on short-term memory (STM) verbal recall in a sample of Italian children affected by different subtypes of specific language impairment (SLI). The aim of the study was to evaluate if phonological working memory (PWM) abilities of SLI children can be supported by LTM linguistic representations and if PWM performances can be differently affected in the various subtypes of SLI. We tested a sample of 54 children affected by Mixed Receptive-Expressive (RE), Expressive (Ex) and Phonological (Ph) SLI (DSM-IV - American Psychiatric Association, 1994) by means of a repetition task of words (W) and non-words (NW) differing in morphemic structure [morphological non-words (MNW), consisting of combinations of roots and affixes - and simple non-words - with no morphological constituency]. We evaluated the effects of lexical and morpho-lexical LTM representations on STM recall by comparing the repetition accuracy across the three types of stimuli. Results indicated that although SLI children, as a group, showed lower repetition scores than controls, their performance was affected similarly to controls by the type of stimulus and the experimental manipulation of the non-words (better repetition of W than MNW and NW, and of MNW than NW), confirming the recourse to LTM verbal representations to support STM recall. The influence of LTM verbal knowledge on STM recall in SLI improved with age and did not differ among the three types of SLI. However, the three types of SLI differed in the accuracy of their repetition performances (PMW abilities), with the Phonological group showing the best scores. The implications for SLI theory and practice are discussed.
Autistic spectrum disorder (ASD) refers to a heterogeneous group of social communication problems. Research into the neural basis of ASD has revealed abnormalities in a number of different regions of the brain. However, the literature is highly inconsistent. One possible explanation for these discrepancies is differences in intelligence. Children with ASD and below average intelligence may be hypothesised to show additional or different neural abnormalities. This possibility was explored using structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and event-related potentials (ERP). Two groups of children with ASD were studied, those with average or above average intelligence (high ASD group) and those with below average intelligence (low ASD group). The structural MRI data were analysed using voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Using the family-wise error threshold, results showed bilateral abnormality common to the two ASD groups in the cerebellum, fusiform gyrus and frontal cortex. In addition, a number of regions were found to be significantly different in the two ASD groups: regions of the cerebellum showed increased grey matter density bilaterally in the high ASD group, but decreased grey matter density bilaterally in the low ASD group. Further, compared to the high ASD group, additional bilateral abnormalities were found in the postcentral gyrus and regions of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in the low ASD group. Using the less stringent false discovery rate (FDR) threshold, differences were also seen in the medial temporal lobes. ERPs also showed differences between the two ASD groups. Whereas the ERPs of the high ASD group were not significantly different from those of the controls, the low ASD group had delayed novelty P3a responses and reduced amplitude target P3b components. These data provide convergent ERP and MRI evidence for the heterogeneity of neural abnormality in ASD in relation to variations in intelligence.
This paper maintains that studies of atypical attention targeting one particular age group are unlikely to be informative of syndrome-specific deficits and their developmental changes. We propose a new approach to the study of attentional deficits in genetic disorders, arguing for tracing cross-syndrome developmental trajectories from infancy through childhood to adulthood. Few studies have incorporated a developmental approach to determine whether the pattern of deficits and proficiencies remains constant across developmental time. Fewer still have included a cross-syndrome perspective to address these issues. Focusing on the cognitive domain of attention and its component parts, and using a cross-syndrome developmental perspective, the present set of studies compared the trajectories of different aspects of attention in three developmental disorders: Fragile X syndrome (FXS), Down syndrome (DS) and Williams syndrome (WS). Hitherto, these syndromes have all been reported as displaying serious &quot;attentional deficits&quot; above those expected in the general population. We predicted that, when one considers in greater detail subcomponent processes of attention, then ostensibly common difficulties do not necessarily emerge from common developmental pathways. We addressed this question with two studies. The first focused on inhibitory control, orienting and selective attention in infants and toddlers, and the second concentrated on selective attention, sustained attention and inhibitory control in mid-late childhood. The current results and their integration with earlier findings in adults point both to commonalities and to important syndrome-specific differences in attentional component processes, questioning whether profiles remain constant across developmental time.
Peripheral nerve diseases, also known as peripheral neuropathies, affect 15-20 million of Americans and diabetic neuropathy is the most common condition. Currently, the treatment of peripheral neuropathies is more focused on managing pain rather than providing permissive conditions for regeneration. Despite advances in microsurgical techniques, including nerve grafting and reanastomosis, axonal regeneration after peripheral nerve injury remains suboptimal. Also, no satisfactory treatments are available at this time for peripheral neurodegeneration occurring in motor neuron diseases (MND), including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). Peripheral nerves have the inherent capacity of regeneration. Gene therapy strategies focused on neuroprotection may help optimizing axonal regrowth. A better understanding of the cellular and molecular events involved in axonal degeneration and regeneration have helped researchers to identify targets for intervention. This review summarizes the current state on the clinical experience as well as gene therapy strategies for peripheral neuropathies, including MND, peripheral nerve injury, neuropathic pain, and diabetic neuropathy.
We sought to evaluate the influence of specific vasoactive gene knockouts on the process of intracranial aneurysm formation in mice. Thirty wild type, 7 nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-2 knockout, 6 NOS-3 knockout, and 8 plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI)-1 knockout female mice underwent left common carotid artery ligation at 2 to 6 months of age. After a survival period (average 20.4 months +/- 1.5 months), the brains were perfusion fixed with 10% buffered formalin for 10 minutes and then perfused with India ink. Brain and intact cerebral circulation were surgically removed and further fixed in 10% buffered formalin for 4 additional days. The basal cerebral circulation of each brain was examined for the presence of intracranial aneurysms under a surgical microscope (3x-21x). Suspected aneurysms were further dissected for histological analysis. Specimens were embedded in epoxy resin, cut into 0.5 and 1.0 micron sections, and stained with Toluidine blue. A neuropathologist blinded to genotype and surgical microscopy results examined the slides for evidence of aneurysmal pathology. Two intracranial aneurysms in 2 NOS-3 knockout mice were confirmed by histology. No intracranial aneurysms were confirmed in any wild type, NOS-2 knockout, or PAI-1 knockout mice. Histological analysis of aneurysms revealed loss of elastica, subendothelial collagen deposition, and perivascular lymphocytic infiltration. Our results suggest that NOS-3 knockout, but not PAI-1 or NOS-2 knockout, predisposes to the formation of intracranial aneurysms in mice subjected to unilateral carotid artery ligation. Due to small sample sizes however, selection bias cannot be excluded and further investigation is necessary to confirm our results.
A large group of diverse, functionally important, and differently localized transmembrane proteins shares a particular membrane topology, consisting of a cytosolic N-terminal region, followed by a transmembrane domain close to the C-terminus. Because of their structure, these C-tail-anchored (TA) proteins must insert into all their target membranes by post-translational pathways. Recent work, based on the development of stringent and sensitive biochemical assays, has demonstrated that novel unexplored mechanisms underlie these post-translational targeting and membrane insertion pathways. Unravelling these pathways will shed light on the biosynthesis and regulation of an important group of membrane proteins and is likely to lead to new concepts in the field of membrane biogenesis.



Artists try to understand how we see, sometimes explicitly exploring rules of perspective or color, visual illusions, or iconography, and conversely, scientists who study vision sometimes address the perceptual questions and discoveries raised by the works of art, as we do here.
Research on the visual system focuses on using electrophysiology, pharmacology and other invasive tools in animal models. Non-invasive tools such as scalp electroencephalography and imaging allow examining humans but show a much lower spatial and/or temporal resolution. Under special clinical conditions, it is possible to monitor single-unit activity in humans when invasive procedures are required due to particular pathological conditions including epilepsy and Parkinson's disease. We review our knowledge about the visual system and visual memories in the human brain at the single neuron level. The properties of the human brain seem to be broadly compatible with the knowledge derived from animal models. The possibility of examining high-resolution brain activity in conscious human subjects allows investigators to ask novel questions that are challenging to address in animal models.
Neural networks of the rodent barrel cortex are particularly tractable for developing a quantitative understanding of response transformations in a cortical column. A column in barrel cortex consists of approximately 10 compartments. Two thalamic input pathways, a sensory lemniscal one and sensorimotor paralemniscal one, are transformed to approximately 7 population outputs, each with distinct spatiotemporal response characteristics. Granular and supragranular layers are sites of segregated processing in lemniscal and paralemniscal pathways, whereas infragranular layers are sites of intracolumnar, lemniscal/paralemniscal integration. Individual thalamocortical connections are relatively weak, and a considerable fraction of thalamocortical afferents contributes to each sensory response. Intracortically, relatively few but strong synaptic connections contribute to sensory responses, and responses are rapidly terminated by inhibition. Overall cortical population activity is very low. Whiskers mediate a wide range of behaviors and many natural tactile behaviors occur very rapidly. Vibrissal object recognition can be size invariant and motion invariant and is based on the tactile 'Gestaltwahrnehmung' of shape.
Sensory systems extract behaviorally relevant information from a continuous stream of complex high-dimensional input signals. Understanding the detailed dynamics and precise neural code, even of a single neuron, is therefore a non-trivial task. Automated closed-loop approaches that integrate data analysis in the experimental design ease the investigation of sensory systems in three directions: First, adaptive sampling speeds up the data acquisition and thus increases the yield of an experiment. Second, model-driven stimulus exploration improves the quality of experimental data needed to discriminate between alternative hypotheses. Third, information-theoretic data analyses open up novel ways to search for those stimuli that are most efficient in driving a given neuron in terms of its firing rate or coding quality. Examples from different sensory systems show that, in all three directions, substantial progress can be achieved once rapid online data analysis, adaptive sampling, and computational modeling are tightly integrated into experiments.
The last decade has witnessed an expanding interest in the concept of early intervention (EI) in psychotic disorders, notably schizophrenia. This is supported by the well-established association between prolonged untreated illness duration and poor outcome, as well as some evidence of progressive neurobiological changes in the early course of schizophrenia, both in the prepsychotic and psychotic phases as evidenced by brain imaging studies in schizophrenia. Increasingly, mental health service systems around the world have been incorporating specialized EI programs. Controlled effectiveness studies in recent years have yielded encouraging data. Several questions in regard to the timing, choice of interventions, and the populations most likely to benefit from EIs still remain. More evidence-based data are needed to place the EI models in schizophrenia on firm footing in order to effectively implement them in the resource-strapped community mental health service settings.
Mef2 genes encode highly conserved transcription factors involved in somitic and cardiac mesoderm development in diverse bilaterians. Vertebrates have multiple mef2 genes. In mice, mef2c is required for heart and vascular development. We show that a zebrafish mef2c gene (mef2ca) is required in cranial neural crest (CNC) for proper head skeletal patterning. mef2ca mutants have head skeletal phenotypes resembling those seen upon partial loss-of-function of endothelin1 (edn1). Furthermore, mef2ca interacts genetically with edn1, arguing that mef2ca functions within the edn1 pathway. mef2ca is expressed in CNC and this expression does not require edn1 signaling. Mosaic analyses reveal that mef2ca is required in CNC for pharyngeal skeletal morphogenesis. Proper expression of many edn1-dependent target genes including hand2, bapx1, and gsc, depends upon mef2ca function. mef2ca plays a critical role in establishing the proper nested expression patterns of dlx genes. dlx5a and dlx6a, known Edn1 targets, are downregulated in mef2ca mutant pharyngeal arch CNC. Surprisingly, dlx4b and dlx3b are oppositely affected in mef2ca mutants. dlx4b expression is abolished while the edn1-dependent dlx3b is ectopically expressed in more dorsal CNC. Together our results support a model in which CNC cells require mef2ca downstream of edn1 signaling for proper craniofacial development.
Intrathecal baclofen is used in the management of spasticity associated with cerebral palsy (CP). Sudden cessation of intrathecal baclofen may give rise to the potentially life-threatening baclofen withdrawal syndrome. We report three cases in which intravenous diazepam is used effectively in the management of planned intrathecal withdrawal. All three patients had CP. In the first patient, a 19-year-old male with quadriplegia, the intrathecal catheter had to be removed. The other two patients, an 11-year-old female with diplegia and a 16-year-old male with quadriplegia, both required the entire device to be removed. The purpose of this case report is to illustrate the potential management for elective cases in a similar situation.

In general, neurons in the mature mammalian central nervous system (CNS) are unable to regenerate injured axons, and neurons that remain uninjured are unable to form novel connections that might compensate for ones that have been lost. As a result of this, victims of CNS injury, stroke, or certain neurodegenerative diseases are unable to fully recover sensory, motor, cognitive, or autonomic functions. Regenerative failure is related to a host of inhibitory signals associated with the extracellular environment and with the generally low intrinsic potential of mature CNS neurons to regenerate. Most research to date has focused on extrinsic factors, particularly the identification of inhibitory proteins associated with myelin, the perineuronal net, glial cells, and the scar that forms at an injury site. However, attempts to overcome these inhibitors have resulted in relatively limited amounts of CNS regeneration. Using the optic nerve as a model system, we show that with appropriate stimulation, mature neurons can revert to an active growth state and that when this occurs, the effects of overcoming inhibitory signals are enhanced dramatically. Similar conclusions are emerging from studies in other systems, pointing to a need to consider combinatorial treatments in the clinical setting.
Cell death is the final common pathway of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Nervous system growth factors, or neurotrophic factors, are substances naturally produced in the nervous system that support neuronal survival during development and influence neuronal function throughout adulthood. Notably, in animal models, including primates, neurotrophic factors prevent neuronal death after injury and can reverse spontaneous neuronal atrophy in aging. Thus, neurotrophic factor therapy has the potential to prevent or reduce ongoing cell loss in disorders such as AD. The main challenge in clinical testing of neurotrophic factors has been their delivery to the brain in sufficient doses to impact cell function, while restricting their delivery to specific sites to prevent adverse effects from broad distribution. This article reviews progress in evaluating the therapeutic potential of growth factors, from early animal models to human clinical trials currently underway in AD.
The mammalian auditory sensory epithelium (the organ of Corti) contains a number of unique cell types that are arranged in ordered rows. Two of these cell types, inner and outer pillar cells (PCs), are arranged in adjacent rows that form a boundary between a single row of inner hair cells and three rows of outer hair cells (OHCs). PCs are required for auditory function, as mice lacking PCs owing to a mutation in Fgfr3 are deaf. Here, using in vitro and in vivo techniques, we demonstrate that an Fgf8 signal arising from the inner hair cells is the key component in an inductive pathway that regulates the number, position and rate of development of PCs. Deletion of Fgf8 or inhibition of binding between Fgf8 and Fgfr3 leads to defects in PC development, whereas overexpression of Fgf8 or exogenous Fgfr3 activation induces ectopic PC formation and inhibits OHC development. These results suggest that Fgf8-Fgfr3 interactions regulate cellular patterning within the organ of Corti through the induction of one cell fate (PC) and simultaneous inhibition of an alternate fate (OHC) in separate progenitor cells. Some of the effects of both inhibition and overactivation of the Fgf8-Fgfr3 signaling pathway are reversible, suggesting that PC differentiation is dependent upon constant activation of Fgfr3 by Fgf8. These results suggest that PCs might exist in a transient state of differentiation that makes them potential targets for regenerative therapies.
Currently, we do not have effective therapies aimed at preventing or reversing axonal degeneration seen in peripheral neuropathies. Drug development programs should be aimed at understanding mechanisms of distal axonal degeneration and take into account the critical role Schwann cells play in axonal maintenance and nerve regeneration.
Diseases of retinal and/or choroidal blood vessels are the most prevalent causes of moderate and severe vision loss in developed countries. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of many of these diseases. Ranibizumab is a humanized antigen-binding fragment that binds all isoforms of VEGF-A. Intraocular injections of ranibizumab cause significant visual improvement in approximately 40% of patients with choroidal neovascularization due to age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Pilot trials have indicated that intraocular injections of ranibizumab also provide benefits in patients with macular edema due to diabetic retinopathy or retinal vein occlusions. Based upon several case series, bevacizumab, a full-length humanized monoclonal antibody that binds all isoforms of VEGF-A, improves vision in patients with choroidal neovascularization due to AMD and other diseases. Case series also suggest that bevacizumab can cause regression of retinal neovascularization in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Taken together, results with ranibizumab and bevacizumab suggest that potent antagonists of VEGF will provide the foundation of treatment for a wide variety of diseases complicated by retinal or choroidal neovascularization, or by excessive vascular leakage leading to macular edema.

The aim of the present study was to evaluate in a non-clinical sample of undergraduate women, the relationships between alexithymia, body checking and body image, identifying predictive factors associated with the possible risk of developing an Eating Disorder (ED). The Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20), Body Checking Questionnaire (BCQ), Eating Attitudes Test (EAT-26), Body Shape Questionnaire (BSQ), Interaction Anxiousness Scale (IAS), Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSES) and the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) were completed by 254 undergraduate females. We found that alexithymics had more consistent body checking behaviors and higher body dissatisfaction than nonalexithymics. In addition, alexithymics also reported a higher potential risk for ED (higher scores on EAT-26) when compared to nonalexithymics. Difficulty in identifying and describing feelings subscales of TAS-20, Overall appearance and Specific Body Parts subscales of BCQ as well as lower self-esteem was associated with higher ED risk in a linear regression analysis. Thus, a combination of alexithymia, low self-esteem, body checking behaviors and body dissatisfaction may be a risk factor for symptoms of ED at least in a non-clinical sample of university women.
The most familiar emotional signals consist of faces, voices, and whole-body expressions, but so far research on emotions expressed by the whole body is sparse. The authors investigated recognition of whole-body expressions of emotion in three experiments. In the first experiment, participants performed a body expression-matching task. Results indicate good recognition of all emotions, with fear being the hardest to recognize. In the second experiment, two alternative forced choice categorizations of the facial expression of a compound face-body stimulus were strongly influenced by the bodily expression. This effect was a function of the ambiguity of the facial expression. In the third experiment, recognition of emotional tone of voice was similarly influenced by task irrelevant emotional body expressions. Taken together, the findings illustrate the importance of emotional whole-body expressions in communication either when viewed on their own or, as is often the case in realistic circumstances, in combination with facial expressions and emotional voices.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a complex endocrine and metabolic disorder associated with ovulatory dysfunction, hyperandrogenism, abdominal obesity, and insulin resistance. However, its etiology is unclear, and its management is often unsatisfactory or requires a diversified approach. Here, we describe a new rat PCOS model, the first to exhibit both ovarian and metabolic characteristics of the syndrome. Female rats received the nonaromatizable androgen dihydrotestosterone (DHT) or the aromatase inhibitor letrozole by continuous administration, beginning before puberty, to activate androgen receptors. Adult DHT rats had irregular cycles, polycystic ovaries characterized by cysts formed from atretic follicles, and a diminished granulosa layer. They also displayed metabolic features, including increased body weight, increased body fat, and enlarged mesenteric adipocytes, as well as elevated leptin levels and insulin resistance. All letrozole rats were anovulatory and developed polycystic ovaries with structural changes strikingly similar to those in human PCOS. Our findings suggest that the formation of a &quot;hyperplastic&quot; theca interna reflects the inclusion of luteinized granulosa cells in the cyst wall rather than true hyperplasia. We conclude that the letrozole model is suitable for studies of the ovarian features of human PCOS, while the DHT model is suitable for studies of both ovarian and metabolic features of the syndrome.
In developed countries, the increasing incidence of obesity is a serious health problem. Leptin exposure in the perinatal period affects long-term regulation of appetite and energy expenditure, but control of leptin production in utero is unclear. This study investigated perirenal adipose tissue (PAT) and placental leptin expression in ovine fetuses during late gestation and after manipulation of plasma glucocorticoid and thyroid hormone concentrations. Between 130 and 144 d of gestation (term at 145 +/- 2 d), plasma leptin and PAT leptin mRNA levels increased in association with increments in plasma cortisol and T(3). Fetal adrenalectomy prevented these developmental changes, and exposure of intact 130 d fetuses to glucocorticoids, by cortisol infusion or maternal dexamethasone treatment, caused premature elevations in plasma leptin and PAT leptin gene expression. Fetal thyroidectomy increased plasma leptin and PAT leptin mRNA abundance, whereas intravenous T(3) infusion to intact 130 d fetuses had no effect on circulating or PAT leptin. Leptin mRNA expression was low in the ovine placenta. Therefore, in the sheep fetus, PAT appears to be a primary source of leptin in the circulation, and leptin gene expression is regulated by both glucocorticoids and thyroid hormones. Developmental changes in circulating and PAT leptin may mediate the maturational effects of cortisol in utero and have long-term consequences for appetite regulation and the development of obesity.
The Siberian hamster survives winter by decreasing food intake and catabolizing abdominal fat reserves, resulting in a sustained, profound loss of body weight. VGF gene expression is photoperiodically regulated in the hypothalamus with significantly higher expression in lean Siberian hamsters. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of VGF in regulating these seasonal cycles by determining the effects of a VGF-derived peptide (TLQP-21) on food intake and body weight. Acute intracerebroventricular administration of TLQP-21 decreased food intake, and chronic treatment caused a sustained reduction in food intake and body weight and decreased abdominal fat depots. Behavioral analysis revealed that TLQP-21 reduced meal size but not the frequency of feeding bouts, suggesting a primary action on satiety. Hamsters treated with TLQP-21 lost a similar amount of weight as a pair-fed group in which food intake was matched to that of the TLQP-21-treated group. Central or peripheral treatment with TLQP-21 did not produce a significant effect on resting metabolic rate. We conclude that the primary action of TLQP-21 is to decrease food intake rather than increase energy expenditure. TLQP-21 treatment caused a decrease in UCP-1 mRNA in brown adipose tissue, but hypothalamic expression of orexigenic and anorexigenic neuropeptide genes remained unchanged after TLQP-21 treatment, although compensatory increases in NPY and AgRP mRNA were observed in the pair-fed hamsters. The effects of TLQP-21 administration are similar to those in hamsters in short days, suggesting that increased VGF activity may contribute to the hypophagia that underlies the seasonal catabolic state.
Castration of adult male rats causes the dendrites of androgen-sensitive motoneurons of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) to retract. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), via activation of tyrosine receptor kinase B (trkB), has been implicated in mediating androgen effects on SNB dendrites. We used in situ hybridization to demonstrate that SNB motoneurons in gonadally intact adult male rats contain mRNA for both BDNF and trkB. Two weeks after gonadectomy, both transcripts were significantly decreased in SNB motoneurons but not in the non-androgen-responsive motoneurons of the adjacent retrodorsolateral nucleus (RDLN). In a second experiment, target perineal and foot muscles of SNB and RDLN motoneurons, respectively, were injected with the retrograde tracer Fluorogold, and then immunocytochemistry was performed to examine the distribution of BDNF and trkB proteins in SNB and RDLN motoneurons and their glutamatergic afferents. Confocal analysis revealed that gonadectomy induces a loss of BDNF protein in SNB dendrites but not in RDLN dendrites. Testosterone treatment of castrates prevented the loss of BDNF from SNB dendrites. Confocal analysis also revealed trkB protein in SNB and RDLN dendrites and in their glutamatergic afferents. Gonadectomy had no discernable effect on trkB protein in SNB or RDLN motoneurons or in their glutamatergic afferents. These results suggest that androgen maintains a BDNF-signaling pathway in SNB motoneurons that may underlie the maintenance of dendritic structure and synaptic signaling.





Sleep disturbances are a common complaint among patients with epilepsy. Studies assessing the relationship between sleep and epilepsy during childhood are scarce. The purpose of this study was to evaluate sleep habits in children with epilepsy. This cross-sectional study of children with and without epilepsy employed two questionnaires to evaluate sleep habits. Characteristics of both sleep habits and epilepsy (type of seizure, epileptic syndrome, number of seizures, use of anticonvulsant drugs) were collected from parental interviews and medical records. Our results indicate that children with epilepsy have a greater incidence of sleep problems compared with children without epilepsy. In those with epilepsy, we observed that nocturnal seizures, polytherapy, developmental delay, refractory epilepsy, generalized seizures, and epileptic syndromes with an unfavorable outcome are associated with poor sleep habits.
Alzheimer's disease and related dementias are devastating disorders that lead to the progressive decline of cognitive functions. Characteristic features are severe brain atrophy, paralleled by accumulation of beta amyloid and neurofibrillary tangles. With the discovery of neurogenesis in the adult brain, the hopes have risen that these neurodegenerative conditions could be overcome, or at least ameliorated, by the generation of new neurons. The location of the adult neurogenic zones in the hippocampus and the lateral ventricle wall, close to corpus callosum and neocortex, indicates strategic positions for potential repair processes. However, we also need to consider that the generation of new neurons is possibly involved in cognitive functions and could, therefore, be influenced by disease pathology. Moreover, aberrant neurogenic mechanisms could even be a part of the pathological events of neurodegenerative diseases. It is the scope of this review to summarize and analyze the recent data from neurogenesis research with respect to Alzheimer's disease and its animal models.
We previously performed a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) parcellation study that showed smaller grey and white matter volumes of the temporal lobes and increased CSF volumes in the frontal and temporal lobe in men with schizophrenia. One question that arose from this earlier study was whether similar structural changes in the brain are found in a large group of schizophrenic patients consisting of both men and women. In the present study, MRI scans were acquired from 94 patients of both genders with schizophrenia and 101 healthy subjects. After the automatic segmentation of grey matter, white matter, and cerebrospinal fluid, the frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes were automatically parcellated according to the Talairach atlas. Compared with healthy subjects, schizophrenic patients showed significantly smaller volumes of grey matter in the temporal lobe and white matter in the frontal lobe. Schizophrenic patients had a greater CSF volume in the frontal and temporal lobes. These results suggest that volume reduction in the cerebrum is prominent in the frontal and temporal lobes in both men and women with schizophrenia.
Evidence accumulated in the last decade indicating that psychoactive substances negatively influence neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus has provided new insights into the neurobiology of drug addiction. Using a variety of experimental approaches and treatments, drugs such as psychomotor stimulants, opioids, alcohol and psychedelic compounds have been shown to alter one or several aspects of adult neurogenesis, including the rate of progenitor proliferation, the survival of newly generated cells, and the maturation and acquisition of cellular phenotype. This evidence, though critical from a neurotoxicological standpoint, cannot be linked unambiguously to the process of drug dependence at this stage of research. Drug addiction is a complex recurrent process involving the acquisition and maintenance of drug taking, followed by detoxification, abstinence and eventual relapse to drug seeking. The specific contribution of adult hippocampal neurogenesis to each of these processes is yet to be determined. This notwithstanding, the suggested role of the hippocampus in the storage and retrieval of declarative and contextual memories on the one hand, and in the regulation of mood and affect on the other, provides a fertile ground for further exploring the mutual relationships between postnatal hippocampal neurogenesis and addictive behaviours.
We report the rare presentation of lacunar stroke syndrome secondary to single perforator mouth occlusion from radiation-induced middle cerebral artery (MCA) stem arteriopathy. A 30-year-old female had acute-onset right-sided ataxic hemiparesis and dysarthria. As a child, she had a medulloblastoma of the posterior fossa and had surgery followed by cranial radiotherapy. She had no significant vascular risk factors. Acute CT showed extensive bilateral basal ganglia and left thalamic calcification; DWI showed a left internal capsule lacunar infarct; and MRA and CTA showed a 50% stenosis of the proximal left MCA.
The CC2D1A/Freud-1 gene has recently been linked to non-syndromic mental retardation and a short isoform of mouse Five prime REpressor Under Dual repression binding protein 1 (Freud-1) can repress the serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptor gene in rodent cells. In this study, we addressed the expression, localization and regulation of the human 5-HT1A receptor gene by a long isoform of human Freud-1 protein (Freud-1L). We show that human CC2D1A/Freud-1 RNA is expressed in brain and peripheral tissues and encodes short and long isoforms, which differ by an upstream in-frame translational start site. Whereas previous studies identified the short isoform of Freud-1 as the predominant isoform in rodent cells, we demonstrate that the long isoform is more abundant in human cells, especially in the nuclear fraction. The nuclear localization of Freud-1L was enriched upon inhibition of chromosome region maintenance 1/exportin 1-dependent nuclear export, indicating a dynamic regulation of Freud-1 nuclear localization. Consistent with a functional role in the nucleus, human Freud-1L bound specifically to its dual repressor element in the 5-HT1A receptor gene in vitro and repressed transcription from these sites. Importantly, chromatin immunoprecipitation using antibodies specific for human Freud-1L demonstrated that it is bound to the dual repressor element in chromatin, indicating a functional role in regulating the basal expression of the 5-HT1A receptor gene. Taken together, these results indicate that both the short and long isoforms of Freud-1 are expressed, although Freud-1L is the major isoform that regulates the human 5-HT1A receptor gene. Disruption of transcriptional regulation by mutation of Freud-1 may play a role in abnormal brain function leading to mental retardation.
Intracellular accumulation of alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn) as filamentous aggregates is a pathological feature shared by Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies and multiple system atrophy, referred to as synucleinopathies. To understand the mechanisms underlying alpha-Syn aggregation, we established a tetracycline-off inducible transfectant (3D5) of neuronal lineage overexpressing human wild-type alpha-Syn. Alpha-Syn aggregation was initiated by exposure of 3D5 cells to FeCl2. The exposure led to formation of alpha-Syn inclusions and oligomers of 34, 54, 68 kDa and higher molecular weights. The oligomers displayed immunoreactivity with antibodies to the amino-, but not to the carboxyl (C)-, terminus of alpha-Syn, indicating that C-terminally truncated alpha-Syn is a major component of oligomers. FeCl2 exposure also promoted accumulation of S129 phosphorylated monomeric alpha-Syn (P alpha-Syn) and casein kinase 2 (CK2); however, G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 was reduced. Treatment of FeCl2-exposed cells with CK2 inhibitors (DRB or TBB) led to decreased formation of alpha-Syn inclusions, oligomers and P alpha-Syn. FeCl2 exposure also enhanced the activity/level of cathepsin D. Treatment of the FeCl2-exposed cells with pepstatin A or NH4Cl led to reduced formation of oligomers/inclusions as well as of approximately 10 and 12 kDa truncated alpha-Syn. Our results indicate that alpha-Syn phosphorylation caused by FeCl2 is due to CK2 upregulation, and that lysosomal proteases may have a role in producing truncated alpha-Syn for oligomer assembly.
The cerebellum has been shown to be vulnerable to global ischemic damage in tightly controlled zones of Purkinje cells (PCs) that lack aldolase C, an enzyme critical for glycolysis. Here, we investigated whether aldolase C-negative PCs were more likely to die after cerebral trauma in vivo, and whether this death was mediated by excitotoxic [alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA)-mediated] means in vitro. Mice were subjected to controlled cortical impact, or remained uninjured, and were killed at 6 h, 24 h or 7 days after injury. Cerebellar sections (both ipsilateral and contralateral to the site of cerebral injury) were stained against aldolase C and calbindin (a marker of PCs). The number of viable, calbindin-positive PCs decreased significantly at 24 h and 7 days after injury, and the percentage of surviving, aldolase C-positive PCs significantly increased at those time-points. In addition, we subjected murine cerebellar cultures to AMPA (30 microm, 20 min), which killed a significant number of PCs at 24 h post-treatment. A similar number of PCs was lost after transfection with aldolase C siRNA, and this effect was exacerbated in transfected cultures treated with AMPA. The results from the present study indicate that aldolase C provides marked neuroprotection to PCs after trauma and excitotoxicity.
The neuropeptide oxytocin (20-100 ng), induces penile erection when injected unilaterally into the caudal but not rostral mesencephalic ventral tegmental area (VTA) of male Sprague-Dawley rats. Such pro-erectile effect started 30 min after treatment and was abolished by the prior injection of d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin (1 microg), an oxytocin receptor antagonist injected into the same caudal ventral tegmental area or of haloperidol (1 microg), a dopamine receptor antagonist, injected either into the nucleus accumbens shell (NAs) or into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) ipsilateral to the injected ventral tegmental area. Penile erection was seen 15 min after the occurrence of, or concomitantly to, an increase in extracellular dopamine and its metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the dialysate obtained from the nucleus accumbens or the paraventricular nucleus, which was also abolished by d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)-vasotocin (1 microg), injected into the ventral tegmental area before oxytocin. In the caudal ventral tegmental area oxytocin-containing axons/fibres (originating from the paraventricular nucleus) appeared to closely contact cell bodies of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons retrogradely labelled with Fluorogold injected into the nucleus accumbens shell, suggesting that oxytocin effects are mediated by the activation of mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons, followed in turn by that of incerto-hypothalamic dopaminergic neurons impinging on oxytocinergic neurons mediating penile erection. As the stimulation of paraventricular dopamine receptors not only induces penile erection, but also increases mesolimbic dopamine neurotransmission by activating oxytocinergic neurons, these results provide further support for the existence of a neural circuit in which dopamine and oxytocin influence both the consummatory and motivational/rewarding aspects of sexual behaviour.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is critical for reinstatement of cocaine seeking and is the main source of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to striatal regions of the brain relapse circuitry. To test the hypothesis that BDNF in the mPFC regulates cocaine-seeking behavior, rats were trained to press a lever for cocaine infusions (0.2 mg/inf, 2 h/day) paired with light+tone conditioned stimulus (CS) presentations on 10 consecutive days. After the last self-administration session, rats received a single infusion of BDNF (0.75 microg/0.5 microL/side) into the mPFC; this manipulation produced protracted effects on cocaine-seeking behavior (non-reinforced lever pressing). BDNF pretreatment administered after the last session attenuated cocaine seeking 22 h later and, remarkably, it also blocked cocaine-induced suppression of phospho-extracellular-regulated kinase and elevated BDNF immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens. The same pretreatment also suppressed cocaine-seeking behavior elicited by response-contingent CS presentations after 6 days of forced abstinence or extinction training, as well as a cocaine challenge injection (10 mg/kg, i.p.) after extinction training. However, BDNF infused into the mPFC had no effect on food-seeking behavior. Furthermore, BDNF infused on the sixth day of abstinence failed to alter responding, suggesting that the regulatory influence of BDNF is time limited. The suppressive effects of BDNF infused into the mPFC on cocaine seeking indicate that BDNF regulates cortical pathways implicated in relapse to drug seeking and that corticostriatal BDNF adaptations during early abstinence diminish compulsive drug seeking.
In adult mammals a single exposure to loud noise can damage cochlear hair cells and initiate subsequent episodes of degeneration of axonal endings in the cochlear nucleus (CN). Possible mechanisms are loss of trophic support and/or excitotoxicity. Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2), important for development, might be involved in either mechanism. To test this hypothesis, we noise-exposed FGF2 overexpressor mice and observed the effects on synaptic endings by immunolabelling for SV2, a synaptic vesicle protein, at 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks after noise exposure. SV2 staining was observed in two major locations; perisomatic, representing axo-somatic terminals, and neuropil, representing axo-dendritic terminals. The wildtype (WT) lost both perisomatic and neuropil clusters with an intervening period of modest recovery for the perisomatic. In contrast, in the overexpressor, the perisomatic clusters remained unchanged after intervening periods of increase. The neuropil clusters underwent a period of initial decline, followed by a transient recovery and ultimate decline. Changes in SV2 immunostaining correlated with changes in vesicular glutamate and GABA transporters at synapses and, in the overexpressor, with staining changes for FGF2 and FGF receptor 1. These molecules may contribute to the synaptic reorganization after noise damage; they may protect and/or aid recovery of synapses after overstimulation.
Lesioning or stimulating the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in patients with Parkinson's disease, or in animal models of parkinsonism, alleviates many of the symptoms and so it is tempting to think of the STN as a part of the cause of Parkinson's disease. The globus pallidus (GP) is thought to have a tonic inhibitory action on the STN. An ibotenic acid injection into the GP in rats removes the cells of the GP and, over the following 6 weeks, a progressive loss of dopamine cells (counted stereologically in sections stained for tyrosine hydroxylase) develops in substantia nigra (SN). In this investigation we show that, when animals have the STN cells destroyed by very small ibotenic acid injections, their dopamine neurons are not damaged. Furthermore, if a lesion to the GP follows a lesion of STN then the dopamine cells also survive this double insult, at least for the first 3 weeks following the lesion. The experiments provide good reason to suspect that, at least in the short term, increased activity in the STN is a contributory cause of the loss of dopamine cells which follows the lesion of the GP in rats. Whether or not this is part of the mechanism of cell loss in Parkinson's disease, the rats with GP lesions at least provide an opportunity to test strategies that might protect dopamine cells from slowly developing damage. Removing the STN seems to be neuroprotective in this new model of dopamine degeneration.

One hertz transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the motor cortex has been reported to increase activity in the motor cortex contralateral to stimulation, as evidenced by the elevated motor evoked potential on the corresponding hand muscle. Little research, however, has assessed concomitant changes in the haemoglobin level in the unstimulated motor cortex. An aim of this study was to measure the change of oxy- and deoxy-haemoglobin levels in the left motor cortex after 20 min of 1 Hz TMS over the right motor cortex. Subjects carried out a finger to thumb tapping task sequentially with six blocks of ten cycles (30 s on and 60 s off). One block was performed before TMS and five after TMS. The results show that the level of oxyhaemoglobin in the unstimulated cortex increased after TMS over the contralateral hemisphere and that the increase lasted 40 min after 1 Hz stimulation. Deoxy-haemoglobin was slightly decreased during the first 15 min after stimulation. The results identify long term physiological changes resulting from 1 Hz stimulation and help to inform our understanding of interhemispheric interactions in TMS studies.
The purpose of the present study was to determine whether the soleus H-reflex is modulated with changes in the level of postural threat during walking. H-reflexes were tested at four points in the step cycle when subjects walked in 5 conditions representing different levels of postural threat. H-reflexes were significantly increased in amplitude at heelstrike in conditions of increased postural threat compared to normal treadmill walking with only minimal changes in H-reflex amplitude at other step cycle points. Conversely when subjects walked while holding stable handles, to decrease postural threat, the amplitude of the H-reflex was significantly smaller at heelstrike and midstance compared to normal walking. The changes in the amplitude of the H-reflex between walking conditions were not accompanied by changes in ongoing electromyographic activity or movements. Our findings suggest that the amplitude of the reflex is adjusted in a phase-specific manner, related to the postural uncertainty of the task. These adaptations in reflex amplitude may be related to changes in the amplitude of corrective responses following perturbations during walking. The adaptations in the amplitude of the H-reflex specific to heelstrike may be important in the control of foot placement at ground contact.
We used western blotting to measure the quantity of glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporters proteins within hippocampal tissue obtained from rats who had undergone epileptogenesis. Chronic seizures were induced by amygdalar injection of FeCl(3). We found that the glial glutamate transporters GLAST and GLT-1 were down-regulated at 60 days after initiation of chronic and recurrent seizures. However, the neuronal glutamate transporter EAAC-1 and the GABA transporter GAT-3 were increased. We performed in vivo microdialysis in freely moving animals to estimate in vivo redox state. We found that the hippocampal tissues were oxidized, resulting in even further impairment of glutamate transport. Our data show that epileptogenesis in rats resulting in chronic and recurrent seizures is associated with collapse of glutamate regulation caused by both the molecular down-regulation of glial glutamate transporters combined with the functional failure due to oxidation.
There is ample evidence to suggest that preparing to saccade to a location is sufficient to produce attentional shifts to this location. However, it is not clear whether engagement of the eye-movement system is also a necessary condition for any spatial shifts in attention. Recent neurophysiological data indicates that neurons in the frontal eye field (FEF) can select visual stimuli (a colour singleton) in the absence of a concurrently activated saccade plan in non-human primates (Juan et al. in Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101:15541-15544, 2004), suggesting that saccade planning and visual selection are dissociable. However, it is still unclear whether the visual selection is accompanied by an attentional enhancement at the target location. To test this, we used a similar paradigm (i.e. an antisaccade task) with humans to the one employed by Juan and colleagues with monkeys. Our paradigm included a probe-discrimination task, which allowed us to test whether attentional facilitation is indeed observed at the location of the selected visual stimuli. Our results confirm that visual selection is accompanied by attentional facilitation.
Many evidences suggest that the central nervous system (CNS) acquires and switches internal models for adaptive control in various environments. However, little is known about the neural mechanisms responsible for the switching. A recent computational model for simultaneous learning and switching of internal models proposes two separate switching mechanisms: a predictive mechanism purely based on contextual information and a postdictive mechanism based on the difference between actual and predicted sensorimotor feedbacks. This model can switch internal models solely based on contextual information in a predictive fashion immediately after alteration of the environment. Here we show that when subjects simultaneously adapted to alternating blocks of opposing visuomotor rotations, explicit contextual information about the rotations improved the initial performance at block alternations and asymptotic levels of performance within each block but not readaptation speeds. Our simulations using separate switching mechanisms duplicated these effects of contextual information on subject performance and suggest that improvement of initial performance was caused by improved accuracy of the predictive switch while adaptation speed corresponds to a switch dependent on sensorimotor feedback. Simulations also suggested that a slow change in output signals from the switching mechanisms causes contamination of motor commands from an internal model used in the previous context (anterograde interference) and partial destruction of internal models (retrograde interference). Explicit contextual information prevents destruction and assists memory retention by improving the changes in output signals. Thus, the asymptotic levels of performance improved.
Balance control during gait initiation was studied using center of pressure (CoP) data from force plate measurements. Twenty-four participants were divided into four age groups: (1) 2-3 years, (2) 4-5 years, (3) 7-8 years, and (4) adults. Movement in the antero-posterior (CoPy) direction during the initial step was tau-G analyzed, investigating the hypothesis that tau of the CoPy motion-gap (tau(CoPy)), i.e., the time it will take to close the gap at its current closure rate, is tau-coupled onto an intrinsic tau-G guide (tau(G)), by maintaining the relation tau(CoPy )= Ktau(G), for a constant K. Mean percentage of tau-guidance for all groups was &gt;/=99%, resulting in all r(2) exceeding 0.95, justifying an investigation of the regression slope as an estimate of the coupling constant K in the tau-coupling equation. Mean K values decreased significantly with age and were for 2- to 3-year-olds 0.56, for 4- to 5-year-olds 0.50, for 7- to 8-year-olds 0.47, and for adults 0.41. Therefore, the control of dynamic balance develops from the youngest children colliding with the boundaries of the base of support (K &gt; 0.5) to the older children and adults making touch contact (K &lt;/= 0.5). The findings may provide us with a measure for testing prospective balance control, a helpful tool in assessing whether a child is following a normal developmental pattern.
Enzyme prodrug therapy using neural progenitor cells (NPCs) as delivery vehicles has been applied in animal models of gliomas and relies on gap junction communication (GJC) between delivery and target cells. This study investigated the effects of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors on GJC for the purpose of facilitating transfer of therapeutic molecules from recombinant NPCs. We studied a novel immortalized midbrain cell line, NGC-407 of embryonic human origin having neural precursor characteristics, as a potential delivery vehicle. The expression of gap junction protein connexin 43 (Cx43) was analyzed by western blot and immunocytochemistry. While Cx43 levels were decreased in untreated differentiating NGC-407 cells, the HDAC inhibitor 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PB) increased Cx43 expression along with increased membranous deposition in both proliferating and differentiating cells. Simultaneously, Ser 279/282-phosphorylated form of Cx43 was declined in both culture conditions by 4-PB. The 4-PB effect in NGC-407 cells was verified by using HNSC.100 human neural progenitors and Trichostatin A. Improved functional GJC is of imperative importance for therapeutic strategies involving intercellular transport of low molecular-weight compounds. We show here an enhancement by 4-PB, of the functional GJC among NGC-407 cells, as well as between NGC-407 and human glioma cells, as indicated by increased fluorescent dye transfer.
Protein kinase C (PKC) isoenzymes require membrane translocation for physiological activation. We have recently shown that the growth factors such as epidermal growth factor and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), but not keratinocyte growth factor (KGF), regulate PKCalpha activation to promote epithelial wound healing [Sharma, G.D., Ottino, P., Bazan, H.E.P., 2005. Epidermal and hepatocyte growth factors, but not keratinocyte growth factor, modulate protein kinase C alpha translocation to the plasma membrane through 15(S)-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid synthesis. J. Biol. Chem. 280, 7917--924]. Protein kinase C alpha (PKCalpha) and protein kinase C epsilon (PKCvarepsilon) are two differentially regulated isoenzymes. While PKCalpha requires Ca(2+) for its activation, PKEvarepsilon is Ca(2+) independent. However, growth factor-induced activation of these enzymes and their specific regulation of epithelial migration and proliferation have not been explored. In the present study, we overexpressed PKCvarepsilon fused to green fluorescent protein to examine its translocation in real-time to the plasma membrane in living human corneal epithelial cells. Stimulation with HGF and KGF demonstrated translocation of PKCvarepsilon to the plasma membrane. Because HGF activates both PKCs, this growth factor was used to stimulate wound healing. PKCalpha or PKCvarepsilon-genes were knocked down individually without affecting the basal expression of the other PKC isoforms. Gene knockdown of PKCalpha significantly inhibited HGF-stimulated proliferation of human corneal epithelial cells. In contrast, PKCvarepsilon-gene-silencing severely impaired the HGF-stimulated migratory ability of human corneal epithelial cells. When migrating epithelial cells in the cornea wound bed after injury were transfected with specific PKCalpha- or PKCvarepsilon-siRNA, there was a significant delay in wound healing. Corneal wound healing stimulated with HGF in similar conditions was also inhibited. On the other hand, overexpression of PKCalpha or PKCvarepsilon-genes fused with green fluorescent protein in migrating corneal epithelium accelerated repair of the epithelial defect. Our findings demonstrate that PKCalpha and PKCvarepsilon modulate different stages of wound healing stimulated by HGF and contribute to epithelial repair by playing selective regulatory roles in epithelial proliferation and migration, both crucial to corneal wound healing.
Neuroinflammation may play a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). The present study questioned whether this neuroinflammatory response differs between the olfactory bulb, as an early affected region and the nigrostriatal system. Indeed, increased microgliosis was shown in post-mortem olfactory bulb of PD patients. Also in olfactory bulb of MPTP-treated mice, microgliosis and increased expression of IL-1alpha, IL-1beta and IL-1ra mRNA was observed early after treatment. These observations implicate that neuroinflammation is not restricted to the nigrostriatal system. MPTP-induced microgliosis in striatum and olfactory bulb was reduced in IL-1alpha/beta knockout mice, indicating that IL-1 affects microglia activation. Importantly, MPTP induced differential regulation of IL-1 receptors. mRNA levels of IL-1RI and, to a lesser extent, IL-1RII were increased in striatum. Interestingly, in the olfactory bulb only IL-1RII mRNA was enhanced. We suggest that differential regulation of IL-1 signaling can serve as an important mechanism to modulate neuroinflammatory activity after MPTP treatment and possibly during PD.
We have characterized spontaneous and evoked pain behaviors that develop in a model of severe spinal contusion injury using two commonly used strains of mice. Using the Infinite Horizon Tissue Impactor to produce these contusion injuries, we were able to set strict limits on the injury parameters (i.e., force of impact and tissue displacement). This helps to generate a uniform population of spinal cord injury severity and allows for meaningful comparisons to be made across the two strains of mice. After contusion injury, strain differences were apparent in several injury-evoked behaviors such as hindlimb spasticity, spontaneous caudally directed nociceptive behaviors and over-grooming. Similar to the anatomical rearrangements observed in the rat after spinal cord injury, we observed significant changes in sensory innervation of the dorsal horn in both strains. In addition, there was increased expression of protein kinase C gamma (PKCgamma) in cells outside of the inner region of lamina II (IIi) in both strains after spinal contusion injury. However, the magnitude and intensity of this increase was more pronounced in BALB/c mice. PKCgamma is an important mediator of persistent pain behaviors after peripheral nerve injury and inflammation. Our results suggest that PKCgamma may also contribute to neuropathic pain behaviors after direct lesion to the spinal cord.
Microarray-based gene profiling has become the centerpiece of gene expression studies in the biological sciences. The ability to now interrogate the entire genome using a single chip demonstrates the progress in technology and instrumentation that has been made over the last two decades. Although this unbiased approach provides researchers with an immense quantity of data, obtaining meaningful insight is not possible without intensive data analysis and processing. Custom developed arrays have emerged as a viable and attractive alternative that can take advantage of this robust technology and tailor it to suit the needs and requirements of individual investigations. The ability to simplify data analysis, reduce noise and carefully optimize experimental conditions makes it a suitable tool that can be effectively utilized in neuroscience drug discovery efforts. Furthermore, incorporating recent advancements in fine focusing gene profiling to include specific cellular phenotypes can help resolve the complex cellular heterogeneity of the brain. This review surveys the use of microarray technology in neuroscience paying special attention to customized arrays and their potential in drug discovery. Novel applications of microarrays and ancillary techniques, such as laser microdissection, FAC sorting and RNA amplification, have also been discussed. The notion that a hypothesis-driven approach can be integrated into drug development programs is highlighted.
Despite the significant improvement in the outcome of ischaemic stroke with the use of intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator, experience has shown limitations of the sole use of this approach in acute stroke treatment. This has encouraged the search for alternative managements for acute stroke. The combined use of intravenous/intra-arterial therapy is one such alternate treatment, if used in the right setting. In this review, the authors discuss the advantages and limitations of using this approach, together with an overview of the available therapies used through each route. The authors discuss the process of patient selection using clinical, as well as state of the art imaging modalities.

Many viruses have evolved mechanisms to alter mitochondrial function. The hepatitis C virus (HCV) produces a viral core protein that targets to mitochondria and increases Ca2+-dependent ROS production. The aim of this study was to determine whether core's effects are mediated by changes in mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake. Core expression caused enhanced mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake in response to ER Ca2+ release induced by thapsigargin or ATP. It also increased mitochondrial superoxide production and mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT). Incubating mouse liver mitochondria with an HCV core (100 ng/mg) in vitro increased Ca2+ entry rate by approximately 2-fold. Entry was entirely inhibited by the mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter inhibitor, Ru-360, but not influenced by an Na+/Ca2+ exchanger inhibitor or ROS scavengers. These results indicate that core directly increases mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake via a primary effect on the uniporter. This enhanced the ability of mitochondria to sequester Ca2+ in response to ER Ca2+ release, and increased mitochondrial ROS production and MPT. Thus, the mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter is a newly identified target for viral modification of cell function.
The postmortem Alzheimer's disease brain is characterized histochemically by the presence of extracellular amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Also consistent with the disease is evidence for chronic oxidative damage within the brain. Considerable research data indicates that these three critical aspects of Alzheimer's disease are interdependent, raising the possibility that they share some commonality with respect to the ever elusive initial factor(s) that triggers the development of Alzheimer's disease. Here, we discuss reports that show a loss of metal homeostasis is also an important event in Alzheimer's disease, and we identify how metal dyshomeostasis may contribute to development of the amyloid-beta, tau and oxidative stress biology of Alzheimer's disease. We propose that therapeutic agents designed to modulate metal bio-availability have the potential to ameliorate several of the dysfunctional events characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. Metal-based therapeutics have already provided promising results for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, and new generations of pharmaceuticals are being developed. In this review, we focus on copper dyshomeostasis in Alzheimer's disease, but we also discuss zinc and iron.

Healthy mother-infant interactions are critical for the physical, cognitive, and psychological development of offspring. Such interactions rely on numerous factors, including a positive maternal emotional state. However, many postpartum women experience emotional dysregulation, often involving elevated anxiety. Neuroendocrine factors contributing to the onset of postpartum anxiety symptoms are mostly unknown, but irregularities in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function, reduced prolactin and oxytocin signaling, or parturitional withdrawal of ovarian, placental and neural steroids could contribute to anxiety in susceptible women. Although the causes of initial onset are unclear, postpartum anxiety can be mitigated by recent contact with infants. Numerous neurochemical systems, including oxytocin, prolactin, GABA, and norepinephrine mediate this anxiolytic effect of infant contact. Insight into the etiology of postpartum anxiety disorders, and how contact with infants helps counter existing anxiety dysregulation, will surely facilitate the diagnosis and treatment of postpartum women at risk for, or experiencing, an anxiety disorder.




Adaptation to stress involves the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA-) axis. Urocortin 1 (Ucn1) coordinates responses to stressors. An increasing body of evidence suggests that such responses are sexually dimorphic and in females depend on the phase of the estrous cycle. Previously, in the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW), moderate immunostaining of the estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) was demonstrated, whereas estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) was found to be more abundant. We have aimed at confirming the presence and identifying the type of ER in Ucn1-containing neurons in the npEW in the mouse, and at assessing whether the degree of Ucn1 mRNA expression is gender-related. Using immunocytochemistry, we could not demonstrate ERalpha-immunoreactivity in the npEW, but we did show a high density of ERbeta-immunopositive neurons in the npEW of both male and female mice. A majority of Ucn1-positive neurons showed ERbeta-immunoreactivity in their nuclei. In situ hybridization and RT-PCR did not reveal significant differences in both the number of neurons expressing Ucn1 mRNA and the strength of their Ucn1 mRNA expression. We will extend our gender comparison to other phases of the estrous cycle.
The discovery of novel members of the CRF neuropeptide family, urocortin 1 (Ucn1), urocortin 2 and 3 has provided important insights into stress adaptation pathways, and predicted that stress adaptation involves more systems than the HPA-axis alone. This mini-review aims to summarize our recent data and research by others indicating that an important role is played by Ucn1 in the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW). These results point to an intriguing possibility that CRF/Ucn1 neuronal circuits comprise two separate, but functionally interrelated entities, which are coordinately regulated by acute stressors, but are inversely coupled during chronic stress. Such collaboration between the two systems would implicate a very important role of Ucn1 in adaptation to stress, and, as a consequence, in stress-related disorders like anxiety, major depression and use of drugs of abuse.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) are co-sequestered in secretory granules in melanotrope cells of the pituitary pars intermedia of the amphibian Xenopus laevis. alpha-MSH is responsible for pigment dispersion in dermal melanophores during the process of black-background adaptation. BDNF-production in melanotrope cells is increased by placing animals on a black background, and BDNF acts as an autocrine stimulatory factor on the melanotrope cells. However, the repertoire of possible neurotrophin receptors of the melanotrope is unknown. In this study we have established the expression of full length TrkB (TrkB.FL), truncated TrkB (TrkB.T) and p75(NTR) receptors in the Xenopus neurointermediate lobe by RT-PCR. In situ hybridization reveals the presence of TrkB.FL mRNA and p75(NTR) mRNA in melanotrope cells. Quantitative RT-PCR shows that in animals on a black background the amounts of TrkB.T and p75(NTR) mRNA are about three times higher than in white background-adapted animals. We suggest that the amount of p75(NTR) sets the sensitivity of the melanotrope cells for the stimulatory action of BDNF during physiological adaptation to background light intensity.
The Netrin/RGMa receptor, Neogenin, has recently been identified on neuronal and gliogenic progenitors, including radial glia in the embryonic mouse cortex and ganglionic eminences, respectively [Fitzgerald, D.P., Cole, S.J., Hammond, A., Seaman, C., Cooper, H.M., 2006a. Characterization of Neogenin-expressing neural progenitor populations and migrating neuroblasts in the embryonic mouse forebrain. Neuroscience 142, 703-716]. Here we have undertaken a detailed analysis of Neogenin expression in the embryonic mouse central nervous system at key developmental time points. We demonstrate that Neogenin protein is present on actively dividing neurogenic precursors during peak phases of neurogenesis (embryonic days 12.5-14.5) in the forebrain, midbrain and hindbrain. Furthermore, we show that Neogenin protein is localized to the cell bodies and glial processes of neurogenic radial glial populations in all these regions. We have also observed Neogenin on gliogenic precursors within the subventricular zones of the forebrain late in development (embryonic day 17.5). Adult neural stem cells found in the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle of the rodent forebrain are direct descendants of the embryonic striatal radial glial population. Here we show that Neogenin expression is maintained in the neural stem cell population of the adult mouse forebrain. In summary, this study demonstrates that Neogenin expression is a hallmark of many neural precursor populations (neurogenic and gliogenic) in both the embryonic and adult mammalian central nervous system.
The tremendous increase in the use of mouse inbred strains and mutant mice to study the molecular basis of psychiatric disorders urges for a better understanding of attentional performance in mice. To this aim, we investigated possible strain differences in performance and cholinergic modulation of visuospatial attention in three widely used mouse inbred strains (129S2/SvHsd, C57BL/6JOlaHsd and DBA/2OlaHsd) in the five-choice serial reaction time task. Results indicated that after extended training, performance of 129S2/SvHsd mice was superior to that of C57BL/6JOlaHsd and DBA/2OlaHsd mice in terms of attention, omission errors, inhibitory control and latencies to correct choice. Increasing the attentional load resulted in comparable decrements in attention in all strains and inhibitory control impairments that were most pronounced in DBA/2OlaHsd mice. Further pharmacological evaluation indicated that all strains showed attentional impairments after treatment with the muscarinic and nicotinic antagonists scopolamine and mecamylamine, respectively. 129S2/SvHsd mice were less sensitive, whereas DBA/2OlaHsd mice appeared more sensitive to the detrimental effects of mecamylamine. In addition, subchronic, but not acute, nicotine treatment slightly improved attentional performance in all strains to the same extent. In conclusion, our data indicate strain specificity with particularly good performance of 129S2/SvHsd mice and strong cholinergic involvement in visuospatial attention in mice.
Across phylogeny, early experience plays a critical role in nervous system development. In these experiments, we investigated the long-term effects that specific patterns of sensory experience during development had on the biology and function of the Caenorhabditis elegans nervous system. The delivery of a specific pattern of mechanosensory stimulation in the first larval stage (L1) produced significant enhancement in the tap withdrawal behavioral response, expression patterns of an ionotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR) subunit and mRNA levels for that receptor in 3-day-old adult worms and a depression of these same three measures in 5-day-old adult worms. A critical period for the 3-day enhanced behavior and GLR distribution was observed in L1, whereas there was no critical period for the depressed effects observed in 5-day-old worms. The spaced pattern of stimulation was essential for expression of this effect: Various forms of massed training produced neither the enhancement at 3 days nor the depression at 5 days. The 5-day depressed behavioral response had many features in common with long-term memory, including sensitivity to disruption following retrieval. The different behavioral and molecular effects that early patterned mechanosensory stimulation produced in 3 and 5-day-old worms led us to hypothesize that separate cellular phenomena produced the enhanced 3-day and depressed 5-day behaviors and molecular effects.
Netrin and Slit signaling systems play opposing roles during the positioning of longitudinal tracts along the midline in the ventral nerve cord of Drosophila embryo. It has been hypothesized that a gradient of Slit from the midline interacts with three different Robo receptors to specify the axon tract positioning. However, no such gradient has been detected. Moreover, overexpression of Slit at the midline has no effect on the positioning of these lateral tracts. In this article, we show that Slit is present outside of the midline along the longitudinal and commissural tracts. Sli from the midline, in a Robo-independent manner, is initially taken up by the commissural axon tracts when they cross the midline and is transported along the commissural tracts into the longitudinal connectives. These results are not consistent with a Sli gradient model. We also find that sli mRNA is maternally deposited and embryos that are genetically null for sli can have weaker guidance defects. Moreover, in robo or robo3 mutants, embryos with normal axon tracts are found and such robo embryos reach pupal stages and die, while robo3 mutant embryos develop into normal individuals and produce eggs. Interestingly, embryos from robo3 homozygous individuals fail to develop but have axon tracts ranging from normal to various defects: robo3 phenotype, robo phenotype, and slit-like phenotype, suggesting a more complex functional role for these genes than what has been proposed. Finally, our previous results indicated that netrin phenotype is epistatic to sli or robo phenotypes. However, it seems likely that this previously reported epistatic relationship might be due to the partial penetrance of the sli, robo, robo3 (or robo2) phenotypes. Our results argue that double mutant epistasis is most definitive only if the penetrance of the phenotypes of the mutants involved is complete.
Cellular specification of the oligodendrocyte lineage occurs through a series of stages identified by expression of distinct biochemical characteristics. The best characterized oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) in vitro is the bipotential O2-A progenitor, identified by labeling with monoclonal antibody A2B5, which proliferates predominantly in response to platelet derived growth factor (PDGF). The cellular ancestors of O2-A progenitor cells are currently unclear. In vivo OPCs can be identified by expression of the cell surface markers NG2 (a sulfated proteoglycan) and platelet derived growth factor receptor alphaR). Substantial evidence supports the generation of oligodendrocytes from NG2(+), PDGFalphaR(+) cells both in vivo and in vitro. The developmental relationship between NG2(+) cells and A2B5(-) positive cells is unknown and it is unclear whether they represent identical, partially overlapping or nonoverlapping populations of cells. Here we show that in cultures of developing brain NG2(+) and A2B5(+) cells arise from overlapping cell populations. NG2(+) cells appear prior to the expression of A2B5(+) cells and generate A2B5(+) cells. We propose that during development NG2(+)/A2B5(-) cells (pre-OPCs) represent the direct ancestor to A2B5(+) O2A progenitor cells (OPCs).

In the mouse brainstem cochlear nucleus, the auditory nerve to bushy cell synapse (endbulb of Held) is specialised for rapid, high-fidelity transmission. Development of this synapse is modulated by auditory nerve activity. Here we investigate the role of spontaneous auditory nerve activity in synaptic transmission using deafness (dn/dn) mutant mice that have abnormal hair cells and lack spontaneous auditory nerve activity. Evoked and miniature alpha amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor-mediated excitatory post-synaptic currents (eEPSCs, mEPSCs) were compared in deafness and normal mice before the age of hearing onset (postnatal day 7-11: P7-11) using variance-mean, miniature event and tetanic depression analyses. Amplitudes were significantly greater in deafness mice for eEPSCs (2.1-fold), mEPSCs (1.4-fold) and quantal amplitudes (1.5-fold). eEPSCs in deafness mice decayed more rapidly with increasing age, indicating an input-independent transition in post-synaptic AMPA receptor properties. A comparison of normal mice before and after the onset of hearing showed a change in synaptic parameters with an increase in eEPSC (1.7-fold), mEPSC (1.6-fold) and quantal amplitude (1.7-fold) after hearing onset while release probability remained constant (0.5). Overall, the results in deafness mice suggest that synaptic strength is altered in the absence of spontaneous auditory nerve activity.
Investigating individual differences in sexual performance in unmanipulated males is important for understanding natural relationships between behavior and morphology, and the mechanisms regulating them. Among male green anole lizards, some court and copulate frequently (studs) and others do not (duds). To evaluate potential factors underlying differences in the level of these behaviors, morphology and androgen receptor expression in neuromuscular courtship and copulatory structures, as well as in the preoptic area and amygdala, were compared in males displaying varying degrees of sexual function. This study revealed that individual differences in behavior among unmanipulated males, in particular the extension of a throat fan (dewlap) used during courtship, were positively correlated with the size of fibers in the associated muscle and with soma size in the amygdala. The physiological response to testosterone, as indicated by the height of cells in an androgen-sensitive portion of the kidney, was also correlated with male sexual behavior, and predicted it better than plasma androgen levels. Androgen receptor expression was not related to the display of courtship or copulation in any of the tissues examined. The present data indicate that higher levels of male courtship behavior result in (or are the result of) enhanced courtship muscle and amygdala morphology, and that androgen-sensitive tissue in studs may be more responsive to testosterone than duds. However, some mechanism(s) other than androgen receptor expression likely confer this difference in responsiveness.
Estrogen impacts performance on tasks of learning and memory, although there are inconsistencies in the direction and magnitude of the reported effects. Contributory factors to the inconsistencies may be methodological differences associated with different regimens of treatment. The goal of the present experiment was to assess the effect of increased handling, such as that commonly associated with pharmacological or other experimental manipulations, on the ability of estrogen to influence working memory performance. Young adult rats were ovariectomized and implanted with capsules containing either cholesterol or 25% estradiol diluted in cholesterol. Half of each hormone treatment group received standard handling, which consisted of handling required to carry out experimental procedures and half received increased handling, which consisted of standard handling as well as 2 min of additional daily handling by the experimenter. Animals were trained daily on a working memory task on an eight-arm radial maze for 24 days of acquisition and for eight additional daily trials in which delays of either 1 min or 3 h were imposed between the fourth and fifth arm choices. Animals that received increased handling exhibited significantly enhanced performance during acquisition and delay trials compared to those that received standard handling. Estradiol significantly enhanced performance during delay trials in animals that received standard handling but had no effect in animals that received increased handling. These results suggest that the amount of handling that animals receive as part of experimental procedures may obscure the memory enhancing effects of estradiol replacement on certain tasks of cognition.
Among the suite of adaptations displayed by seasonally-breeding rodents, individuals of most species display reproductive regression and concomitant decreases in gonadal steroids during the winter. In addition, some species display increased aggression in short &quot;winter-like&quot; days compared with long &quot;summer-like&quot; day lengths. For example, male Syrian and Siberian hamsters held in short days express heightened levels of aggression that are independent of gonadal steroids. Virtually nothing is known, however, regarding seasonal aggression in female Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). Studies were undertaken to determine female levels of aggression in long and short days as well as the role of gonadal steroids in mediating this behavior. In Experiment 1, females were housed in long or short days for 10 weeks and resident-intruder aggression was assessed. Prior to testing, estrous cycle stages were determined by vaginal cytology and females were tested during both Diestrus I and Proestrus. In Experiment 2, hormone levels were experimentally manipulated; long-day females were ovariectomized (OVx) or given sham surgeries whereas short-day females were implanted with capsules containing 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) or Progesterone (P). In Experiment 3, both long- and short-day females were ovariectomized and implanted with either an exogenous E(2) or blank capsule, or given a sham surgery. Short-day hamsters displayed increased aggression relative to long-day females. Aggression was not affected by estrous stage. There was no difference in aggression between long-day OVx and sham animals. Furthermore, neither exogenous E(2) nor P had any significant effect on aggression. These results support previous findings of increased non-breeding aggression and suggest that short-day aggression is not likely mediated by circulating levels of gonadal steroids. These results also suggest that the endocrine regulation of seasonal aggression may be similar between the sexes.
Estrogen enhances dopamine-mediated behaviors, which make women and female rats more sensitive to the effects of the psychostimulant drugs, cocaine and amphetamine. How cocaine and amphetamine elicit more robust behavioral responses in females remains unclear, but studies have shown that the Regulator of G-protein Signaling 9-2 (RGS9-2) protein is an important modulator of the behavioral responses to these drugs. Previously, we reported that 17-beta estradiol reduced RGS9-2 mRNA expression in the shell of the nucleus accumbens, but not the core. The present studies were designed to further evaluate the involvement of RGS9-2 in estradiol enhancement of amphetamine-induced place preference behavior and to examine which estrogen receptor subtype mediates the effect of estradiol. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomized and treated for 14 days with an inert vehicle or 17-beta estradiol (by Silastic implant or injection [80 microg/kg]). 17-beta-Estradiol-treated female rats had enhanced amphetamine-induced conditioned place preference behavior compared to vehicle-treated, ovariectomized female rats. In situ hybridization histochemistry and Western blotting identified an inverse relationship between RGS9-2 protein expression in the nucleus accumbens shell and the hormonal enhancement of amphetamine-induced place preference behavior. A similar relationship was not found between place preference behavior and RGS9-2 expression in the accumbens core. Moreover, treatment of ovariectomized female rats with the selective estrogen receptor-beta agonist, diarylpropionitrile (1 mg/kg), for 2 weeks also facilitated amphetamine-induced place preference behavior and selectively reduced nucleus accumbens shell RGS9-2 protein expression. These data provide insight into a potential mechanism by which estrogen and/or sex modulate mesoaccumbal dopamine receptor signaling and possibly, addictive behaviors.
The explosion of the toll-like receptors (TLRs) over the past decade has touched almost every field of mammalian biology and neuroscience is not an exception. The current advent of research papers examining the TLRs in the central nervous system (CNS) signifies that these receptors are not only involved in peripheral innate immunity but may also play a role in the development and regulation of CNS inflammation, neurodegeneration and brain trauma. This review addresses the potential role of TLRs in the brain and how they may be involved in various neuropathologies.
The present study has been undertaken to observe the effect of aqueous extract of M. oleifera (MO) leaf (300mg/kg body weight) on mean ulcer index, enterochromaffin (EC) cells and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) content of ulcerated gastric tissue. Ulceration was induced by using aspirin (500 mg/kg, po), cerebellar nodular lesion and applying cold stress. In all cases increased mean ulcer index in gastric tissue along with decreased EC cell count was observed with concomitant decrease of 5-HT content. Pretreatment with MO for 14 days decreased mean ulcer index, increased both EC cell count and 5-HT content in all ulcerated group, but treatment with ondansetron, a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, along with MO pretreatment increased mean ulcer index, decreased 5-HT content without any alteration in EC cell count. The results suggest that the protective effect of MO on ulceration is mediated by increased EC cell count and 5-HT levels which may act via 5-HT3 receptors on gastric tissue.

Kinesin is a microtubule-associated motor protein that transports Alzheimer-associated amyloid precursor protein (APP) in neurons. In animal models, impaired kinesin-mediated APP transport seems to enhance formation of the neurotoxic 42 amino acid fragment of beta-amyloid (A beta 42). In man, one study suggests that a polymorphism (rs8702, 56,836G&gt;C) in the kinesin light chain 1 gene (KNS2) may affect the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). To further assess KNS2 as a susceptibility gene for AD we analyzed 802 patients with sporadic AD and 286 controls, 134 longitudinally followed patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 39 cognitively stable controls for the rs8702 polymorphism. The rs8702 polymorphism did not influence risk of AD (p=0.46). However, rs8702 interacted with APOE epsilon 4 carrier status in AD (p=0.006) and influenced cerebrospinal fluid levels of hyperphosphorylated tau in MCI patients who converted to AD during follow-up (p=0.018). These findings support earlier indications that genetic variability in the KNS2 gene may play a role during early stages of AD pathogenesis.
A central tenet of modern views of the neurobiology of schizophrenia is that the symptoms of schizophrenia arise from a failure of adequate communication between different brain regions and disruption of the circuitry that underlies behaviour and perception. Historically this disconnectivity syndrome has been approached from a neurotransmitter-based perspective. However, efficient communication between brain circuits is also contingent on saltatory signal propagation and salubrious myelination of axons. The papers in this Special Section examine the neuroanatomical and molecular biological evidence for abnormal myelination and oligodendroglial function in schizophrenia through studies of post-mortem brain tissue and animal model systems. The picture that emerges from the studies described suggests that although schizophrenia is not characterized by gross abnormalities of white matter such as those evident in multiple sclerosis, it does involve a profound dysregulation of myelin-associated gene expression, reductions in oligodendrocyte numbers, and marked abnormalities in the ultrastructure of myelin sheaths.
Abnormalities of cerebral white matter, oligodendrocytes, and myelin have been observed in schizophrenia with in-vivo imaging and post-mortem biochemistry. White-matter abnormalities are also frequently associated with cognitive impairment in both healthy and diseased individuals, and cognitive dysfunction is an important component of schizophrenia. While many studies have documented these associations, only a handful have examined the role of white matter in cognitive function in schizophrenia. In this paper, we explore what is known about white-matter deficits in relation to schizophrenia, cognitive deficits, or both together, in order to generate a theoretical model for the role that compromise of white matter might play in producing cognitive impairment in schizophrenia.
A recent focus of schizophrenia research is disruption of white-matter integrity as a key facet of this complex disorder. This was spurred, partly, by new imaging modalities, magnetic transfer imaging and diffusion tensor imaging, which showed differences in white-matter integrity and tract coherence in persons with schizophrenia compared to controls. Oligodendrocytes, in particular, have been the subject of increased study after gene microarray analyses revealed that six myelin-related genes specific to oligodendrocytes have decreased expression levels in schizophrenia. Oligodendrocytes have also been shown to be decreased in number in the superior frontal gyrus of subjects with schizophrenia. The MAG knockout mouse, missing a myelin-related gene linked to schizophrenia, may prove to be a useful animal model for the dysmyelination observed in the human disease. Studies currently ongoing on this model have found changes in dendritic branching patterns of pyramidal cells in layer III of the prefrontal cortex. Further characterization of the pathology in these mice is underway.
Abuse of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or Ecstasy) and methamphetamine (Meth or Speed) is a growing international problem with an estimated 250 million users of psychoactive drugs worldwide. It is important to demonstrate and understand the mechanism of neurotoxicity so potential prevention and treatment therapies can be designed. In this study rat primary cerebrocortical neuron cultures were challenged with MDMA and Meth (1 or 2 mM) for 24 and 48 h and compared to the excitotoxin N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). The neurotoxicity of these drugs, as assessed by microscopy, lactate dehydrogenase release and immunoblot, was shown to be both dose- and time-dependent. Immunoblot analysis using biomarkers of cell death showed significant proteolysis of both alphaII-spectrin and tau proteins. Breakdown products of alphaII-spectrin (SBDPs) of 150, 145, and 120 kDa and tau breakdown products (TBDPs) of 45, 32, 26, and 14 kDa were observed. The use of the protease inhibitors calpain inhibitor SJA6017 and caspase inhibitors z-VAD-fmk and Z-D-DCB, attenuated drug-induced alphaII-spectrin and tau proteolysis. The calpain inhibitor reduced the calpain-induced breakdown products SBDP145 and TBDP14, but there was an offset increase in the caspase-mediated breakdown products SBDP120 and TBDP45. The caspase inhibitors, on the other hand, decreased SBDP120 and TBDP45. These data suggest that both MDMA and Meth trigger concerted proteolytic attacks of the structural proteins by both calpain and caspase family of proteases. The ability of the protease inhibitors to reduce the damage caused by these drugs suggests that the treatment arsenal could include similar drugs as possible tools to combat the drug-induced neurotoxicity in vivo.
Before developing a study to evaluate the effect of positioning on outcome after stroke, it was important to explore whether there were differences in perception between neurology/neurosurgery nurses, nurses from other wards, occupational therapists (OTs) and physiotherapists (PTs) over the positioning of stroke patients in Singapore General Hospital (SGH). Questionnaires were sent to 227 nurses, seven PTs and six OTs from six wards where more stroke patients are cared for in SGH. Seventy-two per cent of the respondents identified bed positioning as their positioning strategy. 'Sitting in a chair' was selected as the best position by most of the respondents in the three specialty groups for nursing conscious hemiplegic stroke patients. 'A 30 degree propped-up angle in bed' was selected as the best position by the majority of the nurses from the neuroscience wards while 'lying horizontally on the unaffected side' of the body was selected as the best position by most of the nurses from other wards, PTs and OTs for nursing unconscious hemiplegic stroke patients. However, no significant difference was found between the groups in what they considered the best position for stroke patients. The lack of consensus between these respondents is probably because there are few studies to guide nursing practices for the positioning of stroke patients. Hence, research to confirm which positions improve or hinder outcome after stroke is indispensable.



Neuroscience indicates that 'repetition' is fundamental to brain function. The brain non-consciously predicts what is most likely to happen and sets in motion perceptions, emotions, behaviors and interpersonal responses best adapted to what is expected-before events occur. Predictions enable individuals to be ready 'ahead of time' so reactions occur rapidly and smoothly when events occur. The brain uses past learning as the guide for what to expect in the future. Because of prediction, present experience and responses are shaped by the past. Predictions from early life can be deeply encoded and enduring. Predictions based on the past allow for more efficient brain function in the present, but can lead to mistakes. When what is predicted does not occur, consciousness can be engaged to monitor and correct the situation. But if a perception or emotion seems reasonable for the situation, a person might not notice an error, and a maladaptive 'repetition' may remain unchanged. The author discusses how predictions contribute to psychological defenses and transference repetition, and how conscious self-reflection facilitates therapeutic change. The neuroscience of prediction indicates why, in certain cases, active engagement by the analyst may be necessary. The author makes the argument for use of a 'neuroscience interpretation'.
Toxoplasma seroprevalence was determined in 307 consecutive HIV-infected medical inpatients at the Helen Joseph Hospital, Johannesburg, South Africa, using an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay to detect immunoglobulin G (IgG) and IgM antibodies. The mean age of patients was 36 years, with a female to male ratio of 1.3 to 1. The mean CD4 count was 109 cells/mL. Toxoplasma antibodies were detected in 25 patients (8%). Twenty-two of these patients were IgG positive and IgM negative, i.e. reactivation toxoplasmosis. Only two patients (0.65%) had clinical manifestations of toxoplasmosis (one toxoplasma encephalitis and one retinitis). The risk for toxoplasma encephalitis (TE) was 0.33%. These results indicate that the toxoplasma seroprevalence and the TE risk in this population is low. The implication from this study is that in HIV-infected populations where the toxoplasma seroprevalence is low, the TE risk will be low and empiric treatment of focal brain lesions with anti-toxoplasma therapy may be inappropriate.




Schizophrenia is associated with deficits in many domains of cognitive function, along with structural and functional brain abnormalities, most notably in prefrontal and temporal lobes. In recent years, a number of research groups have turned to the study of relatives of affected individuals with the aim of determining if similar cognitive deficits and brain abnormalities are also found in those with increased genetic vulnerability to the disorder. In this article studies on such individuals are discussed. It is concluded that deficits are generally apparent in relatives, which are similar to but less marked than those seen in patients with schizophrenia. The literature on predictors of conversion in people at genetic high risk is much smaller, but suggests a combination of baseline trait severity and further change in key measures.



Eye movements were measured during the performance of a computerized Tower of London task to specify the source of planning abnormalities in patients with 1st-episode schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. Subjects viewed 2 arrays of colored balls in the upper and lower parts of the screen. They were asked to plan the shortest sequence of moves required to rearrange the balls in the lower screen to match the upper arrangement. Compared with healthy controls, patients made more planning errors, and decision times were longer. However, the patients showed the same gaze biases as controls prior to making a response, indicating that they understood the requirements of the task, approached the task in a strategic manner by identifying the nature of the problem, and used appropriate fixation strategies to plan and elaborate solutions. The patients showed increased duration of long-gaze periods toward both parts of the screen. This suggests that the patients had difficulty in encoding the essential features of the stimulus array. This finding is compatible with slowing of working memory consolidation.
Mottled sculpin (Cottus bairdi) are small, benthic fish that avoid being swept downstream by orienting their bodies upstream and extending their large pectoral fins laterally to generate negative lift. Digital particle image velocimetry was used to determine the effects of these behaviors on the spatial and temporal characteristics of the near-body flow field as a function of current velocity. Flow around the fish's head was typical for that around the leading end of a rigid body. Flow separated around the edges of pectoral fin, forming a wake similar to that observed for a flat plate perpendicular to the flow. A recirculation region formed behind the pectoral fin and extended caudally along the trunk to the approximate position of the caudal peduncle. In this region, the time-averaged velocity was approximately one order of magnitude lower than that in the freestream region and flow direction varied over time, resembling the periodic shedding of vortices from the edge of a flat plate. These results show that the mottled sculpin pectoral fin significantly alters the ambient flow noise in the vicinity of trunk lateral line sensors, while simultaneously creating a hydrodynamic footprint of the fish's presence that may be detected by the lateral line of nearby fish.


This paper presents an account of past and current research on spiny inverted neurons--alternatively also known as 'inverted pyramidal neurons'--in rats, rabbits and cats. In our laboratory, we have studied these cells with a battery of techniques suited for light and electron microscopy, including Nissl staining, Golgi impregnation, dye intracellular filling and axon retrograde track-tracing. Our results show that spiny inverted neurons make up less than 8.5 and 5.5% of all cortical neurons in the primary and secondary rabbit visual cortex, respectively. Infragranular spiny inverted neurons constitute 15 and 8.5% of infragranular neurons in the same animal and areas. Spiny inverted neurons congregate at layers V-VI in all studied species. Studies have also revealed that spiny inverted neurons are excitatory neurons which furnish axons for various cortico-cortical, cortico-claustral and cortico-striatal projections, but not for non-telencephalic centres such as the lateral and medial geniculate nuclei, the colliculi or the pons. As a group, each subset of inverted cells contributing to a given projection is located below the pyramidal neurons whose axons furnish the same centre. Spiny inverted neurons are particularly conspicuous as a source of the backward cortico-cortical projection to primary visual cortex and from this to the claustrum. Indeed, they constitute up to 82% of the infragranular cells that furnish these projections. Spiny inverted neurons may be classified into three subtypes according to the point of origin of the axon on the cell: the somatic basal pole which faces the cortical outer surface, the somatic flank and the reverse apical dendrite. As seen with electron microscopy, the axon initial segments of these subtypes are distinct from one another, not only in length and thickness, but also in the number of received synaptic boutons. All of these anatomical features together may support a synaptic-input integration which is peculiar to spiny inverted neurons. In this way, two differently qualified streams of axonal output may coexist in a projection which arises from a particular infragranular point within a given cortical area; one stream would be furnished by the typical pyramidal neurons, whereas spiny inverted neurons would constitute the other source of distinct information flow.
Over the last century, anatomical studies have shown that the cerebral cortex can be subdivided into structurally distinct regions, giving rise to a new branch of neuroanatomy: 'architectonics'. Since then, architectonics has been often accused of being overly subjective, and its validity for the definition of functionally different cortical fields has been seriously questioned. Since the late 1980s, however, the problem of localization has become particularly important in functional studies of the primate motor cortex, because of evidence that (1) the primate motor cortex is made up of a mosaic of functionally specialized areas and (2) the human motor cortex shares several general organizational principles with the monkey motor cortex. Studies of the macaque agranular frontal cortex that used a multimodal cyto-, myelo- and immuno-architectonic approach have shown that architectonic borders can be reliably and consistently defined across different individuals, even at a qualitative level of analysis. The validity of this approach has been confirmed by its ability to localize functionally distinct areas precisely and to predict the existence of new functional areas. After more than a century, architectonics as a discipline goes far beyond its original aim of generating cortical maps.
Tendons can function as springs and thereby preserve energy during cyclic loading. They might also have damping properties, which, hypothetically, could reduce risk of microinjuries due to fatigue at sites of local stress concentration within the tendon. At mechanical testing, damping will appear as hysteresis. How is damping influenced by training or disuse? Does training decrease hysteresis, thereby making the tendon a better spring, or increase hysteresis and thus improve damping? Seventy-eight female 10-wk-old Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized to three groups. Two groups had botulinum toxin injected into the calf muscles to unload the left Achilles tendon through muscle paralysis. One of these groups was given doxycycline, as a systemic matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor. The third group served as loaded controls. The Achilles tendons were harvested after 1 or 6 wk for biomechanical testing. An increase with time was seen in tendon dry weight, wet weight, water content, transverse area, length, stiffness, force at failure, and energy uptake in all three groups (P &lt; 0.001 for each parameter). Disuse had no effect on these parameters. Creep was decreased with time in all groups. The only significant effect of disuse was on hysteresis (P = 0.004) and creep (P = 0.007), which both decreased with disuse compared with control, and on modulus, which was increased (P = 0.008). Normalized glycosaminoglycan content was unaffected by time and disuse. No effect of doxycycline was observed. The results suggest that in growing animals, the tendons continue to grow regardless of mechanical loading history, whereas maintenance of damping properties requires mechanical stimulation.
This study aimed to explore the perception of different components of biological movement in individuals with autism and Asperger syndrome. The ability to recognize a person's actions, subjective states, emotions, and objects conveyed by moving point-light displays was assessed in 19 participants with autism and 19 comparable typical control participants. Results showed that the participants with autism were as able as controls to name point-light displays of non-human objects and human actions. In contrast, they were significantly poorer at labeling emotional displays, suggesting that they are specifically impaired in attending to emotional states. Most studies have highlighted an emotional deficit in facial expression perception; our results extend this hypothesized deficit to the perception and interpretation of whole-body biological movements.
Neisseria meningitidis can be the causative agent of meningitis or septicemia. This bacterium expresses type IV pili, which mediate a variety of functions, including autoagglutination, twitching motility, biofilm formation, adherence, and DNA uptake during transformation. The secretin PilQ supports type IV pilus extrusion and retraction, but it also requires auxiliary proteins for its assembly and localization in the outer membrane. Here we have studied the physical properties of the lipoprotein PilP and examined its interaction with PilQ. We found that PilP was an inner membrane protein required for pilus expression and transformation, since pilP mutants were nonpiliated and noncompetent. These mutant phenotypes were restored by the expression of PilP in trans. The pilP gene is located upstream of pilQ, and analysis of their transcripts indicated that pilP and pilQ were cotranscribed. Furthermore, analysis of the level of PilQ expression in pilP mutants revealed greatly reduced amounts of PilQ only in the deletion mutant, exhibiting a polar effect on pilQ transcription. In vitro experiments using recombinant fragments of PilP and PilQ showed that the N-terminal region of PilP interacted with the middle part of the PilQ polypeptide. A three-dimensional reconstruction of the PilQ-PilP interacting complex was obtained at low resolution by transmission electron microscopy, and PilP was shown to localize around the cap region of the PilQ oligomer. These findings suggest a role for PilP in pilus biogenesis. Although PilQ does not need PilP for its stabilization or membrane localization, the specific interaction between these two proteins suggests that they might have another coordinated activity in pilus extrusion/retraction or related functions.
The current increase in the incidence and severity of infectious diseases mandates improved understanding of the basic biology and DNA repair profiles of virulent microbes. In our studies of the major pathogen and model organism Neisseria meningitidis, we constructed a panel of mutants inactivating genes involved in base excision repair, mismatch repair, nucleotide excision repair (NER), translesion synthesis, and recombinational repair pathways. The highest spontaneous mutation frequency among the N. meningitidis single mutants was found in the MutY-deficient strain as opposed to mutS mutants in Escherichia coli, indicating a role for meningococcal MutY in antibiotic resistance development. Recombinational repair was recognized as a major pathway counteracting methyl methanesulfonate-induced alkylation damage in the N. meningitidis. In contrast to what has been shown in other species, meningococcal NER did not contribute significantly to repair of alkylation-induced DNA damage, and meningococcal recombinational repair may thus be one of the main pathways for removal of abasic (apurinic/apyrimidinic) sites and strand breaks in DNA. Conversely, NER was identified as the main meningococcal defense pathway against UV-induced DNA damage. N. meningitidis RecA single mutants exhibited only a moderate decrease in survival after UV exposure as opposed to E. coli recA strains, which are extremely UV sensitive, possibly reflecting the lack of a meningococcal SOS response. In conclusion, distinct differences between N. meningitidis and established DNA repair characteristics in E. coli and other species were identified.
The authors report the characterization of a novel cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-responsive luciferase (Luc) reporter that exhibits optimal performance in high-throughput screens of agonist binding at G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). This reporter (RIP1-CRE-Luc) incorporates a nonpalindromic cAMP response element (CRE) originally identified within the 5' promoter of the rat insulin 1 gene (RIP1). When multimerized and fused to the coding sequence of firefly luciferase, the CRE of RIP1 allows for the efficient activation of luciferase expression by cAMP-elevating agents or by cAMP itself. Of primary importance is the demonstration that RIP1-CRE-Luc does not exhibit the relatively high levels of basal luciferase activity inherent to reporters incorporating the palindromic CRE first identified in the somatostatin gene promoter. Furthermore, studies of HEK cells expressing class II GPCRs for the cAMP-elevating hormones GLP-1, GIP, and glucagon demonstrate that RIP1-CRE-Luc affords a much wider dynamic range of activation upon exposure to agonist. Such properties of RIP1-CRE-Luc indicate its usefulness as a new and powerful tool for the identification of small-molecule compounds with receptor-stimulating actions or for the identification of constitutively active orphan receptors with cAMP-signaling properties.
NGF-induced differentiation of PC12 cells is mediated by actin-polymerisation-driven membrane protrusion, involving GTPase signalling pathways that activate actin nucleation promoting factors such as the neural Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (N-WASP). Expression of the exocyst subunit Exo70 in PC12 cells and neurons leads to the generation of numerous membrane protrusions, an effect that is strongly potentiated upon NGF-induced differentiation. Frster resonance energy transfer (FRET) imaging by fluorescence lifetime microscopy (FLIM) reveals an NGF-induced interaction of activated TC10 with Exo70. Expression of dominant-negative mutants and siRNA-mediated knockdown implicates N-WASP in NGF-induced Exo70-TC10-mediated membrane protrusion. However, FRET imaging of N-WASP activation levels of cells expressing Exo70 and/or constitutively active TC10 reveals that this complex locally antagonises the NGF-induced activation of N-WASP in membrane protrusions. Experiments involving siRNA-mediated knockdown of Cdc42 and overexpression of constitutively active Cdc42 confirm that the Exo70-TC10 complex mainly targets the NGF-induced Cdc42-dependent activation of N-WASP. Our results show that Exo70 is responsible for the correct targeting of the Exo70-TC10 complex to sites of membrane protrusion. The functional uncoupling between both pathways represents a novel regulatory mechanism that enables switching between morphologically distinct - Cdc42- or TC10-dominated - forms of cellular membrane outgrowth.
The concept of brain plasticity covers all the mechanisms involved in the capacity of the brain to adjust and remodel itself in response to environmental requirements, experience, skill acquisition, and new challenges including brain lesions. Advances in neuroimaging and neurophysiologic techniques have increased our knowledge of task-related changes in cortical representation areas in the intact and injured human brain. The recognition that neuronal progenitor cells proliferate and differentiate in the subventricular zone and dentate gyrus in the adult mammalian brain has raised the hope that regeneration may be possible after brain lesions. Regeneration will require that new cells differentiate, survive, and integrate into existing neural networks and that axons regenerate. To what extent this will be possible is difficult to predict. Current research explores the possibilities to modify endogenous neurogenesis and facilitate axonal regeneration using myelin inhibitory factors. After apoptotic damage in mice new cortical neurons can form long-distance connections. Progenitor cells from the subventricular zone migrate to cortical and subcortical regions after ischemic brain lesions, apparently directed by signals from the damaged region. Postmortem studies on human brains suggest that neurogenesis may be altered in degenerative diseases. Functional and anatomic data indicate that myelin inhibitory factors, cell implantation, and modification of extracellular matrix may be beneficial after spinal cord lesions. Neurophysiologic data demonstrating that new connections are functioning are needed to prove regeneration. Even if not achieving the goal, methods aimed at regeneration can be beneficial by enhancing plasticity in intact brain regions.
Glutamate levels increase dramatically in cerebral ischemia and stroke. This may lead to opening of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and induce further brain damage. Because endothelial tight junctions are critical elements of the BBB integrity, the aim of this study was to investigate the mechanisms of glutamate-induced alterations of the tight-junction protein occludin in cultured brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMECs). Transient exposure to glutamate resulted in cellular redistribution of occludin, followed by a decrease in the total level of this protein and diminished barrier function of BMECs. Inhibition of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate/kainate (AMPA/KA) receptors attenuated glutamate-induced changes in occludin redistribution but not in the total protein levels. Treatment with glutamate also increased tyrosine phosphorylation and decreased threonine phosphorylation of occludin. Inhibition of the NMDA receptors by MK-801 partially protected against glutamate-induced elevation of occludin tyrosine phosphorylation. In addition, pretreatment with MK-801-attenuated glutamate-mediated disruption of endothelial barrier function. Blocking of the AMPA/KA receptors by 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2.3-dione (DNQX) protected against hypophosphorylation of threonine residues of occludin; however, it did not affect disruption of endothelial integrity. These findings indicate the opposite effects of the NMDA and AMPA/KA receptors on occludin phosphorylation and disruption of the BBB functions.

Recent developments in the field of neuroscience have illuminated the understanding of the neural circuits impaired in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and the mechanism of action of treatments used to treat this condition. There is an exciting confluence between emerging studies in basic neurobiology and the genetic, neuroimaging, and neuropsychological analyses of ADHD. The following provides a brief review of this field, explaining how compounds like guanfacine and the traditional stimulant medications can reduce the core symptoms of ADHD by optimizing the neurochemical environment in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Knowledge of these basic mechanisms may inform our medication choices and facilitate treatment of ADHD and related disorders.
Motoneuron diseases cause paralysis and death due to loss of motoneurons that innervate skeletal muscle. Spinal muscular atrophy is a human motoneuron disease that is genetically linked to the survival motor neuron gene (SMN). Although SMN was identified more than a decade ago, it remains unclear how decreased levels of the SMN protein cause spinal muscular atrophy. The use of animal models, however, offers a crucial tool in determining the function of SMN in this disease. In this review, we discuss our efforts to develop a zebrafish model of spinal muscular atrophy.
Conventional surgery on the descending thoracic aorta for aneurysm or dissection repair typically involves open thoracotomy and cross-clamping of the aorta. These procedures are associated with the potential for significant neurologic morbidity due to spinal cord ischemia. Endovascular stent graft (EVSG) repair of the descending thoracic aorta precludes the need for aortic cross-clamping and appears to be associated with fewer neurologic complications. Several studies have demonstrated the utility of neurophysiologic intraoperative monitoring (NIOM) during conventional aortic surgery; however, less information is available regarding NIOM during EVSG repair. This paper reviews the data available regarding NIOM in EVSG repair of the descending thoracic aorta.
Neurophysiologic monitoring during surgical procedures involving the aortic arch is very complex because of the number of different phases of the procedure, the high mortality rate, and the use of hypothermia. In this paper, the critical goals of neurophysiologic monitoring are discussed in the context of the different surgical events and the surgical options during the different phases of the procedure. These include establishing a neurophysiologic baseline and identifying any evidence of cerebral ischemia that might suggest a reduction in cerebral perfusion. The role of EEG and evoked potentials in assessing the effect of hypothermia and circulatory arrest is also discussed. As these effects are predictable in large part, the neurophysiologist will be able to determine when changes in the neurophysiologic tests outside the norm occur and provide prompt warnings to the surgeon.


We have recently described large, unipolar neurons (named bullwhip cells) that regulate the proliferation of progenitors in the circumferential marginal zone (CMZ) of the postnatal chicken retina (Fischer et al. [2005] J. Neurosci. 25:10157-10166; [2006] J. Comp. Neurol. 496:479-494). There are only about 240 bullwhip cells in the entire retina, and these cells are easily identified by their unique morphology and immunoreactivity for glucagon, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP1), and substance P. The purpose of this study was to elucidate the development of bullwhip cells in the embryonic chicken retina. By using bromodeoxyuridine birth dating, we found that the bullwhip cells are generated very early during retinal development, between E4 and E5. Glucagon peptide was first detected in bullwhip cells at about E10, whereas substance P was not detected in the bullwhip cells until E15. Although glucagon peptide is not present during early stages of retinal development, we detected mRNA for glucagon receptor beginning at E7 and mRNA for GLP1 receptor at E5 through E14. Morphological differentiation of the bullwhip cells begins at about E14 and is completed by E18. The bullwhip cells are greatly overproduced, and nearly 80% of these cells undergo apoptotic cell death during late stages of embryonic development. The bullwhip cells that survive are those that project an axon-like process directly toward the CMZ; the cells that project in an inappropriate direction fail to survive. We conclude that cells fated to become bullwhip neurons are generated long before they begin to differentiate and that their survival depends on the orientation of their primary neurite.
The purpose of this paper was to examine how muscle architecture parameter (MAP) measurements made using brightness-mode ultrasonography (BMU) differ based on probe orientation. The human tibialis anterior muscle was imaged from nine different probe orientations during concentric contractions at four joint angles to determine the effect of probe orientation on the measurement of muscle architecture parameters. Ankle dorsi-flexion torque, tibialis anterior electromyography (EMG), and measures of MAP including fascicle length (FL), pennation angle (PA) and muscle thickness (MT) were collected. Statistically significant differences were found between joint angles for measures of FL and PA and between probe orientations for measures of FL and MT. A comparison of actual MAP values to a geometric model used by researchers to determine an ideal probe orientation show that the actual values vary to a greater extent and do not follow the trend predicted by the model. The results suggest that ultrasound probe orientation affects measures of MAP but the effect either cannot be predicted from a geometric model and/or the error in the measurement technique does not allow a comparison.

The CLC-1 Cl(-) channel is abundantly expressed on the plasma membrane of muscle cells, and the membrane potential of muscle cells is largely controlled by the activity of this Cl(-) channel. Previous studies showed that low intracellular pH increases the overall open probability of recombinant CLC-1 channels in various expression systems. Low intracellular pH, however, is known to inhibit the Cl(-) conductance on the native muscle membrane, contradicting the findings from the recombinant CLC-1 channels in expressed systems. Here we show that in the presence of physiological concentrations of ATP, reduction of the intracellular pH indeed inhibits the expressed CLC-1, mostly by decreasing the open probability of the common gate of the channel.

Neural regeneration and repair in the central nervous system are currently hot topics in neuroscience. For many years there has been a hope that neurodegenerative diseases which are resistant to current therapies may be treated by the selective replacement of cells. Yet it is only recently that we have started to acquire the knowledge, tools, and techniques that may translate such optimism into new therapies. In this article, we will consider the potential to restore function to the damaged optic nerve. We will consider the technical issues involved and suggest a strategy for research progress.
Psoriasis is a common skin disease with an etiology consistent with a multifactorial trait. Several psoriasis susceptibility loci are known, a number of which are also implicated in a predisposition to atopic dermatitis (AD), including the epidermal differentiation complex on chromosome 1q21. It has recently been shown in several replicate studies that prevalent null alleles for the filaggrin gene (FLG) on 1q21 are an important genetic factor in AD. Here, we examined the role of these FLG variants in psoriasis using case:control association studies comparing Irish and UK psoriasis cohorts (combined n=691) to ethnically matched populations (combined n=2117). No association was present for the two common European FLG mutations R501X and 2282del4 (combined chi2 P=0.989). In addition, the 3' end of the FLG open-reading frame was sequenced in a number of patients with differing types of psoriasis (plaque, guttate, palmoplantar, and late-onset), which excluded the possibility of a gain-of-function frameshift mutation such as those found in loricrin or certain keratin genes. These data suggest that FLG mutations are unlikely to be involved in genetic susceptibility to psoriasis and implies that there may be within-locus heterogeneity in chromosomal regions involved in both AD and psoriasis.
Transient receptor potential melastatin 7 (TRPM7) is a broadly expressed, non-selective cation channel. Studies in cultured cells implicate TRPM7 in regulation of cell growth, spreading, and survival. However, zebrafish trpm7 homozygous mutants display death of melanophores and temporary paralysis, but no gross morphological defects during embryonic stages. This phenotype implies that melanophores are unusually sensitive to decreases in Trpm7 levels, a hypothesis we investigate here. We find that pharmacological inhibition of caspases does not rescue melanophore viability in trpm7 mutants, implying that melanophores die by a mechanism other than apoptosis. Consistent with this possibility, ultrastructural analysis of dying melanophores in trpm7 mutants reveals abnormal melanosomes and evidence of a ruptured plasma membrane, indicating that cell death occurs by necrosis. Interestingly, inhibition of melanin synthesis largely prevents melanophore cell death in trpm7 mutants. These results suggest that melanophores require Trpm7 in order to detoxify intermediates of melanin synthesis. We find that unlike TRPM1, TRPM7 is expressed in human melanoma cell lines, indicating that these cells may also be sensitized to reduction of TRPM7 levels.
Lactoferrin (Lf) plays an important role in host defense against infection and excessive inflammation. Although the mechanisms underlying its immunomodulatory properties have not been fully elucidated yet, recent evidence suggests that some of these effects may be related to its capacity to form complexes with LPS. We report that the culture of resting mouse peritoneal macrophages (PM) with bovine Lf (bLf), prior to infection with the vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), resulted in a significant reduction of virus yield with respect to control cultures. The antiviral activity of bLF was related to its capacity of inducing IFN-alpha/beta expression, which in turn inhibited VSV replication. Indeed, the accumulation of IFN-beta but not of IFNalpha(1-2) transcripts was up-modulated markedly early after bLf addition. Furthermore, bLf did not exert any antiviral activity in the presence of neutralizing antibodies to IFN-alpha/beta in PM from wild-type mice, as well as in PM from mice genetically defective for the response to IFN. The antiviral activity of bLf relied on its intrinsic capacity to bind LPS, as this protein did not induce IFN expression in PM from LPS-hyporesponsive mice. It is interesting that this LPS-binding property was dispensable for the production of TNF-alpha, which also occurred in LPS-hyporesponsive mice. Overall, these results indicate that some of the immunomodulatory effects ascribed to Lf may be related to its capacity to favor Type I IFN expression and argue in favor of an important role of the LPS-binding feature and TLR4 in some of the effects ascribed to this molecule.
We have found that deletion of genes encoding the gap junction proteins Cx43, Cx32 and Cx36 alter the expression levels of large numbers of genes in mouse brain located on all chromosomes and encoding proteins from all major functional categories. Gene regulation in Cx32 and Cx43 null brains was more similar than that in the Cx36 null brain, suggesting the possibility of transcriptomic controls exerted by both genes on both astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. In order to explore the nature of expression linkage among the genes, we examined coordinated expression patterns in wild-type and connexin null brains. Coordination with Cx43 in wild-type brain predicted regulation in Cx43 nulls with considerable accuracy. Moreover, interlinkage within gene networks was greatly perturbed in the Cx43 null brain. These findings suggest several principles regarding regulatory transcriptomic networks involving gap junction genes and raise the issue of the underlying cause of connexin null phenotypes as well as mechanisms of regulation.
Stress-induced craving and stress reactivity may influence risk for substance use or relapse to use. Interventions designed to attenuate stress-induced craving and stress reactivity may serve as excellent adjuncts to more comprehensive treatment programs. The purpose of this study was to (1) tailor an existing, manualized, cognitive-behavioral stress management (CBSM) intervention for use in individuals with substance use disorders and (2) preliminarily evaluate the effects of the intervention using an experimental stress-induction paradigm. Twenty individuals were interviewed and then completed a psychological stress task, the Mental Arithmetic Task (MAT). After this, participants were assigned to either the CBSM intervention group or a nontreatment comparison group. Approximately 3 weeks later, participants completed a second MAT. In contrast to the comparison group, the CBSM group demonstrated significantly less stress-induced craving (p&lt;.04) and stress (p&lt;.02), and reported greater ability to resist urges to use (p&lt;.02) after the second MAT. These findings are among the first to report on the use of an intervention to attenuate craving and stress reactivity among individuals with substance use disorders. Although preliminary, the findings suggest that systematic investigation of interventions specifically targeting stress management in individuals with substance use disorders should be undertaken.

Electrophysiological studies have demonstrated that dopaminergic neurons burst fire during certain aspects of reward-related behavior; however, the correlation between dopamine release and cell firing is unclear. When complex stimulation patterns that mimic intracranial self-stimulation were employed, dopamine release was shown to exhibit facilitated as well as depressive components (Montague et al. 2004). Understanding the biological mechanisms underlying these variations in dopamine release is necessary to unravel the correlation between unit activity and neurotransmitter release. The dopamine autoreceptor provides negative feedback to dopamine release, inhibiting release on the time scale of a few seconds. Therefore, we investigated this D(2) receptor to see whether it is one of the biological mechanisms responsible for the history-dependent modulation of dopamine release. Striatal dopamine release in anesthetized rats was evoked with stimulus trains that were designed to promote the variability of dopamine release. Consistent with the well established D(2)-mediated autoinhibition, the short-term depressive component of dopamine release was blocked by raclopride, a D(2) antagonist, and enhanced by quinpirole, a D(2)-receptor agonist. Surprisingly, these same drugs exerted a similar effect on the short-term facilitated component: a decrease with raclopride and an increase with quinpirole. These data demonstrate that the commanding control exerted by dopamine autoreceptors over short-term neuroadaptation of dopamine release involves both inhibitory and paradoxically, facilitatory components.
Activated extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (Erk) phosphorylates and activates downstream kinases including ribosomal S6 kinase 2 (Rsk2/RPS6KA3) and mitogen- and stress-activated kinase 1 (Msk1, RPS6KA5). Rsk2 plays an important role in neuronal plasticity, as patients with Coffin-Lowry syndrome, where Rsk2 is dysfunctional, have impaired cognitive function. However, the relative role of neuronal Rsk2 and Msk1 in activating proteins downstream of Erk is unclear. In PC12 cells and in cortical neurones, the calcium ionophore A23187-induced phosphorylation of Erk, Msk1, Rsk2 and also the Bcl-2-associated death protein (Bad), which protects against neurotoxicity. Specific knockdown of Msk1 with small interfering RNA reduced the ability of A23187 to induce Bad phosphorylation in both PC12 cells and cortical neurones. Conversely, specific knockdown of Rsk2 potentiated Bad phosphorylation following A23187 treatment, and also elevated Erk phosphorylation in both cell types. This indicates that Msk1 rather than Rsk2 mediates neuronal Bad phosphorylation following Ca(2+) influx and implicates Rsk2 in a negative-feedback regulation of Erk activity.
One of the hypotheses for the development of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is that mutations in the superoxide dismutase 1 enzyme lead to aberrant properties of the copper within the active site of the enzyme which then causes increased oxidative damage. The lipophilic metal chelators DP-109 and DP-460 which chelate calcium, copper, and zinc were tested in the G93A-transgenic ALS mouse model. Both compounds significantly extended survival, DP-109 (5 mg/kg/day) by 10%, DP-460 (10 mg/kg/day) by 9%. While the effect on survival was relatively small, chelator treatment also improved motor performance, dramatically reduced cell loss in the lumbar spinal cord and decreased reactive astrocytosis and microgliosis. Markers of oxidative damage, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and alpha-synuclein were reduced in the lumbar spinal cord of G93A mice treated with DP-109 or DP-460 as compared with vehicle-treated animals. Furthermore, the treatment induced protein expression of the transcription factor hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha and mRNA levels of vascular endothelial growth factor as a corresponding target gene. In line with previous studies using metal chelators in the G93A animal model, our results suggest that these compounds have neuroprotective capacities in ALS.
CYP1A1, a cytochrome P450 enzyme, metabolizes polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons to genotoxic metabolite(s) that bind to DNA and initiate carcinogenesis. RT-PCR amplification of the complete open reading frame of CYP1A1 generated an amplicon of 1593 bp having deletion of 87 bp of exon-6 that translated into functional P450 enzyme. Unlike wild type CYP1A1, exon 6 del CYP1A1 did not metabolize polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons such as, benzo(a)pyrene to genotoxic, ultimate carcinogens that form DNA adducts. Exon 6 del CYP1A1 metabolized ethoxyresorufin (the classical substrate for CYP1A1) less efficiently compared with wild type CYP1A1 while pentoxy and benzyloxyresorufin (classical substrates for CYP2B) were dealkylated more efficiently. In silico docking showed alteration of the substrate access channel in exon 6 del CYP1A1 such that benzo(a)pyrene does not bind in any orientation that would permit the formation of carcinogenic metabolites. Genotyping revealed that the splice variant was not generated due to differences in genomic DNA sequence and the variant was present only in brain but not in liver, kidney, lung, or heart from the same individual. We provide evidence that unique P450 enzymes, generated by alternate splicing in a histiospecific manner can modify genotoxic potential of carcinogens such as benzo(a)pyrene by altering their biotransformation pathway.
l-glutamate (Glu) is the main excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system (CNS) and is associated with motor behavior and sensory perception. While microdialysis methods have been used to record tonic levels of Glu, little is known about the more rapid changes in Glu signals that may be observed in awake rats. We have reported acute recording methods using enzyme-based microelectrode arrays (MEA) with fast response time and low detection levels of Glu in anesthetized animals with minimal interference. The current paper concerns modification of the MEA design to allow for reliable measures in the brain of conscious rats. In this study, we characterized the effects of chronic implantation of the MEA into the brains of rats. We were capable of measuring Glu levels for 7 days without loss of sensitivity. We performed studies of tail-pinch induced stress, which caused a robust biphasic increase in Glu. Histological data show chronic implantation of the MEAs caused minimal injury to the CNS. Taken together, our data show that chronic recordings of tonic and phasic Glu can be carried out in awake rats for up to 17 days in vivo allowing longer term studies of Glu regulation in behaving rats.
Studies in continuously cultured cells have established that familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) mutant presenilin 1 (PS1) delays exit of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) from the trans-Golgi network (TGN). Here we report the first description of PS1-regulated APP trafficking in cerebral neurons in culture and in vivo. Using neurons from transgenic mice or a cell-free APP transport vesicle biogenesis system derived from the TGN of those neurons, we demonstrated that knocking-in an FAD-associated mutant PS1 transgene was associated with delayed kinetics of APP arrival at the cell surface. Apparently, this delay was at least partially attributable to impaired exit of APP from the TGN, which was documented in the cell-free APP transport vesicle biogenesis assay. To extend the study to APP and carboxyl terminal fragment (CTF) trafficking to cerebral neurons in vivo, we performed subcellular fractionation of brains from APP transgenic mice, some of which carried a second transgene encoding an FAD-associated mutant form of PS1. The presence of the FAD mutant PS1 was associated with a slight shift in the subcellular localization of both holoAPP and APP CTFs toward iodixanol density gradient fractions that were enriched in a marker for the TGN. In a parallel set of experiments, we used an APP : furin chimeric protein strategy to test the effect of artificially forcing TGN concentration of an APP : furin chimera that could be a substrate for beta- and gamma-cleavage. This chimeric substrate generated excess Abeta42 when compared with wildtype APP. These data indicate that the presence of an FAD-associated mutant human PS1 transgene is associated with redistribution of the APP and APP CTFs in brain neurons toward TGN-enriched fractions. The chimera experiment suggests that TGN-enrichment of a beta-/gamma-secretase substrate may play an integral role in the action of mutant PS1 to elevate brain levels of Abeta42.
The mechanisms of injury-induced apoptosis of neurons within the spinal cord are poorly understood. In this study, we show that spinal cord injury (SCI) induces endoplasmic reticulum stress revealed by the activation of an unbalanced unfolded protein response (UPR). Using a weight-drop contusion model of SCI, the UPR activation was characterized by a quick transient phosphorylation of alpha subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 soon restored by the up-regulation of its regulator Gadd34; an effective cleavage/activation of the ATF6alpha transcription factor leading to up-regulation of the canonical UPR target genes Chop, Xbp1 and Grp78; the presence of the processing of Xbp1 mRNA indicative of inositol requiring kinase 1 activation, and a gradual accumulation of C/EBP homologous transcription factor protein (CHOP) with concomitant caspase-12 activation. Interestingly, the subcellular distribution of CHOP was found in the nucleus of neurons and oligodendrocytes but in the cytoplasm of astrocytes. Considering the pro-apoptotic action attributed to this transcription factor, this phenomenon might account for the different susceptibility of cell types to dye after SCI.
Aripiprazole and the candidate antipsychotics, S33592, bifeprunox, N-desmethylclozapine (NDMC) and preclamol, are partial agonists at D(2) receptors. Herein, we examined their actions at D(2L) and D(3) receptors expressed separately or together in COS-7 cells. In D(2L) receptor-expressing cells co-transfected with (D(3) receptor-insensitive) chimeric adenylate cyclase-V/VI, drugs reduced forskolin-stimulated cAMP production by approximately 20% versus quinpirole (48%). Further, quinpirole-induced inhibition was blunted by aripiprazole and S33592, confirming partial agonist properties. In cells co-transfected with equal amounts of D(2L)and D(3) receptors (1 : 1), efficacies of aripiprazole and S33592 were attenuated. Further, in cells co-transfected with D(2L) and an excess of D(3) receptors (1 : 3), aripiprazole and S33592 were completely inactive, and they abolished the actions of quinpirole. Likewise, bifeprunox, NDMC and preclamol lost agonist properties in cells co-transfected with D(2L)and D(3) receptors. Accordingly, at split D(2trunk)/D(3tail) and D(3trunk)/D(2tail) chimeras, agonist actions of quinpirole were blocked by aripiprazole and S33592 that, like bifeprunox, NDMC and preclamol, were inactive alone. Conversely, when a 12 amino acid sequence in the third intracellular loop of D(3) receptors was replaced by the homologous sequence of D(2L) receptors, aripiprazole, S33592, bifeprunox, NDMC and preclamol inhibited cAMP formation by approximately 20% versus quinpirole (42%). Moreover, at D(2L) receptor-expressing cells co-transfected with modified D(3i3(D2)) receptors, drugs behaved as partial agonists. To summarize, low efficacy agonist actions of aripiprazole, S33592, bifeprunox, NDMC and preclamol at D(2L) receptors are abrogated upon co-expression of D(3) receptors, probably due to physical association and weakened coupling efficacy. These findings have implications for the functional profiles of antipsychotics.
The presence of a collagenous protein (ColQ) characterizes the collagen-tailed forms of acetylcholinesterase at vertebrate neuromuscular junctions (nmjs). Two ColQ transcripts as ColQ-1 and ColQ-1a, driven by two promoters: pColQ-1 and pColQ-1a, were found in mammalian slow- and fast-twitch muscles, respectively, which have distinct expression pattern in different muscle fibers. In this study, we show the differential expression of CoQ in different muscles is triggered by calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a known motor neuron-derived factor. Application of CGRP, or dibutyryl-cAMP (Bt(2)-cAMP), in cultured myotubes induced the expression of ColQ-1a transcript and promoter activity; however, the expression of ColQ-1 transcript did not respond to CGRP or Bt(2)-cAMP. The CGRP-induced gene activation was blocked by an adenylyl cyclase inhibitor or a dominant negative mutant of cAMP-responsive element (CRE) binding protein (CREB). Two CRE sites were mapped within the ColQ-1a promoter, and mutations of the CRE sites abolished the response of CGRP or Bt(2)-cAMP. In parallel, CGRP receptor complex was dominantly expressed at the nmjs of fast muscle but not of slow muscle. These results suggested that the expression of ColQ-1a at the nmjs of fast-twitch muscle was governed by a CGRP-mediated cAMP signaling mechanism.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) play key roles in the development of inflammation-induced hyperalgesia by triggering the expression of pro-nociceptive genes within primary afferent and spinal neurons. However, the mechanisms by which neurotrophins elicit gene expression remain largely unknown. Recently, neurotrophins have been shown to activate members of the calcineurin (CaN)-regulated, nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NFATc) family of transcription factors within brain. Thus, we hypothesized that NFATc transcription factors couple neurotrophin signaling to gene expression within primary afferent and spinal neurons. In situ hybridization revealed NFATc4 mRNA within the dorsal root ganglion and spinal cord. In cultured dorsal root ganglion cells, NGF triggered NFAT-dependent transcription in a CaN-sensitive manner. Further, increased BDNF expression following NGF treatment relied on CaN, thereby suggesting that NGF regulates BDNF transcription via activation of NFATc4. Within cultured spinal cells, BDNF also activated CaN-dependent, NFAT-regulated gene expression. Interestingly, BDNF stimulation increased the expression of the pro-nociceptive genes cyclooxygenase-2, neurokinin-1 receptor, inositol trisphosphates receptor type 1, and BDNF itself, through both NFAT-dependent and NFAT-independent transcriptional mechanisms. Our results suggest that regulation of pro-nociceptive genes through activation of NFAT-dependent transcription is one mechanism by which NGF and BDNF signaling contributes to the development of persistent pain states.
The major cellular antioxidant, glutathione, is mostly localized in the cytosol but a small portion is found in mitochondria. We have recently shown that highly selective depletion of mitochondrial glutathione in astrocytes in culture markedly increased cell death induced by the peroxynitrite donor, 3-morpholino-syndnonimine. The present study was aimed at characterizing the increase in susceptibility arising from mitochondrial glutathione loss and testing the possibility that elevating this metabolite pool above normal values could be protective. The increased vulnerability of astrocytes with depleted mitochondrial glutathione to Sin-1 was confirmed. Furthermore, these cells showed marked increases in sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide and also to high concentrations of the nitric oxide donor, S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine. The increase in cell death was mostly due to necrosis as indicated by substantially increased release of lactate dehydrogenase and staining of nuclei with propidium iodide but little change in annexin V staining and caspase 3 activation. The enhanced cell loss was blocked by prior restoration of the mitochondrial glutathione content. It was also essentially fully inhibited by treatment with cyclosporin A, consistent with a role for the mitochondrial permeability transition in the development of cell death. Susceptibility to the classical apoptosis inducer, staurosporine, was only affected to a small extent in contrast to the response to the other substances tested. Incubation of normal astrocytes with glutathione monoethylester produced large and long-lasting increases in mitochondrial glutathione content with much smaller effects on the cytosolic glutathione pool. This treatment reduced cell death on exposure to 3-morpholino-syndnonimine or hydrogen peroxide but not S-nitroso-N-acetyl-pencillamine or staurosporine. These findings provide evidence for an important role for mitochondrial glutathione in preserving cell viability during periods of oxidative or nitrative stress and indicate that increases in this glutathione pool can confer protection against some of these stressors.
Mutations in Parkin, an E3 ligase, which participates in the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), cause juvenile onset Parkinson's disease (PD). Some mutants aggregate upon over-expression, but the effects of such aggregation on the UPS and neuronal survival have not been characterized. We show in this study that transient over-expression of wild type (WT) Parkin or various mutants in human neuroblastoma cells leads to localized accumulation of green fluorescent protein (GFP(u)), an artificial proteasomal substrate, indicative of UPS dysfunction. Parkin mutants, but not WT, aggregated, and GFP(u) and ubiquitin accumulated within such aggregates. Apoptotic death occurred only with mutant Parkin over-expression, and correlated with aggregation, but not GFP(u) accumulation. Enzymatic proteasomal activity was slightly increased with WT Parkin and decreased with mutant Parkin over-expression. This decrease was, at least in part, due to caspase activation. We conclude that mutant forms of Parkin can exert toxic effects on neuronal cells, possibly through their propensity to aggregate. Both WT and mutant forms can induce localized UPS dysfunction, likely through different mechanisms. This raises a note of caution regarding forced over-expression of Parkin as a neuroprotective strategy in PD or other neurodegenerative conditions and suggests a possible toxic gain of function for certain mutant forms of Parkin.
We evaluated the effect of haloperidol (HP) and its metabolites on [(3)H](+)-pentazocine binding to sigma(1) receptors in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells and guinea pig brain P(1), P(2) and P(3) subcellular fractions. Three days after a single i.p. injection in guinea pigs of HP (but not of other sigma(1) antagonists or (-)-sulpiride), [(3)H](+)-pentazocine binding to brain membranes was markedly decreased. Recovery of sigma(1) receptor density to steady state after HP-induced inactivation required more than 30 days. HP-metabolite II (reduced HP, 4-(4-chlorophenyl)-alpha-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-hydroxy-1-piperidinebutanol), but not HP-metabolite I (4-(4-chlorophenyl)-4-hydroxypiperidine), irreversibly blocked sigma(1) receptors in guinea pig brain homogenate and P(2) fraction in vitro. We found similar results in SH-SY5Y cells, which suggests that this process may also take place in humans. HP irreversibly inactivated sigma(1) receptors when it was incubated with brain homogenate and SH-SY5Y cells, but not when incubated with P(2) fraction membranes, which suggests that HP is metabolized to inactivate sigma(1) receptors. Menadione, an inhibitor of the ketone reductase activity that leads to the production of HP-metabolite II, completely prevented HP-induced inactivation of sigma(1) receptors in brain homogenates. These results suggest that HP may irreversibly inactivate sigma(1) receptors in guinea pig and human cells, probably after metabolism to reduced HP.
The actions of ethanol on gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors are still highly controversial issues but it appears that some of its pharmacological effects may depend on receptor subunit composition. Prolonged ethanol exposure produces tolerance and dependence and its withdrawal alters GABA(A) receptor subunit gene expression and function. Whereas benzodiazepines are clinically effective in ameliorating ethanol withdrawal symptoms, work in our laboratory showed that benzodiazepines also prevent, in vitro, some of the ethanol withdrawal-induced molecular and functional changes of the GABA(A) receptors. In the present work, we investigated the effects, on such changes, of the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil that can positively modulate alpha(4)-containing receptors. We here report that flumazenil prevented both the ethanol withdrawal-induced up-regulation of the alpha(4)-subunit and the increase in its own modulatory action. In contrast, flumazenil did not inhibit ethanol withdrawal-induced decrease in alpha(1)- and delta-subunit expression as well as the corresponding decrease in the modulatory action on GABA(A) receptor function of both the alpha(1)-selective ligand zaleplon and the delta-containing receptor preferentially acting steroid allopregnanolone. These observations are the first molecular and functional evidence that show a selective inhibition by flumazenil of the up-regulation of alpha(4)-subunit expression elicited by ethanol withdrawal.
The antioxidant enzyme CuZn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) is secreted by many cell lines. However, it is not clear whether SOD1 secretion is only constitutive or can be regulated in an activity-dependent fashion. Using rat pituitary GH(3) cells that express voltage-dependent calcium channels and are subjected to Ca(2+) oscillations, we found that treatment with high K(+)-induced SOD1 release that was significantly higher than the constitutive secretion. Evoked SOD1 release was correlated with depolarization-dependent calcium influx and was virtually abolished by removal of extracellular calcium with EGTA or by pre-incubation of GH(3) cells with Botulinum toxin A that cleaves the SNARE protein SNAP-25. Immunofluorescence experiments performed in GH(3) cells and rat brain synaptosomes showed that K(+)-depolarization induced a marked depletion of intracellular SOD1 immunoreactivity, an effect that was again abolished in the absence of extracellular calcium or after treatment with Botulinum toxin A. Subcellular fractionation analysis showed that SOD1 was present in large dense core vesicles. These data clearly show that, in addition to the constitutive SOD1 secretion, depolarization induces an additional rapid calcium-dependent SOD1 release in GH(3) cells and in rat brain synaptosomes. This likely occurs through exocytosis from SOD1-containing vesicles operated by the SNARE complex.
Previous studies have shown that repeated daily exposure to the same (homotypic) stressor results in habituation of the corticosterone (CORT) response. Others have found that the stress response to a more ethologically relevant stressor, social defeat, does not habituate and, in some cases, sensitisation has been observed. Similar observations have been noted when core temperature is examined. Although habituation and/or sensitisation have been reported during stressor exposure, little is known about the development of an anticipatory fever in response to daily stressor exposure. The aim of the present study was to compare systematically commonly used laboratory stressors (i.e. restraint, cage confinement and social defeat) using a common set of procedures and analyses. Specifically, we examined: (i) the development of an anticipatory fever to repeated (5 days) homotypic stressor exposure; (ii) the adaptation of the fever response during stressor exposure; and (iii) the resolution of the fever response to stressors presented at the same time each day. For comparison, adaptation of the CORT response was also examined to assess the degree to which habituation to repeated stressor exposure may represent a more general response observed across diverse physiological measures. Habituation was observed after restraint and cage confinement, but not observed in either the CORT or hyperthermic responses to repeated social defeat. Furthermore, no anticipatory fever response was observed with repeated exposure to restraint, cage confinement, or social defeat. These data suggest that habituation to repeated stressor exposure may not occur with all homotypic stressor paradigms. In addition, rats do not appear to entrain an anticipatory fever response to a stressor presented at the same time each day, at least not within 5-6 days of repeated exposure.
The epithelial cells of the choroid plexus (CP) are responsible for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) secretion into the ventricles of the brain. The balance between CSF production and drainage, in part, facilitates a normal intracranial pressure. The secretion of Na(+) and anions by the CP creates an osmotic gradient driving water into the ventricles. This is opposite to classical Na(+) transporting tissues, such as the kidney, where Na(+) and water reabsorption is mediated by 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 that protects the mineralocorticoid receptor by abrogating active cortisol to inactive cortisone. In the human ocular ciliary epithelium, Na(+) and water secretion is dependent on a novel mediator of ciliary epithelial Na(+) transport, 11beta-HSD type 1 (11beta-HSD1), that generates intraocular cortisol. In a mechanism analogous to that of the embryologically related ocular ciliary epithelium, we propose that autocrine regulation of intracranial cortisol is dependent on 11beta-HSD1 expression in the CP epithelial cells. By conducting immunolocalisation studies on brains from New Zealand White Albino rabbits, we defined the expression of 11beta-HSD1 in the secretory CP epithelial cells. Enzyme assays performed on intact rabbit CP whole tissue explants confirmed predominant 11beta-HSD1 activity, generating cortisol that was inhibited by glycyrrhetinic acid (an 11beta-HSD inhibitor). Using the real time-polymerase chain reaction, rabbit CP tissue was found to express levels of 11beta-HSD1, glucocorticoid receptor alpha and serum and glucocorticoid-regulated kinase 1 mRNA comparable to that expressed in rabbit ocular ciliary body, thereby highlighting the similarity between these two tissues. Furthermore, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay of rabbit CSF revealed a median cortisol concentration of 1.7 nmol/l (range 1.4-4.3 nmol/l, n = 9). Our data have identified a functional 11beta-HSD1 within the CP, mediating intracranial cortisol bioavailability. Expression of 11beta-HSD1 may be fundamental in the regulation of CSF secretion and the local generation of cortisol may represent a pathophysiological mechanism underlying cortisol-dependent neuroendocrine diseases.
Energy homeostasis is achieved by the integration of peripheral metabolic signals by neural circuits. The organisation and function of neural circuits regulating energy homeostasis has been the subject of intense investigation and has led to the definition of a core circuitry in the hypothalamus that interacts with key regions in the brain stem, which appear to mediate many of the effects of the adipocyte-derived hormone leptin on feeding and energy balance. Recent data on the ontogeny of these pathways indicate that, in rodents, these feeding circuits primarily form during neonatal life and remain structurally and functionally immature until 3 weeks of life. Our understanding of the mechanisms promoting the formation of these critical circuits has been advanced significantly by recent evidence showing that neonatal leptin acts as a neurotrophic factor promoting the development of projections from the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. Together with an expanding literature on the role of nutritional factors to affect health, these discoveries may contribute to our understanding on perinatally acquired predisposition to later disease, such as obesity and diabetes.
To determine whether TNF and TRAIL death receptors (DR), and decoy receptors (DcR), play a role in oligodendrocyte depletion in the lesions of chronic multiple sclerosis (MS), we investigated the presence and functionality of these molecules on oligodendrocytes in MS and non-MS brain tissue and on human oligodendrocytes in vitro. For this, we performed immunocytochemistry, Western blotting, TUNEL and FACS analysis for the presence of DR and apoptosis in sections of fresh frozen CNS tissue from cases of chronic MS, other neurologic diseases and normals, and in fetal human oligodendrocytes in vitro. The results showed that although oligodendrocytes demonstrated both DR and DcR, particularly in vitro, there was no predilection of the phenomenon for MS and apoptosis of oligodendrocytes, common in cultures after ligation with TRAIL, was negligible in CNS tissue in situ. Thus, death of oligodendrocytes by apoptosis was an infrequent event in all human CNS samples examined. We postulate that while oligodendrocyte apoptosis might prevail during the initial stages of MS, from our findings other mechanisms probably account for their loss in the established lesion and decoy receptors may play a protective role in oligodendrocyte survival.
A 38-year-old man developed the Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) associated with untreated end-stage AIDS and CD4+ lymphocyte count of 3 cells/mm(3). The patient had serum high titer anti-sulfatide antibodies and responded well to infusion of immunoglobulin. The data suggest that elevated levels of anti-sulfatide antibodies may play a role in the pathogenesis of GBS in this patient, although a direct neurotropic effect of HIV virus cannot be excluded.
Elevated levels of anti-GM1 antibodies are associated with motor nerve syndromes. Although there is a lot of circumstantial evidence that anti-GM1 antibodies may be causing the disease, their precise role remains unclear. In order to study the role of anti-GM1 antibodies in the pathogenesis of peripheral neuropathy, eight Lewis rats were injected with GM1 ganglioside mixed with keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) and emulsified with Freund's adjuvant and three rats were immunized with GM1 in liposomes. Although IgM class anti-GM1 antibodies were detected in all animals immunized with GM1, none of the animals exhibited overt signs of neuropathy during 6 months after initial immunization. IgG antibody to GM1 was not produced in any of the animals. There was no pathological evidence of nerve damage. These studies suggest that elevated levels of IgM anti-GM1 antibodies by themselves do not cause nerve damage in rats.
Demyelination, a pathological hallmark of multiple sclerosis, may be a necessary but not a sufficient condition for motor dysfunction associated with this disease. We favor a neurodegenerative model of multiple sclerosis and suggest that demyelination creates a permissive environment wherein the denuded axon becomes susceptible to immune-mediated injury. Unfortunately, the cellular effectors responsible for eliciting such axonal injury are currently unknown. Based on previous observations implicating cytotoxic T cells in this injury, we assessed motor function, axon dropout, and axon injury following peptide depletion of the immunodominant CD8+ antiviral T cell response in the IFNgamma receptor-deficient mouse model of acute demyelination. We found that the targeted removal of this population of cytotoxic effector cells prior to infection with the Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus caused a substantial preservation of motor function at 45 days postinfection that was associated with preservation of retrograde axonal transport in a subpopulation of surviving axons within the spinal cord. We conclude that cytotoxic T cells may be responsible for the initiation of axon injury following demyelination.

Acquired copper deficiency has recently been recognized as a cause of myeloneuropathy mimicking subacute combined degeneration due to vitamin B-12 deficiency. A remote history of gastric surgery is frequently associated with this syndrome. However, the very limited prevalence of severe copper deficiency in patients with a history of gastric surgery suggests that additional contributing factors are likely to be involved. We describe a patient with copper deficiency and a previous Billroth II partial gastrectomy for gastric carcinoma, presenting with severe myelo-optico-neuropathy, demyelinating lesions of the brain, and subjective hyposmia. An abnormal glucose breath test also revealed small bowel bacterial overgrowth syndrome. Copper replacement therapy associated with antibiotic therapy was effective in preventing further neurological damage and in obtaining mild improvement. We propose that copper status should be evaluated in all patients presenting with unexplained noninflammatory myeloneuropathy. Small bowel bacterial overgrowth syndrome should be investigated as a cause of generalized malabsorption and a possible contributing factor to copper deficiency after gastric surgery, as should occult zinc ingestion.


Dermoid cysts represent a rare group of tumors manifesting predominantly in adulthood. Rupture of these tumors is well described with it being symptomatic more commonly intracranially as compared to central canal rupture of intraspinally located dermoid tumor which not only is uncommon, but also frequently asymptomatic. The authors report an unusual case of asymptomatic conus dermoid in a young male diagnosed when investigated for a symptomatic isolated central canal rupture. Fatty contents within the central canal may be a harbinger of an underlying dermoid tumor and a whole spine MRI should be performed in such cases to rule out this bizarre presentation.
Cortical involvement in multiple sclerosis (MS) is emerging as an important determinant of disease progression. The mechanisms responsible for MS cortical pathology are not fully characterized. The objective of this study was to assess the role of excitotoxicity in MS cortex, evaluating excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT) expression and its relationship with demyelination, inflammation, gliosis, and neuronal and synaptic pathology. EAATs are essential in maintaining low extracellular glutamate concentrations and preventing excitotoxicity. Ten MS brains (3 relapsing-remitting MS cases and 7 secondary progressive MS cases) were evaluated by immunohistochemistry for myelin basic protein, CD68, HLA-DR, EAAT1, EAAT2, glial fibrillary acidic protein, phosphorylated c-Jun N-terminal kinase (pJNK), synaptophysin, and neurofilaments. Cortical lesions were frequently observed in MS brains in variable numbers and extensions. In cortical lesions, activated microglia infiltration correlated with focal loss of EAAT1, EAAT2, and synaptophysin immunostaining, and with neuronal immunostaining for pJNK, a protein involved in response to excitotoxic injury. No reduction of EAATs or synaptophysin immunostaining was observed in demyelinated cortex in the absence of activated microglia. Alterations of the mechanisms of glutamate reuptake are found in cortical MS lesions in the presence of activated microglia and are associated with signs of neuronal and synaptic damage suggestive of excitotoxicity. Excitotoxicity may be involved in the pathogenesis of demyelination and of neuronal and synaptic damage in MS cortex.
When a human or animal reaches out to grasp an object, the brain rapidly computes a pattern of muscular contractions that can acquire the target. This computation involves a reference frame transformation because the target's position is initially available only in a visual reference frame, yet the required control signal is a set of commands to the musculature. One of the core brain areas involved in visually guided reaching is the dorsal aspect of the premotor cortex (PMd). Using chronically implanted electrode arrays in two Rhesus monkeys, we studied the contributions of PMd to the reference frame transformation for reaching. PMd neurons are influenced by the locations of reach targets relative to both the arm and the eyes. Some neurons encode reach goals using limb-centered reference frames, whereas others employ eye-centered reference fames. Some cells encode reach goals in a reference frame best described by the combined position of the eyes and hand. In addition to neurons like these where a reference frame could be identified, PMd also contains cells that are influenced by both the eye- and limb-centered locations of reach goals but for which a distinct reference frame could not be determined. We propose two interpretations for these neurons. First, they may encode reach goals using a reference frame we did not investigate, such as intrinsic reference frames. Second, they may not be adequately characterized by any reference frame.
Altered hippocampal synaptic plasticity may underlie age-related memory impairment. In acute hippocampal slices from aged (22-24 mo) and young adult (1-12 mo) male Brown Norway rats, extracellular excitatory postsynaptic field potentials were recorded in CA1 stratum radiatum evoked by Schaffer collateral stimulation. We used enhanced Ca(2+) to Mg(2+) ratio and paired-pulse stimulation protocol to induce maximum changes in the synaptic plasticity. Six episodes of theta-burst stimulation (TBS) or nine episodes of paired low-frequency stimulation (pLFS) were used to generate asymptotic long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), respectively. In addition, long-term depotentiation (LTdeP) or de-depression (LTdeD) from maximal LTP and LTD were examined using two episodes of pLFS or TBS. Multiple episodes of TBS or pLFS produced significant LTP or LTD in aged and young adult rats; this was not different between age groups. Moreover, there was no significant difference in the amount of LTdeP or LTdeD between aged and young adult rats. Our results show no age differences in the asymptotic magnitude of LTP or LTD, rate of synaptic modifications, development rates, reversal, or decay after postconditioning. Thus impairment of the basic synaptic mechanisms responsible for expression of these forms of plasticity is not likely to account for decline in memory function within this age range.
When an object is lifted vertically, the normal force increases and decreases in tandem with tangential (load) force to safely avoid slips. For horizontal object transport, horizontal forces at the contact surfaces can be decomposed into manipulation forces (producing acceleration/deceleration) and grasping forces. Although the grasping forces must satisfy equilibrium constraints, it is not clear what determines their modulation across time, nor the extent to which they result from active muscle contraction or mechanical interactions of the digits with the moving object. Grasping force was found to increase in an experimental condition where the center of mass was below the contact plane, compared with when it was in the contact plane. This increase may be aimed at stabilizing object orientation during translation. In another experimental condition, more complex moments were introduced by allowing the low center of mass to swing around a pivot point. Electromyographic (EMG) activity recorded from several intrinsic and extrinsic hand muscles failed to reveal active feedback regulation of contact force in this situation. Instead, in all experimental conditions, EMG data revealed a strategy of feedforward stiffness modulation. Multiple regression analysis revealed that muscle activity at remote digits (e.g., the index and ring fingers) was highly correlated with the contact force measured at another digit (e.g., the thumb). The data suggest that to maintain grasp stability during horizontal translation, predictable as well as somewhat unpredictable inertial forces are compensated for by controlling the stiffness of the hand through cocontraction and modulation of hand muscle activity.
At the synapse, SNAP-25, along with syntaxin/HPC-1 and synaptobrevin/VAMP, forms SNARE N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor [soluble (NSF) attachment protein receptor] complexes that are thought to catalyze membrane fusion. Results from neuronal cultures of synaptobrevin-2 knockout (KO) mice showed that loss of synaptobrevin has a more severe effect on calcium-evoked release than on spontaneous release or on release evoked by hypertonicity. In this study, we recorded neurotransmitter release from neuronal cultures of SNAP-25 KO mice to determine whether they share this property. In neurons lacking SNAP-25, as those deficient in synaptobrevin-2, we found that approximately 10-12% of calcium-independent excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter release persisted. However, in contrast to synaptobrevin-2 knockouts, this remaining readily releasable pool in SNAP-25-deficient synapses was virtually insensitive to calcium-dependent-evoked stimulation. Although field stimulation reliably evoked neurotransmitter release in synaptobrevin-2 KO neurons, responses were rare in neurons lacking SNAP-25, and unlike synaptobrevin-2-deficient synapses, SNAP-25-deficient synapses did not exhibit facilitation of release during high-frequency stimulation. This severe loss of evoked exocytosis was matched by a reduction, but not a complete loss, of endocytosis during evoked stimulation. Moreover, synaptic vesicle turnover probed by FM-dye uptake and release during hypertonic stimulation was relatively unaffected by the absence of SNAP-25. This last difference indicates that in contrast to synaptobrevin, SNAP-25 does not directly function in endocytosis. Together, these results suggest that SNAP-25 has a more significant role in calcium-secretion coupling than synaptobrevin-2.
Changes in the strength of corticospinal projections to muscles in the upper and lower limbs are induced in conscious humans after paired associative stimulation (PAS) to the motor cortex. We tested whether an intervention of PAS consisting of 90 low-frequency (0.1-Hz) stimuli to the common peroneal nerve combined with suprathreshold transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) produces specific changes to the motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) in lower leg muscles if the afferent volley from peripheral stimulation is timed to arrive at the motor cortex after TMS-induced firing of corticospinal neurons. Unlike PAS in the hand, MEP facilitation in the leg was produced when sensory inputs were estimated to arrive at the motor cortex over a range of 15 to 90 ms after cortical stimulation. We examined whether this broad range of facilitation occurred as a result of prolonged subthreshold excitability of the motor cortex after a single pulse of suprathreshold TMS so that coincident excitation from sensory inputs arriving many milliseconds after TMS can occur. We found that significant facilitation of MEP responses (&gt;200%) occurred when the motor cortex was conditioned with suprathreshold TMS tens of milliseconds earlier. Likewise, it was possible to induce strong MEP facilitation (85% at 60 min) when afferent inputs were directly paired with subthreshold TMS. We argue that in the leg motor cortex, facilitation of MEP responses from PAS occurred over a large range of interstimulus intervals as a result of the paired activation of sensory inputs with sustained, subthreshold activity of cortical neurons that follow a pulse of suprathreshold TMS.
The anterolateral group of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST(ALG)) plays a critical role in a diverse array of behaviors, although little is known of the physiological properties of neurons in this region. Using whole cell patch-clamp recordings from rat BNST(ALG) slices in vitro, we describe three distinct physiological cell types. Type I neurons were characterized by the presence of a depolarizing sag in response to hyperpolarizing current injection that resembled activation of the hyperpolarization-activated cation current I(h) and a regular firing pattern in response to depolarizing current injection. Type II neurons exhibited the same depolarizing sag in response to hyperpolarizing current injection, but burst-fired in response to depolarizing current injection, which was indicative of the activation of the low-threshold calcium current I(T). Type III neurons did not exhibit a depolarizing sag in response to hyperpolarizing current injection, but instead exhibited a fast time-independent rectification that became more pronounced with increased amplitude of hyperpolarizing current injection, and was indicative of activation of the inwardly rectifying potassium current I(K(IR)). Type III neurons also exhibited a regular firing pattern in response to depolarizing current. Using voltage-clamp analysis we further characterized the primary active currents that shaped the physiological properties of these distinct cell types, including I(h), I(T), I(K(IR)), the voltage-dependent potassium current I(A), and the persistent sodium current I(NaP). The functional relevance of each cell type is discussed in relation to prior anatomical studies, as well as how these currents may interact to modulate neuronal activity within the BNST(ALG).
Many neurophysiological experiments involving monkeys require that the head be stabilized while the animal performs a task. Often a post is attached to the skull to accomplish this goal, using a headcap formed from dental acrylic. We describe a new headpost, developed by refinement of several prototypes, and supply an AutoCAD file to aid in machine shop production. This headpost is fabricated from a single piece of commercially pure titanium. It has a footplate consisting of four limbs arranged in the configuration of a &quot;K.&quot; These are bent during surgery to match the curvature of the skull and attached with specialized titanium bone screws. Headposts were implanted in seven rhesus monkeys ranging in age from 2 yr to adult. None has been rejected after up to 17 mo of regular use. They require little or no daily toilette and create only a 0.80-cm(2) defect in the scalp. Computed tomography after implantation showed that the skull undergoes remodeling to embed the footplate in bone. This finding was confirmed by necropsy in two subjects. The outer table of the skull had grown over the titanium footplate, whereas the inner table had thickened to bury the tips of the titanium screws. The remarkable strength of the skull/implant bond was demonstrated by applying increasing amounts of torque to the headpost. At 26.3 Nm, the headpost tore from its metal footplate, but no screws came loose. The excellent performance of this implant is explained by integration of biocompatible titanium into remodeled bone tissue. The headpost is simpler to implant, more securely anchored, easier to maintain, and less obtrusive than devices attached with acrylic.
Spatial orientation behavior is universal among animals, but its neuronal basis is poorly understood. The main objective of the present study was to identify candidate patterns of neuronal connectivity (motifs) for two widely recognized classes of spatial orientation behaviors: hill climbing, in which the organism seeks the highest point in a spatial gradient, and goal seeking, in which the organism seeks an intermediate point in the gradient. Focusing on simple networks of graded processing neurons characteristic of Caenorhabditis elegans and other nematodes, we used an unbiased optimization algorithm to seek values of neuronal time constants, resting potentials, and synaptic strengths sufficient for each type of behavior. We found many different hill-climbing and goal-seeking networks that performed equally well in the two tasks. Surprisingly, however, each hill-climbing network represented one of just three fundamental circuit motifs, and each goal-seeking network comprised two of these motifs acting in concert. These motifs are likely to inform the search for the real circuits that underlie these behaviors in nematodes and other organisms.
The interspike interval (ISI) preceding a retinal spike has a strong influence on whether retinal spikes will drive postsynaptic responses in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). This ISI-based filtering of retinal spikes could, in principle, be used as a mechanism for processing visual information en route from retina to cortex; however, this form of processing has not been previously explored. Using a white noise stimulus and reverse correlation analysis, we compared the receptive fields associated with retinal spikes over a range of ISIs (0-120 ms). Results showed that, although the location and sign of retinal ganglion cell receptive fields are invariant to ISI, the size and amplitude of receptive fields vary with ISI. These results support the notion that ISI-based filtering of retinal spikes can serve as a mechanism for shaping receptive fields.
Do light intensity and behavioral state regulate synaptic plasticity in the visual cortex? We have shown previously that synaptic transmission in the visual cortex oscillates between elevated and depressed levels in accordance with the diurnal light-dark cycle. In this study, we examined the role of intrinsic, light-independent, and visual activity-driven sensory information on the field response during diurnal fluctuations, and examined the plasticity properties of the visual cortex under both conditions. Recordings were obtained from layer 2/3 of the primary visual cortex, of adult freely moving Long Evans rats, after stimulation of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. We observed that visual experience during different states of vigilance leads to increased responsiveness, and plastic changes, in the strength of connections among neurons, consistent with a naturalistic shift in the induction thresholds for synaptic plasticity. We identified this phenomenon as BDNF-dependent. We also found that gamma oscillatory activity, which increases during active visual exploration, is tightly associated with suppression of cortical field potentials, suggesting that coincident changes in synaptic responsiveness and gamma oscillatory levels may reflect mechanisms for optimal stimulus-feature encoding. Translating into an increased signal-to-noise ratio, field depression could thus alter the efficacy of cortical visual processing. These data indicate that the adult visual cortex serves as a synaptic network, where the ability to process visual stimuli is dynamically modified by active visual exploration and arousal states.
Experimental evidence derived from in vitro studies suggests that synaptic plasticity may be involved in information processing in the adult sensory cortex. Here, we demonstrate, for the first time, that synaptic plasticity that endures for &gt;24 h can be elicited in the visual cortex of freely moving adult rats. Both long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) were evoked in layer 2/3 of the primary visual cortex after stimulation of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. We found that synaptic plasticity within visual cortex synapses is not a static phenomenon, where a particular pattern of stimulation invariably evokes the same form of synaptic plasticity but rather fluctuates in association with diurnal luminance levels. Whereas acute (12 h) dark exposure drives intrinsic synaptic transmission to basal levels, light exposure (12 h) leads to synaptic potentiation. Furthermore, low-frequency stimulation at 3 Hz generates LTD in light-exposed animals, and LTP in dark-exposed animals, in close correlation with the time course of natural slow wave oscillations. Our data demonstrate that the adult visual cortex is in a perpetually dynamic state, where the direction of plasticity changes depends on the immediate visual experience.
The way a dendrite is patterned determines how a neuron will receive information. The Rho GTPases have been reported to play increasingly well defined roles in determining dendritic branch and spine development and morphology. Much is known about how these small GTPases regulate the actin cytoskeleton; however, very little is known about how they alter the microtubule cytoskeleton. Our laboratory previously cloned and characterized cypin, a guanine deaminase that increases dendrite number by binding to tubulin heterodimers and promoting microtubule assembly. In the present study, we show that cypin and RhoA are part of a common pathway that regulates dendrite number. Inhibition of Rho kinase activity does not affect cypin-mediated dendrite branching. Furthermore, cypin does not affect the activity of RhoA, as measured by GTP binding to RhoA. In fact, activated RhoA acts to inhibit cypin protein expression and, by doing so, decreases dendrite number. In addition, this decrease in cypin protein occurs via a translation-dependent mechanism. Together, our data suggest that cypin acts downstream of the small GTPase RhoA to regulate dendrite branching in hippocampal neurons, providing a novel mechanism for RhoA action on microtubule dynamics.
Deficits in cognitive function are associated with neuroinflammatory changes, typified by activation of glial cells and an alteration of the pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine balance in the brain. Although there is evidence to suggest that activation of microglia is regulated by interaction with other cell types in the brain, the mechanism(s) involved is poorly understood. Here, we provide evidence that interaction between CD200 and its receptor plays a role in modulating microglial activation under conditions of chronic and acute inflammation of the brain. We report that interleukin-4 (IL-4) plays a central role in modulating expression of CD200 and identify a mechanism by which IL-4 directly controls microglial cell activation. Our findings provide the first demonstration of a role for IL-4 in modulating CD200 expression and suggest a mechanism for regulation of microglial activation in the intact CNS under inflammatory conditions.
One of the major challenges faced by the developing visual system is how to stably process visual information, yet at the same time remain flexible enough to accommodate growth and plasticity induced by visual experience. We find that in the Xenopus retinotectal circuit, during a period in development when the retinotectal map undergoes activity-dependent refinement and visual inputs strengthen, tectal neurons adapt their intrinsic excitability such that a stable relationship between the total level of synaptic input and tectal neuron spike output is conserved. This homeostatic balance between synaptic and intrinsic properties is maintained, in part, via regulation of voltage-gated Na+ currents, resulting in a stable neuronal input-output function. We experimentally manipulated intrinsic excitability or synapse strengthening in developing tectal neurons in vivo by electroporation of a leak K+ channel gene or a peptide that interferes with normal AMPA receptor trafficking. Both manipulations resulted in a compensatory increase in voltage-gated Na+ currents. This suggests that intrinsic neuronal properties are actively regulated as a function of the total level of neuronal activity experienced during development. We conclude that the coordinated changes between synaptic and intrinsic properties allow developing optic tectal neurons to remain within a stable dynamic range, even as the pattern and strength of visual inputs changes over development, suggesting that homeostatic regulation of intrinsic properties plays a central role in the functional development of neural circuits.
A failure of mitochondrial bioenergetics has been shown to be closely associated with the onset of apoptotic and necrotic neuronal injury. Here, we developed an automated computational model that interprets the single-cell fluorescence for tetramethylrhodamine methyl ester (TMRM) as a consequence of changes in either delta psi(m) or delta psi(p), thus allowing for the characterization of responses for populations of single cells and subsequent statistical analysis. Necrotic injury triggered by prolonged glutamate excitation resulted in a rapid monophasic or biphasic loss of delta psi(m) that was closely associated with a loss of delta psi(p) and a rapid decrease in neuronal NADPH and ATP levels. Delayed apoptotic injury, induced by transient glutamate excitation, resulted in a small, reversible decrease in TMRM fluorescence, followed by a sustained hyperpolarization of delta psi(m) as confirmed using the delta psi(p)-sensitive anionic probe DiBAC2(3). This hyperpolarization of delta psi(m) was closely associated with a significant increase in neuronal glucose uptake, NADPH availability, and ATP levels. Statistical analysis of the changes in delta psi(m) or delta psi(p) at a single-cell level revealed two major correlations; those neurons displaying a more pronounced depolarization of delta psi(p) during the initial phase of glutamate excitation entered apoptosis more rapidly, and neurons that displayed a more pronounced hyperpolarization of delta psi(m) after glutamate excitation survived longer. Indeed, those neurons that were tolerant to transient glutamate excitation (18%) showed the most significant increases in delta psi(m). Our results indicate that a hyperpolarization of delta psi(m) is associated with increased glucose uptake, NADPH availability, and survival responses during excitotoxic injury.
The dentate gyrus (DG) undergoes continued reorganization and lamination during early postnatal development. Interneurons with anatomically identified synaptic contacts migrate from the outer to the inner regions of the molecular layer (ML) of the DG. By using the 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNP)-enhanced green fluorescent protein transgenic mouse, we were able to target and physiologically characterize Dlx2(+) developing ML interneurons. We investigated whether synapses on migrating ML interneurons were functional and defined properties of synaptic inputs onto interneurons that were located in the outer ML (OML) or inner ML (IML). Consistent with ongoing maturation, IML interneurons displayed lower input resistances and more hyperpolarized resting membrane potentials than OML interneurons. Both OML and IML interneurons received a direct excitatory monosynaptic input from the entorhinal cortex via the perforant paths, but this input was differentially sensitive to activation of presynaptic group II and III metabotropic glutamate receptors. Furthermore, only IML interneurons also received significant synaptic input from the CA3/hilar region, especially under conditions of experimentally induced disinhibition. These changes are attributed to a significant reorganization of dendritic fields. GABA(A) receptor-mediated innervation of OML and IML interneurons also displayed significant differences in miniature IPSC amplitude, frequency, and decay kinetics. Finally, cell-attached recordings indicated that GABA(A) receptor activation was depolarizing in OML interneurons but predominantly shunting in IML interneurons. Our data provide evidence that developing ML interneurons receive functional glutamatergic and GABAergic inputs and undergo significant changes in synaptic integration during migration from the OML to the IML.
The study of decision making poses new methodological challenges for systems neuroscience. Whereas our traditional approach linked neural activity to external variables that the experimenter directly observed and manipulated, many of the key elements that contribute to decisions are internal to the decider. Variables such as subjective value or subjective probability may be influenced by experimental conditions and manipulations but can neither be directly measured nor precisely controlled. Pioneering work on the neural basis of decision circumvented this difficulty by studying behavior in static conditions, in which knowledge of the average state of these quantities was sufficient. More recently, a new wave of studies has confronted the conundrum of internal decision variables more directly by leveraging quantitative behavioral models. When these behavioral models are successful in predicting a subject's choice, the model's internal variables may serve as proxies for the unobservable decision variables that actually drive behavior. This new methodology has allowed researchers to localize neural subsystems that encode hidden decision variables related to free choice and to study these variables under dynamic conditions.
Primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphomas are an uncommon form of brain neoplasm that should be considered in the immunocompromised patient with neurological changes. It can be difficult to distinguish primary CNS lymphoma from stroke on initial radiographic images. Neuroscience nurses who are involved in the care of these patients should be prepared to assist the patient and family in coping with an evolving diagnosis and in explaining the related diagnostic procedures, treatment options, and eventual discharge plan.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) is a monophasic, demyelinating disease of the central nervous systemthat predominately affects prepubertal children. It is typically characterized by an abrupt onset of neurologic symptoms preceded by an infection or recent immunization. ADEM is a diagnosis of exclusion in many cases, though the differential diagnosis is extensive. An adult female diagnosed with ADEMrepresents an atypical presentation; she was subsequently treated successfully with high-dose steroids. Nursing considerations for patients with ADEM include teaching patients and families about the disease, its clinical course, treatment, and prognosis.
Involuntary crying or laughing are symptoms of a condition known as involuntary emotional expression disorder (IEED). This disorder is common among patients with stroke and other neurological disorders, such as multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and traumatic brain injury. Despite its prevalence, this condition is underrecognized and consequently undertreated in neurological settings. IEED can become disabling for patients who are not accurately diagnosed and treated. Differential diagnosis depends on recognition of the condition as an affective disorder and on its delineation from unipolar depression and other major psychiatric disorders. Clinical evaluation is essential for effective nursing care of this disorder. When the condition is found to be present, effective management must include education, pharmacological treatment, and teaching of self-care strategies. As patient advocates, neuroscience nurses are in a unique position to identify and assess such patients and to effectively guide patients and families in the management of this condition.
Fever is frequently encountered by neuroscience nurses in patients with neurological insults and often results in worsened patient outcomes when compared with similar patients who do not have fever. Best practices in fever management are then essential to optimizing patient outcomes. Yet the topic of best nursing practices for fever management is largely ignored in the clinical and research literature, which can complicate the achievement of best practices. A national survey to gauge fever management practices and decision making by neuroscience nurses was administered to members of the American Association of Neuroscience Nurses. Results of the questionnaire portion of the survey were previously published. This report presents a content analysis of the responses of neuroscience nurses to the open-ended-question portion of the survey (n = 106), which revealed a dichotomous primary focus on nursing- or patient-related issues. In addition, respondents described barriers and issues in the provision of fever-management care to neuroscience patients. In order to advance national best practices for fever management in neurologically vulnerable patients, further work needs to be conducted, particularly with regard to necessary continuing education for staff, facilitation of interdisciplinary communication, and development of patient care protocols. Neuroscience nurses are in an excellent position to provide leadership in these areas.
Gliomas are the most common primary brain tumors and offer a poor prognosis in patients because of their infiltrative and treatment-resistant nature. The median survival time after diagnosis is approximately 11-12 months. There is a strong need for novel treatment modalities in targeting gliomas, and recent advances use neural progenitor cells as delivery systems for different therapeutic strategies. In this study, we show that rat embryonic neural progenitor cell (NPC) lines, transplanted at a distant site from a 3-day-preestablished glioma in the striatum, were able to migrate toward and colocalize with tumor isles without general spread into the brain parenchyma. Upon encounter with tumor, neural progenitor cells changed phenotype and became vimentin positive. These results demonstrate that transplanted neural progenitor cells respond to queues from a tumor and home to and exert an antitumor effect on the preestablished glioma, significantly decreasing the tumor volume with approximately 67% compared with control tumors after 1-2 weeks. Moreover, these early effects could be translated into increased survival times of animals treated with neural progenitor cell grafts 3 days after intrastriatal tumor inoculation. In contrast, there was no activation or migration of endogenous subventricular zone (SVZ) neuroblasts in response to an intrastriatal syngeneic tumor. In conclusion, NPC possess the ability to influence tumor growth as well as respond to queues from the tumor or tumor microenvironment, demonstrating a cross-talk between the cells.
The mechanisms by which neural and glial progenitor cells in the adult brain respond to tissue injury are unknown. We studied the responses of these cells to stab wound injury in rats and in two transgenic mouse models in which Y/GFP is driven either by Sox2 (a neural stem cell marker) or by Talpha-1 (which marks newly born neurons). The response of neural progenitors was low in all nonneurogenic regions, and no neurogenesis occurred at the injury site. Glial progenitors expressing Olig2 and NG2 showed the greatest response. The appearance of these progenitors preceded the appearance of reactive astrocytes. Surprisingly, we found evidence of the translocation of the transcription factor Olig2 into cytoplasm in the first week after injury, a mechanism that is known to mediate the differentiation of astrocytes during brain development. Translocation of Olig2, down-regulation of NG2, and increased glial fibrillary acidic protein expression were recapitulated in vitro after exposure of glial progenitors to serum components or bone morphogentic protein by up-regulation of Notch-1. The glial differentiation and Olig2 translocation could be blocked by inhibition of Notch-1 with the gamma-secretase inhibitor DAPT. Together, these data indicate that the prompt maturation of numerous Olig2(+) glial progenitors to astrocytes underlies the repair process after a traumatic injury. In contrast, neural stem cells and neuronal progenitor cells appear to play only a minor role in the injured adult CNS.
Amyloid beta protein (Abeta)-related death-inducing protein (AB-DIP) is a novel Abeta binding protein expressed ubiquitously. Here we demonstrate that overexpression of AB-DIP in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells causes G2/M arrest. By deletion mutant analysis, we have identified the minimal region within AB-DIP required for G2/M arrest. We have also shown that microtubule-interfering agents (MIAs) such as nocodazole, vinblastine, paclitaxel, and vincristine, known to arrest cells at G2/M, also phosphorylate AB-DIP. However, etoposide, which causes genotoxic stress; tunicamycin, an ER stress inducer; and rotenone, which causes mitochondrial damage, fail to phosphorylate AB-DIP, implying that phosphorylation of AB-DIP is specific to microtubule-disruption-induced G2/M arrest. By using different classes of kinase inhibitors, we also demonstrate that a putative tyrosine kinase phosphorylates AB-DIP. Mono- or multisite mutations of tyrosine or serine/threonine residues confirmed that mutation of tyrosine residues but not serine/threonine residues greatly reduces nocodazole-induced phosphorylation of AB-DIP. Furthermore, phosphorylation of AB-DIP can be induced in MCF-7 cells that lack functional p53, suggesting that AB-DIP phosphorylation is independent of p53. Mounting experimental evidence continues to support the role of cell cycle abnormalities in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and our results suggest that AB-DIP might provide a mechanistic link between microtubule disruption, mitotic abnormalities, neuronal dysfunction, and death. Therefore, interfering with AB-DIP may have therapeutic applications in conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, in which microtubule disruption and mitotic abnormalities have been suggested to play a pathological role.
We have previously demonstrated that glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP; gastric inhibitory polypeptide) is present in the adult rat hippocampus. This finding leads to the conclusion that all members of the secretin-glucagon family of gastrointestinal regulatory polypeptides can be found in the brain. To investigate the localization of GIP-producing cells, we used immunohistochemistry on sections of the adult rat brain. High levels of GIP immunoreactivity were observed in the olfactory bulb, hippocampus, and Purkinje cells in the cerebellum. Moreover, a moderate but distinct GIP immunoreactivity was observed in the cerebral cortex, amygdala, substantia nigra, and lateral septal nucleus as well as in several nuclei in the thalamus, hypothalamus, and brainstem. GIP immunoreactivity was frequently found to colocalize with the neuronal marker NeuN but never with the glial marker glial fibrillary acidic protein. Thus, GIP appears to be mainly neuronal to its distribution. This widespread distribution of GIP-immunoreactive cells suggests the involvement of GIP in various neuronal functions and suggests that GIP may act as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator. This is the first characterization of the anatomical distribution of GIP-immunoreactive cells in the rat brain providing an anatomical framework for future investigations regarding the functions of GIP in the central nervous system.
Oligodendrocytes (OLs), the myelinating cells of the central nervous system, have specialized morphologies that subserve their function. Numerous qualitative studies suggest that OLs in different brain regions can differ in their morphological characteristics, including number of branches and internodes, internode length, etc. However, progress in identifying and characterizing the diverse types of OLs and their distribution in the brain has been made difficult by several technical constraints. Here we report a new strategy to analyze OL morphology with a high degree of quantitative power and throughput. We used confocal microscopy and three-dimensional cell tracing software to study OLs in the frontal cortex of mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) under the control of the proteolipid protein (Plp) gene promoter. Three-dimensional reconstructions were then used to analyze and quantify cell morphology, including total process length, total process surface area, total internode length, number of primary processes, number of branch points, and number of internodes. In addition, these reconstructions were subjected to Sholl analysis, which allows for the quantitative measure of OL arbor complexity. By using this approach, we identified and characterized a previously undescribed population of small OLs with a compact but complex morphology that includes numerous branching processes and a large number of short internodes. Our data suggest that other populations of OLs remain to be identified and characterized and that the tools we have developed could help in the process of characterizing them.




Spinal cord injury (SCI) is associated with the development of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in the lower limbs and, hence, with rapidly increasing risks of cardiovascular and pulmonary complications soon after trauma. However, specific mechanisms underlying DVT formation following SCI are poorly understood. Here, we studied in mice, employing in vivo confocal microscopy, changes in deep vein size over 4 weeks after spinal cord transection (Tx). Changing levels of biochemical markers that may be associated with DVT formation were also examined. The results showed decreased concentrations of cholesterols, triglycerides, and low-density lipoprotein (LDL), but not of high-density lipoproteins (HDL) and platelets. Concentrations of creatinine, bilirubin, glucose, albumin, total protein and uric acid did not significantly change. In turn, the femoral and saphenous veins underwent a large increase (&gt;1.5-fold) in diameter throughout the entire period studied. Overall, this study reveals that a profound change in deep vein size and, an unsuspected decrease in triglyceride and LDL levels, occur as early as at one week post-Tx in mice. This indicates, given the well-documented risk of DVT formation soon after SCI, that deep vein enlargement, but not lipoprotein level changes, may constitute an early event contributing to venous stasis and thrombi formation in paralyzed individuals.
High intracranial pressure (HICP) may be a very early event after traumatic brain injury (TBI), but in most cases, especially when contusions and edema develop over time, HICP will worsen over succeeding days. This study describes the incidence and severity of elevated intracranial pressure (ICP) after TBI and attempts to document its time course. In this prospective study, 201 TBI patients in whom ICP was monitored for more than 12 h were evaluated. ICP was measured, digitalized, and analyzed after manual filtering. The number of episodes of HICP and the mean ICP value for every 12-h interval were calculated. When monitoring was concluded, the highest mean ICP collected in every patient was identified. A total of 21,000 h of ICP monitoring were recorded. Active treatment to prevent or reduce HICP was used in 200 patients. HICP was documented in 155 cases. Half of the patients had their highest mean ICP during the first 3 days after injury, but many showed delayed ICP elevation, with 25% showing highest mean ICP after day 5. In these cases, HICP was significantly worse and required more intense therapies.
Infiltration of T lymphocytes is a key feature in transplant rejection and in several autoimmune disorders, but the role of T lymphocytes in traumatic brain injury (TBI) is largely unknown. Here we studied trafficking of immune cells in the brain after experimental TBI. We found that scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS) at the endothelial level dramatically reduced the infiltration of activated T lymphocytes. Immune cell infiltration was studied 12 h to 7 days after controlled cortical contusion in rats by ex vivo propagation of T lymphocytes (TcR+, CD8+), neutrophils (MPO+), and macrophages/microglia (ED-1+) from biopsies taken from injured cortex and analyzed by flow cytometry, as well as by quantitative immunohistochemistry. T lymphocyte and neutrophil infiltration peaked at 24 h and macrophages/microglia at 7 days post-injury. Pretreatment with 2-sulfophenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (S-PBN) produced a dramatic reduction of TcR+ T lymphocytes and a significantly smaller attenuation of neutrophil infiltration at 24 h post-injury, but did not affect CD8+ T lymphocytes or macrophages/microglia. S-PBN significantly reduced the expression of the endothelial adhesion molecules ICAM-1 and VCAM at 24 h for following TBI. We conclude that ROS inhibition at the endothelial level influenced T lymphocyte and neutrophil infiltration following TBI. We submit that the reduction of T lymphocyte infiltration is a key feature in improving TBI outcome after S-PBN treatment. Our data suggest that targeting T lymphocyte trafficking to the injured brain at the microvascular level is a novel concept of neuroprotection in TBI and warrants further exploration.


This study assessed personality disorder symptomatology in a community sample of healthy adults without diagnosable DSM-IV-TR Axis I psychiatric disorders who reported a history of childhood abuse. Twenty-eight subjects with a history of moderate to severe physical, sexual, and/or emotional abuse according to the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire were compared to 33 subjects without an abuse history on symptoms of personality disorders. Subjects in the Abuse group were more likely to report subclinical symptoms of paranoid, narcissistic, borderline, antisocial, obsessive compulsive, passive-aggressive, and depressive personality disorders. These findings link reports of childhood abuse with symptoms of personality disorders in the absence of Axis I psychiatric disorders in a community sample of healthy adults.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are important targets for drugs of abuse such as ethanol, toluene, and ketamine. Ligand-gated ion channels assembled from the NR1 and NR3 subunits have functional and pharmacological properties that are distinct from those of conventional NMDA receptors containing NR2 subunits. In the present study we used voltage-clamp electrophysiology to characterize excitatory glycine-activated receptors assembled from NR1, NR3A, and NR3B subunits expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells. These glycine-activated receptors were not stimulated by glutamate or kainic acid and were resistant to magnesium block. A wide variety of NMDA receptor antagonists including d-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, ifenprodil, memantine, (5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclo-hepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate (MK-801) or acamprosate did not inhibit glycine-activated NR1/NR3A/NR3B receptors. Likewise, these receptors were not affected by antagonists of inhibitory glycine receptors or glycine transporters. The NMDA receptor glycine site agonist, d-serine, partially activated NR1/NR3A/NR3B receptors, whereas the antagonist, 5,7-dichloro-kynurenic acid, inhibited receptor currents. Conversely, the antagonist, 7-chlorokynurenic acid, and the partial agonist, R-(+)-3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidinone (HA-966), potentiated glycine-stimulated currents of these receptors. NR1/NR3A/NR3B receptor currents were inhibited by 10 to 21% by ethanol and toluene but were relatively insensitive to ketamine. Ethanol inhibition was enhanced in receptors expressing the NR1(L819A) mutant, whereas those containing NR1(F639A) or NR1(M813A) showed no change relative to the wild-type NR1. The results of this study indicate that coexpression of NR1, NR3A, and NR3B subunits in HEK 293 cells results in glycineactivated receptors with novel functional and pharmacological properties.
The extracellular space of the brain contains gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) that activates extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors mediating tonic inhibition. The source of this GABA is uncertain: it could be overspill of vesicular release, non-vesicular leakage, reverse transport, dying cells or glia. Using a novel approach, we simultaneously measured phasic and tonic inhibitory currents and assessed their correlation. Enhancing or diminishing vesicular GABA release in hippocampal neurons caused highly correlated changes in the two inhibitions. During high-frequency phasic inhibitory bursts, tonic current was also enhanced as shown by simulating the summation of IPSCs and by recordings in knockout mice devoid of tonic inhibitory current. When vesicular release was reduced by blocking action potentials or the vesicular GABA transporter, phasic and tonic currents decreased in a correlated fashion. Our results are consistent with most of hippocampal tonic inhibitory current being mediated by GABA released from the very vesicles responsible for activating phasic inhibition.
Early in development, motoneurones are critically dependent on their target muscles for survival and differentiation. Previous studies have shown that neonatal axotomy causes massive motoneurone death and abnormal function in the surviving motoneurones. We have investigated the electrophysiological and morphological properties of motoneurones innervating the flexor tibialis anterior (TA) muscle during the first week after a neonatal axotomy, at a time when the motoneurones would be either in the process of degeneration or attempting to reinnervate their target muscles. We found that a large number ( approximately 75%) of TA motoneurones died within 3 weeks after neonatal axotomy. Intracellular recordings revealed a marked increase in motoneurone excitability, as indicated by changes in passive and active membrane electrical properties. These changes were associated with a shift in the motoneurone firing pattern from a predominantly phasic pattern to a tonic pattern. Morphologically, the dendritic tree of the physiologically characterized axotomized cells was significantly reduced compared with age-matched normal motoneurones. These data demonstrate that motoneurone electrical properties are profoundly altered shortly after neonatal axotomy. In a subpopulation of the axotomized cells, abnormally high motoneurone excitability (input resistance significantly higher compared with control cells) was associated with a severe truncation of the dendritic arbor, suggesting that this excitability may represent an early electrophysiological correlate of motoneurone degeneration.
The present study aimed to expand our previous findings regarding the therapeutic effects and underlying mechanisms of acupuncture at GV01 in colitis. Our results showed that acupuncture at GV01 has antinociceptive effects on referred somatic pain induced by experimental colitis, and that endogenous opioid pathways may mediate these effects.
Following long-term treatment with bicuculline and tetrodotoxin (TTX) aimed at modifying synaptic activity in cultured neurons, we used a proteomic approach to identify the associated changes in protein expression. The neurons were left untreated, or treated with bicuculline or TTX, and fractionated by means of differential detergent extraction, after which the proteins in each fraction were separated by means of two-dimensional (2D) gel electrophoresis, and 57 proteins of interest were identified by mass spectrometry. The proteins that showed altered expression and/or post-translational modifications include proteins or enzymes involved in regulating cell and protein metabolism, the cytoskeleton, or mitochondrial activity. These results suggest that extensive alterations in neuronal protein expression take place as a result of increased or decreased synaptic activity.
Beta3 adrenoceptor agonists show an antidepressant-like profile in preclinical rodent assays and improve mood in clinically-obese patients. These observations suggest a possible antidepressant utility for beta3 adrenoceptor agonists. The present study examined the effects of acute and chronic administration of the beta3 adrenoceptor agonist CL 316243 on two physiological indicators of antidepressant activity in the rat: hypothalamic 5-HT synthesis and suppression of REM sleep. 5-HT synthesis was estimated by the accumulation of 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) after treatment with the L-aromatic acid decarboxylase inhibitor NSD 1015. Sleep-wake patterns were monitored using electroencephalogram and electromyogram signals collected by radiotelemetry. Rats were administered CL 316243 acutely or once daily for 11 days. Acute administration of CL 316243 significantly increased hypothalamic 5-HT synthesis, as indicated by increased levels of 5-HTP, and reduced the amount of REM sleep. However, chronic administration produced no changes in 5-HTP or REM compared with vehicle treatment. The present observations suggest that acute administration of CL 316243 causes antidepressant-like effects on REM sleep, possibly mediated by increased central 5-HT synthesis. However, these effects are not maintained with repeated dosing.
Aripiprazole, (+)terguride, OPC-4392 and (-)3-PPP have been classified as dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonists based largely on their activity in second messenger-based assays of dopamine D(2) receptor signalling. Nevertheless, signal transduction amplification might result in these compounds behaving as dopamine D(2) receptor full agonists at a more downstream level of signalling. We compared the intrinsic activity (E(max), expressed as a percentage of the maximal effect of dopamine) of aripiprazole, (+)terguride, OPC-4392 and (-)3-PPP using second (calcium (Ca(2+)) mobilization) and third (extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2) phosphoprotein expression) messenger readouts of cloned human dopamine D(2long) (hD(2L)) receptor signalling in CHO cells. These compounds were all less potent and displayed lower intrinsic activity in the Ca(2+) assay (aripiprazole = 24.3%, (+)terguride = 56.9%, OPC-4392 = 58.6% and (-)3-PPP = 75.1%), and aripiprazole (E(max) = 54.5%) displayed a substantially lower intrinsic activity than (+)terguride (E(max) = 92.3%), OPC-4392 (E(max) = 93.1%) and (-)3-PPP (E(max) = 101.1%) in the more downstream-based ERK2 phosphoprotein expression assay. These drug effects on Ca(2+) mobilization and ERK2 phosphoprotein expression were mediated through dopamine hD(2L) receptors, as they all were blocked by (-)raclopride, whereas (-)raclopride and other dopamine D(2) receptor antagonists (haloperidol, risperidone, ziprasidone, olanzapine, clozapine and quetiapine) were inactive on their own in both assays. These data are consistent with clinical evidence that only dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonists with a sufficiently low enough intrinsic activity will prove effective against the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, and also highlight the importance of using downstream-based assays in the discovery of novel D(2) receptor partial agonist therapeutics.
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and observational and longitudinal studies provide positive, albeit, inconsistent evidence that estrogen might protect against cognitive decline in postmenopausal women. The fact that the Women's Health Initiative Memory Study (WHIMS), the largest RCT to date, failed to find that estrogen therapy (ET) had a protective effect against cognitive aging led to the formulation of the critical period hypothesis which holds that ET will effectively protect against memory decline when it is initiated around the time of menopause but not when considerable time has elapsed since the menopause. Evidence from basic neuroscience, and from rodent, nonhuman primate, and human studies that supports this theory is presented. Although much work remains to be done on the timing of initiation of treatment, on the most effective hormonal compounds and on their routes of administration, the hope is that, eventually, hormonal treatments may be able to attenuate or prevent the decline in aspects of cognition that occur with normal aging.


Neurogranin (Ng), a PKC substrate, is abundantly expressed in brain regions important for cognitive functions. Deletion of Ng caused severe deficits in spatial learning and LTP in the hippocampal CA1 region of mice. These Ng-/- mice also exhibit deficits in the amplification of their hippocampal signaling pathways critical for learning and memory. A short-term exposure to an enriched environment failed to improve their behavioral performances. Here, we showed that a long-term enrichment protocol for the aging mice was beneficial to the Ng-/- as well as Ng+/+ and Ng+/- mice in preventing age-related cognitive decline. Enrichment also caused an increase in the hippocampal CREB level of all three genotypes and Ng level of Ng+/+ and Ng+/- mice, but not that of alphaCaMKII or ERK. Interestingly, hippocampal slices of these enriched aging Ng-/- mice, unlike those of Ng+/+ and Ng+/- mice, did not show enhancement in the high frequency stimulation (HFS)-induced LTP in the CA1 region. It appears that the learning and memory processes in these enriched aging Ng-/- mice do not correlate with the HFS-induced LTP, which is facilitated by Ng. These results demonstrated that long-term enrichment for the aging Ng-/- mice may improve their cognitive function through an Ng-independent plasticity pathway.
Cystic spinal or ancient schwannoma is a rare form of intradural tumour especially in the conus medullaris region. Due to its indolent behavior and benign course, the diagnosis of schwannoma is always a challenge and the imaging findings can be misleading. Our patient presented with chronic mild sciatica pain without any other neurological symptom. MRI of the spine showed intradural tumour located at the conus medullaris region with nerves compression and was reported as ependymoma. L3-L5 laminectomy and total excision of tumour was performed without any neurological complication. We concluded that ancient schwannoma of the conus medullaris is a rare benign tumour that can present with minimal non-specific neurological symptom that lead to misdiagnosis. Radical tumour excision is safe with an excellent outcome.
Meningioma, is the second most frequent intracranial tumor in Malaysia and are classified according to the World Health Organization classification. The relationship of p53 protein in the determination of meningioma grading and their influencing factors were studied via immunohistochemistry studies on 77 intracranial meningiomas (67 benign, 10 atypical). The higher the p53 reaction was correlated to the poorer the histological grade (19.4% in benign and 90% in atypical meningioma) (p &lt; 0.001). Other variables like age, sex, ethnicity, demographic location, surgical clearance, midline shift and contrast enhancement of CT Scan Brain and clinical features were found not to be significant.


Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is an enzyme that terminates acetylcholine neurotransmitter function at the synaptic cleft of cholinergic synapses. However, the mechanism by which AChE number and density are maintained at the synaptic cleft is poorly understood. In this work, we used fluorescence recovery after photobleaching, photo-unbinding, and quantitative fluorescence imaging to investigate the surface mobility and stability of AChE at the adult innervated neuromuscular junction of living mice. In wild-type synapses, we found that nonsynaptic (perisynaptic and extrasynaptic) AChEs are mobile and gradually recruited into synaptic sites and that most of the trapped AChEs come from the perijunctional pool. Selective labeling of a subset of synaptic AChEs within the synapse by using sequential unbinding and relabeling with different colors of streptavidin followed by time-lapse imaging showed that synaptic AChEs are nearly immobile. At neuromuscular junctions of mice deficient in alpha-dystrobrevin, a component of the dystrophin glycoprotein complex, we found that the density and distribution of synaptic AChEs are profoundly altered and that the loss rate of AChE significantly increased. These results demonstrate that nonsynaptic AChEs are mobile, whereas synaptic AChEs are more stable, and that alpha-dystrobrevin is important for controlling the density and stability of AChEs at neuromuscular synapses.
A total of 40 human brain tumor samples were analyzed for tumor-specific alterations at the RB1 gene locus. Gliomas were more prevalent in younger males and meningiomas in older females. Southern blot analysis revealed loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at the intron 1 locus of RB1 gene in 19.4% of informative cases and this is the first report showing LOH at this locus in human brain tumors. Levels of RB1 mRNA and protein, pRb, and the percentage of hyperphosphorylated form of pRb were also analyzed in these tumors. Normal human fibroblast cell line WI38 was used as control in northern and western analysis. Normal sized RB1 mRNA and protein were present in all the tumor samples. Majority of the gliomas had 2.0-fold or higher levels of RB1 mRNA and most meningiomas had less than 2.0-fold of RB1 mRNA compared to control WI38 cells. The total pRb levels were 2.0-fold or higher in all the tumor samples compared to control. More than 50% of pRb existed in hyperphosphorylated form in all gliomas except two. However, six out of 13 meningiomas had less than 50% of total pRb in the hyperphosphorylated form. These results indicate that the increased percentage of hyperphosphorylated form of pRb in gliomas could provide growth advantage to these tumors. Presence of LOH at the RB1 gene locus and the increased levels of RB1 RNA and protein and increased percentage of hyperphosphorylated form of pRb are indicative of an overall deregulation of pRb pathway in human brain tumors.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) acts through its receptor, TrkA, to elicit the neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells through the action of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 (ERK1) and ERK2. Upon NGF binding, TrkA translocates and concentrates in cholesterol-rich membrane microdomains or lipid rafts, facilitating formation of receptor-associated signaling complexes, activation of downstream signaling pathways, and internalization into endosomes. We have investigated the mechanisms responsible for the localization of TrkA within lipid rafts and its ability to activate ERK1 and ERK2. We report that NGF treatment results in the translocation of activated forms of TrkA to lipid rafts, and this localization is important for efficient activation of the ERKs. TrkA is recruited and retained within lipid rafts through its association with flotillin, an intrinsic constituent of these membrane microdomains, via the adapter protein, c-Cbl associated protein (CAP). Mutant forms of CAP that lack protein interaction domains block TrkA localization to lipid rafts and attenuate ERK activation. Importantly, suppression of endogenous CAP expression inhibited NGF-stimulated neurite outgrowth from primary dorsal root ganglion neurons. These data provide a mechanism for the lipid raft localization of TrkA and establish the importance of the CAP adaptor protein for NGF activation of the ERKs and neuronal differentiation.
Crossovers have rarely been observed in specific association with interchromosomal gene conversion in mammalian cells. In this investigation two isogenic human B-lymphoblastoid cell lines, TI-112 and TSCER2, were used to select for I-SceI-induced gene conversions that restored function at the selectable thymidine kinase locus. Additionally, a haplotype linkage analysis methodology enabled the rigorous detection of all crossover-associated convertants, whether or not they exhibited loss of heterozygosity. This methodology also permitted characterization of conversion tract length and structure. In TI-112, gene conversion tracts were required to be complex in tract structure and at least 7.0 kb in order to be selectable. The results demonstrated that 85% (39/46) of TI-112 convertants extended more than 11.2 kb and 48% also exhibited a crossover, suggesting a mechanistic link between long tracts and crossover. In contrast, continuous tracts as short as 98 bp are selectable in TSCER2, although selectable gene conversion tracts could include a wide range of lengths. Indeed, only 16% (14/95) of TSCER2 convertants were crossover associated, further suggesting a link between long tracts and crossover. Overall, these results demonstrate that gene conversion tracts can be long in human cells and that crossovers are observable when long tracts are recoverable.
Recent studies have implicated the hormone leptin in synaptic plasticity associated with neuronal development and learning and memory. Indeed, leptin facilitates hippocampal long-term potentiation and leptin-insensitive rodents display impaired hippocampal synaptic plasticity suggesting a role for endogenous leptin. Structural changes are also thought to underlie activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and this may be regulated by specific growth factors. As leptin is reported to have neurotrophic actions, we have examined the effects of leptin on the morphology and filopodial outgrowth in hippocampal neurons. Here, we demonstrate that leptin rapidly enhances the motility and density of dendritic filopodia and subsequently increases the density of hippocampal synapses. This process is dependent on the synaptic activation of NR2A-containing NMDA receptors and is mediated by the MAPK (ERK) signaling pathway. As dendritic morphogenesis is associated with activity-dependent changes in synaptic strength, the rapid structural remodeling of dendrites by leptin has important implications for its role in regulating hippocampal synaptic plasticity and neuronal development.
The role for Wnt signaling modulation during synaptogenesis, neurogenesis and cell fate specification have been well characterized. In contrast, the roles for Wnt signaling pathways in the regulation of synaptic plasticity and adult physiology are only starting to be elucidated. Here, we have identified a novel series of Wnt pathway small molecule modulators, and report that these and other small molecules targeting the Wnt pathway acutely enhance excitatory transmission in adult hippocampal preparations. Our findings are consistent with a pre- and postsynaptic site of action, leading to both increased spontaneous and evoked neurotransmission that occurs in a transcription-independent fashion.
Dipeptidyl peptidase-like proteins (DPLs) and Kv-channel-interacting proteins (KChIPs) join Kv4 pore-forming subunits to form multi-protein complexes that underlie subthreshold A-type currents (I(SA)) in neuronal somatodendritic compartments. Here, we characterize the functional effects and brain distributions of N-terminal variants belonging to the DPL dipeptidyl peptidase 10 (DPP10). In the Kv4.2+KChIP3+DPP10 channel complex, all DPP10 variants accelerate channel gating kinetics; however, the splice variant DPP10a produces uniquely fast inactivation kinetics that accelerates with increasing depolarization. This DPP10a-specific inactivation dominates in co-expression studies with KChIP4a and other DPP10 isoforms. Real-time qRT-PCR and in situ hybridization analyses reveal differential expression of DPP10 variants in rat brain. DPP10a transcripts are prominently expressed in the cortex, whereas DPP10c and DPP10d mRNAs exhibit more diffuse distributions. Our results suggest that DPP10a underlies rapid inactivation of cortical I(SA), and the regulation of isoform expression may contribute to the variable inactivation properties of I(SA) across different brain regions.
Proteomics and cellomics clearly benefit from the molecular insights in cellular biochemical events that can be obtained by advanced quantitative microscopy techniques like fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy and Frster resonance energy transfer imaging. The spectroscopic information detected at the molecular level can be combined with cellular morphological estimators, the analysis of cellular localization, and the identification of molecular or cellular subpopulations. This allows the creation of powerful assays to gain a detailed understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying spatiotemporal cellular responses to chemical and physical stimuli. This work demonstrates that the high content offered by these techniques can be combined with the high throughput levels offered by automation of a fluorescence lifetime imaging microscope setup capable of unsupervised operation and image analysis. Systems and software dedicated to image cytometry for analysis and sorting represent important emerging tools for the field of proteomics, interactomics, and cellomics. These techniques could soon become readily available both to academia and the drug screening community by the application of new all-solid-state technologies that may results in cost-effective turnkey systems. Here the application of this screening technique to the investigation of intracellular ubiquitination levels of alpha-synuclein and its familial mutations that are causative for Parkinson disease is shown. The finding of statistically lower ubiquitination of the mutant alpha-synuclein forms supports a role for this modification in the mechanism of pathological protein aggregation.
Neisseria gonorrhoeae expresses an O-linked protein glycosylation pathway that targets PilE, the major pilin subunit protein of the Type IV pilus colonization factor. Efforts to define glycan structure and thus the functions of pilin glycosylation (Pgl) components at the molecular level have been hindered by the lack of sensitive methodologies. Here, we utilized a 'top-down' mass spectrometric approach to characterize glycan status using intact pilin protein from isogenic mutants. These structural data enabled us to directly infer the function of six components required for pilin glycosylation and to define the glycan repertoire of strain N400. Additionally, we found that the N. gonorrhoeae pilin glycan is O-acetylated, and identified an enzyme essential for this unique modification. We also identified the N. gonorrhoeae pilin oligosaccharyltransferase using bioinformatics and confirmed its role in pilin glycosylation by directed mutagenesis. Finally, we examined the effects of expressing the PglA glycosyltransferase from the Campylobacter jejuni N-linked glycosylation system that adds N-acetylgalactosamine onto undecaprenylpyrophosphate-linked bacillosamine. The results indicate that the C. jejuni and N. gonorrhoeae pathways can interact in the synthesis of O-linked di- and trisaccharides, and therefore provide the first experimental evidence that biosynthesis of the N. gonorrhoeae pilin glycan involves a lipid-linked oligosaccharide precursor. Together, these findings underpin more detailed studies of pilin glycosylation biology in both N. gonorrhoeae and N. meningitidis, and demonstrate how components of bacterial O- and N-linked pathways can be combined in novel glycoengineering strategies.
Several lines of preclinical evidence indicate the ability of the prototypic cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist, rimonabant, to suppress various alcohol-related behaviors, including alcohol drinking and seeking behavior and alcohol self-administration in rats and mice. Together, these data-synthetically reviewed in the present paper-suggest (a) the involvement of the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor in the neural substrate controlling alcohol intake, alcohol reinforcement, and the motivational properties of alcohol and (b) that rimonabant may constitute a new and potentially effective medication for the treatment of alcohol dependence.
The endocannabinoid system consists of cannabinoid CB(1) and CB(2) receptors, endogenous ligands and their synthesising/metabolising enzymes. Cannabinoid receptors are present at key sites involved in the relay and modulation of nociceptive information. The analgesic effects of cannabinoids have been well documented. The usefulness of nonselective cannabinoid agonists can, however, be limited by psychoactive side effects associated with activation of CB(1) receptors. Following the recent evidence for CB(2) receptors existing in the nervous system and reports of their up-regulation in chronic pain states and neurodegenerative diseases, much research is now aimed at shedding light on the role of the CB(2) receptor in human disease. Recent studies have demonstrated anti-nociceptive effects of selective CB(2) receptor agonists in animal models of pain in the absence of CNS side effects. This review focuses on the analgesic potential of CB(2) receptor agonists for inflammatory, post-operative and neuropathic pain states and discusses their possible sites and mechanisms of action.
Our knowledge of the function of the cannabinoid system in the body has been aided by the availability of pharmacological agents that affect its function. This has been achieved by the design of agents that either directly interact with the receptor (agonists and antagonist/inverse agonists) and agents that indirectly modulate the receptor output by changing the levels of the endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids). In this review, examples of the most commonly used receptor agonists, antagonists/inverse agonists, and indirectly acting agents (anandamide uptake inhibitors, fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitors, monoacylglycerol lipase inhibitors) are given, with particular focus upon their selectivity and, in the case of the directly acting compounds, efficacy. Finally, the links between the endocannabinoid and cyclooxygenase pathways are explored, in particular, with respect to agents whose primary function is to inhibit cyclooxygenase activity, but which also interact with the endocannabinoid system.
In everyday life, our sensory system is bombarded with visual input and we rely upon attention to select only those inputs that are relevant to behavioural goals. Typically, humans can shift their attention from one visual field to the other with little cost to perception. In cases of 'unilateral neglect', however, there is a persistent bias of spatial attention towards the same side as the damaged cerebral hemisphere. We used a visual orienting task to examine the influence of functional polymorphisms of the dopamine transporter gene (DAT1) on individual differences in spatial attention in normally developing children. DAT1 genotype significantly influenced spatial bias. Healthy children who were homozygous for alleles that influence the expression of dopamine transporters in the brain displayed inattention for left-sided stimuli, whereas heterozygotes did not. Our data provide the first evidence in healthy individuals of a genetically mediated bias in spatial attention that is related to dopamine signalling.
The transcription factor Nurr1 (NR4A2) has been found to play a critical role in the development of midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Nurr1 heterozygous (+/-) male and female mice expressing 35-40% of normal levels of Nurr1 were generated and examined in animal models related to symptoms of schizophrenia. The Nurr1 (+/-) mice displayed hyperactivity in a novel environment, which persisted after administration of the dopamine-mimetic amphetamine and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist phencyclidine. The Nurr1 (+/-) mice were deficient in the retention of emotional memory and showed an enhanced response to swim stress. In addition, Nurr1 (+/-) male mice displayed a reduced dopamine turnover in the striatum and an enhanced dopamine turnover in the prefrontal cortex, while female mice showed an opposite pattern. These results show that Nurr1 (+/-) mice display a pattern of behaviors indicative of potential relevance for symptoms of schizophrenia combined with a gender-specific abnormal dopamine transmission in the striatum and prefrontal cortex, respectively. This suggests that the Nurr1 mutant mouse may be a potential animal model for studies on some of the behavioral and molecular mechanisms underlying schizophrenia.
In vivo recombinant adeno-associated viral vector (rAAV)-mediated transduction of various tissues including brain has been characterized by slow onset and gradual increase in gene expression before reaching stable long-term protein levels. The early time course of transgene expression has not been quantified using newly available rAAV capsid serotypes. In this experiment, the onset of expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) after intrastriatal injection of rAAV2-based pseudotyped vectors (rAAV1, rAAV5, and rAAV8 capsids) was quantified. Native GFP fluorescence displayed a delayed onset of expression of at least 7 days for all the pseudotyped rAAV vectors. However, GFP immunohistochemical staining revealed significant transgene expression by 4 days after transduction for all serotypes and stable GFP(+) neuronal populations mediated by all serotypes within 14 days post transduction at the latest. rAAV2/1 and rAAV2/2 displayed no time-dependent increase of GFP(+) striatal neurons; reaching maximal striatal cell GFP(+) counts at 4 days after injection. All serotypes displayed peak transgene expression by 4 weeks post injection where native GFP(+) neurons were equal to immunostained striatal GFP(+) neurons. The inflammatory response to these rAAV vectors was present up to 4 weeks after transduction but was not apparent 9 months post injection. Thus, rAAV-mediated transgene expression begins earlier than previously thought.
The chronic level of neuromuscular activity, that is, activation and loading, strongly influences the morphological, metabolic, phenotypic, and physiological properties of skeletal muscles. The effects on the innervating motoneurons, however, are less established. We determined and compared the effects of 30 days of decreased activity (induced by a complete mid-thoracic spinal cord transection, ST) or near inactivity (induced by spinal cord isolation, SI) on the soma size and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity of motoneurons innervating a predominantly slow ankle extensor (soleus) and a predominantly fast ankle flexor (tibialis anterior) muscle of adult rats. Soleus and tibialis anterior motoneuron pools were labeled retrogradely using nuclear yellow. The alpha- and gamma-motoneurons were classified based on soma size. Mean number of labeled motoneurons, and mean soma size and SDH activity for both alpha- and gamma-motoneurons were similar in control, ST, and SI rats. Compared to previous reports showing significant decreases in muscle fiber size and adaptations toward a &quot;faster&quot; metabolic profile following ST and SI, the results indicate that, unlike the muscles they innervate, the motoneurons are relatively unresponsive to chronic reductions in neuromuscular activity. The implication of these results is that mean size and SDH activity are independent of the number of action potentials generated by both alpha- and gamma-motoneurons and that even the absence of afferent input to the spinal cord has no influence on size and oxidative metabolic potential of the motoneuron soma.
Loss of skeletal muscle mass (sarcopenia) is a major contributor to disability in old age. We used two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry to screen for changes in proteins, and cDNA profiling to assess transcriptional regulations in the gastrocnemius muscle of adult (4 months) and aged (30 months) male Sprague-Dawley rats. Thirty-five proteins were differentially expressed in aged muscle. Proteins and mRNA transcripts involved in redox homeostasis and iron load were increased, representing novel components that were previously not associated with sarcopenia. Tissue iron levels were elevated in senescence, paralleling an increase in transferrin. Proteins involved in redox homeostasis showed a complex pattern of changes with increased SOD1 and decreased SOD2. These results suggest that an elevated iron load is a significant component of sarcopenia with the potential to be exploited clinically, and that mitochondria of aged striated muscle may be more vulnerable to radicals produced in cell respiration.
Diabetes targets the peripheral nervous system with several different patterns of damage and several mechanisms of disease. Diabetic polyneuropathy (DPN) is a common disorder involving a large proportion of diabetic patients, yet its pathophysiology is controversial. Mechanisms considered have included polyol flux, microangiopathy, oxidative stress, abnormal signaling from advanced glycation endproducts and growth factor deficiency. Although some clinical trials have demonstrated modest benefits in disease stabilization or pain therapy in DPN, robust therapy capable of reversing the disease is unavailable. In this review, general aspects of DPN and other diabetic neuropathies are examined, including a summary of recent therapeutic trials. A particular emphasis is placed on the evidence that the neurobiology of DPN reflects a unique yet common and disabling neurodegenerative disorder.
We report a young woman with the abrupt onset of infectious mononucleosis due to Epstein-Barr virus associated with a subsequent autoimmune form of diabetes mellitus and myasthenia gravis with anti-muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) antibodies. The simultaneous onset of these two autoimmune diseases preceded by a systemic viral illness supports a causal relationship between MuSK antibodies and myasthenia gravis and suggests the possibility of a viral trigger in some cases.
Release of ATP from astrocytes is required for Ca2+ wave propagation among astrocytes and for feedback modulation of synaptic functions. However, the mechanism of ATP release and the source of ATP in astrocytes are still not known. Here we show that incubation of astrocytes with FM dyes leads to selective labelling of lysosomes. Time-lapse confocal imaging of FM dye-labelled fluorescent puncta, together with extracellular quenching and total-internal-reflection fluorescence microscopy (TIRFM), demonstrated directly that extracellular ATP or glutamate induced partial exocytosis of lysosomes, whereas an ischaemic insult with potassium cyanide induced both partial and full exocytosis of these organelles. We found that lysosomes contain abundant ATP, which could be released in a stimulus-dependent manner. Selective lysis of lysosomes abolished both ATP release and Ca2+ wave propagation among astrocytes, implicating physiological and pathological functions of regulated lysosome exocytosis in these cells.

C-fiber tactile afferents are a subpopulation of unmyelinated cutaneous sensory neurons activated by gentle stroking. Using a genetically encoded tracer, we found that Mas-related G protein-coupled receptor B4 marks a rare subpopulation of unmyelinated, nonpeptidergic sensory fibers that exclusively innervate hairy skin. These fibers terminate in large arborizations similar in size and distribution to C-fiber tactile afferent receptive fields, suggesting that MrgprB4 may provide genetic access to these elusive neurons in mice.
Cellular strategies for oligodendrocyte regeneration and remyelination involve characterizing endogenous neural progenitors that are capable of generating oligodendrocytes during normal development and after demyelination, and identifying the molecular signals that enhance oligodendrogenesis from these progenitors. Using both gain- and loss-of-function approaches, we explored the role of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling in adult myelin repair and in oligodendrogenesis. We show that 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNP) promoter-driven overexpression of human EGFR (hEGFR) accelerated remyelination and functional recovery following focal demyelination of mouse corpus callosum. Lesion repopulation by Cspg4+ (also known as NG2) Ascl1+ (also known as Mash1) Olig2+ progenitors and functional remyelination were accelerated in CNP-hEGFR mice compared with wild-type mice. EGFR overexpression in subventricular zone (SVZ) and corpus callosum during early postnatal development also expanded this NG2+Mash1+Olig2+ progenitor population and promoted SVZ-to-lesion migration, enhancing oligodendrocyte generation and axonal myelination. Analysis of hypomorphic EGFR-mutant mice confirmed that EGFR signaling regulates oligodendrogenesis and remyelination by NG2+Mash1+Olig2+ progenitors. EGFR targeting holds promise for enhancing oligodendrocyte regeneration and myelin repair.
The market for neuropharmaceuticals is potentially one of the largest sectors of the global pharmaceutical market owing to the increase in average life expectancy and the fact that many neurological disorders have been largely refractory to pharmacotherapy. The brain is a delicate organ that can efficiently protect itself from harmful compounds and precisely regulate its microenvironment. Unfortunately, the same mechanisms can also prove to be formidable hurdles in drug development. An improved understanding of the regulatory interfaces that exist between blood and brain may provide novel and more effective strategies to treat neurological disorders.
The human body, like the human face, is a rich source of socially relevant information about other individuals. Evidence from studies of both humans and non-human primates points to focal regions of the higher-level visual cortex that are specialized for the visual perception of the body. These body-selective regions, which can be dissociated from regions involved in face perception, have been implicated in the perception of the self and the 'body schema', the perception of others' emotions and the understanding of actions.
Neuropsychiatric disorders, which arise from a combination of genetic, epigenetic and environmental influences, epitomize the challenges faced in understanding the mammalian brain. Elucidation and treatment of these diseases will benefit from understanding how specific brain cell types are interconnected and signal in neural circuits. Newly developed neuroengineering tools based on two microbial opsins, channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) and halorhodopsin (NpHR), enable the investigation of neural circuit function with cell-type-specific, temporally accurate and reversible neuromodulation. These tools could lead to the development of precise neuromodulation technologies for animal models of disease and clinical neuropsychiatry.
A number of computational models have explained the behavior of dopamine neurons in terms of temporal difference learning. However, earlier models cannot account for recent results of conditioning experiments; specifically, the behavior of dopamine neurons in case of variation of the interval between a cue stimulus and a reward has not been satisfyingly accounted for. We address this problem by using a modular architecture, in which each module consists of a reward predictor and a value estimator. A &quot;responsibility signal&quot;, computed from the accuracy of the predictions of the reward predictors, is used to weight the contributions and learning of the value estimators. This multiple-model architecture gives an accurate account of the behavior of dopamine neurons in two specific experiments: when the reward is delivered earlier than expected, and when the stimulus-reward interval varies uniformly over a fixed range.
An important component of decision making is evaluating the expected result of a choice, using past experience. The way past experience is used to predict future rewards and punishments can have profound effects on decision making. The aim of this study is to further understand the possible role played by the ventromedial prefrontal cortex in decision making, using results from the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT). A number of theories in the literature offer potential explanations for the underlying cause of the deficit(s) found in bilateral ventromedial prefrontal lesion (VMF) patients on the IGT. An error-driven epsilon-greedy reinforcement learning method was found to produce a good match to both human normative and VMF patient groups from a number of studies. The model supports the theory that the VMF patients are less strategic (more explorative), which could be due to a working memory deficit, and are more reactive than healthy controls. This last aspect seems consistent with a 'myopia' for future consequences.
Orexin neuropeptides regulate arousal state and excite the noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC), so it is plausible that an age-related loss of orexin neurons and projections to the LC contributes to poor sleep quality in elderly humans and nonhuman primates. To test this hypothesis we examined orexin B-immunoreactivity in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) and the LC of male rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) throughout the life span. Orexin perikarya, localized predominantly in the LHA, showed identical distribution patterns irrespective of age. Similarly, orexin neuron number and serum orexin B concentrations did not differ with age. In contrast, orexin B-immunoreactive axon density in the LC of old animals was significantly lower than that observed in the young or adult animals. Furthermore, the age-related decline was associated with a significant decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA in the LC, despite no change in TH-immunoreactive neuron number. Taken together, these data suggest that age-related decreases in excitatory orexin innervation to the noradrenergic LC may contribute to the etiology of poor sleep quality in the elderly.
Cluster analysis of water-maze reference-memory performance distinguished subpopulations of young adult (3-5 months), aged (25-27 months) unimpaired (AU) and aged impaired (AI) rats. Working-memory performances of AU and AI rats were close to normal (though young and aged rats differed in exploration strategies). All aged rats showed impaired procedural-memory. Electrically evoked release of tritium was assessed in striatal slices (preloaded with [(3)H]choline) in the presence of oxotremorine, physostigmine, atropine+physostigmine, quinpirole, nomifensine or sulpiride. Aged rats exhibited reduced accumulation of [(3)H]choline (-30%) and weaker transmitter release. Drug effects (highest concentration) were reductions of release by 44% (oxotremorine), 72% (physostigmine), 84% (quinpirole) and 65% (nomifensine) regardless of age. Sulpiride and atropine+physostigmine facilitated the release more efficiently in young rats versus aged rats. The sulpiride-induced facilitation was weaker in AI rats versus AU rats; it significantly correlated with reference-memory performance. The results confirm age-related alterations of cholinergic and dopaminergic striatal functions, and point to the possibility that alterations in the D(2)-mediated dopaminergic regulation of these functions contribute to age-related reference-memory deficits.
The pineal hormone melatonin is involved in the regulation of circadian rhythms and feeds back to the central biological clock, the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) via melatonin receptors. Supplementary melatonin is considered to be a potential treatment for aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related circadian disorders. Here we investigated by immunocytochemistry the alterations of the MT1 melatonin receptor, the neuropeptides vasopressin (AVP) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) in the SCN during aging and AD. We found that the number and density of AVP/VIP-expressing neurons in the SCN did not change, but the number and density of MT1-expressing neurons in the SCN were decreased in aged controls compared to young controls. Furthermore, both MT1-expressing neurons and AVP/VIP-expressing neurons were strongly diminished in the last neuropathological stages of AD (Braak stages V-VI), but not in the earliest stages (Braak stages I-II), compared to aged controls (Braak stage 0). Our study suggests that the MT1-mediated effects of melatonin on the SCN are disturbed during aging and even more so in late stage AD, which may contribute to the clinical circadian disorders and to the efficacy of therapeutic melatonin administration under these conditions.
Since adenosine A(2A) receptor (A(2A)Rs) blockade protects against noxious brain insults involving apoptosis, we directly tested if A(2A)R blockade prevents apoptosis induced by staurosporine (STS). Exposure of rat hippocampal neurons to STS (30 nM, 24 h) decreased neuronal viability while increasing the number apoptotic-like neurons and de-localizing mitochondria and cytochrome c immunoreactivities. This was prevented by the selective A(2A)R antagonists, SCH58261 and ZM241385 (50 nM). Shorter incubation periods (6 h) with STS caused no neuronal loss but decreased synaptophysin and MAP-2 immunoreactivities, which was prevented by SCH58261. Furthermore, STS (100 nM) decreased MTT reduction and increased caspase-3 activity in rat hippocampal nerve terminals, which was prevented by SCH58261. These results show that A(2A)R blockade inhibits STS-induced apoptotic-like neuronal cell death. This begins with an apoptotic-like synaptotoxicity, which later evolved into an overt neurotoxicity, and A(2A)Rs effectively control this initial synaptotoxicity, in agreement with their predominant synaptic localization in the hippocampus.
Despite the success of foetal nigral transplantation for the treatment of Parkinson's disease, supply limitations of tissue means that alternative sources must be found. Transplantation of human neural progenitor cells (HNPCs) may offer a solution, however few studies have shown functional recovery in animal models of PD without cell modification. Here we show that unmodified HNPC grafted into the subthalamic nucleus (STN) show excellent survival of up to 5 months and induce significant functional recovery following amphetamine-induced rotations within 4 weeks. For the first time we also show that HNPCs, which remain in an immature nestin-positive state, produce VEGF in vivo allowing further modification of the host brain. This suggests that even in the absence of cell replacement strategies utilising immature progenitor cells could be of real therapeutic value.

Decreased level of melatonin and hyperphosphorylation of neurofilament proteins have been reported in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the direct evidence linking melatonin and neurofilament phosphorylation is still lacking. Here, we investigated the effect of inhibiting melatonin biosynthesis on phosphorylation of neurofilament proteins and the involvement of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk-5) in rats. We observed that injection of haloperidol, a specific inhibitor of 5-hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase, resulted in significantly decreased level of serum melatonin with a concomitantly increased phosphorylation of neurofilament proteins and activation of cdk-5 in rats. Exogenous supplementation of melatonin partially arrested the hyperphosphorylation of neurofilament and the activation of cdk-5. These results suggest that inhibition of melatonin biosynthesis may activate cdk-5 and thus induces Alzheimer-like hyperphosphorylation of neurofilament proteins.
Serotonin (5-HT) plays an important role as a signalling molecule in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. The regulation of GI sensitivity via 5-HT is mediated by specific 5-HT receptor subytypes on intrinsic and extrinsic afferents. This review discusses visceral afferent hypersensitivity in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and the importance of 5HT(3), 5HT(4), and 5HT(2B) receptor-mediated mechanisms in the regulation of visceral sensitivity.
The majority of the body's serotonin (5-HT) is produced by the gastrointestinal tract. 5-HT has several functions in the gastrointestinal tract. 5-HT is a paracrine signalling molecule released from enterochromaffin cells, a survival and proliferating factor and a neurotransmitter. The actions of 5-HT are transduced by a large family of 5-HT receptors, several of which are expressed on different gastrointestinal cell types including enteric nerves, smooth muscle and interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC). This review will summarize recent advances in understanding the role of 5-HT in regulating function of ICC, and the expression and function of 5-HT receptors on muscle and enteric nerves in human tissue. Rodent ICC express several 5-HT receptors including 5-HT(2B) receptors which regulate ICC survival and proliferation. Human smooth muscle and enteric neurons also express several 5-HT receptor subtypes. Expression and function of these receptors is significantly different from small laboratory animals. 5-HT(7) receptor activation causes relaxation of muscle, whereas 5-HT(2B) receptors increase muscle activity. The 5-HT(4) receptor appears to mediate both inhibition and activation of smooth muscle involving myogenic as well as neural actions. Despite the abundant expression of 5-HT(3) receptors in the human enteric nervous system no functional correlate has been as yet demonstrated.
Recording the electroencephalogram (EEG) during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) permits the identification of haemodynamic changes associated with EEG events. However, subject motion within the MR scanner can cause unpredictable and frustrating artefacts on the EEG that may appear focally, bilaterally or unilaterally and can sometimes be confused for epileptiform activity. Motion may arise from a number of sources: small involuntary cardiac-related body movements (ballistocardiogram); acoustic vibrations due to the scanner machinery; and voluntary subject movements. Here we describe a new real-time technique for removing ballistocardiogram (BCG) and movement artefact from EEG recordings in the MR scanner using a novel method for recording subject motion. We record the current induced in a number of wire loops, attached to a cap worn by the subject, due to motion in the static magnetic field of the scanner (Faraday's Law). This is the same process that leads to the motion artefacts on the EEG, and hence these signals are ideally suited to filtering these artefacts from the EEG. Our filter uses a linear adaptive technique based upon the Recursive Least Squares (RLS) algorithm. We demonstrate in both simulations and real EEG recordings from epilepsy patients that our filter significantly reduces the artefact power whilst preserving the underlying EEG signal.
The Mouse Biomedical Informatics Research Network (MBIRN) has been established to integrate imaging studies of the mouse brain ranging from three-dimensional (3D) studies of the whole brain to focused regions at a sub-cellular scale. Magnetic resonance (MR) histology provides the entry point for many morphologic comparisons of the whole brain. We describe a standardized protocol that allows acquisition of 3D MR histology (43-microm resolution) images of the fixed, stained mouse brain with acquisition times &lt;30 min. A higher resolution protocol with isotropic spatial resolution of 21.5 microm can be executed in 2 h. A third acquisition protocol provides an alternative image contrast (at 43-microm isotropic resolution), which is exploited in a statistically driven algorithm that segments 33 of the most critical structures in the brain. The entire process, from specimen perfusion, fixation and staining, image acquisition and reconstruction, post-processing, segmentation, archiving, and analysis, is integrated through a structured workflow. This yields a searchable database for archive and query of the very large (1.2 GB) images acquired with this standardized protocol. These methods have been applied to a collection of both male and female adult murine brains ranging over 4 strains and 6 neurologic knockout models. These collection and acquisition methods are now available to the neuroscience community as a standard web-deliverable service.
Current models of executive function hold that the internal representations of stimuli used during reflective thought are maintained in the same posterior cortical regions initially activated during perception, and that activity in such regions is modulated by top-down signals originating in prefrontal cortex. In an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study, we presented participants with two pictures simultaneously, a face and a scene, immediately followed either by a repetition of one of the pictures (perception) or by a cue to think briefly of one of the just-seen, but no longer present, pictures (refreshing, a reflective act). Refreshing faces and scenes modulated activity in the fusiform face area (FFA) and parahippocampal place area (PPA), respectively, as well as other regions exhibiting relative perceptual selectivity for either faces or scenes. Four scene-selective regions (lateral precuneus, retrosplenial cortex, PPA, and middle occipital gyrus) showed an anatomical gradient of responsiveness to top-down reflective influences versus bottom-up perceptual influences. These results demonstrate that a brief reflective act can modulate posterior cortical activity in a stimulus-specific manner, suggesting that such modulatory mechanisms are engaged even during transient ongoing thought. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that refreshing is a component of more complex modulatory operations such as working memory and mental imagery, and that refresh-related activity may thus contribute to the common activation patterns seen across different cognitive tasks.
Previous studies have shown reductions of the functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signal in response to repetition of specific visual stimuli. We examined how adaptation affects the neural responses associated with categorization behavior, using face adaptation aftereffects. Adaptation to a given facial category biases categorization towards non-adapted facial categories in response to presentation of ambiguous morphs. We explored a hypothesis, posed by recent psychophysical studies, that these adaptation-induced categorizations are mediated by activity in relatively advanced stages within the occipitotemporal visual processing stream. Replicating these studies, we find that adaptation to a facial expression heightens perception of non-adapted expressions. Using comparable behavioral methods, we also show that adaptation to a specific identity heightens perception of a second identity in morph faces. We show both expression and identity effects to be associated with heightened anterior medial temporal lobe activity, specifically when perceiving the non-adapted category. These regions, incorporating bilateral anterior ventral rhinal cortices, perirhinal cortex and left anterior hippocampus are regions previously implicated in high-level visual perception. These categorization effects were not evident in fusiform or occipital gyri, although activity in these regions was reduced to repeated faces. The findings suggest that adaptation-induced perception is mediated by activity in regions downstream to those showing reductions due to stimulus repetition.
Understanding information transfer in the brain is a major challenge in today's neurosciences. Commonly, information transfer between brain areas is analyzed with the help of correlation measures for electrophysiological data. However, such approaches cannot distinguish between mutual coupling and other mechanisms of creating correlations between responses, such as common input from other sources. Functional coupling is mandatory for information transfer. Here we propose to analyze coupling between active brain areas with the help of models described by a system of differential-algebraic equations. Comparing models with various degrees of coupling, we show that mutual information transfer can be distinguished from one-way information transfer for activated cortical areas estimated by source localization techniques. We exemplify the technique with fast oscillatory activity found in both cortical areas 3b and 1 after peripheral nerve stimulation.
Both working memory (WM) and controlled (attention-mediated) semantic processing functions have been thought to operate as limited capacity systems, but the possible link between these processes has not been investigated. We found that increased WM load attenuated semantic priming (i.e., reduced the response time advantage for semantically primed relative to unprimed items) and changed fMRI signal intensities in brain regions usually associated with both WM (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex) and controlled semantic retrieval (inferior frontal gyrus [IFG], pars orbitalis). fMRI signal changes in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex were negatively correlated with signal changes in pars orbitalis. The findings suggest that controlled semantic processing and working memory share neural system resources.
This article describes the remarkable progress that has been made over the past decade in identifying the genetic contribution to frontotemporal dementia. The clinical and neuropathologic features of frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 and the nature of the mutations in the progranulin and microtubule-associated protein tau genes are emphasized.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease. To rationally develop novel therapeutic and/or preventative agents for AD, an understanding of the etiology and pathogenesis of this complex disease is necessary. This article examines the evidence for the amyloid hypothesis of AD pathogenesis and discusses how it relates to the neurological and neuropathological features of AD, the known genetic risk factors and causative mutations, and the heightened risk associated with advanced age.
A 49-year-old woman presented with a rare atypical growth pattern of meningioma without evidence of dural attachment manifesting as chronic headache associated with transient paresthesia and left motor disorders. On admission, neurological examination showed no abnormalities. Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging revealed a right temporo-parieto-occipital lesion, which appeared to involve the subdural space and filling the cortical sulci. The lesion caused peritumoral white matter edema. The tumor appeared hypointense on T(1)-weighted and hyperintense on T(2)-weighted MR images, with homogeneous enhancement after contrast administration. A biopsy of the lesion was performed. Histological examination indicated that the lesion was a meningioma. Intraparenchymal meningiomas should be considered in the differential diagnosis of intraaxial lesions in patients of any age.
Spinal dural arteriovenous fistulas (SDAVF) are the most common acquired arteriovenous shunts that occur in adults. By increasing venous pressure in the spinal venous system they are a cause of venous congestive myelopathy. We report the case of a patient with a SDAVF mimicking, on magnetic resonance imaging, the presence of a spinal cord tumour due to an unusual pattern of enhancement after gadolinium administration.
Neuroinflammation resulting from chronic reactive microgliosis is thought to contribute to age-related neurodegeneration, as well as age-related neurodegenerative diseases, specifically Alzheimer's disease (AD). Support of this theory comes from studies reporting a progressive, age-associated increase in microglia with an activated phenotype. Although the underlying cause(s) of this microglial reactivity is idiopathic, an accepted therapeutic strategy for the treatment of AD is inhibition of microglial activation using anti-inflammatory agents. Although the effectiveness of anti-inflammatory treatment for AD remains equivocal, microglial inhibition is being tested as a potential treatment for additional neurodegenerative disorders including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinson's disease. Given the important and necessary functions of microglia in normal brain, careful evaluation of microglial function in the aged brain is a necessary first step in targeting more precise treatment strategies for aging-related neurodegenerative diseases. Studies from our laboratory have shown multiple age-related changes in microglial morphology and function that are suggestive of cellular senescence. In this manuscript, we review current knowledge of microglia in the aging brain and present new, unpublished work that further supports the theory that microglia experience an age-related decline in proliferative function as a result of cellular senescence.
The complexity of the adult brain is the result of an integrated series of developmental events that depends on appropriate timing of differentiation. The importance of transcriptional regulatory networks and epigenetic mechanisms of regulation of gene expression is becoming increasingly evident. Among these mechanisms, previous work has revealed the importance of histone deacetylation in oligodendrocyte differentiation. In this manuscript we define the region of interaction between transcription factor Yin-Yang 1 (YY1) and histone deacetylase 1, and characterize the functional consequences of YY1 overexpression on the differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitors.
Neural progenitor cells that express the NG2 proteoglycan are present in different regions of the adult mammalian brain where they display distinct morphologies and proliferative rates. In the developing postnatal and adult mouse, NG2(+) cells represent a major cell population of the subventricular zone (SVZ). NG2(+) cells divide in the anterior and lateral region of the SVZ, and are stimulated to proliferate and migrate out of the SVZ by focal demyelination of the corpus callosum (CC). Many NG2(+) cells are labeled by GFP-retrovirus injection into the adult SVZ, demonstrating that NG2(+) cells actively proliferate under physiological conditions and after demyelination. Under normal physiological conditions and after focal demyelination, proliferation of NG2(+) cells is significantly attenuated in wa2 mice, which are characterized by reduced signaling of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). This results in reduced SVZ-to-lesion migration of NG2(+) cells and oligodendrogenesis in the lesion. Expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and EGFR ligands, such as heparin binding-EGF and transforming growth factor alpha, is upregulated in the SVZ after focal demyelination of the CC. EGF-induced oligodendrogenesis and myelin protein expression in wild-type SVZ cells in culture are significantly attenuated in wa2 SVZ cells. Our results demonstrate that the response of NG2(+) cells in the SVZ and their subsequent differentiation in CC after focal demyelination depend on EGFR signaling.
In this review, we briefly summarize what is known about the properties of the three families of gap junction proteins, connexins, innexins and pannexins, emphasizing their importance as intercellular channels that provide ionic and metabolic coupling and as non-junctional channels that can function as a paracrine signaling pathway. We discuss that two distinct groups of proteins form gap junctions in deuterostomes (connexins) and protostomes (innexins), and that channels formed of the deuterostome homologues of innexins (pannexins) differ from connexin channels in terms of important structural features and activation properties. These differences indicate that the two families of gap junction proteins serve distinct, complementary functions in deuterostomes. In several tissues, including the CNS, both connexins and pannexins are involved in intercellular communication, but have different roles. Connexins mainly contribute by forming the intercellular gap junction channels, which provide for junctional coupling and define the communication compartments in the CNS. We also provide new data supporting the concept that pannexins form the non-junctional channels that play paracrine roles by releasing ATP and, thus, modulating the range of the intercellular Ca(2+)-wave transmission between astrocytes in culture.
Involvement of nervous system by toxocariasis is rare and can produce a spectrum of pathology that includes eosinophillic meningoencephalitis, meningomyelitis, space occupying lesions, vasculitis causing seizures or behavioral abnormalities posing diagnostic dilemmas. We describe a 38-year-old man who presented with multiple intracranial and intramedullary abscesses caused by visceral larva migrans. Neurohelminthiasis as a cause of multiple abscesses, though rare, should be entertained as a differential diagnosis particularly in tropical South-east Asian countries where helminthiasis is still an epidemiological concern prevalent in the pediatric age group.
Acetylcholine mediates its effects through both the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (ligand-gated ion channels) and the G protein-coupled muscarinic receptors. It plays pivotal roles in a diverse array of physiological processes and its activity is controlled through enzymatic degradation by acetylcholinesterase. The effects of receptor agonists and enzyme inhibitors, collectively termed cholinomimetics, in antinociception/analgesia are well established. These compounds successfully inhibit pain signaling in both humans and animals and are efficacious in a number of different preclinical and clinical pain models, suggesting a broad therapeutic potential. In this review we examine and discuss the evidence for the therapeutic exploitation of the cholinergic system as an approach to treat pain.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a common and severe neuropsychiatric disorder treated by both behavioral and pharmacologic techniques. Despite the availability of treatments for OCD, including the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), many OCD patients have an inadequate response to current treatments. As such, additional approaches to the management of OCD are required. A potential but little studied treatment for OCD is the SSRI escitalopram. Escitalopram is the S-enantiomer of citalopram, the preparation containing both S and R enantiomers of citalopram. Not only is escitalopram the most selective of the SSRIs, it is also devoid of R-citalopram, which may interfere with the effects of the S enantiomer. Escitalopram appears to be effective in depression and several anxiety disorders, including social anxiety disorder and generalized anxiety disorder, conditions in which it also appears reasonably well tolerated. Enantiomeric specificity, high serotonin reuptake selectivity, comparatively good tolerability and favorable pharmacokinetics, and preliminary evidence of efficacy in OCD suggest a potential role for the use of escitalopram in the treatment of OCD. Nevertheless, additional work including evaluating the use of escitalopram with behavioral interventions and in long-term treatment of OCD is needed to clarify its overall role in managing OCD.
Epilepsy is a common pediatric neurologic disorder that is difficult to manage in a substantial portion of children. Levetiracetam (LEV) is a novel antiepileptic drug (AED) that has recently been approved as add-on treatment for various seizure types in epilepsy populations that include children: for refractory partial seizures in epilepsy patients &gt;/=4 years old, for myoclonic seizures in juvenile myoclonic epilepsy patients &gt;/=12 years old, and for primary generalized tonic-clonic seizures in idiopathic generalized epilepsy patients (&gt;/=6 years old with FDA approval; &gt;/=12 years old with EMEA approval). A review of published pediatric studies indicates that the efficacy of LEV is best established for partial seizures; however, results from recent double-blind and open-label trials indicate that adjunctive LEV also controls generalized seizures - particularly myoclonic and generalized tonic-clonic - in children and adolescents with primary generalized epilepsy. LEV was well-tolerated in pediatric studies. The most common adverse events (AEs) reported were sedation related. Behavioral AEs were among the most commonly reported events in some trials; conversely, improvements in behavior and cognition were also frequently reported. LEV appears to be a safe and effective AED with unique characteristics that benefit the treatment of children with epilepsy.
This case study describes the use of a wearable camera, SenseCam, which automatically captures several hundred images per day, to aid autobiographical memory in a patient, Mrs B, with severe memory impairment following limbic encephalitis. By using SenseCam to record personally experienced events we intended that SenseCam pictures would form a pictorial diary to cue and consolidate autobiographical memories. After wearing SenseCam, Mrs B plugged the camera into a PC which uploaded the recorded images and allowed them to be viewed at speed, like watching a movie. In the control condition, a written diary was used to record and remind her of autobiographical events. After viewing SenseCam images, Mrs B was able to recall approximately 80% of recent, personally experienced events. Retention of events was maintained in the long-term, 11 months afterwards, and without viewing SenseCam images for three months. After using the written diary, Mrs B was able to remember around 49% of an event; after one month with no diary readings she had no recall of the same events. We suggest that factors relating to rehearsal/re-consolidation may have enabled SenseCam images to improve Mrs B's autobiographical recollection.
For decades, the sympathomimetic phenylpropanolamine (PPA; +/- -norepinephrine) was an active ingredient found in popular children's over-the-counter (OTC) cold, cough, and allergy medications. To examine the possibility that pre-adolescent PPA exposure may induce neuroadaptations that influence behavioral and neurochemical responding to cocaine, C57BL/6J mice were pretreated with PPA (0-40 mg/kg) during postnatal days 21-31. The behavioral and neurochemical responses to acute and repeated cocaine (4 x 15 mg/kg) were then assessed in adulthood when the mice were 10 weeks of age. Whereas pre-adolescent PPA exposure did not influence the acute locomotor response to 15 mg/kg cocaine, PPA pre-exposure dose-dependently enhanced the expression of cocaine-induced place conditioning, reduced the expression of locomotor sensitization, but did not influence cocaine-induced stereotypy. Pre-adolescent PPA exposure completely prevented the capacity of cocaine to elevate extracellular levels of catecholamines in the nucleus accumbens, but facilitated the development of cocaine-induced glutamate sensitization. Neither acute nor repeated cocaine altered extracellular GABA levels in the accumbens of control mice; however, 15 mg/kg cocaine lowered GABA levels by approximately 40% in PPA pretreated mice and this effect showed tolerance with repeated cocaine administration. These data provide the first evidence that early exposure to an OTC compound produces protracted effects upon cocaine-induced changes in nucleus accumbens neurotransmission that may contribute to a 'pro-addictive' phenotype in adulthood.
Serotonin 5HT(1A)-binding sites can be detected in living human brain with the positron-emitting antagonist [(11)C]WAY-100635. Previous measurements of the availability of [(11)C]WAY-binding sites in normal aging are equivocal, in part because of the greatly variable binding of this ligand. To test the null hypothesis that the binding potential (pB) of 5HT(1A) sites remains constant with age; 19 healthy volunteers aged 23-73 years (8 women, 11 men) underwent positron emission tomography. To determine pBs, we applied a novel tissue reference method of analysis, Estimation of Reversible Ligand Binding and Receptor Density (ERLiBIiRD) (Gjedde, 2003; Rosa-Neto et al, 2004), which extrapolates measures of specific binding to an estimated steady-state. We compared these estimates in the two age groups with results obtained with the conventional Logan Plot and Simplified Reference Tissue Method (SRTM) applied to both regions of interest-based as parametric analyses. The regional distribution of specific binding of free sites [(11)C]WAY-100635 was similar to that reported in previous studies, with the highest pBs in limbic structures and the raph nuclei. Although the results of the three methods differed, pBs in the elderly subjects consistently were lower than those of young subjects. Thus, the correlation between pB and age applied to regions-of-interest revealed significant decline of pB at the rate of 3 or 4% per decade, and a 10% decline of the global mean 5HT(1A) receptor-pB in elderly relative to young subjects. The results demonstrate that the number of available 5HT(1A)-binding sites declines with age.
Previous research indicated shared neurochemical substrates for gambling and psychostimulant reward. This suggests that dopamine substrates may directly govern the reinforcement process in pathological gambling. To investigate this issue, the present study assessed the effects of the relatively selective dopamine D2 antagonist, haloperidol (3 mg, oral) on responses to actual gambling (15 min on a slot machine) in 20 non-comorbid pathological gamblers and 18 non-gambler controls in a placebo-controlled, double-blind, counterbalanced design. In gamblers, haloperidol significantly increased self-reported rewarding effects of gambling, post-game priming of desire to gamble, facilitation of reading speed to Gambling words, and gambling-induced elevation in blood pressure. In controls, haloperidol augmented gambling-induced elevation in blood pressure, but had no effect on other indices. The findings provide direct experimental evidence that the D2 substrate modulates gambling reinforcement in pathological gamblers.
A number of studies have demonstrated that affective disorders in epilepsy represent a common psychiatric comorbidity; however, most of the classic neuropsychiatric literature focuses on depression, which is actually prominent, but little is known about bipolar depression, and very little about mania, in epilepsy. Biochemical, structural, and functional abnormalities in primary bipolar disorder could also occur secondary to seizure disorders. The kindling paradigm, invoked as a model for understanding seizure disorders, has also been applied to the episodic nature of bipolar disorder. In bipolar patients, changes in second-messenger systems, such as G-proteins, phosphatidylinositol, protein kinase C, myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate, or calcium activity have been described, along with changes in c-fos expression. Common mechanisms at the level of ion channels might include the antikindling and the calcium-antagonistic and potassium outward current-modulating properties of antiepileptic drugs. All these lines of research appear to be converging on a richer understanding of neurobiological underpinnings between bipolar disorder and epilepsy. Mania, which is the other side of the coin in affective disorders, may represent a privileged window into the neurobiology of mood regulation and the neurobiology of epilepsy itself. Future research on intracellular mechanisms might become decisive for a better understanding of the similarities between these two disorders.


This review aims to make the reader aware of the potential of functional MRI (fMRI) in brain activation studies in small animal models. As small animals generally require anaesthesia for immobilization during MRI protocols, this is believed to be a serious limitation to the type of question that can be addressed with fMRI. We intend to introduce a fresh view with an in-depth overview of the surprising number of fMRI applications in a wide range of important research domains in neuroscience. These include the pathophysiology of brain functioning, the basic science of activity, and functional connectivity of different sensory circuits, including sensory brain mapping, the challenges when studying the hypothalamus as the major control centre in the central nervous system, and the limbic system as neural substrate for emotions and reward. Finally the contribution of small animal fMRI research to cognitive neuroscience is outlined. This review avoids focusing exclusively on traditional small laboratory animals such as rodents, but rather aims to broaden the scope by introducing alternative lissencephalic animal models such as songbirds and fish, as these are not yet well recognized as neuroimaging study subjects. These models are well established in many other neuroscience disciplines, and this review will show that their investigation with in vivo imaging tools will open new doors to cognitive neuroscience and the study of the autonomous nervous system in experimental animals.

Extensive studies in rodents suggest that serotonin (5-HT) modulates nociceptive responses through the stimulation of several receptor types. However, it remains to demonstrate that these receptors participate in the control of nociception under physiological conditions. Pain behaviors of mutants which do not express 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT2A or 5-HT3A receptors, or lacking the 5-HT transporter, compared to paired wild-type mice of the same genetic background, were examined using validated tests based on different sensory modalities. Mechanical (von Frey filaments, tail pressure, tail clip tests), thermal (radiant heat, 46 degrees C water bath, hot-plate test) and formalin-induced nociception were determined in 2- to 3-month-old males. 5-HT1A knock-out mice differed from wild-types by higher thermal sensitivity (hot-plate test only), and 5-HT1B knock-out mice by higher thermal and formalin sensitivity. Both 5-HT2A and 5-HT3A knock-out mice differed from wild-types by a dramatic decrease in the formalin-induced nociceptive responses for phase II (16-45 min after injection/inflammatory phase). In contrast, neither mechanical, thermal nor formalin-induced nociception differed between mutants lacking the 5-HT transporter and paired wild-type mice. Although differences in spontaneous locomotor activity in 5-HT1B-/- (increase) and 5-HT3A-/- (decrease) knock-out mice versus paired wild-types might have confounded differences in nociception, acute 5-HT receptor blockade by selective antagonists was found to replicate in wild-type mice the effects on pain behavior, but not on locomotor activity, of the respective gene knock-out in mutants. These results support the conclusion that the complex control of pain mechanisms by 5-HT, acting at multiple receptors, is physiologically relevant in mice.

Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is by nature a 'sporadic' disease with no evidence of familial aggregation observed. However, the alpha-synuclein locus (SNCA) multiplication families have clinically displayed parkinsonism and autonomic dysfunction. The present study did not find any SNCA multiplications in a series of 58 pathologically confirmed MSA cases excluding this event as a common cause of MSA. The question of a genetic component in MSA remains to be answered.
We describe two patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) who developed clinical criteria of pathological gambling addiction in the setting of increased dopamine replacement therapy (levodopa and dopamine agonist medications). The second patient showed also signs of dopamine dysregulation syndrome, with an addiction to dopaminergic medication. Neither patients responded to the standard therapy for gambling behavior, but dramatically improved after bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) and early postoperative withdrawal of dopaminergic therapy. The possible therapeutic role of subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (STN-DBS) on such a disabling behavior needs to be investigated prospectively.

The prolactin secretory response to subcutaneous injection of orphanin FQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N) was measured in wild-type and OFQ/N knockout mice. These injections were given with and without isoflurane anesthesia, to determine if isoflurane would affect the prolactin secretory response. OFQ/N injection significantly increased prolactin levels in males and females, regardless of genotype, with a more robust response in females. Isoflurane pretreatment did not affect prolactin levels in controls or in animals injected with OFQ/N. This is the first report that exogenously administered OFQ/N stimulates prolactin secretion in mice and that brief isoflurane exposure does not significantly affect this response.
Sleep deprivation impairs a variety of cognitive abilities including vigilance, attention, and executive function. Although sleep loss has been shown to impair tasks requiring visual attention and spatial perception, it is not clear whether these deficits are exclusively a function of reduced attention and vigilance or if there are also alterations in visuospatial perception. Visuospatial perception and sustained vigilance performance were therefore examined in 54 healthy volunteers at rested baseline and again after one night of sleep deprivation using the Judgment of Line Orientation Test and a computerized test of psychomotor vigilance. Whereas psychomotor vigilance declined significantly from baseline to sleep-deprived testing, scores on the Judgment of Line Orientation did not change significantly. Results suggest that documented performance deficits associated with sleep loss are unlikely to be the result of dysfunction within systems of the brain responsible for simple visuospatial perception and processing of line angles.
A third class of photoreceptors has recently been identified in the mammalian retina. They are a rare cell type within the class of ganglion cells, which are the output cells of the retina. These intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells support a variety of physiological responses to daylight, including synchronization of circadian rhythms, modulation of melatonin release, and regulation of pupil size. The goal of this review is to summarize what is currently known concerning the cellular and biochemical basis of phototransduction in these cells. I summarize the overwhelming evidence that melanopsin serves as the photopigment in these cells and review the emerging evidence that the downstream signaling cascade, including the light-gated channel, might resemble those found in rhabdomeric invertebrate photoreceptors.
Phototransduction is the process by which light triggers an electrical signal in a photoreceptor cell. Image-forming vision in vertebrates is mediated by two types of photoreceptors: the rods and the cones. In this review, we provide a summary of the success in which the mouse has served as a vertebrate model for studying rod phototransduction, with respect to both the activation and termination steps. Cones are still not as well-understood as rods partly because it is difficult to work with mouse cones due to their scarcity and fragility. The situation may change, however.
Drosophila melanogaster has proven to be a useful model system to probe the mechanisms underlying the detection, discrimination, and perception of volatile odorants. The relatively small receptor repertoire of 62 odorant receptors makes the goal of understanding odor responses from the total receptor repertoire approachable in this system, and recent work has been directed toward this goal. In addition, new work not only sheds light but also raises more questions about the initial steps in odor perception in this system. Odorant receptor genes in Drosophila are predicted to encode seven transmembrane receptors, but surprising data suggest that these receptors may be inverted in the plasma membrane compared to classical G-protein coupled receptors. Finally, although some Drosophila odorant receptors are activated directly by odorant molecules, detection of a volatile pheromone, 11-cis vaccenyl acetate requires an extracellular adapter protein called LUSH for activation of pheromone sensitive neurons. Because pheromones are used by insects to trigger mating and other behaviors, these insights may herald new approaches to control behavior in pathogenic and agricultural pest insects.

The Mediator complex is a fluid assemblage of approximately 25 proteins that is essential for eukaryotic transcriptional regulation. Mediator of RNA polymerase II transcription (MED)12 (HOPA) is a 25-kb Xq13 member of the Mediator complex that plays a key role in the complex and directly moderates receptor tyrosine kinase, nuclear receptor and Wnt pathway signaling. Sequence variation in two MED12 protein domains has been linked to neuropsychiatric illness. First, variants in the Leu-Ser domain have been linked to Opitz-Kaveggia and Lujan syndromes, which are forms of X-linked mental retardation. Second, a balanced polymorphism in the C terminus opposite-paired domain, a key motif in the MED12-mediated transcriptional repression of Wnt signaling, has been associated with increased risk for psychosis. We conclude that variation of MED12 is associated with a wide variety of clinical presentations whose severity is dependent on the location and nature of the variation, and that a thorough understanding of MED12's role in transcriptional regulation could have significant benefits for human healthcare.
Recent clinical studies have suggested that the atypical antidepressant, bupropion (Wellbutrin), may stimulate sexual desire in women. Two experiments were conducted, testing the effect of acute bupropion administration on the sexual motivation and copulatory behavior of female rats. In the first experiment, 63 sexually-experienced, female Long-Evans rats were tested in a runway for their motivation to approach an empty goalbox, a nonestrous female, and an adult male. Both latency to approach and time spent in close proximity to the targets were used as dependent variables. Subjects were tested in both a nonestrous (OVX) and estrous (OVX+15 microg estradiol+500 microg progesterone) state, and following administration of 0.0, 7.5, or 15 mg/kg bupropion hydrochloride (subcutaneous, 45 min prior to testing). Results indicated that pre-treatment with ovarian hormones significantly increased the sexual motivation of the subjects. Bupropion treatment had no significant effect, either stimulatory or inhibitory, on subjects' socio-sexual motivation. In the second experiment, 60 female subjects were paired with an adult male for a thirty-minute copulatory test. Subjects were tested under one of three hormonal conditions: nonestrous (no hormones), 15 mug estradiol, or 15 microg estradiol+500 microg progesterone. Subjects were also pre-treated with either physiological saline or 15 mg/kg bupropion. Results indicated that while hormonal administration had a strong effect on female sexual behavior, bupropion treatment did not significantly affect either lordosis or the emission of hop-darts. Males paired with bupropion-treated females successfully achieved a greater number of ejaculations and demonstrated significantly shortened post-ejaculatory intervals. It is possible that bupropion treatment enhanced female attractiveness.
The Vogel conflict test has been widely used as a methodology for detecting anxiolytic-like effects of drugs with a broad spectrum of pharmacological activities. Despite widespread acceptance of the Vogel assay as a preclinical predictor of efficacy for anxiolytic-like compounds, detailed parametrics have not been reported on the optimization of this assay to determine how the schedule of reinforcement, the rate of responding and the frequency and temporal distribution of punishing events determine drug effect. The current report documents results of a systematic study of the relationship between number of shocks delivered and efficacy of the prototypical 1,4-benzodiazepine anxiolytic chlordiazepoxide (CDAP) in rats. Under this procedure, water-deprived rats were given access to water and during the later part of this access period, contacts with the drinking tube produced a brief electric shock. CDAP (5-20 mg/kg, i.p.) was first tested under a fixed-ratio 20 response schedule (every 20 th lick produced shock delivered via the sipper tube). CDAP produced dose-dependent increases in punished licking to approximately 275% of control at 20 mg/kg. Increasing the number of shocks during the first ten responses of the punishment component decreased the number of licks made under vehicle control conditions. The frequency of shock delivery produced both quantitative and qualitative changes in the effects of chlordiazepoxide ranging from no effect to 7000% increases in responding. The effects of chlordiazepoxide were dependent both on the control rate of responding and, independently, on the frequency of shock deliveries. Parametric variation under the Vogel conflict test may be useful in comparing the efficacy of novel approaches to the treatment of anxiety disorders.
Conditioned taste aversion (CTA) is a form of associative learning in which the pairing of a taste with a toxin causes an animal to avoid the taste. NMDA receptor mediated neurotransmission has been implicated in CTA, but the role of the NMDA receptor glycine-binding site has not been examined. To examine the effects on CTA of the glycinergic NMDA receptor agonist D-cycloserine, rats received D-cycloserine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle 15 min before 10-min access to 0.125% saccharin, followed by a low dose of LiCl (19 mg/kg, i.p.). CTA was measured with 24-h, 2-bottle preference tests between water and saccharin. Vehicle-treated rats formed a mild CTA that rapidly extinguished, while d-cycloserine-treated rats formed a stronger CTA that extinguished slowly. The effect of d-cycloserine was specific to the NMDA receptor glycine-binding site, because pretreatment with HA-966 (6 mg/kg), a partial glycinergic agonist, blocked enhancement by D-cycloserine. Three follow-up experiments suggest that the enhancement of CTA was not due to an aversive effect of D-cycloserine. First, saccharin paired with D-cycloserine (15 mg/kg) alone did not induce a CTA, although a higher dose (30 mg/kg) did significantly lower saccharin preference. Second, pretreatment with D-cycloserine did not increase the duration of &quot;lying-on-belly&quot; behavior induced by LiCl. Third, pretreatment with D-cycloserine did not increase c-Fos induction by either LiCl or vehicle injection in central visceral relays (the nucleus of the solitary tract, the parabrachial nucleus, the central nucleus of the amygdala, the supraoptic nucleus, and the paraventricular nucleus). These results confirm the participation of NMDA receptor, and specifically the glycine-binding site of NMDA receptor, in CTA learning.
Dopamine (DA) replacement therapy with l-DOPA remains the standard pharmacotherapy for Parkinson's disease (PD). Unfortunately, chronic l-DOPA treatment is accompanied by development of motor fluctuations and l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID). While serotonin (5-HT)(1A) agonists acutely reduce these complications, their prophylactic and long-term effects are not well-delineated. To test this, male Sprague-Dawley rats received unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions. In experiment 1, l-DOPA-primed rats were pre-treated with Vehicle (0.9% NaCl), various doses of the partial 5-HT(1A) agonist, buspirone (0.25, 1.0 or 2.5 mg/kg, ip) or buspirone (2.5 mg/kg, ip)+the 5-HT(1A) antagonist, WAY100635 (0.5 mg/kg, ip) 5 min prior to l-DOPA (12 mg/kg+15 mg/kg benserazide, ip). Rats were tested for LID using the abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) scale and motor performance using the forepaw adjusting steps test (FAS). In experiment 2, l-DOPA-nave rats received co-administration of l-DOPA+buspirone (1.0 or 2.5 mg/kg, ip) for 2 weeks. AIMs and FAS were measured throughout. In l-DOPA-primed rats, buspirone dose-dependently reduced LID and improved l-DOPA-related motor performance due to action at the 5-HT(1A) receptor. In l-DOPA-nave rats, buspirone delayed LID development while improving l-DOPA's anti-parkinsonian efficacy indicating the potential long-term benefits of 5-HT(1A) agonists for reduction of l-DOPA-related side effects.
The role of adult hippocampal neurogenesis in spatial learning remains a matter of debate. Here, we show that spatial learning modifies neurogenesis by inducing a cascade of events that resembles the selective stabilization process characterizing development. Learning promotes survival of relatively mature neurons, apoptosis of more immature cells, and finally, proliferation of neural precursors. These are three interrelated events mediating learning. Thus, blocking apoptosis impairs memory and inhibits learning-induced cell survival and cell proliferation. In conclusion, during learning, similar to the selective stabilization process, neuronal networks are sculpted by a tightly regulated selection and suppression of different populations of newly born neurons.
The relationship between neuronal acuity and behavioral performance was assessed in the barn owl (Tyto alba), a nocturnal raptor renowned for its ability to localize sounds and for the topographic representation of auditory space found in the midbrain. We measured discrimination of sound-source separation using a newly developed procedure involving the habituation and recovery of the pupillary dilation response. The smallest discriminable change of source location was found to be about two times finer in azimuth than in elevation. Recordings from neurons in its midbrain space map revealed that their spatial tuning, like the spatial discrimination behavior, was also better in azimuth than in elevation by a factor of about two. Because the PDR behavioral assay is mediated by the same circuitry whether discrimination is assessed in azimuth or in elevation, this difference in vertical and horizontal acuity is likely to reflect a true difference in sensory resolution, without additional confounding effects of differences in motor performance in the two dimensions. Our results, therefore, are consistent with the hypothesis that the acuity of the midbrain space map determines auditory spatial discrimination.


Although sarcoidosis is rarely confined to the nervous system, any neurological features that do occur frequently happen early in the course of the disease. The most common neurological presentation is with cranial neuropathies, but seizures, chronic meningitis and the effects of mass lesions are also frequent. The diagnostic process should first confirm nervous system involvement and then provide supportive evidence for the underlying disease; in the absence of any positive tissue biopsy, the most useful diagnostic tests are gadolinium enhanced MRI of the brain and CSF analysis, although both are non-specific. The mainstay of treatment is corticosteroids, but these often have to be combined with other immunosuppressants such as methotrexate, hydroxychloroquine or cyclophosphamide. There is increasing evidence that infliximab is a safe treatment with good steroid sparing capacity.
During infancy and early childhood, children develop their ability to regulate their own emotions and behavior. This development of self-regulatory mechanisms has been considered to be the crucial link between genetic predisposition, early experience, and later adult functioning in society. This paper brings together the updated empirical findings related to the role of attention and the maturation of brain frontal areas in self-regulation. It reviews viewpoints and evidence of disciplines such as developmental psychology, cognitive neuroscience, social psychology, and neurobiology. It examines the causes of individual differences in self-regulation and the effects of those differences on the social and academic functioning of the individual. The consequences of failure in self-regulation are illustrated by focusing on the attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), including a detailed review of the animal models related to this disorder. Finally, some initial evidence suggesting the possibility of fostering self-regulation through training of attention is presented.
Is there a specific neurocognitive system underlying the subjective sense of having a unitary continuous self across time? If so, it should be possible to isolate functions involved in the sense of self from those supporting mental activities that the self is currently engaged in. We report a study of real-time noninvasive recordings of the brain's electrical activity (event-related potentials, ERPs). We found a common neural signature that is associated with self-referential processing regardless of whether subjects are retrieving general knowledge (noetic awareness) or reexperiencing past episodes (autonoetic awareness). These ERP data are consistent with models of autobiographical memory that postulate a single locus of control over explicit memory for various kinds of self-related information. The temporal properties and scalp distribution of this novel self-reference ERP effect also suggest that it may be a neurophysiological correlate of self-related activation in medial prefrontal and parietal neocortical circuits identified in functional magnetic resonance imaging experiments.
Pezdek, Blandon-Gitlin, and Gabbay (2006) found that perceptions of the plausibility of events increase the likelihood that imagination may induce false memories of those events. Using a survey conducted by Gallup, we asked a large sample of the general population how plausible it would be for a person with longstanding emotional problems and a need for psychotherapy to be a victim of childhood sexual abuse, even though the person could not remember the abuse. Only 18% indicated that it was implausible or very implausible, whereas 67% indicated that such an occurrence was either plausible or very plausible. Combined with Pezdek et al.s' findings, and counter to their conclusions, our findings imply that there is a substantial danger of inducing false memories of childhood sexual abuse through imagination in psychotherapy.
Transfer appropriate processing (TAP) accounts propose that memory is a function of the degree to which the same neural processes transfer appropriately from the study experience to the memory test. However, in prior research, study and test stimuli were often similar physically. In two experiments, event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded to fragmented objects during an indirect memory test to isolate transfer of a specific perceptual process from overlap of physical features between experiences. An occipitotemporoparietal P2(00) at 200 msec showed implicit memory effects only when similar perceptual grouping processes of good continuation were repeatedly engaged-despite physical feature differences--as TAP accounts hypothesize. This result provides direct neurophysiological evidence for the critical role of process transfer across experiences for memory.
Behavioral adaptation to an anxiogenic environment involves the activity of various interconnected limbic regions, such as the amygdala, hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Prenatal stress (PS) in rats affects the ability to cope with environmental challenges and alters brain plasticity, leading to long-lasting behavioral and neurobiological alterations. We examined in PS and control animals whether behavioral reactivity was correlated to neuronal activation by assessing Fos protein expression in limbic regions of rats exposed to a low or high anxiogenic environment (the closed and open arms of an elevated plus maze, respectively). A negative correlation was found between behavioral and neuronal activation, with a lower behavioral reactivity and a higher neuronal response observed in rats exposed to the more anxiogenic environment (the open arm) with respect to the less anxiogenic environment (the closed arm). Interestingly, the variation in the neurobehavioral response between the two arms of the maze was less pronounced in rats that had been subjected to PS. This study provides a remarkable example of how long-lasting changes in brain plasticity induced by PS affect the ability of limbic neurons to cope with anxiogenic stimuli of different strength.

Epidemiological and experimental studies have demonstrated that perinatal alterations such as maternal undernutrition are frequently associated with the onset of several chronic adult diseases. Although the physiological mechanisms involved in this &quot;fetal programming&quot; remain largely unknown, it has been shown that early exposure to undernutrition programs hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis throughout lifespan. However, the wide spectrum of experimental paradigms used (species, sex, age of the animals, and duration and severity of undernutrition exposure) has given rise to variable results that are difficult to interpret. To circumvent this problem, we used the same experimental protocol of maternal food restriction to study the effects of a severe maternal undernutrition on the HPA axis activity in the male rat offspring throughout the life, namely from fetal stage to adulthood. Mothers exposed to food restriction received 50% (FR50) of the daily intake of pregnant dams during the last week of gestation and lactation. In FR50 fetuses, HPA axis function was reduced and associated with a decreased placental 11beta-HSD2 activity and a greater transplacental transfer of glucocorticoids. At weaning, maternal food restriction reduced HPA axis activity in response to an ether inhalation stress. In young adults (4-month-old), only fine HPA axis alterations were observed, whereas in older ones (8-month-old), maternal undernutrition was associated with chronic hyperactivity of this neuroendocrine axis. Interestingly, excessive glucocorticoids production is observed in a growing number of pathologies such as metabolic, cognitive, immune and inflammatory diseases, suggesting that they could, at least in part, result from fetal undernutrition and thus have a neurodevelopmental origin.
Coping with stressful events is part of everyone's daily life. The organism's response to stress is a complex array of physiological and behavioral changes aimed at the preservation/protection of the organism during the stressful event as well as at stimulating adaptive and mnemonic processes in case the event would re-occur in the future. The hippocampus including its 'gate', the dentate gyrus, is highly involved in these processes. We have been collecting evidence suggesting that the transcriptional activation seen in dentate gyrus neurons, which are involved in the encoding of memories of a psychologically stressful event, requires chromatin remodeling in these neurons driven by the phosphorylation (at Serine10) and acetylation (at Lysine14) of histone H3. These particular epigenetic mechanisms are potentially of special interest for neuronal functioning as they are associated with the induction of hitherto silent genes. The phospho-acetylation of histone H3 is brought about by the concurrent activation of two, possibly converging, signaling pathways, being the glucocorticoid receptor and the NMDA/MAPK/ERK/MSK signaling pathways. Thus, we present a new model about how signaling to the chromatin can shape a specific gene transcriptional response in dentate granule neurons required for the encoding of memory of the stressful event.
The transition to motherhood results in a number of hormonal, neurological and behavioral changes necessary to ensure offspring survival. However, little attention has been paid to changes not directly linked to reproductive function in the early mother. In this study, we demonstrate that spatial performances during the learning phase were impaired after the delivery in rats, while spatial retention ability was improved 2 weeks later. In addition, we also report that early motherhood reduced the cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus without inducing a decrease in the newborn cells 2 weeks later. The decrease of estradiol levels and high levels of glucocorticoids after delivery could in part explain the changes in the hippocampal function. In summary, our findings suggest that early postpartum period is associated with a modification of hippocampal function. This may reflect a homeostatic form of hippocampal plasticity in response to the onset of the maternal experience.
The cerebellum is a brain region endowed with a high degree of plasticity also in adulthood. After damage or alteration in the patterns of activity, it is able to undergo remarkable changes in its architecture and to form new connections based upon a process of synaptic reorganization. This review addresses cellular and molecular mechanisms that regulate the competition between two inputs belonging to different neuronal populations in innervating two contiguous but separate domains of the same target cell. The two inputs are the parallel fibers, the axon of the cerebellar granule cells, and the olivocerebellar neurons, that terminate as climbing fibers in the cerebellar cortex. The target is the Purkinje cell characterized by two dendritic domains that are different in size and number of spines, upon which the two afferent inputs impinge. Both inputs express several genes related to plasticity throughout the life span conferring the ability to remodel their synapses. In addition, we provided evidence that climbing fibers and Purkinje cells show remarkable reciprocal trophic interactions that are required for the maintenance of the correct synaptic connectivity. Through their activity, climbing fibers sustain the competition with parallel fibers by displacing this input to the distal territory of the Purkinje cell dendrite. In addition, they operate on the Purkinje cells through AMPA receptor suppressing spines in the territory surrounding their synapses. In this way, climbing fibers are able to optimize spine distribution and functional connectivity.






The authors examined whether instructions can lead to autonomous response activation even without practice. Eriksen and Eriksen's (1974) flanker compatibility paradigm was used to show that the flanker compatibility effect (FCE) is already present in the first trials following the stimulus-response instructions, before any of the stimuli have been repeated. This first-trials FCE was present even when participants were strongly motivated to ignore the flankers, and it disappeared under conditions of high working-memory (WM) load. The findings suggest that intention, formed by instructions, is involved in forming representations in WM that operate like a prepared reflex (Woodworth, 1938). The implications of the finding to intentionality and frontal lobe functions are discussed.
PC12 cell line has been widely used in a diverse array of neurophysiological studies including in exploration of oxygen-sensing mechanism. In present study, we first identified with immunocytochemistry and Western blot methods that interleukin-1 receptor type I was expressed in the PC12 cells. We then demonstrated with patch clamping technique that extracellular application of IL-1beta dose-dependently inhibited the outward voltage-dependent and TEA-sensitive potassium currents (I(K)) in the PC12 cells, and pre-incubation with the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist almost completely abolished this inhibitory effect. In addition, application of IL-1beta shifted steady-state inactivation of I(K) in hyperpolarizing direction, but did not alter its steady-state activation. Furthermore, IL-1beta-induced inhibition of I(K) led to a membrane depolarization and a transient increase of [Ca(2+)](i) in PC12 cells. Taking together, the present study elucidates that PC12 cells bear interleukin-1 receptor and response to IL-1beta stimulation.

We herein report the finding of a 45-year-old woman suffered from Sjgren syndrome with progressive tetraparesis, who later developed systemic muscle atrophy and respiratory failure with a one-year clinical history. Neurological examinations revealed progressive tetraparesis with absent deep tendon reflexes, whereas no upper motor neuron signs were observed. The motor and sensory nerve conduction velocity and sensory nerve action potential (SNAP) were both completely normal, but the prolongation of distal motor latency in the median nerve and a decrease in the compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitude were observed. We ascertained that a spontaneous discharge was detected in her upper and lower limbs on electromyography (EMG). Her neurological findings as well as the EMG findings closely correlated with those of motor neuron disease; however, she showed a motor paralytic bladder and also demonstrated a serum antibody reaction with 50 kDa spinal cord protein of the rat. A lumbar MR image showed an increased signal intensity of the cauda equina on a gadolinium-enhanced T1 weighted image. We consider the immune-mediated impairment of the motor nerve associated with Sjgren syndrome to be the cardinal pathogenesis of the present patient, even though treatment with oral corticosteroids did not ameliorate her symptoms.
The catalog of RNAs present in dendrites represents the complete repertoire of local translation that contributes to synaptic plasticity. Most views hold that a pool of dendritic mRNAs is selectively transported to a dendritic destination. This view requires that some mRNAs in the dendrite are locally enriched relative to the cell body; however, quantitative comparisons that would support this assumption do not currently exist. These issues related to somatodendritic distribution of mRNAs also apply to the microRNAs, approximately 21 nucleotide noncoding transcripts that bind to target mRNAs and either inhibit their translation or destabilize them. We combined laser capture with multiplex real-time RT (reverse transcription) PCR to quantify microRNAs in the neuritic and somatic compartments separately. The samples were standardized by RT-PCR measurements of a set of mRNAs, including known dendritic mRNAs, in these two compartments. Most neuronal miRNAs were detected in dendrites. With a few notable exceptions, most miRNAs were distributed through the somatodendritic compartment across a nearly constant gradient. Thus for lower-abundance miRNAs, the total neuronal concentration of the miRNA can remain readily detectable in the cell body but vanish from the dendrite. A very small number of miRNAs deviate from the distribution gradient across the miRNA population as relatively enriched or depleted in the dendrite.

The history of pain treatment likely started in the cradle of mankind, as the experience of pain from many causes presumably had an aversive dimension comparable in its ranking to elementary sensations and motivations such as hunger, thirst, maintenance of body temperature, and sexuality-all vital for individual and genetic survival. Thus, pain certainly was among the drives to create social behavior and medicine-these functions still are inherent in pain. The period of history from 1500, as considered here, is dominated by the emergence of science. The exploration of the inside of the human body found the brain to be the seat of sensations, emotions, and behavior, and this progress included pain as well, slowly disabusing it from the magic elements and demons still inherent from early times. The rational phase of medicine began and also included new concepts of pain as first conceived by Descartes. The treatment and prevention of pain became a strong motive of medicine, with new approaches in drug treatment, physical applications such as electricity, and discoveries of psychosocial implementations. During the nineteenth century the most important breakthroughs in pain treatment included general and local anesthesia as well as analgesic drugs from morphine to anti-inflammatory agents. They succeeded in taking the terror out of the agonizing pain of surgery and dramatic courses of diseases. Today's natural extension of the medical success in controlling acute pain may be seen in the period of pain medicine aimed at understanding and preventing chronic pain.
Embryonic organizing centers secrete signaling molecules that instruct target cells about their position and future identity. Information about cell position in relation to sources of instructive signals and about precursor cell lineages is key to our understanding of developmental processes that restrict cell potency and determine cell fate. We review adenohypophysis, lens, and olfactory placode formation and how gene expression patterns, cell positions, and cell fates in the anterior neural plate and anterior placodal field correlate in zebrafish and other vertebrates. Single cell lineage analysis in zebrafish suggests that the majority of preplacodal cells might be specified for pituitary, lens, or olfactory placode by the end of gastrulation.
Infections are important risk factors of perinatal brain injury. However, under certain circumstances, inflammation mediates preconditioning and provides protection to the immature brain. Recent experimental studies have examined the interaction of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) with other events. Evidence demonstrates that LPS administered 24h before hypoxia-ischemia in 7-day-old rats provides neuroprotection, which is associated with up-regulation of endogenous corticosterone but is also linked to significant cerebral gene regulation. Gene ontology analysis reveals that the most over-represented genes belong to immune and inflammatory processes. However, a number of cell death/survival genes, including complement component 1, complement component 3, aquaporin 4, epidermal growth factor receptor pathway substrate 15 and PYD and CARD domain containing are also significantly up-regulated 24h following LPS exposure. These results suggest that in addition to immune-related activation, transcription of cell death pathways may be important in LPS-induced preconditioning in the immature brain.






Hemorrhagic pituitary adenoma (HPA) is an acute clinical event in neurosurgery. Emergency surgical decompression is the most effective treatment. We retrospectively reviewed 65 cases collected from the Xijing Institute of Clinical Neuroscience from 1995 to 2005 with HPA. The majority of the patients (81.5%) experienced the acute symptoms of pituitary apoplexy including headache, ocular paresis, visual field deficits and hypopituitarism. On imaging features, 34 adenomas (52.3%) showed marked suprasellar extension, 17 (26.2%) showed moderate extension, and 6 (9.2%) had slight extension, another eight (12.3%) were intrasellar. All patients were treated promptly by emergency surgical decompression usually within 24h after the hospitalization. Twenty four patients operated on by the traditional transsphenoidal microsurgery; whereas 41 patients operated on by the endoscopic endonasal transsphenoidal surgery. Total removal of tumors was achieved in 59 cases (90.8%) and subtotal removal in 6 cases (9.2%). Postoperative radiotherapy, suppressive drug therapy and endocrine replacement therapy were required in seven patients with either remaining tumor or tumor recurrence. In a median follow-up period of 49 months for 54 cases, most patients' clinical symptoms had markedly improved. Visual acuity and visual fields improved in 88.4% and 92.7% of the patients who had preoperative visual symptoms, respectively. The majority of the HPA often occurred in patients with macroadenomas. With emergency surgical treatment, most patients with HPA could have quick improvement of symptoms, especially for altered consciousness and visual acuity or visual fields impairments.
At individual synapses, post-synaptic responses include a mixture of &quot;successes&quot; and &quot;failures&quot; in which transmitter is released or not released, respectively. Previously we measured synaptic strength at CA3-CA1 synapses averaged over all trials, including both successes and failures, using an induction protocol that allowed us to observe potentiation and depression events as step-like changes. Here we report quantal properties of 15 of the earlier experiments, including 14 potentiation events and eight depression events. In five experiments both potentiation events and depression events were evoked at the same synapse. During potentiation, success rate increased from 0.56 +/- 0.14 (mean +/- SD) to 0.69 +/- 0.12, and during depression, success rate decreased from 0.70 +/- 0.09 to 0.51 +/- 0.10. During potentiation potency increased from 10 +/- 5 to 19 +/- 9 pA, and during depression, potency decreased from 18 +/- 12 to 12 +/- 7 pA. On average, changes in potency accounted for 76% of the change in response size in potentiation events and 60% of the change in depression events. A reduced-assumption spectral analysis method showed evidence for multiple quantal peaks in distributions of post-synaptic current amplitudes. Consistent with the observed changes in potency, estimated quantal size (Q) increased with potentiation and decreased with depression. A change in potency, which is thought to reflect post-synaptic expression mechanisms, was followed within seconds to minutes by a change in success rate, which is thought to reflect pre-synaptic expression mechanisms. Synaptic plasticity events may therefore consist of changes that occur on both sides of a synapse in a temporally coordinated fashion.
Evidence obtained in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's disease (PD) and preliminary clinical trials, indicates that adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists might represent a promising nondopaminergic therapeutic tool for the treatment of PD. Those studies demonstrated the ability of adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists to potentiate l-dopa-mediated motor improvement, whereas very little is known about counteraction of specific motor deficits and on the effects of these compounds when administered alone. To this aim we evaluated the effects of different adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists on initiation of movement deficits, gait impairment and sensory-motor deficits, induced in rats by a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons. The following tests were used: (1) initiation time of stepping; (2) adjusting step (stepping with forelimb was measured as the forelimb was dragged laterally); (3) vibrissae-elicited forelimb placing (as index of sensory-motor integration deficits). Acute administration of the A(2A) receptor antagonists SCH 58261 (5 mg/kg i.p.) and ST 1535 (20 mg/kg i.p.) similarly to l-dopa (6 mg/kg i.p.) counteracted the impairments in the initiation time of stepping test, in the adjusting step and in the vibrissae-elicited forelimb placing induced by the lesion. The intensity of the effect was l-dopa &gt; SCH 58261 &gt; ST 1535. The results provide the first evidence that blockade of A(2A) receptors is effective in antagonizing specific motor deficit induced by DA neuron degeneration, such as initiation of movement and sensory-motor integration deficits, even without l-dopa combined administration.
The normal prion protein is abundantly expressed in the central nervous system, but its biological function remains unclear. The prion protein has octapeptide repeat regions that bind to several divalent metals, suggesting that the prion proteins may alter the toxic effect of environmental neurotoxic metals. In the present study, we systematically examined whether prion protein modifies the neurotoxicity of manganese (Mn) by comparing the effect of Mn on mouse neural cells expressing prion protein (PrP(C)-cells) and prion-knockout (PrP(KO)-cells). Exposure to Mn (10microM-10mM) for 24 h produced a dose-dependent cytotoxic response in both PrP(C)-cells and PrP(KO)-cells. Interestingly, PrP(C)-cells (EC(50) 117.6microM) were more resistant to Mn-induced cytotoxicity, as compared to PrP(KO)-cells (EC(50) 59.9microM), suggesting a protective role for PrP(C) against Mn neurotoxicity. Analysis of intracellular Mn levels showed less Mn accumulation in PrP(C)-cells as compared to PrP(KO)-cells, but no significant changes in the expression of the metal transporter proteins transferrin and DMT-1. Furthermore, Mn-induced mitochondrial depolarization and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation were significantly attenuated in PrP(C)-cells as compared to PrP(KO)-cells. Measurement of antioxidant status revealed similar basal levels of glutathione (GSH) in PrP(C)-cells and PrP(KO)-cells; however, Mn treatment caused greater depletion of GSH in PrP(KO)-cells. Mn-induced mitochondrial depolarization and ROS production were followed by time- and dose-dependent activation of the apoptotic cell death cascade involving caspase-9 and -3. Notably, DNA fragmentation induced by both Mn treatment and the oxidative stress inducer hydrogen peroxide (100microM) was significantly suppressed in PrP(C)-cells as compared to PrP(KO)-cells. Together, these results demonstrate that prion protein interferes with divalent metal Mn uptake and protects against Mn-induced oxidative stress and apoptotic cell death.
Despite tremendous variation in the appearance of visual objects, primates can recognize a multitude of objects, each in a fraction of a second, with no apparent effort. However, the brain mechanisms that enable this fundamental ability are not understood. Drawing on ideas from neurophysiology and computation, we present a graphical perspective on the key computational challenges of object recognition, and argue that the format of neuronal population representation and a property that we term 'object tangling' are central. We use this perspective to show that the primate ventral visual processing stream achieves a particularly effective solution in which single-neuron invariance is not the goal. Finally, we speculate on the key neuronal mechanisms that could enable this solution, which, if understood, would have far-reaching implications for cognitive neuroscience.
The investigation of the neural and cognitive mechanisms underlying the moral mind is of paramount importance for understanding complex human behaviors, from altruism to antisocial acts. A new study on patients with prefrontal damage provides key insights on the neurobiology of moral judgment and raises new questions on the mechanisms by which reason and emotion contribute to moral cognition.
Many in vitro data show that some ligands can cause the differential activation of signaling pathways mediated by a single receptor (termed 'functional selectivity'). It remains unclear, however, whether functionally selective properties are meaningful in vivo. Data obtained with experimental compounds that are functionally selective at the dopamine D2L receptor in vitro suggest that these properties might predict atypical behavioral actions. Moreover, the antipsychotic drug aripiprazole is commonly thought to be a D2 partial agonist, but data clearly show that aripiprazole is functionally selective in vitro. It is proposed that the effects of aripiprazole in animal models and humans can be reconciled only with its functionally selective D2 properties, not its partial D2 agonism. Together, these data provide support for the hypothesis that compounds with functionally selective properties in vitro are likely to have novel actions in vivo, opening doors to new avenues of drug discovery.
Many small-molecule agonists also display allosteric properties. Such ago-allosteric modulators act as co-agonists, providing additive efficacy--instead of partial antagonism--and they can affect--and often improve--the potency of the endogenous agonist. Surprisingly, the apparent binding sites of several ordinary allosteric enhancers and ago-allosteric modulators seem to overlap with those of the endogenous agonists. Different molecular scenarios are proposed to explain this discrepancy from classical allosteric models. In one scenario, the ago-allosteric modulator can interchange between different binding modes. In another, dimeric, receptor scenario, the endogenous agonist binds to one protomer while the ago-allosteric modulator binds to the other, 'allosteric' protomer. It is suggested that testing for ago-allosteric properties should be an integral part of the agonist drug discovery process because a compound that acts with--rather than against--the endogenous agonist could be an optimal agonist drug.
We used a rat model of Varicella-Zoster virus (VZV) ganglionic infection, which mirrors some of the features of VZV latency in humans, to determine the temporal pattern of expression of a VZV immediate-early gene (63) and a VZV late gene (40) at 0, 24 and 48 h after death of the animal. The immediate-early VZV gene 63 is known to be abundantly expressed during human ganglionic latency, while the late VZV gene 40 is not expressed during human latency. Using both RNA in situ hybridisation (ISH) and nested RT-PCR, it was found that at all time points in both thoracic and lumbar ganglia, the number of ganglia positive for VZV gene 63 was higher than for gene 40. The expression of gene 40 did not increase with time postmortem (pm) These results provide indirect support for the hypothesis that patterns of expression of VZV genes detected in human tissue at even 48 h pm reflect the pattern of expression during human ganglionic latency.
It is well established that sensitivity is not necessarily equivalent at isoeccentric locations across the visual field. The focus of this study was a psychophysical examination of the spatial sensitivity differences between the upper and lower visual hemifields under conditions biased toward the presumed magnocellular or parvocellular visual pathway. Experiment 1 showed higher contrast sensitivity in the lower visual field when visual sensitivity was biased toward the parvocellular pathway; no visual field anisotropy was found when sensitivity was biased toward the magnocellular pathway. Experiment 2 showed that the magnitude of the contrast sensitivity anisotropy within the presumed parvocellular pathway increased when test targets of higher spatial frequency were used. The results of this study have relevance for the design both of psychophysical paradigms and clinical training programs for patients with heterogeneous visual field loss.
In the central nervous system (CNS), the synapse is a specialized junctional complex by which axons and dendrites emerging from different neuron intercommunicates. Changes in the efficiency of synaptic transmission are important for a number of aspects of neural function. Much has been learned about the activity-dependent synaptic modifications that are thought to underlie memory storage, but the mechanism by which these modifications are stored remains unclear. Thus, it is important to find and characterize &quot;memory molecules,&quot; and &quot;memory apparatus or memory forming apparatus.&quot; A good candidate for the storage mechanism is Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II). CaM kinase II is one of the most prominent protein kinases, present in essentially every tissue but most concentrated in the brain. Neuronal CaM kinase II regulates important neuronal functions, including neurotransmitter synthesis, neurotransmitter release, modulation of ion channel activity, cellular transport, cell morphology and neurite extension, synaptic plasticity, learning and memory, and gene expression. Studies concerning this kinase open a door of the molecular basis of nerve function, especially learning and memory, and indicate one direction for the studies in the field of neuroscience. This review presents molecular structure, properties and functions of CaM kinase II, as a major component of neuron, which are mainly developed in our laboratory.
James Parkinson's Essay on the Shaking Palsy, published in 1817, represents a landmark in the development of writing about neurologic disorders. Parkinson was an astute clinician-investigator, and his wide scientific interests and ideas on social advancement in many ways typified the spirit of the Age of Enlightenment. Our commentary on the text of his essay identifies important sources of its originality: the particular way in which Parkinson collected and categorized clinical material, his use of a field neurology method to identify affected individuals, and his skills as a narrative writer. Although the essay belongs to an older tradition of disease classification, it also anticipates the modern neurologist's reliance on accurate clinical description and natural history in establishing a diagnosis.

Treatment of SKH-1 mice orally with caffeine (0.1 mg/ml in the drinking water), voluntary running wheel exercise, or a combination of caffeine and exercise for 2 weeks (i) decreased the weight of the parametrial fat pads by 35, 62, and 77%, respectively; (ii) decreased the thickness of the dermal fat layer by 38, 42, and 68%, respectively; (iii) stimulated the formation of UVB-induced apoptotic sunburn cells in the epidermis by 96, 120, and 376%, respectively; and (iv) stimulated the formation of UVB-induced caspase 3 (active form)-positive cells in the epidermis by 92, 120, and 389%, respectively (average of two experiments). Oral administration of caffeine (0.4 mg/ml in the drinking water) in combination with voluntary exercise was less effective than administration of the low dose of caffeine in combination with exercise in stimulating UVB-induced apoptosis. Although orally administrated caffeine (0.1 mg/ml in the drinking water) or voluntary exercise for 2 weeks caused only a small nonsignificant stimulation of UVB-induced increase in the percentage of phospho-p53 (Ser-15)-positive cells in the epidermis (27 or 18%, respectively), the combination of the two treatments enhanced the UVB-induced increase in phospho-p53 (Ser-15)-positive cells by 99%. The plasma concentration of caffeine in mice ingesting caffeine (0.1-0.4 mg/ml drinking water) is similar to that in the plasma of most coffee drinkers (one to four cups per day). Our studies indicate a greater than additive stimulatory effect of combined voluntary exercise and oral administration of a low dose of caffeine on UVB-induced apoptosis.


The stargazer (stg) mouse exhibits severe cerebellar ataxia, abnormal motor behavior, and absence epilepsy. Selective failure of cerebellar brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression is one of the molecular defects in stg mutant. To determine the in vivo effect of BDNF replacement on cerebellar function, we generated a double mutant line of stg-BDNF mice by crossbreeding BDNF-overexpressing transgenics with stg mutants. Significant upregulation of BDNF mRNA and protein levels was confirmed in the double mutant cerebellum. Gross examination showed less severe ataxia with normal cerebellar cytoarchitecture in stg-BDNF mice than the original stg mice. Behavioral characterization of stg-BDNF mice revealed significantly improved performance in swimming test and footprint analysis compared to stg mice. These results provide in vivo evidence for the correlation of the cerebellar BDNF levels to the ataxia and motor behaviors of stg mice.
Serotonin 5-HT(2C) receptors represent targets for therapeutics aimed at treating anxiety, depression, schizophrenia, and obesity. Previously, we demonstrated that 5-HT(2C) receptors function as homodimers. Herein, we investigated the effect of agonist and inverse agonist treatment on the homodimer status of two naturally occurring 5-HT(2C) receptor isoforms, one without basal activity (VGV) and one with constitutive activity (INI) with respect to Galpha(q) signaling. Cyan- and yellow-fluorescent proteins were used to monitor VGV and INI homodimer formation by western blot, and in living cells using bioluminescence and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (BRET and FRET). Western blots of solubilized membrane proteins revealed equal proportions of homodimeric receptor species from HEK293 cells transfected with either the VGV or INI isoform in the absence and presence of 5-HT. BRET ratios measured in HEK293 cells transfected with the VGV or INI isoform were the same and were not modulated by 5-HT. Similarly, FRET efficiencies were the same regardless of whether measured in cells expressing the VGV or INI isoform in the absence or presence of 5-HT or clozapine. The results indicate that serotonin 5-HT(2C) receptors form homodimers regardless of whether they are in an inactive or active conformation and are not regulated by drug treatment.
Ca(2+) channel beta subunits determine the transport and physiological properties of high voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel complexes. Our analysis of the distribution of the Ca(v)beta subunit family members in hippocampal neurons correlates their synaptic distribution with their involvement in transmitter release. We find that exogenously expressed Ca(v)beta(4b) and Ca(v)beta(2a) subunits distribute in clusters and localize to synapses, whereas Ca(v)beta(1b) and Ca(v)beta(3) are homogenously distributed. According to their localization, Ca(v)beta(2a) and Ca(v)beta(4b) subunits modulate the synaptic plasticity of autaptic hippocampal neurons (i.e., Ca(v)beta(2a) induces depression, whereas Ca(v)beta(4b) induces paired-pulse facilitation [PPF] followed by synaptic depression during longer stimuli trains). The induction of PPF by Ca(v)beta(4b) correlates with a reduction in the release probability and cooperativity of the transmitter release. These results suggest that Ca(v)beta subunits determine the gating properties of the presynaptic Ca(2+) channels within the presynaptic terminal in a subunit-specific manner and may be involved in organization of the Ca(2+) channel relative to the release machinery.
We describe a device for assessing the effects of diffusible molecules on electrophysiological recordings from multiple neurons. This device allows for the infusion of reagents through a cannula located among an array of micro-electrodes. The device can easily be customized to target specific neural structures. It is designed to be chronically implanted so that isolated neural units and local field potentials are recorded over the course of several weeks or months. Multivariate statistical and spectral analysis of electrophysiological signals acquired using this system could quantitatively identify electrical &quot;signatures&quot; of therapeutically useful drugs.
Immunophilins are protein receptors for the immunosuppressant drugs FK506, cyclosporin A (CsA), and rapamycin. Two categories of immunophilins are the FK506-binding proteins (FKBPs), which bind to FK506, rapamycin, and CCI-779 and the cyclophilins, which bind to CsA. Reports have shown that immunophilins are expressed in the brain and spinal cord, are 10-100-fold higher in CNS tissue than immune tissue, and their expression is increased following nerve injury, suggesting that their chemical ligands may have therapeutic utility in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we report the development and utility of a rapid neurofilament (NF) enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to quantify neuronal survival and the Cellomics ArrayScan platform to quantify neurite outgrowth following treatment with immunophilin ligands. Cultured neurons or F-11 cells were treated with various immunophilin ligands for 72 or 96h and their promotion of neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth were determined. The results showed that all immunophilin ligands, in a concentration-dependent manner, significantly increased neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth, when compared to control cultures. Taken together, these results demonstrate the potential utility of the neurofilament ELISA and Cellomics ArrayScan platform to efficiently quantify neurotrophic effects of immunophilin ligands on cultured neurons and cell lines.
Coherence analysis is widely employed to study the correlation between discharge times of simultaneously active motor units. Despite the widespread application of the technique, it has not been fully established how the characteristics of the observed coherence are related to the properties of the shared motoneuron inputs. In addition, the exact relationship between coherence and traditional measures of motor unit synchronization remains unclear. The purpose of this study was to examine the influence of shared motoneuron inputs on coherence between motor unit discharge patterns using computer simulations. Although less sensitive to motor unit firing rates than traditional synchronization-based indices, coherence tended to decrease with increasing frequency of the common input and to increase slightly when the common input frequency was close to the motor unit firing rates. In addition, coherence tended to be highest between motor units with similar firing rates. A linear association was observed between synchronization and coherence in the 15-30 Hz range and between 'common drive' and coherence in the 0-5 Hz range. The results suggest that caution should be taken when interpreting differences in coherence observed between motor units with significantly different firing properties or when comparing data with coherence in different frequency ranges.
There have been many approaches to the problem of detection and sorting of extra-cellularly recorded action potentials, but only a few methods actually quantify the quality of this fundamental process. In most cases, the quality assessment is based on the subjective judgment of human observers and the recorded units are divided into &quot;well isolated&quot; or &quot;multi-unit&quot; groups. This subjective evaluation precludes comprehensive assessment of single-unit studies since the most basic parameter, i.e. their data quality, is not explicitly defined. Here we propose objective measures to evaluate the quality of spike data, based on the time-stamps of the detected spikes and the high-frequency sampling of the analog signal of cortical and basal-ganglia data. We show that quantification of recording quality by the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) may be misleading. The recording quality is better assessed by an isolation score that measures the overlap between the noise (non-spike) and the spike clusters. Furthermore, we use a nearest-neighbors algorithm to estimate the proportion of false positive and false negative classification errors. To validate these quality measures, we simulate spike detection and sorting errors and show that the scores are good predictors of the frequency of errors. The reliability of the isolation score is further verified by errors implanted in real basal ganglia data and by using different sorting algorithms. We conclude that quantitative measures of spike isolation can be obtained independently of the method used for spike detection and sorting, and recommend their reports in any study based on the activity of single neurons.
The objective of this study was to develop a method that could reliably determine the arginine vasopressin (AVP) and/or oxytocin (OT) content of individual rat neurohypophysial terminals (NHT) &gt;or=5 microm in diameter, the size used for electrophysiological recordings. We used a commercially available, highly sensitive enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) kit with a sensitivity of 0.25 pg to AVP and of 1.0pg to OT. The NHT content of AVP (2.21+/-0.10 pg) was greater than OT (1.77+/-0.08 pg) and increased with terminal size. AVP-positive terminals (10.2+/-0.21 microm) were larger in diameter than OT-positive terminals (9.1+/-0.24 microm). Immunocytochemical techniques indicated that a higher percentage (58%) of smaller terminals contained OT, and that a higher percentage (42%) of larger NHTs were colabeled. Similar percentages of AVP-positive terminals were obtained between immunocytochemical (73%) and ELISA (72%) methods when NHTs were assayed for AVP alone, but there was a higher percentage of OT terminals when using immunocytochemistry (43%) compared to ELISA (26%). The percent of AVP-positive (60%) and OT-positive (18%) terminals decreased when NHT were assayed for both AVP and OT. Therefore, the best method to reliably identify AVP-positive NHTs is to assay only for AVP, since this allows the conclusion that AVP-negative terminals contain only OT.
Type II errors may be having a significant impact on drug discovery. This is of particular importance in the clinical neurosciences, where endpoints are often subjective scores of disability rather than unequivocal events such as survival. Here we examine a recently published study [Lang AE, Gill S, Patel NK, et al. Randomized controlled study of intraputamenal glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor infusion in Parkinson disease. Ann Neurol 2006;59:459-66] in an area of immense importance to neuroscience. This small study found no detectable clinical benefit from infused intraputamenal GDNF as a treatment for Parkinson disease. However the standard deviation of the accrued data turned out to be considerably higher than had been anticipated in the power analysis performed prior to the study. In order to determine what impact, if any, this had on the conclusions that could be drawn, the actual data were analyzed by means of both the t-test and the rank-based Somers'D. The study was found to be underpowered and thus incapable of ruling out a large effect of GDNF on Parkinson disease. It therefore does not contradict the large effects seen in previous open-label studies.
We report the outcome of botulinum toxin injection for essential palatal myoclonus, given on two occasions over a period of one year, in an eight-year-old boy, the youngest patient treated with botulinum toxin to date. Though there was significant relief of ear clicks each time after the injection, he developed severe palatal palsy following the second injection, which persisted for a month. We suggest that appropriate caution needs to be exercised when repeating botulinum toxin injections for palatal myoclonus in children.

The aim of this study was to examine Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) profiles in patients with social phobia (DSM-IV) and to outline patterns of change following intensive group cognitive therapy (IGCT), individual cognitive therapy (ICT) and treatment as usual (TAU). One hundred patients recruited by advertisements in local papers were randomized to IGCT, ICT and TAU. Patients (n=59) who completed diagnostic evaluation and TCI assessments at baseline and 1-year follow-up were examined in this study. Patients differed from healthy controls in novelty seeking (NS), harm avoidance (HA), self-directedness (SD), cooperativeness (C), and self-transcendence (ST). Treatments overall were associated with decrease in HA, while increase in SD was observed after psychotherapy only. Reduced social anxiety was correlated with decrease in HA and increase in SD. High HA at baseline was related to poor treatment outcome in all treatments. To conclude, patients with social phobia show a temperamental vulnerability for developing anxiety and character traits associated with personality disorders. Successful treatment is related to decrease in HA and increase in SD. High HA at baseline may suggest a need for extensive treatment in order to achieve remission.
Protocadherins (PCDHs) consist of the largest subgroup of the cadherin superfamily, and most PCDHs are expressed dominantly in the CNS. Because PCDHs are involved in the homophilic cell-cell adhesion, PCDHs in the nervous system have been suggested to play roles in the formation and maintenance of the synaptic connections. Although many PCDHs (&gt;50) are in tandem arranged as a cluster in a specific chromosome locus, there are also considerable numbers of non-clustered PCDH members (approximately 20). In this study, we examined the spatiotemporal distribution of mRNAs for 12 non-clustered PCDHs in rat brain using in situ hybridization. Some of them (PCDH1, PCDH7, PCDH9, PCDH10, PCDH11, PCDH17, and PCDH20) exhibited region-dependent expression pattern in the cerebral cortex during the early postnatal stage (P3), which is a critical period for the establishment of specific synaptic connections: PCDH7 and PCDH20 mRNAs were predominantly expressed in the somatosensory (parietal) and visual (occipital) cortices, whereas PCDH11 and PCDH17 mRNAs were preferentially expressed in the motor (forelimb and hindlimb areas) and auditory (temporal) cortices, and PCDH9 mRNA was highly expressed in the motor and main somatosensory cortices. These PCDHs were also expressed in the specific regions of the connecting thalamic nuclei. These cortical regionalization and thalamic nuclei-specificity appeared to be most distinct in P3 compared with those of embryonic and adult stages. Taken together, these results suggest that PCDHs may play specific roles in the establishment of selective synaptic connections of specific modality of cerebral cortex with other communicating brain regions such as the thalamus.
Pathogenic substitutions in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2, Lrrk2) have been genetically linked to familial, late-onset Parkinsonism. End-stage disease is predominantly associated with nigral neuronal loss and Lewy body pathology, but patients may have gliosis, tau or ubiquitin inclusions (pleomorphic pathology). The anatomical distribution of Lrrk2 protein may provide insight into its function in health and neurodegeneration, thus we performed a comparative study with 'in-house' and commercially available Lrrk2 antibodies using brain tissue from wild type and human Lrrk2 transgenic bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) mice, and from diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD) patients. Lrrk2 protein was ubiquitously expressed and relatively abundant in most brain regions, including the substantia nigra, thalamus and striatum. Lrrk2 was not a major component of Lewy body or neuritic pathology associated with Parkinson's disease. However, selective loss of dopaminergic neurons in Lrrk2-associated Parkinsonism argues the protein may have regional-specific interactions. Lrrk2 immunohistochemical staining was present in the subventricular zone, a region containing stem cells that give rise to both neurons and glia. A role for Lrrk2 in neurogenesis might provide further insight into the aberrant role of mutant protein in age-associated neurodegeneration with pleomorphic pathology.
Mutations in Na+ channels cause a variety of epilepsy syndromes. Analysis of these mutations shows a range of simultaneous functional consequences, each of which may increase or decrease membrane excitability, making it difficult to predict the combined effect on neuron firing. This may be addressed by building mathematical models of Na+ channel gating and using them in neuron models to predict responses to natural stimuli. The R85C and R85H mutations of the beta1 subunit cause generalized epilepsy syndromes in humans, and an experimental study showed that these mutations shift steady-state activation in the negative direction, which predicts increased excitability, and shift fast inactivation in the negative direction, which predicts decreased excitability. In addition, the R85C also shifts slow inactivation in the negative direction. To predict changes in neuron excitability resulting from these contradictory effects we built Na+ channel models based on our earlier data and on new measurements of the rate of slow inactivation over a range of potentials. Use of these Na+ channel models in simple neuron models revealed that both mutations cause an increase in excitability but the R85H mutation was more excitable. This is due to differences in steady-state slow inactivation and to subtle differences in fast kinetics captured by the model fitting process. To understand the effect of changes in different gating processes and to provide a simple guide for interpreting changes caused by mutations, we performed a sensitivity analysis. Using the wild-type model we shifted each activation curve by +/-5 mV or altered gating rates up or down by 20%. Excitability was most sensitive to changes in voltage dependence of activation, followed by voltage dependence of inactivation and then slow inactivation. By contrast, excitability was relatively insensitive to gating rates.
Locus coeruleus neurons are strongly coupled during early postnatal development, and it has been proposed that these neurons are linked by extraordinarily abundant gap junctions consisting of connexin32 (Cx32) and connexin26 (Cx26), and that those same connexins abundantly link neurons to astrocytes. Based on the controversial nature of those claims, immunofluorescence imaging and freeze-fracture replica immunogold labeling were used to re-investigate the abundance and connexin composition of neuronal and glial gap junctions in developing and adult rat and mouse locus coeruleus. In early postnatal development, connexin36 (Cx36) and connexin43 (Cx43) immunofluorescent puncta were densely distributed in the locus coeruleus, whereas Cx32 and Cx26 were not detected. By freeze-fracture replica immunogold labeling, Cx36 was found in ultrastructurally-defined neuronal gap junctions, whereas Cx32 and Cx26 were not detected in neurons and only rarely detected in glia. In 28-day postnatal (adult) rat locus coeruleus, immunofluorescence labeling for Cx26 was always co-localized with the glial gap junction marker Cx43; Cx32 was associated with the oligodendrocyte marker 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNPase); and Cx36 was never co-localized with Cx26, Cx32 or Cx43. Ultrastructurally, Cx36 was localized to gap junctions between neurons, whereas Cx32 was detected only in oligodendrocyte gap junctions; and Cx26 was found only rarely in astrocyte junctions but abundantly in pia mater. Thus, in developing and adult locus coeruleus, neuronal gap junctions contain Cx36 but do not contain detectable Cx32 or Cx26, suggesting that the locus coeruleus has the same cell-type specificity of connexin expression as observed ultrastructurally in other regions of the CNS. Moreover, in both developing and adult locus coeruleus, no evidence was found for gap junctions or connexins linking neurons with astrocytes or oligodendrocytes, indicating that neurons in this nucleus are not linked to the pan-glial syncytium by Cx32- or Cx26-containing gap junctions or by abundant free connexons composed of those connexins.

The aim of this study was to determine the brain structures as well as the plasticity events associated with the behavioral effects of cholinergic damage. Rats were submitted to injection of 192 IgG-saporin in the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca complex and the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. The immunohistochemical expression of c-Fos protein and PSA-NCAM (polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule) and the behavioral performances in the nonmatching-to-position task were assessed at various post-lesion times. Thus, 3 days after injection of the immunotoxin, increased c-Fos labeling was observed in the areas of infusion, indicating these cells were undergoing some plastic changes and/or apoptotic processes. A drastic increase was observed in the number of PSA-NCAM positive cells and in their dendritic arborization in the dentate gyrus. At 7 days post-lesion, no behavioral deficit was observed in immunolesioned rats despite the drastic loss of cholinergic neurons. These neurons showed decreased c-Fos protein expression in the piriform and entorhinal cortex and in the dentate gyrus. In the latter, PSA-NCAM induction was high, suggesting that remodeling occurred, which in turn might contribute to sustaining some mnemonic function in immunolesioned rats. At 1 month, cholinergic neurons totally disappeared and behavioral deficits were drastic. c-Fos expression showed no change. In contrast, the increased PSA-NCAM-labeling observed at short post-lesion times was maintained but the plastic changes due to this molecule could not compensate the behavioral deficit caused by the immunotoxin. Thus, as the post-lesion time increases, a gradual degeneration process should occur that may contribute to mnemonic impairments. This neuronal loss leads to molecular and cellular alterations, which in turn may aggravate cognitive deficits.
It is becoming clear that the detection and integration of synaptic input and its conversion into an output signal in cortical neurons are strongly influenced by background synaptic activity or &quot;noise.&quot; The majority of this noise results from the spontaneous release of synaptic transmitters, interacting with ligand-gated ion channels in the postsynaptic neuron [Berretta N, Jones RSG (1996); A comparison of spontaneous synaptic EPSCs in layer V and layer II neurones in the rat entorhinal cortex in vitro. J Neurophysiol 76:1089-1110; Jones RSG, Woodhall GL (2005) Background synaptic activity in rat entorhinal cortical neurons: differential control of transmitter release by presynaptic receptors. J Physiol 562:107-120; LoTurco JJ, Mody I, Kriegstein AR (1990) Differential activation of glutamate receptors by spontaneously released transmitter in slices of neocortex. Neurosci Lett 114:265-271; Otis TS, Staley KJ, Mody I (1991) Perpetual inhibitory activity in mammalian brain slices generated by spontaneous GABA release. Brain Res 545:142-150; Ropert N, Miles R, Korn H (1990) Characteristics of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents in CA1 pyramidal neurones of rat hippocampus. J Physiol 428:707-722; Salin PA, Prince DA (1996) Spontaneous GABAA receptor-mediated inhibitory currents in adult rat somatosensory cortex. J Neurophysiol 75:1573-1588; Staley KJ (1999) Quantal GABA release: noise or not? Nat Neurosci 2:494-495; Woodhall GL, Bailey SJ, Thompson SE, Evans DIP, Stacey AE, Jones RSG (2005) Fundamental differences in spontaneous synaptic inhibition between deep and superficial layers of the rat entorhinal cortex. Hippocampus 15:232-245]. The function of synaptic noise has been the subject of debate for some years, but there is increasing evidence that it modifies or controls neuronal excitability and, thus, the integrative properties of cortical neurons. In the present study we have investigated a novel approach [Rudolph M, Piwkowska Z, Badoual M, Bal T, Destexhe A (2004) A method to estimate synaptic conductances from membrane potential fluctuations. J Neurophysiol 91:2884-2896] to simultaneously quantify synaptic inhibitory and excitatory synaptic noise, together with postsynaptic excitability, in rat entorhinal cortical neurons in vitro. The results suggest that this is a viable and useful approach to the study of the function of synaptic noise in cortical networks.
The thalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVT) receives a dense innervation from orexin-synthesizing lateral hypothalamic neurons. Since PVT neurons display state-dependent tonic or low threshold spike-driven burst firing patterns, we examined how the response to exogenously applied orexins might modulate these features. Data were obtained with whole-cell patch clamp recording techniques in rat brain slices prepared during the subjective lights-on period. PVT neurons displayed a mean resting membrane potential of -61+/-6 mV and input conductance of 1.3+/-0.1 nS (n=60). The majority (90/107) of cells tested responded to orexin A and/or orexin B peptides (100-1000 nM), each inducing similar slowly rising and prolonged membrane depolarizations. We next evaluated associated changes in firing patterns and action potential frequency. Of 17 spontaneously silent neurons, 5 were induced into tonic firing and 4 into burst firing modes. Of nine spontaneously bursting neurons, three displayed an increase in burst frequency and in the number of action potentials within a burst. By contrast, another six cells were induced into tonic firing mode, with a marked decrease in instantaneous firing frequency and a shift in their excitatory postsynaptic potential-evoked responses from burst firing patterns to single action potentials. Under voltage clamp, orexins induced inward current (-21.8+/-2.4 pA at -60 mV) in 20/22 cells. In 13 cells, current-voltage (I-V) plots revealed a decrease in net conductance and reversal at -110+/-9 mV, while 3 cells displayed an increase in net conductance that reversed at -26+/-8 mV. These observations imply suppression of potassium and/or induction of nonselective cationic conductances in orexin-induced depolarization in PVT neurons, permitting these peptides to modulate intrinsic state-dependent properties. In vivo, such changes in firing patterns and frequency of action potential discharges could influence neurotransmission through PVT and activity-dependent synaptic plasticity at target sites of these neurons.
The striatum and the subthalamic nucleus (STN) are the two main cortical inputs to the basal ganglia. Both structures are involved in motor and cognitive functions, particularly executive functions, known to rely mainly on fronto-basal ganglia circuits. The present work investigated the respective role of the dorsal part of the striatum (dST) and the STN by studying their involvement in learning and memory processes in two separate experiments. In a first experiment, rats with lesions to the STN or to the dST were trained in a light-tone discrimination task. When the learning criterion was reached, rats were then trained to the reversed discrimination. In a second experiment, surgery was done when the learning criterion had been reached. Three weeks after surgery, animals were then subjected to two relearning sessions and then to either a reversal learning or a working memory task. When surgery was done before learning, dysfunction of the dorsal striatum induced slight difficulties in acquisition, whereas dysfunction of the STN induced no difficulties during the initial learning but induced a more rapid inhibition of responses to the first lever press following the presentation of the tone during the reversed discrimination. In the second experiment, dST-lesioned rats showed long-term memory deficit in contrast to STN-lesioned rats which showed no difficulties during relearning but deficits in working memory. These results indicate a clear dissociation in cognitive functions in which STN and dorsal striatum are involved, suggesting that the fronto-striatal circuit and the fronto-STN circuit support, at least in part, different cognitive functions.
Centrifugal olivocochlear (OC) pathways modulate cochlear hearing desensitization induced by loud sounds, but there is a null point, determined by sound bandwidth, for this effect. In a previous study, using loud sounds from the region of greatest hearing sensitivity in cats, OC pathways did not affect desensitization induced by 2-kHz wide noise, but did to narrower bandwidth (tones) or broader bandwidth (3.5 kHz-wide or 5 kHz-wide noise) trauma from the same cochlear region. The bandwidth null-point effect occurred in three very different conditions in which OC pathways modulated losses to narrower or broader bandwidth traumata, confirming the robustness of this phenomenon, and was also true for sub-component OC pathways: neither crossed nor uncrossed OC pathways individually modulated desensitization to that 2 kHz-wide noise. The medial olivocochlear system (MOCS) that is most likely to have modulated desensitization in that study, varies in its cochlear distribution; in cats, densest innervation is in the region of greatest hearing sensitivity and the decrease away from that region means MOCS effects there may not translate to other regions. This hypothesis was now tested in lower- (around 4 kHz) and higher- (around 18 kHz) frequency cochlear regions. Across this fairly large cochlear swath, no OC modulation of desensitization occurred to 2-kHz-wide bandwidth sounds, but did to broader bandwidth; thus the bandwidth dependency was constant across this swath. However, when OC effects did occur, the pattern of effects of OC sub-components could be idiosyncratic to sound bandwidth and cochlear region even for similar net OC effects.
The present study seeks to identify effects of a common genetic polymorphism in the human nicotinic alpha4beta2 receptor on components of the cognitive event-related potentials in auditory and visual modalities. The same sense thymine-to-cytosine polymorphism (c.1629T-C; Ser543Ser) was shown to preferentially modulate early components in both modalities. Specifically, the auditory N1 component amplitude was higher for T allele homozygotes than for C allele carriers. The visual P1 component revealed the same pattern of significant polymorphic modulation, but the later N1 amplitude differences were only marginally significant. There was no reliable indication of interactions between genotype and task factors. Parallel modulation of early latency modality-specific event-related potential (ERP) components in vision and audition may indicate that the CHRNA4 polymorphism affects factors that are common to top-down modulation of sensory processing across modalities.
Chronic inflammatory pain induces short- and long-term central changes, which have been mainly studied at the spinal cord level. Supraspinal pain control centers intrinsically connected with the dorsal horn are also prone to be affected by chronic inflammatory pain. C-fos expression was used as a neuronal activation marker at spinal and supraspinal levels to i) compare acute and chronic articular inflammation, and ii) analyze the effects of brief innocuous or noxious stimulation of a chronically inflamed joint. Acute articular inflammation was induced by an inflammatory soup with prostaglandin E(2) and bradykinin, both at 10(-5) M. Chronic articular inflammation consisted of 14 days of monoarthritis. Early c-fos expression was studied 4 min after inflammatory soup injection or stimulation of the arthritic joint whereas late c-fos expression was evaluated 2 h after those stimuli. At the spinal cord, the analysis was focused on the dorsal horn (laminae I-V) and supraspinally, five major regions of the endogenous pain control system were considered: the caudal ventrolateral medulla (VLM), the dorsal reticular nucleus (DRt), the ventral reticular nucleus (VRt), the nucleus of the solitary tract (Sol) and the rostroventromedial medulla (RVM). Acute articular inflammation induced early and late increases in c-fos expression at the spinal level and late increases supraspinally whereas the effects of monoarthritis were more moderate and restricted to the spinal cord. When monoarthritic animals were subjected to gentle touch or bending of the joint, early increases in c-fos expression were detected supraspinally, but not at the spinal level. In this region, noxious mechanical stimulation induced late increases in non-inflamed animals and both early and late increases in monoarthritic rats. Supraspinally, noxious stimulation induced only late increases in c-fos expression. The present results show complex differences in the patterns of c-fos expression between the spinal cord and medullary areas of the pain control system during articular inflammation, which indicate that the somatosensory system is differentially affected by the installation of chronic pain.
Aging is a significant risk factor for developing epilepsy. The mechanisms underlying age-related increase in seizure susceptibility and resultant injury remain unknown. Oxidative stress is an important mechanism that contributes to diverse age-related disorders. Whether age-related increased seizure susceptibility is accompanied by increased oxidative stress remains unknown. The goal of this study was to determine if aging per se increases the susceptibility of rats to kainate-induced behavioral seizures and oxidative stress. Adult (3-4 month-old) and aging (18-19 month-old) Sprague-Dawley rats were administered a single low dose of kainate (5 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline. Behavioral seizures were monitored in all four groups for a period for a period of approximately 6 h. Oxidative stress (8-hydroxy-2'deoxyguanosine/2-deoxyguanosine; 8OHdG/2dG) was assessed 24 h following kainate injection. Stereological assessment of cell counts was performed in hippocampal tissue 7 days following kainate injection. In adult rats, administration of the low dose of kainate did not produce significant behavioral seizures, oxidative stress or cell loss. However, aging rats exhibited intense behavioral seizures consistent with status epilepticus following the low dose of kainate. In aging rats, kainate produced a significant increase in oxidative DNA damage (8OHdG/2dG) and neuronal loss in cornu ammonis regions 3 and 1 (CA3 and CA1), but not dentate gyrus compared with both age-matched controls and adult kainate-treated rats. These data suggest that the process of aging per se increases kainate-induced seizure susceptibility, oxidative stress and hippocampal pyramidal cell loss.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) plays an important role in ischemic neuronal cell death. ER stress-related markers [immunoglobulin binding protein (BiP)/glucose-regulated protein (GRP) 78, activating transcription factor-4 (ATF-4), and C/EBP-homologous protein (CHOP)] in the striatum and the cortex were investigated after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in mice. Using endoplasmic reticulum stress-activated indicator (ERAI) transgenic mice, which show splicing of X-box protein 1 (XBP-1) mRNA as green fluorescence, we monitored the regional changes in fluorescence after MCAO. BiP mRNA (by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction [RT-PCR] analysis) was increased in the cortex at 6 h. In immunohistochemical and/or Western blot analysis, the expressions of ER stress-related markers (BiP, ATF-4, and CHOP) were increased in the infarct region, more strongly in the cortex than in the striatum. ERAI fluorescence was observed in the ischemic area starting from 6 and 12 h, respectively, after MCAO, with the peaks at 1 day and the fluorescence co-localized with the 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC)-visible extension of brain infarction. These findings suggest that permanent MCAO induces expression of ER-stress related genes mainly in the periphery of the MCA territory.
Previous research has shown that conceptual/semantic information precedes segmental information in stress language production (such as English or Dutch). The present study investigated the relative time course of semantic and metrical encoding during Chinese (a tone language) production. Participants were shown pictures and carried out a dual-choice go/nogo decision based on semantic information (whether the depicted item was of a living or non-living object) and metrical information (whether the tone of picture's name was one type, tone 1 or tone 2, or the other type, tone 3 or tone 4). The behavior data, the N200 (related to response inhibition) and the lateralized readiness potentials (LRP, related to response preparation) indicated that semantic encoding was prior to metrical encoding. It provided evidence for early semantic encoding and later metrical encoding of speech production, and supported the serial model or the cascading model, rather than the parallel model of language production. This conclusion relating to the time course of semantic versus segmental encoding in stress languages might be generalized to semantic versus metrical encoding in tone languages such as Chinese.
The basolateral amygdala (BLA), consisting of the lateral and basal nuclei, is considered to be essential for fear learning. Using a temporary inactivation technique, we found that rats could acquire a context-specific long-term fear memory without the BLA but only if intensive overtraining was used. BLA-inactivated rats' learning curves were characterized by slow learning that eventually achieved the same asymptotic performance as rats with the BLA functional. BLA inactivation abolished expression of overtrained fear when rats were overtrained with a functional BLA. However, BLA-inactivation had no effect on the expression of fear in rats that learned while the BLA was inactivated. These data suggest that there are primary and alternate pathways capable of mediating fear. Normally, learning is dominated by the more efficient primary pathway, which prevents learning in the alternate pathway. However, alternate pathways compensate when the dominant pathway is compromised.
Manipulation of the corticosteroid milieu by interfering with the mother-newborn relationship has received much attention because of its potential bearing on psychopathology later in life. In the present study, infant rats that were deprived of maternal contact between the 2nd and the 15th postnatal days (MS2-15) for 6 h/day were subjected to a systematic assessment of neurodevelopmental milestones between postnatal days 2 and 21. The analyses included measurements of physical growth and maturation and evaluation of neurological reflexes. Although some somatic milestones (e.g. eye opening) were anticipated, MS2-15 animals showed retardation in the acquisition of postural reflex, air righting and surface righting reflexes, and in the wire suspension test; the latter two abnormalities were only found in males. A gender effect was also observed in negative geotaxis, with retardation being observed in females but not males. To better understand the delay of neurological maturation in MS2-15 rats, we determined the levels of various monoamines in different regions of the brain stem, including the vestibular area, the substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area and dorsal raphe nuclei. In the vestibular region of MS2-15 rats the levels of 5-HT were reduced, while 5-HT turnover was increased. There was also a significant increase of the 5-HT turnover in MS2-15 animals in the raphe nuclei, mainly due to increased 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) levels, and an increase of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) levels in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of stressed females. No significant differences were found in the immunohistochemical sections for tyrosine and tryptophan hydroxylase in these regions of the brain stem. In conclusion, the present results show that postnatal stress induces signs of neurological pathology that may contribute to the genesis of behavioral abnormalities later in life.
We assessed the contribution of central 5HT2A receptors to the craniofacial tissue nociception in nave male rats. First, we tested whether activation of central 5HT2A receptors affected nociceptive neural activities recorded from superficial laminae of the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (Vc)/upper cervical spinal cord junction (Vc/C2) region. Two types of units, such as deep-nociceptive or skin-wide dynamic range (WDR) units were identified from extracellular recordings. Topical administration of 5HT2A receptor agonist, (+/-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI) onto the Vc/C2 region significantly reduced deep-nociceptive unit discharges evoked by formalin injection into the masseter muscle. Noxious pinch stimulation to the facial skin-evoked skin-WDR unit discharges was significantly reduced by topical administration of 0.1 mg/rat DOI onto the Vc/C2 region. Second, we tested whether i.c.v. administration of DOI affected Fos-like immunoreactivity (-LI) evoked by formalin injection into the masseter muscle. Fos-LI was significantly induced mainly at the ventrolateral (vl) area of trigeminal subnucleus interpolaris (Vi)/Vc junction (vl-Vi/Vc) region and Vc/C2 region in vehicle-treated rats. Formalin-evoked Fos-LI was significantly reduced in laminae I-II of the Vc/C2, but not vl-Vi/Vc region after i.c.v. administration of DOI. Finally, orofacial nocifensive behavioral activities evoked by formalin injection into the masseter muscle were significantly reduced by intracisternal administration of DOI. These results suggest that 5HT2A receptors in the Vc/C2 region mediate antinociceptive effects in the craniofacial nociception.
Pheochromocytomas are adrenal medullary tumors that typically occur in adult patients, with increased frequency in multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2, von Hippel-Lindau disease, familial paraganglioma syndromes and neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). Pheochromocytomas arise in adult mice with a heterozygous knockout mutation of exon 31 of the murine Nf1 gene, providing a mouse model for pheochromocytoma development in NF1. We performed a microarray-based gene expression profiling study comparing mouse pheochromocytoma tissue to normal adult mouse adrenal medulla to develop a basis for studying the pathobiology of these tumors. The findings demonstrate that pheochromocytomas from adult neurofibromatosis knockout mice express multiple developmentally regulated genes involved in early development of both the CNS and peripheral nervous system. One of the most highly overexpressed genes is receptor tyrosine kinase Ret, which is known to be transiently expressed in the developing adrenal gland, down-regulated in adult adrenals and often overexpressed in human pheochromocytomas. Real-time polymerase chain reaction validated the microarray results and immunoblots confirmed the overexpression of Ret protein. Other highly expressed validated genes include Sox9, which is a neural crest determinant, and Hey 1, which helps to maintain the progenitor status of neural precursors. The findings are consistent with the recently proposed concept that persistent neural progenitors might give rise to pheochromocytomas in adult mouse adrenals and suggest that events predisposing to tumor development might occur before formation of the adrenal medulla or migration of cells from the neural crest. However, the competing possibility that developmentally regulated neural genes arise secondarily to neoplastic transformation cannot be ruled out. In either case, the unique profile of gene expression opens the mouse pheochromocytoma model to new applications pertinent to neural stem cells and suggests potential new targets for treatment of pheochromocytomas or eradication of their precursors.
Speech, for example, consists of fast-paced (&gt;5/s) sounds in specific spectrotemporal patterns. Humans are generally held to be able to represent not only such sounds themselves (item information) but also their serial order (order-information) as a repeated melody with ease, as suggested by studies on the mismatch negativity (MMN) of event-related potentials (ERPs). The present study tested whether this ability tolerates the absence of the support of melodic repetitiveness. ERPs were recorded from adult humans presented with rare 150-ms series of three 50-ms tones ('deviants') interspersed with frequently repeated ones ('standards'). The frequency of each tone was pseudorandomly one of four alternative frequencies. The series were of type 'AAB' (two tones of one frequency followed by a tone of another frequency), 'ABB' (two tones of one frequency preceded by a tone of another frequency), or 'AAA' (three tones of one frequency). The MMN was robustly elicited by AAA deviants against AAB standards. It was, however, less distinct for ABB deviants against AAB standards and even statistically non-significant for AAB deviants against ABB standards. MMN generation in the human brain thus seems to be based on item rather than serial-order information in a rapid spectro-temporal pattern of acoustic signals that is not repeated frequently in the short term.
Innate immunity is a rapid series of reactions to pathogens, cell injuries and toxic proteins. A key component of this natural response is the production of inflammatory mediators by resident microglia and infiltrating macrophages. There is accumulating evidence that inflammation contributes to acute injuries and more chronic CNS diseases, though other studies have shown that inhibition of microglia is, in contrast, associated with more damages or less repair. The controversies regarding the neuroprotective and neurodegenerative properties of microglia may depend on the experimental approaches. Neurotoxic substances are frequently used to produce animal models of acute injuries or diseases and they may activate microglia either directly or indirectly by their ability to cause neuronal death and demyelination. Whether microglia and the immune response play a direct role in such processes still remains an open question. On the other hand, there are data supporting the role of resident microglia and those derived from the bone marrow in the stimulation of myelin repair, removal of toxic proteins from the CNS and the prevention of neurodegeneration in chronic brain diseases. The ability of glucocorticoids to provide a negative feedback on nuclear factor kappa B pathways in microglia may be a determinant mechanism underlying the ultimate fate of the inflammatory response in the CNS. This review presents new concepts regarding the neuroprotective role of the innate immune response in the brain and how microglia can be directed to improve recovery after injuries and prevent/delay neurodegeneration.

Cryptochromes are sensory blue light receptors mediating various responses in plants and animals. Studies on the mechanism of plant cryptochromes have been focused on the flowering plant Arabidopsis. In the genome of the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, a single plant cryptochrome, Chlamydomonas photolyase homologue 1 (CPH1), has been identified. The N-terminal 500 amino acids comprise the light-sensitive domain of CPH1 linked to a C-terminal extension of similar size. We have expressed the light-sensitive domain heterologously in Escherichia coli in high yield and purity. The 59-kDa protein bears exclusively flavin adenine dinucleotide in its oxidized state. Illumination with blue light induces formation of a neutral flavin radical with absorption maxima at 540 and 580 nm. The reaction proceeds aerobically even in the absence of an exogenous electron donor, which suggests that it reflects a physiological response. The process is completely reversible in the dark and exhibits a decay time constant of 200 s in the presence of oxygen. Binding of ATP strongly stabilizes the radical state after illumination and impedes the dark recovery. Thus, ATP binding has functional significance for plant cryptochromes and does not merely result from structural homology to DNA photolyase. The light-sensitive domain responds to illumination by an increase in phosphorylation. The autophosphorylation takes place although the protein is lacking its native C-terminal extension. This finding indicates that the extension is dispensable for autophosphorylation, despite the role it has been assigned in mediating signal transduction in Arabidopsis.
The S-nitrosylated proteoglycan glypican-1 recycles via endosomes where its heparan sulfate chains are degraded into anhydromannose-containing saccharides by NO-catalyzed deaminative cleavage. Because heparan sulfate chains can be associated with intracellular protein aggregates, glypican-1 autoprocessing may be involved in the clearance of misfolded recycling proteins. Here we have arrested and then reactivated NO-catalyzed cleavage in the absence or presence of proteasome inhibitors and analyzed the products present in endosomes or co-precipitating with proteasomes using metabolic radiolabeling and immunomagnet isolation as well as by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy. Upon reactivation of deaminative cleavage in T24 carcinoma cells, [(35)S]sulfate-labeled degradation products appeared in Rab7-positive vesicles and co-precipitated with a 20 S proteasome subunit. Simultaneous inhibition of proteasome activity resulted in a sustained accumulation of degradation products. We also demonstrated that the anhydromannose-containing heparan sulfate degradation products are detected by a hydrazide-based method that also identifies oxidized, i.e. carbonylated, proteins that are normally degraded in proteasomes. Upon inhibition of proteasome activity, pronounced colocalization between carbonyl-staining, anhydro-mannose-containing degradation products, and proteasomes was observed in both T24 carcinoma and N2a neuroblastoma cells. The deaminatively generated products that co-precipitated with the proteasomal subunit contained heparan sulfate but were larger than heparan sulfate oligosaccharides and resistant to both acid and alkali. However, proteolytic degradation released heparan sulfate oligosaccharides. In Niemann-Pick C-1 fibroblasts, where deaminative degradation of heparan sulfate is defective, carbonylated proteins were abundant. Moreover, when glypican-1 expression was silenced in normal fibroblasts, the level of carbonylated proteins increased raising the possibility that deaminative heparan sulfate degradation is involved in the clearance of misfolded proteins.
Substantial efforts have recently been made to demonstrate the importance of lipids and lipid-modifying enzymes in various membrane trafficking processes, including calcium-regulated exocytosis of hormones and neurotransmitters. Among bioactive lipids, phosphatidic acid (PA) is an attractive candidate to promote membrane fusion through its ability to change membrane topology. To date, however, the biosynthetic pathway, the dynamic location, and actual function of PA in secretory cells remain unknown. Using a short interference RNA strategy on chromaffin and PC12 cells, we demonstrate here that phospholipase D1 is activated in secretagogue-stimulated cells and that it produces PA at the plasma membrane at the secretory granule docking sites. We show that phospholipase D1 activation and PA production represent key events in the exocytotic progression. Membrane capacitance measurements indicate that reduction of endogenous PA impairs the formation of fusion-competent granules. Finally, we show that the PLD1 short interference RNA-mediated inhibition of exocytosis can be rescued by exogenous provision of a lipid that favors the transition of opposed bi-layer membranes to hemifused membranes having the outer leaflets fused. Our findings demonstrate that PA synthesis is required during exocytosis to facilitate a late event in the granule fusion pathway. We propose that the underlying mechanism is related to the ability of PA to alter membrane curvature and promote hemi-fusion.
The activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) leads to long-term depression (mGluR-LTD) at many synapses of the brain. The induction of mGluR-LTD is well characterized, whereas the mechanisms underlying its expression remain largely elusive. mGluR-LTD in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) efficiently reverses cocaine-induced strengthening of excitatory inputs onto dopamine neurons. We show that mGluR-LTD is expressed by an exchange of GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors for GluR2-containing receptors with a lower single-channel conductance. The synaptic insertion of GluR2 depends on de novo protein synthesis via rapid messenger RNA translation of GluR2. Regulated synthesis of GluR2 in the VTA is therefore required to reverse cocaine-induced synaptic plasticity.

A series of exceptionally potent agonists at neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) has been investigated. Several N-(3-pyridinyl) derivatives of bridged bicyclic diamines exhibit double-digit-picomolar binding affinities for the alpha 4 beta 2 subtype, placing them with epibatidine among the most potent nAChR ligands described to date. Structure-activity studies have revealed that substitutions, particularly hydrophilic groups in the pyridine 5-position, differentially modulate the agonist activity at ganglionic vs central nAChR subtypes, so that improved subtype selectivity can be demonstrated in vitro. Analgesic efficacy has been achieved across a broad range of pain states, including rodent models of acute thermal nociception, persistent pain, and neuropathic allodynia. Unfortunately, the hydrophilic pyridine substituents that were shown to enhance agonist selectivity for central nAChRs in vitro tend to limit CNS penetration in vivo, so that analgesic efficacy with an improved therapeutic window was not realized with those compounds.
The synthesis and structure-activity relationship of 1-(aryl)-3-(4-(amino)benzyl)urea transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) antagonists are described. A variety of cyclic amine substituents are well tolerated at the 4-position of the benzyl group on compounds containing either an isoquinoline or indazole heterocyclic core. These compounds are potent antagonists of capsaicin activation of the TRPV1 receptor in vitro. Analogues, such as compound 45, have been identified that have good in vivo activity in animal models of pain. Further optimization of 45 resulted in compound 58 with substantially improved microsome stability and oral bioavailability, as well as in vivo activity.
We show that adding a low-contrast texture stimulus that is far below its own detection threshold to an ambiguously oriented high-contrast texture can produce an easily perceived global orientation. When such a low-contrast (e.g., 0.1%) test texture and a high-contrast (e.g., 2%) amplifier texture are interleaved, the effective strength for global orientation detection closely approximates the product of the two contrasts. Therefore, adding two ambiguous textures, an amplifier texture at 5x its threshold contrast for global orientation discrimination and a test texture at 1/5x its threshold contrast, produces threshold global orientation discrimination, that is, 5x amplification of the below-threshold test texture. The observed 5x amplification factors are larger than facilitation effects reported in other pattern tasks. Amplification is 11x when orientation discrimination thresholds are compared to absolute detection thresholds. For second-order textures, maximum contrast amplification is about 2.5x. A contrast gain control model is presented that accounts for 90% of the variance in observed d' for texture patterns of differing geometries, exposure durations, and component contrasts. In the model, very low-contrast orientations are represented by power functions of their contrasts, with an exponent greater than two. As the contrast of an amplifier texture increases beyond about 4%, feed-forward gain control exerted by the amplifier ultimately nullifies the amplification effect and produces masking.
Previous positron emission tomography (PET) studies with levodopa analogs have revealed a modestly increased capacity for dopamine synthesis in the striatum of patients with schizophrenia compared with healthy age-matched control subjects. We hypothesized that not just the synthesis but also the turnover of radiolabeled dopamine is elevated in patients. To test the hypothesis, we reanalyzed 2-h-long [18F]fluorodopa (FDOPA)/PET recordings from eight unmedicated patients with schizophrenia and 15 healthy age-matched control subjects, using new methods for the quantification of [18F]fluorodopamine steady-state kinetics. The fractional rate constant for the catabolism and elimination of [18F]fluorodopamine was elevated nearly twofold in striatum, the largest biochemical difference in brain of schizophrenics yet reported. The magnitude of the intrinsic blood-brain FDOPA clearance with correction for this loss of [18F]fluorodopamine metabolites was increased by 20% in caudate and putamen and by 50% in amygdala and midbrain of the patients. However, the magnitude of the steady-state storage of FDOPA and its decarboxylated metabolites (V(d)) was reduced by one-third in the caudate nucleus and amygdala of the schizophrenic group. Thus, reduced steady-state storage of [18F]fluorodopamine occurs in the midst of accelerated synthesis in brain of untreated patients. Positive scores of the positive and negative syndrome scale correlated inversely with the magnitude of V(d) in amygdala, suggesting an association between positive symptoms and impaired steady-state storage of FDOPA metabolites in that structure.
Pontomedullary reticular formation (PMRF) neurons (309) were recorded simultaneously with electromyographic activity from arm and shoulder muscles in four monkeys performing arm-reaching tasks. Spike-triggered averages (SpikeTAs) were compiled for 292 neurons (3836 neuron-muscle pairs). Fourteen PMRF neurons located in a region ventral to the abducens nucleus produced 42 significant SpikeTA effects in arm and shoulder muscles. Of these 14 PMRF neurons, nine produced SpikeTA effects bilaterally. Overall, PMRF neurons facilitated ipsilateral flexors and contralateral extensors, while suppressing ipsilateral extensors and contralateral flexors. Spike- and stimulus-triggered averaging effects obtained from the same recording site were similar. These findings indicate that single PMRF neurons can directly influence movements of both upper limbs.
Selective attention may be flexibly directed toward particular locations in the visual field (spatial attention) or to entire object configurations (object-based attention). A key question is whether spatial attention plays a direct role in the selection of objects, perhaps by spreading its facilitatory influence throughout the boundaries of an object. We studied the relationship between spatial and object-based attention in a design in which subjects attended to brief offsets of one corner of a real or illusory square form. Object-selective attention was indexed by differences in event-related potential (ERP) amplitudes and blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) activations to unattended corner offsets in conditions in which the objects were intact versus fragmented or absent. This design ensured that object-based attention effects were not an artifact of attention being guided by simple directional cues such as parallel lines, which may have occurred in previous studies. Both space-based and object-based attention were associated with enhanced negative ERPs (N1 component at 140-180 ms) that were colocalized with BOLD activations in lateral occipital cortex (LOC). These results provide physiological evidence that directing spatial attention to one part of an object (whether real or illusory) facilitates the processing of the entire object at the level of the LOC and thus contributes directly to object-based selective attention.
It is debated whether primary sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglia increase the number in adult animals and, if so, whether the increase is attributable to postnatal neurogenesis or maturation of dormant, postmitotic precursors. Similar studies are lacking in the trigeminal ganglion (TG). Here we demonstrate by stereological methods that the number of neurons in the TG of adult male rats nearly doubles between the third and eighth months of age. The increase is mainly attributable to the addition of small, B-type neurons, with a smaller contribution of large, A-neurons. We looked for possible proliferative or maturation mechanisms that could explain this dramatic postnatal expansion in neuron number, using bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling, immunocytochemistry for neural precursor cell antigens, retrograde tracing identification of peripherally projecting neurons, and in vitro isolation of precursor cells from adult TG explant cultures. Cell proliferation identified months after an extended BrdU administration was sparse and essentially corresponded to glial cells. No BrdU-labeled cell took up the peripherally injected tracer, and only a negligible number coexpressed BrdU and the pan-neuronal tracer neuron-specific enolase. In contrast, a population of cells not recognizable as mature neurons in the TG and neighboring nerve expressed neuronal precursor antigens, and neural crest glioneuronal precursor cells were successfully isolated from adult TG explants. Our data suggest that a protracted maturation process persists in the TG that can be responsible for the neuronal addition found in the adult rat.
Plasticity of glutamatergic synapses is a fundamental mechanism through which experience changes neural function to impact future behavior. In animal models of addiction, glutamatergic signaling in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) exerts powerful control over drug-seeking behavior. However, little is known about whether, how or when experience with drugs may trigger synaptic plasticity in this key nucleus. Using whole-cell synaptic physiology in NAc brain slices, we demonstrate that a progression of bidirectional changes in glutamatergic synaptic strength occurs after repeated in vivo exposure to cocaine. During a protracted drug-free period, NAc neurons from cocaine-experienced mice develop a robust potentiation of AMPAR-mediated synaptic transmission. However, a single re-exposure to cocaine during extended withdrawal becomes a potent stimulus for synaptic depression, abruptly reversing the initial potentiation. These enduring modifications in AMPAR-mediated responses and plasticity may provide a neural substrate for disrupted processing of drug-related stimuli in drug-experienced individuals.
A recent high-density linkage screen confirmed that the HLA complex contains the strongest genetic factor for the risk of multiple sclerosis (MS). In parallel, a linkage disequilibrium analysis using 650 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) markers of the HLA complex mapped the entire genetic effect to the HLA-DR-DQ subregion, reflected by the well-established risk haplotype HLA-DRB1*15,DQB1*06. Contrary to this, in a cohort of 1,084 MS patients and 1,347 controls, we show that the HLA-A gene confers an HLA-DRB1 independent influence on the risk of MS (P = 8.4x10(-10)). This supports the opposing view, that genes in the HLA class I region indeed exert an additional influence on the risk of MS, and confirms that the class I allele HLA-A*02 is negatively associated with the risk of MS (OR = 0.63, P = 7x10(-12)) not explained by linkage disequilibrium with class II. The combination of HLA-A and HLA-DRB1 alleles, as represented by HLA-A*02 and HLA-DRB1*15, was found to influence the risk of MS 23-fold. These findings imply complex autoimmune mechanisms involving both the regulatory and the effector arms of the immune system in the triggering of MS.


We used an autopsy series to determine whether the newest dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) consensus pathologic classification correlates with premortem diagnosis of DLB. Neocortical sections from a total of 95 cases with Lewy bodies were stained with alpha-synuclein antibodies. We assigned cases according to the DLB consensus' categories and found a significant association with the premortem clinical diagnosis of DLB. Clinical diagnosis of DLB, however, depended on the presence of low Alzheimer disease pathology (by Braak staging) rather than on Lewy body distribution.
Many models have been proposed over the years to explain how motivated feeding behavior is controlled. One of the most compelling is based on the original concepts of Eliot Stellar whereby sets of interosensory and exterosensory inputs converge on a hypothalamic control network that can either stimulate or inhibit feeding. These inputs arise from information originating in the blood, the viscera, and the telencephalon. In this manner the relative strengths of the hypothalamic stimulatory and inhibitory networks at a particular time dictates how an animal feeds. Anorexia occurs when the balance within the networks consistently favors the restraint of feeding. This article discusses experimental evidence supporting a model whereby the increases in plasma osmolality that result from drinking hypertonic saline activate pathways projecting to neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) and lateral hypothalamic area (LHA). These neurons constitute the hypothalamic controller for ingestive behavior, and receive a set of afferent inputs from regions of the brain that process sensory information that is critical for different aspects of feeding. Important sets of inputs arise in the arcuate nucleus, the hindbrain, and in the telencephalon. Anorexia is generated in dehydrated animals by way of osmosensitive projections to the behavior control neurons in the PVH and LHA, rather than by actions on their afferent inputs.
Clinical binge eating runs a protracted course. The etiology of binge eating remains perplexing in part because, in humans, it is difficult to isolate and assess the independent and aggregate impact of various contributing variables. Using rats, we found that footshock stress and a history of caloric restriction (S+R), combine synergistically to induce binge eating. Stress and dieting are also strong antecedents and relapse factors in human eating disorders. Here we report further behavioral and physiological parallels to human binge eating. Like the protracted course of human binge eating, young female Sprague-Dawley rats continued to binge eat after 23 restriction/stress cycles (7 months) and this despite experiencing no significant weight loss during the restriction phases. Stress alone reduced adiposity by 35% (p&lt;0.001) but S+R rats had no significant fat loss. An endocrine profile of normal plasma leptin and insulin levels but marked elevation of plasma corticosterone levels was found only in the binge-eating (S+R) rats (p&lt;0.01), also paralleling endocrine profiles reported in clinical binge-eating studies. These behavioral and physiological similarities between this animal model and clinical binge eating increase its utility in understanding binge eating. Importantly, our findings also highlight the stubborn nature of binge eating: once a critical experience with dieting and stress is experienced, little if any further weight loss or food restriction is necessary to sustain it.
Presystemic signals play an important role in the control of ingestive behavior by allowing animals to anticipate imminent physiological changes. The significance of such signals in the control of food intake has been amply demonstrated and is widely appreciated. Our recent experiments have revealed that presystemic signals also provide important early feedback when rats drink water or NaCl solution, before the ingested fluids are absorbed and influence cerebral osmoreceptors or cardiovascular baroreceptors. These early signals clearly affect vasopressin (VP) secretion and thirst. They relate either to the distension of the stomach and proximal small intestine (presumably mediated by local stretch receptors) or to the concentration of fluid that empties from the stomach into the small intestine (presumably mediated by visceral osmo- or Na(+)-receptors). Dehydrated dogs use functionally comparable signals from the oropharynx while drinking in order to inhibit both VP secretion and thirst. However, that system differs in several respects from the system in rats aside from the fact that the presystemic signals in rats are not oropharyngeal: in rodents, (a) separate early signals influence VP secretion and thirst, (b) early signals can provide both stimulation and inhibition of VP secretion and thirst, and (c) the early signals are associated with both the volume and concentration of ingested fluid. These presystemic signals also inhibit the intake of NaCl solution by rats with salt appetite.
Amnesia produced by protein synthesis inhibitors such as anisomycin provides major support for the prevalent view that the formation of long-lasting memories requires de novo protein synthesis. However, inhibition of protein synthesis might disrupt other neural functions to interfere with memory formation. Intraamygdala injections of anisomycin before inhibitory avoidance training impaired memory in rats tested 48 h later. Release of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA), and serotonin, measured at the site of anisomycin infusions, increased quickly by approximately 1,000-17,000%, far above the levels seen under normal conditions. NE and DA release later decreased far below baseline for several hours before recovering at 48 h. Intraamygdala injections of a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist or agonist, each timed to blunt effects of increases and decreases in NE release after anisomycin, attenuated anisomycin-induced amnesia. In addition, similar to the effects on memory seen with anisomycin, intraamygdala injections of a high dose of NE before training impaired memory tested at 48 h after training. These findings suggest that altered release of neurotransmitters may mediate amnesia produced by anisomycin and, further, raise important questions about the empirical bases for many molecular theories of memory formation.
Modafinil (Provigil, Modiodal), an antinarcoleptic and mood-enhancing drug, is shown here to sharpen thalamocortical activity and to increase electrical coupling between cortical interneurons and between nerve cells in the inferior olivary nucleus. After irreversible pharmacological block of connexin permeability (i.e., by using either 18beta-glycyrrhetinic derivatives or mefloquine), modafinil restored electrotonic coupling within 30 min. It was further established that this restoration is implemented through a Ca(2+)/calmodulin protein kinase II-dependent step.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating motor neuron degenerative disease whose etiology and pathogenesis remain poorly understood. Most cases of ALS ( approximately 90%) are sporadic (SALS), occurring in the absence of genetic associations. Approximately 20% of familial ALS (FALS) cases are due to known mutations in the copper, zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene. Molecular evidence for a common pathogenesis of SALS and FALS has remained elusive. Here we use covalent chemical modification to reveal an attribute of spinal cord SOD1 common to both SOD1-linked FALS and SALS, but not present in normal or disease-affected tissues from other neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases and spinal muscular atrophy, a non-ALS motor neuron disease. Biotinylation reveals a 32-kDa, covalently cross-linked SOD1-containing protein species produced not only in FALS caused by SOD1 mutation, but also in SALS. These studies use chemical modification as a novel tool for the detection of a disease-associated biomarker. Our results identify a shared molecular event involving a known target gene and suggest a common step in the pathogenesis between SALS and FALS.
Differential composition of GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) subunits underlies the variability of fast inhibitory synaptic transmission; alteration of specific GABA(A)R subunits in localized brain regions may contribute to abnormal brain states such as absence epilepsy. We combined immunocytochemistry and high-resolution ImmunoGold electron microscopy to study cellular and subcellular localization of GABA(A)R alpha1, alpha3, and beta2/beta3 subunits in ventral posterior nucleus (VP) and reticular nucleus (RTN) of control rats and WAG/Rij rats, a genetic model of absence epilepsy. In control rats, alpha1 subunits were prominent at inhibitory synapses in VP and much less prominent in RTN; in contrast, the alpha3 subunit was highly evident at inhibitory synapses in RTN. beta2/beta3 subunits were evenly distributed at inhibitory synapses in both VP and RTN. ImmunoGold particles representing all subunits were concentrated at postsynaptic densities with no extrasynaptic localization. Calculated mean number of particles for alpha1 subunit per postsynaptic density in nonepileptic VP was 6.1 +/- 3.7, for alpha3 subunit in RTN it was 6.6 +/- 3.4, and for beta2/beta3 subunits in VP and RTN the mean numbers were 3.7 +/- 1.3 and 3.5 +/- 1.2, respectively. In WAG/Rij rats, there was a specific loss of alpha3 subunit immunoreactivity at inhibitory synapses in RTN, without reduction in alpha3 subunit mRNA or significant change in immunostaining for other markers of RTN cell identity such as GABA or parvalbumin. alpha3 immunostaining in cortex was unchanged. Subtle, localized changes in GABA(A)R expression acting at highly specific points in the interconnected thalamocortical network lie at the heart of idiopathic generalized epilepsy.
Activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) has been proposed as a marker for injured neurons. Thus, while undetectable normally in sensory, motor, or sympathetic neurons, ATF3-like immunoreactivity (ATF3-IR) is readily detectable in such cells after axotomy. Here we examined ATF3-IR in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) and the middle and inferior cervical ganglia (MICG) after transection of the predominantly preganglionic cervical sympathetic trunk (CST). The purpose of the study was to determine whether neurons in the SCG would exhibit ATF3-IR after decentralization and, if they did not, whether the induction of ATF3-IR was sensitive enough to identify the small numbers of neurons in the SCG and MICG that project their axons into the CST. Following transection of the CST, the majority of deafferented neurons in the SCG showed no ATF3-IR; however, a small group of neurons in both the SCG and MICG were labeled, and the location of the labeled neurons within these ganglia corresponded to that of neurons axotomized by this procedure. Furthermore, the ATF3-positive neurons in the MICG could be retrogradely labeled from the transected CST. In addition, a large number of smaller cells were labeled in the SCG, though not in the MICG, and some of these cells were double labeled with an antiserum to the glial protein S-100. These data indicate that, after transection of the CST, neuronal labeling in the SCG and MICG is restricted to axotomized neurons but that in addition there is extensive labeling of glial cells associated with anterograde degeneration within the SCG.
The glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper (GILZ) is a 137 amino acid protein, which was originally identified as a dexamethasone-inducible gene, and is characterized by a leucine zipper domain, an N-terminal domain and a C-terminal proline and glutamic acid rich domain. In this study, we performed in situ hybridization analyses and found that many neurons from the olfactory bulb to the spinal cord express GILZ mRNA, suggesting that GILZ is involved in fundamental and common cellular events of neurons. In addition, the predominant expression of GILZ mRNA in the motor nuclei indicated a strong relationship between GILZ and the motor nervous system. On the other hand, real-time RT-PCR analyses of brains of animals exposed to water-immersion restraint stress (WRS) showed that WRS significantly up-regulated GILZ expression in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and hippocampus, which are known to be mental stress-related areas, suggesting the multiple roles of GILZ in the brain. This up-regulation was not observed in adrenalectomized mice, confirming its dependency on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation.
We examined the distribution of adult cell proliferation throughout the brain of an anuran amphibian using 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU). BrdU, a thymidine analog, is a commonly used cellular marker that is incorporated into actively dividing progenitor cells. Adult green treefrogs, Hyla cinerea, received injections of BrdU and were sacrificed 2 h, 2 days, 2 weeks, or 30 days later. Immunohistochemistry revealed BrdU-immunopositive (BrdU+) cells to be distributed in ventricular zones throughout the brain. The heaviest concentrations of cells were located in the telencephalon, primarily in the ventrolateral region of the lateral ventricles, and the ventricles of olfactory bulbs. Numerous BrdU+ cells were located around the preoptic and hypothalamic recesses and few around the third ventricle in the diencephalon. Proceeding caudally towards the midbrain, there was a marked decrease in BrdU labeling and few BrdU+ cells were found in the hindbrain. Consistent with previous studies in ectothermic vertebrates, BrdU+ cells were found predominantly in the ventricular zone (VZ) and immediately adjacent to the VZ; at later time points (i.e., 30 days), the cells appeared to have migrated into parenchymal regions. The extent of cellular proliferation in anurans is similar to that of fishes and reptiles and thus is more widespread compared to mammals.
Previous studies have shown that, in the Royal College of Surgeon rat, circadian rhythms in the retinal dopaminergic and melatonergic systems are still present after the photoreceptors have degenerated, thus demonstrating that circadian rhythmicity in the mammalian retina can be generated independently from the photoreceptors. The aim of the present study was to investigate the pattern of expression of the clock genes in the retina of the Royal College of Surgeons rat under different lighting conditions. Expression of clock genes was investigated in the retina of normal and dystrophic Royal College of Surgeons rats under 12 h of light/12 h of dark (LD), constant darkness (DD) and constant light (LL) using Real Time Quantitative RT-PCR. Our data indicate that, in control animals, Period1, Period2, Cryptochrome1, Cryptochrome2, Clock, Rora, Rev-Erb alpha and Npas2 mRNA levels showed a significant variation over the sampling period in LD cycles and in DD, whereas Bmal1 mRNA did not show any significant variation. In LL, the transcripts for Per1, Per2, Clock and Rev-Erb alpha showed significant temporal variations. In the dystrophic retina, only Per1 and Per2 mRNA levels showed a temporal variation over the 20-h period. Our work indicates that degeneration of the photoreceptor cells dramatically affected the expression levels and patterns of many clock genes. Finally, the present study suggests that investigating the expression pattern of clock genes using the whole retina or animals with photoreceptor degeneration may not provide any definitive answers about the working of the retinal circadian clock system.
The brightness of a small incremental flash was found to be considerably suppressed in the vicinity of a moving visual stimulus (effect size, d, up to 6) and less so around a stationary stimulus. The pattern of suppression was mapped and extended 3.5 degrees away from a stationary stimulus and 10.5 degrees behind, and ahead of, a moving stimulus. A second experiment found that dark flashes appeared less dark in the presence of an inducing stimulus of either polarity. Combined results suggest that perceived contrast was being suppressed, in all cases by an inducing stimulus of lesser contrast, and in most cases by an inducing stimulus of lesser luminance. These findings were compared with a number of recent models of the perception of the position of moving visual stimuli. These assume that in the wake of such a stimulus, at certain retinal or cortical areas, there is a region of neural inhibition and that, preceding them, there is a (bow-wave-like) region of neural excitation. The current findings confirm the inhibitory, but not the excitatory, assumptions in these theories.
Conotoxins are small disulfide-rich peptides from the venom of cone snails. Along with other conopeptides, they target a wide range of membrane receptors, ion channels, and transporters, and because of their high potency and selectivity for defined subtypes of these receptors, they have attracted a great deal of attention recently as leads in drug development. However, like most peptides, conopeptides potentially suffer from the disadvantages of poor absorption, poor stability, or short biological half-lives. Recently, various chemical approaches, including residue substitutions, backbone cyclization, and disulfide-bridge modification, have been reported to increase the stability of conopeptides. These manufactured interventions add to the array of post-translational modifications that occur naturally in conopeptides. They enhance the versatility of these peptides as tools in neuroscience and as drug leads.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are believed to be homo- or heteromeric complexes, which have been verified by classical methods such as co-immunoprecipitation or electrophysiological assays. However, the exact subunit combinations of ASICs in living cells have not been established yet. Here, we apply assays based on fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) between GFP color mutants CFP and YFP to investigate ASIC assembly directly in living cells. Homomerization as well as heteromerization of different combinations of ASIC subunits were found. In addition, our results suggest the formation of heteromeric 1a/2a channels of stoichiometry consisting of at least two 1a subunits and two 2a subunits. Similar stoichiometry was observed from heteromeric 1a/2b and 2a/2b channels. Our results imply that these heteromeric ASIC channels contain at least four subunits.
Freud-1/CC2D1A is a transcriptional repressor of the serotonin-1A receptor gene and was recently genetically linked to non-syndromic mental retardation. To identify new Freud-1 gene targets, data base mining for Freud-1 recognition sequences was done. A highly homologous intronic element (D2-DRE) was identified in the human dopamine-D2 receptor (DRD2) gene, and the role of Freud-1 in regulating the gene at this site was assessed. Recombinant Freud-1 bound specifically to the D2-DRE, and a major protein-D2-DRE complex was identified in nuclear extracts that was supershifted using Freud-1-specific antibodies. Endogenous Freud-1 binding to the D2-DRE in cells was detected using chromatin immunoprecipitation. The D2-DRE conferred strong repressor activity in transcriptional reporter assays that was dependent on the Freud-1 recognition sequence. In three different human cell lines, the level of Freud-1 protein was inversely related to DRD2 expression. Knockdown of endogenous Freud-1 using small interfering RNA resulted in an up-regulation of DRD2 RNA and binding sites, demonstrating a crucial role for Freud-1 in DRD2 regulation. A previously uncharacterized single nucleotide A/G polymorphism (rs2734836) was located adjacent to the D2-DRE and conferred allele-specific Freud-1 binding and repression, with the major G-allele having reduced activity. These studies demonstrate a key role for Freud-1 to regulate DRD2 expression and provide the first mechanistic insights into its transcriptional regulation. Allele-specific regulation of DRD2 expression by Freud-1 may possibly associate with psychiatric disorders or mental retardation.

Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a fatal demyelinating disorder of the CNS caused by infection of glial cells with the polyomavirus, JCV. Here we report that genomic stability and DNA repair are significantly dysregulated by JCV infection of human astrocytes. Metaphase spreads exhibited increased ploidy correlating with duration of infection. Increased micronuclei formation and phospho-Histone2AX expression also indicated DNA damage. Western blot analysis revealed perturbation in expression of some DNA repair proteins including a large elevation of Rad51. Immunohistochemistry on clinical samples of PML showed robust labeling for Rad51 in nuclei of bizarre astrocytes and inclusion body-bearing oligodendrocytes that are characteristic of JCV infection. Finally, in vitro end-joining DNA repair was altered in extracts prepared from JCV-infected human astrocytes. Alterations in DNA repair pathways may be important for the life cycle of JCV and the pathogenesis of PML.
Diverse cholinergic signaling mechanisms regulate the excitability of striatal principal neurons and modulate striatal-dependent behavior. These effects are mediated, in part, by action at muscarinic receptors (mAChR), subtypes of which exhibit distinct patterns of expression across striatal neuronal populations. Non-selective mAChR blockade within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) has been shown to disrupt operant responding for food and to inhibit food consumption. However, the specific receptor subtypes mediating these effects are not known. Thus, we evaluated effects of intra-NAc infusions of pirenzepine and methoctramine, mAChR antagonisits with distinct binding affinity profiles, on operant responding for sucrose reward under a progressive ratio (PR) reinforcement schedule. Moderate to high doses of methoctramine disrupted operant responding and reduced behavioral breakpoint. In contrast, pirenzepine failed to impact operant performance at any dose tested. Methoctramine failed to affect latencies to complete appetitive-consummatory response sequences or to impact measures of acoustic startle, suggesting that its' disruptive effects on operant behavior were not consequent to gross motor impairment. Since methoctramine has a greater affinity for M(2) receptors compared to pirenzepine, which has a greater relative affinity for M(1) and M(3) receptors, these findings suggest that M(2) mAChRs within the NAc regulate behavioral processes underling the acquisition of reward.
Behavioral responses to thermal and mechanical stimuli were used to examine somatic sensitivity in rats with stereotaxic corticosterone (CORT) implants on the amygdala. These animals have previously been shown to display anxiety-like behavior coupled with colonic hypersensitivity; in this study, CORT induced not only visceral hypersensitivity but also somatic hypersensitivity. These findings suggest that modulation of the amygdala with CORT results in a generalized decrease in sensory thresholds via descending neuronal pathways.
This study examined the effect of both separate and combined depletion of brain somatostatin and serotonin on acquisition of the water maze (WM) task. Nave male Long-Evans rats received injections of p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA; 500mg/kgx2) to deplete serotonin or cysteamine (90 or 200mg/kg) to deplete somatostatin, or both treatments prior to spatial and reversal training in the water maze. Some rats first received Morris' nonspatial pretraining to train them in the behavioral strategies that are required for successful spatial place learning in this task, prior to drug treatment and spatial training. A detailed behavioral analysis indicated that somatostatin or serotonin depletion alone caused little or no impairment in nave animals. Depletion of both somatostatin and serotonin in nave rats impaired performance, with differences in the impairments that depended on the dose of cysteamine. Nonspatially pretrained rats were not impaired. Thus, neither somatostatin nor serotonin alone is crucial for the water maze task, but impairments occur if both somatostatin and serotonin are depleted in nave rats. The results indicate that some of the performance impairment was due to strategies impairment rather than a spatial place learning impairment. Depletion of both somatostatin and serotonin in nave rats produces results comparable to the spatial navigation deficits seen in some Alzheimer patients and suggests that combinations of antagonist treatments may better model this disorder than single antagonist treatments do.
SGS742 has been reported to increase spatial memory in rodents. However, effects of SGS742 have not been systematically assessed in different strains so far and indeed strains show different cognitive abilities per se. The aim of the study was therefore to examine the effect of SGS742 in three different inbred (C57BL/6J, DBA/2, BALB/c) strains and three outbred strains (CD1, CF1, OF1). Mice were administered intra-peritonial (3-aminopropyl)n-butylphosphinic acid (SGS742; GABA (B)-receptor antagonist) and tested in the Morris water maze (MWM). Open field, elevated plus maze, neurological observational battery and rota rod were carried out to support interpretation of data. SGS742 enhanced performance in the MWM in an inbred strain, C57BL/6J and in the outbred strain OF1 in terms of learning and memory formation at the consolidation level. A series of side effects as e.g. reduced motor coordination and proprioception were noticed that, however, may not have been influencing results observed in the cognition task. In conclusion, SGS742 enhanced cognitive performance in two mouse strains and we learned that testing compounds for effects on spatial memory should be carried out in several strains or even different species in order to claim cognitive enhancement.
The cholesterol-fed rabbit is a model of atherosclerosis and has been proposed as an animal model of Alzheimer's disease. Feeding rabbits cholesterol has been shown to increase the number of beta amyloid immunoreactive neurons in the cortex. Addition of copper to the drinking water of cholesterol-fed rabbits can increase this number still further and may lead to plaque-like structures. Classical conditioning of the nictitating membrane response in cholesterol-fed rabbits is retarded in the presence of these plaque-like structures but may be facilitated in their absence. In a factorial design, rabbits fed 2% cholesterol or a normal diet (0% cholesterol) for 8 weeks with or without copper added to the drinking water were given trace classical conditioning using a tone and periorbital electrodermal stimulation to study the effects of cholesterol and copper on classical conditioning of heart rate and the nictitating membrane response. Cholesterol-fed rabbits showed significant facilitation of heart rate conditioning and conditioning-specific modification of heart rate relative to normal diet controls. Consistent with previous research, cholesterol had minimal effects on classical conditioning of the nictitating membrane response when periorbital electrodermal stimulation was used as the unconditioned stimulus. Immunohistochemical analysis showed a significant increase in the number of beta amyloid positive neurons in the cortex, hippocampus and amygdala of the cholesterol-fed rabbits. Supplementation of drinking water with copper increased the number of beta amyloid positive neurons in the cortex of cholesterol-fed rabbits but did not produce plaque-like structures or have a significant effect on heart rate conditioning. The data provide additional support for our finding that, in the absence of plaques, dietary cholesterol may facilitate learning and memory.
The histamine H(3) receptor mediates inhibitory responses in the nervous system. Here, we demonstrate the coupling of the human histamine H(3) receptor to G protein-coupled inward rectifier potassium (GIRK) channels in Xenopus oocytes, using voltage-clamp. The histamine H(3) receptor agonist (R)-alpha-methylhistamine increased GIRK currents with an EC(50) of 2.5 nM. The response to (R)-alpha-methylhistamine was inhibited by the specific antagonist/inverse agonist clobenpropit. GIRK channels represent a novel effector pathway for the histamine H(3) receptor, also suggesting the use of electrophysiology assays in histamine H(3) receptor drug screening, allowing for the resolution of G protein activation kinetics.
