Ontogenetic studies using a social interaction paradigm have shown that adolescent rats are less sensitive to anxiolytic properties of acute ethanol than their adult counterparts. It is not known, however, whether adaptations to these anxiolytic effects on repeated experiences with ethanol would be similar in adolescents and adults. The present study investigated sensitivity to the anxiolytic effects of ethanol in adolescent and adult male and female Sprague-Dawley rats after 7 days of exposure (postnatal day [P] 27-33 for adolescents and P62-68 for adults) to 1g/kg ethanol or saline (intraperitoneally]) and in animals left nonmanipulated during this time. Anxiolytic effects of ethanol (0, 0.75, 1.0, 1.25, and 1.5g/kg for adolescents and 0, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, and 1.25g/kg for adults in experiments 1 and 2, respectively) were examined 48h after the last exposure using a modified social interaction test under unfamiliar test circumstances. At both ages, repeated ethanol exposure resulted in the development of apparent sensitization to anxiolytic effects of ethanol, indexed by enhancement of social investigation and transformation of social avoidance into social indifference or preference and expression of tolerance to the socially inhibiting effects induced by higher ethanol doses. Evidence for the emergence of sensitization in adults and tolerance at both ages was seen not only after chronic ethanol but also after chronic saline exposure, suggesting that chronic manipulation per se may be sufficient to alter the sensitivity of both adolescents and adults to socially relevant effects of ethanol.
Animal and human studies have shown tolerance, consumption, relapse, and behavioral interactions between ethanol and nicotine, but little is understood about their interaction, especially as it relates to ethanol withdrawal in adulthood for subjects who have an adolescent history of using these drugs. This study investigated nicotine's influence on ethanol withdrawal seizures in two different age groups of male C3H mice. Adolescent and adult male C3H mice, beginning at postnatal day 28 or 70, respectively, were subjected to a 7-day chronic exposure to ethanol only, ethanol plus nicotine, nicotine only, or vehicle treatment. Six weeks later, all the groups were subjected to chronic exposure to ethanol vapors and the severity of their ethanol withdrawal seizures was assessed by handling-induced convulsions. An adolescent exposure to chronic nicotine resulted in an exacerbation of ethanol withdrawal seizures in adulthood. Given this, adolescence may contain a neurophysiological critical period that is sensitive to nicotine and which may result in an altered response to ethanol dependency in adulthood. These findings have serious implications for the long-term consequences following co-abuse of these drugs during adolescence.
Alcohol use increases across adolescence and is a concern in the United States. In humans, males and females consume different amounts of alcohol depending on the age of initiation, and the long-term consequences of early ethanol consumption are not readily understood. The purpose of our work was to better understand the immediate and long-term impact of ethanol exposure during adolescence and the effects it can have on behavior and dopaminergic responsivity. We have assessed sex differences in voluntary ethanol consumption during adolescence and adulthood and the influence of binge ethanol exposure during adolescence. We have observed that males are sensitive to passive social influences that mediate voluntary ethanol consumption, and early ethanol exposure induces long-term changes in responsivity to ethanol in adulthood. Exposure to moderate doses of ethanol during adolescence produced alterations in dopamine in the nucleus accumbens septi during adolescence and later in adulthood. Taken together, all of these data indicate that the adolescent brain is sensitive to the impact of early ethanol exposure during this critical developmental period.
This review discusses evidence for long-lasting neurophysiological changes that may occur following exposure to ethanol during adolescent development in animal models. Adolescence is the time that most individuals first experience ethanol exposure, and binge drinking is not uncommon during adolescence. If alcohol exposure is neurotoxic to the developing brain during adolescence, not unlike it is during fetal development, then understanding how ethanol affects the developing adolescent brain becomes a major public health issue. Adolescence is a critical time period when cognitive, emotional, and social maturation occurs and it is likely that ethanol exposure may affect these complex processes. To study the effects of ethanol on adolescent brain, animal models where the dose and time of exposure can be carefully controlled that closely mimic the human condition are needed. The studies reviewed provide evidence that demonstrates that relatively brief exposure to high levels of ethanol, via ethanol vapors, during a period corresponding to parts of adolescence in the rat is sufficient to cause long-lasting changes in functional brain activity. Disturbances in waking electroencephalogram and a reduction in the P3 component of the event-related potential (ERP) have been demonstrated in adult rats that were exposed to ethanol vapor during adolescence. Adolescent ethanol exposure was also found to produce long-lasting reductions in the mean duration of slow-wave sleep (SWS) episodes and the total amount of time spent in SWS, a finding consistent with a premature aging of sleep. Further studies are necessary to confirm these findings, in a range of strains, and to link those findings to the neuroanatomical and neurochemical mechanisms potentially underlying the lasting effects of adolescent ethanol exposure.







Vagal afferent neurons relay important information regarding the control of the gastrointestinal system. However, the ionic mechanisms that underlie vagal activation induced by sensory inputs are not completely understood. We postulate that transient receptor potential (TRP) channels and/or two-pore potassium (K2p) channels are targets for activating vagal afferents. In this study we explored the distribution of these channels in vagal afferents by quantitative PCR after a capsaicin treatment to eliminate capsaicin-sensitive neurons, and by single-cell PCR measurements in vagal afferent neurons cultured after retrograde labeling from the stomach or duodenum. We found that TRPC1/3/5/6, TRPV1-4, TRPM8, TRPA1, TWIK2, TRAAK, TREK1, and TASK1/2 were all present in rat nodose ganglia. Both lesion results and single-cell PCR results suggested that TRPA1 and TRPC1 were preferentially expressed in neurons that were either capsaicin sensitive or TRPV1 positive. Expression of TRPM8 varied dynamically after various manipulations, which perhaps explains the disparate results obtained by different investigators. Last, we also examined ion channel distribution with the A-type CCK receptor (CCK-R(A)) and found there was a significant preference for neurons that express TRAAK to also express CCK-R(A), especially in gut-innervating neurons. These findings, combined with findings from prior studies, demonstrated that background conductances such as TRPC1, TRPA1, and TRAAK are indeed differentially distributed in the nodose ganglia, and not only do they segregate with specific markers, but the degree of overlap is also dependent on the innervation target.
Elevated amygdala activity and increased responsiveness of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis have been observed in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) patients. Recently, we demonstrated that corticosterone (Cort) placed on the amygdala induced anxiety-like behavior coupled with decreased thresholds for visceral and somatic pain in rats. Moreover, these studies suggested that the effects of Cort were dependent on both the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and mineralocorticoid receptor (MR); however, the specific contributions of these receptors to the interaction between corticosteroids and the amygdala are still unclear. In the present study, we sought to define the distinct roles of amygdaloid GR and MR in anxiety-like behavior, visceral sensitivity, and somatic sensitivity through selective pharmacological activation. Male Fischer 344 rats received bilateral implants on the dorsal margin of the central amygdala containing the GR agonist dexamethasone (Dex), the MR agonist aldosterone (Aldo), or cholesterol as a control. Our results showed that GR or MR activation significantly reduced open arm exploration on the elevated plus maze, a measure of anxiety-like behavior. Aldo increased the number of abdominal muscle contractions in response to all levels of colorectal distension (CRD). In contrast, Dex only increased visceral sensitivity at noxious levels of CRD. Furthermore, GR but not MR activation reduced somatic pain thresholds measured by the mechanical force required to elicit hindlimb withdrawal. In summary, GR and MR mediated-mechanisms induce anxiety and visceral hypersensitivity, whereas somatic sensitivity involves only GR, suggesting that corticosteroids may enhance visceral and somatic sensation via divergent processes originating in the amygdala and involving specific steroid receptor mechanisms.
The effects of microgravity on frog semicircular canals have been studied by electrophysiological and morphological approaches. Reduced gravity (microG) was simulated by a random positioning machine (RPM), which continually and randomly modified the orientation in space of the anesthetized animal. As this procedure stimulates the semicircular canals, the effect of altered gravity was isolated by comparing microG-treatment with an identical rotary stimulation in the presence of normal gravity (normoG). Electrophysiological experiments were performed in the isolated labyrinth, extracted from the animals after the treatment, and mounted on a turntable. Junctional activity was measured by recording quantal events (mEPSPs) and spikes from the afferent fibers close to the junction, at rest and during rotational stimulation. MicroG-treated animals displayed a marked decrease in the frequency of resting and evoked mEPSP discharge, vs. both control and normoG (mean decrease approximately 50%). Spike discharge was also depressed: 57% of microG-treated frogs displayed no spikes at rest and during rotation at 0.1 Hz, vs. 23-31% of control or normoG frogs. Among the firing units, during one cycle of sinusoidal rotation at 0.1 Hz microG-treated units emitted an average of 41.8 + or - 8.06 spikes, vs. 77.2 + or - 8.19 in controls. Patch-clamp analysis on dissociated hair cells revealed altered Ca(2+) handling, after microG, consistent with and supportive of the specificity of microG effects. Marked morphological signs of cellular suffering were observed after microG, mainly in the central part of the sensory epithelium. Functional changes due to microgravity were reversible within a few days.
Many important physiological, behavioral, and psychoemotional effects of intravenous (IV) cocaine (COC) are too fast and transient compared with pharmacokinetic predictions, suggesting a possible involvement of peripheral neural mechanisms in their triggering. In the present study, we examined changes in cortical electroencephalogram (EEG) and neck electromyogram (EMG) induced in freely moving rats by IV COC administration at low, reinforcing doses (0.25-1.0 mg/kg) and compared them with those induced by an auditory stimulus and IV COC methiodide, which cannot cross the blood-brain barrier. We found that COC induces rapid, strong, and prolonged EEG desynchronization, associated with decrease in alpha and increase in beta and gamma activities, and EMG activation and that both begin within 2-6 s following the start of a 10-s injection; immediate components of this effect were dose independent. The rapid COC-induced changes in EEG and EMG resembled those induced by an auditory stimulus; the latter effects had shorter onset latencies and durations and were fully blocked during urethane anesthesia. Although urethane anesthesia completely blocked COC-induced EMG activation and rapid components of EEG response, COC still induced EEG desynchronization that was much weaker, greatly delayed (approximately 60 s), and associated with tonic decreases in delta and increases in alpha, beta, and gamma activities. Surprisingly, IV saline delivered during slow-wave sleep (but not quite wakefulness) also induced a transient EEG desynchronization but without changes in EMG activity; these effects were also fully blocked during anesthesia. Peripherally acting COC methiodide fully mimicked rapid EEG and EMG effects of regular COC, but the effects at an equimolar dose were less prolonged than those with regular COC. These data suggest that in awake animals IV COC, like somato-sensory stimuli, induces cortical activation and a subsequent motor response via its action on peripheral neural elements and involving rapid neural transmission. By providing a rapid neural signal and triggering transient neural activation, such an action might play a crucial role in the sensory effects of COC, thus contributing to the learning and development of drug-taking behavior.
Males and females of many species sex-segregate, ranging from complete separation of habitats to social segregation within the same space, sometimes varying across seasons and lifespan development. Mechanisms for such segregation are not well understood, though some have suggested that sex differences in preferred juvenile behaviors lead to greater behavioral compatibility within than between sexes. This within-sex behavioral compatibility may be the source of sex-segregation. As juvenile behavioral sex differences are well-documented in rhesus monkeys, we examined sex-segregation patterns of yearling rhesus monkeys engaged in three different types of behavior: rough play, parallel play, and grooming. We observed male and female rhesus yearlings from five stable long-term age-graded social groups of 67-183 animals. Behavioral observations were designed to collect equal numbers of rough play, grooming, and parallel play bouts. In addition, sex composition and proximity to adults was recorded for each bout. Across all behaviors, more all-male groups and fewer mixed sex-groups were observed than expected by chance. All-female groups occurred at the level expected by chance. Thus, males sex-segregated regardless of type of behavior, while females did not sex-segregate. Female groups were observed in proximity to adults more often than expected by chance. These results suggest that behavioral compatibility may produce sex-segregation in male yearling rhesus monkeys, possibly preparing males and females for different social roles and segregation as adults.
A reduction in arterial compliance in patients with autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus erythematosus has been previously reported. It is caused by the effect that systemic inflammation has on the cardiovascular system. Multiple sclerosis (MS), an immune-mediated disease that exclusively affects the central nervous system (CNS), has a significant inflammatory component that is limited to that compartment. The potential effects of its inflammatory mediators in the cardiovascular system are largely unknown. Purpose: To examine large (C1) and small arterial compliance (C2) in patients with MS and compare them with healthy age-matched controls. To also determine whether any differences in C1 and C2 indices between participants diagnosed with relapsing remitting MS (RR-MS), secondary progressive MS (SP-MS), and controls exist. Methods: A total of 26 men and women between the ages of 18 and 64 diagnosed with MS and 25 healthy controls volunteered for this study. Arterial compliance was measured by using pulse contour analysis (PCA), which records and analyzes the blood pressure waveform data from the Arterial Pulse Wave Sensors. Results: Significant differences in C1 and C2 were found between young RR-MS and healthy young controls (P &lt; .05), with the MS group showing lower arterial C1 and C2 compliance. No significant differences (P &gt; .05) were seen for C1 or C2 values between older RR-MS, SP-MS, and healthy controls. Conclusion: Arterial compliance is significantly compromised in young individuals with MS, compared with age-matched controls, but not for older individuals, suggesting a systemic effect of an inflammatory process that predominantly affects the CNS.
For more than half a century, since the beginning of formal diagnostics, our psychiatric nosology has compartmentalized the compulsive pursuit of substance (e.g., alcohol, cocaine, heroin, nicotine) from nonsubstance (e.g., gambling, food, sex) rewards. Emerging brain, behavioral, and genetic findings challenge this diagnostic boundary, pointing to shared vulnerabilities underlying the pathological pursuit of substance and nonsubstance rewards. Working groups for the fifth revision of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fifth edition (DSM-V), are thus considering whether the nosologic boundaries of addiction should be redrawn to include nonsubstance disorders, such as gambling. This review discusses how neurobiological data from problem gambling, obesity, and &quot;normal&quot; states of attachment (romantic infatuation, sexual attraction, maternal bonds) may help us in the task of carving addictions &quot;at a new joint.&quot; Diagnostic recarving may have a positive effect on addiction research, stimulating discovery of &quot;crossover&quot; pharmacotherapies with benefit for both substance and nonsubstance addictions.
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H MRS) is a noninvasive imaging technique that permits measurement of particular compounds or metabolites within the tissue of interest. In the brain, (1)H MRS provides a snapshot of the neurochemical environment within a defined volume of interest. A search of the literature demonstrates the widespread utility of this technique for characterizing tumors, tracking the progress of neurodegenerative disease, and for understanding the neurobiological basis of psychiatric disorders. As of relatively recently, (1)H MRS has found its way into substance abuse research, and it is beginning to become recognized as a valuable complement in the brain imaging toolbox that also contains positron emission tomography, single-photon-emission computed tomography, and functional magnetic resonance imaging. Drug abuse studies using (1)H MRS have identified several biochemical changes in the brain. The most consistent alterations across drug class were reductions in N-acetylaspartate and elevations in myo-inositol, whereas changes in choline, creatine, and amino acid transmitters also were abundant. Together, the studies discussed herein provide evidence that drugs of abuse may have a profound effect on neuronal health, energy metabolism and maintenance, inflammatory processes, cell membrane turnover, and neurotransmission, and these biochemical changes may underlie the neuropathology within brain tissue that subsequently gives rise to the cognitive and behavioral impairments associated with drug addiction.
The drugs of abuse, methamphetamine and MDMA, produce long-term decreases in markers of biogenic amine neurotransmission. These decreases have been traditionally linked to nerve terminals and are evident in a variety of species, including rodents, nonhuman primates, and humans. Recent studies indicate that the damage produced by these drugs may be more widespread than originally believed. Changes indicative of damage to cell bodies of biogenic and nonbiogenic amine-containing neurons in several brain areas and endothelial cells that make up the blood-brain barrier have been reported. The processes that mediate this damage involve not only oxidative stress but also include excitotoxic mechanisms, neuroinflammation, the ubiquitin proteasome system, as well as mitochondrial and neurotrophic factor dysfunction. These mechanisms also underlie the toxicity associated with chronic stress and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, both of which have been shown to augment the toxicity to methamphetamine. Overall, multiple mechanisms are involved and interact to promote neurotoxicity to methamphetamine and MDMA. Moreover, the high coincidence of substituted amphetamine abuse by humans with HIV and/or chronic stress exposure suggests a potential enhanced vulnerability of these individuals to the neurotoxic actions of the amphetamines.
Little is known about the influence of cerebral white matter lesion (WML) location on gait. We applied partial least squares regression in brain magnetic resonance imaging scans (n = 385) to evaluate which WML voxel systems were independently associated with a composite gait score and identified affected tracts using a diffusion tensor imaging template. Bilateral frontal and periventricular WML-affected voxels corresponding to major anterior projection fibers (thalamic radiations, corticofugal motor tracts) and adjacent association fibers (corpus callosum, superior fronto-occipital fasciculus, short association fibers) showed the greatest covariance with poorer gait. WMLs probably contribute to age-related gait decline by disconnecting motor networks served by these tracts.


This study focused on genetic and behavioural aspects of one important component of the motivation to eat - how appetitive arousal is elicited through the presentation of food-associated stimuli. Individuals with Prader-Willi syndrome, a genetic disorder associated with hyperphagia, and control participants completed a computerised response task in the presence of motivational stimuli. In controls, appetitive arousal was specific to particular stimuli. In contrast, individuals with PWS showed a non-specific pattern of arousal. Over-activation of the anticipatory motivation system may be one consequence of the genetic disorder in PWS.
Subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD) show impaired learning strategies. Whether impaired learning strategies are already present in subjects with prodromal AD remains unknown. The aim of the present study was to investigate the predictive accuracy of learning strategies for AD in subjects with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). Subjects with MCI (n = 202) were selected from the Maastricht Memory Clinic. Subjects were reassessed over a period of 10 years. Fifty-five of the 202 subjects converted to AD. Learning strategies investigated were subjective organization and serial clustering. Lower scores of subjective organization were associated with a higher risk for AD (OR = 2.1, p = .002). Serial clustering did not predict AD. Prodromal AD is characterized by a decreased use of effortful learning strategies. This finding may have implications for the early detection of AD in MCI subjects and for the development of cognitive training programs.







It has become clear that the products of several of the earliest identified myelin protein genes perform functions that extend beyond the myelin sheath. Interestingly, these myelin proteins, which comprise proteolipid protein, 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase and the classic and golli MBPs (myelin basic proteins), play important roles during different stages of oligodendroglial development. These non-myelin-related functions are varied and include roles in the regulation of process outgrowth, migration, RNA transport, oligodendrocyte survival and ion channel modulation. However, despite the wide variety of cellular functions performed by the different myelin genes, the route by which they achieve these many functions seems to converge upon a common mechanism involving Ca(2+) regulation, cytoskeletal rearrangements and signal transduction. In the present review, the newly emerging functions of these myelin proteins will be described, and these will then be discussed in the context of their contribution to oligodendroglial development.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine 2C (5-HT(2C)) receptor is a member of the serotonin 5-HT(2) subfamily of G-protein-coupled receptors signaling predominantly via the phospholipase C (PLC) pathway. Stimulation of phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis upon 5-HT(2C) receptor activation is traditionally assessed by measuring inositol monophosphate (IP(1)) using time-consuming and labor-intensive anion exchange radioactive assays. In this study, we have developed and optimized a cellular IP(1) assay using homogeneous time-resolved fluorescence (HTRF), a fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based technology (Cisbio; Gif sur Yvette, France). The measurement is simple to carry out without the cumbersome steps associated with radioactive assays and may therefore be used as an alternative tool to evaluate PI hydrolysis activated by 5-HT(2C) agonists. In Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells stably expressing 5-HT(2C) receptors, characterization of 5-HT(2C) agonists with the HTRF platform revealed a rank order of potency (EC(50), nM) comparable to that from intracellular calcium mobilization studies measured by the fluorometric imaging plate reader (FLIPR). A similar rank order of potency was seen with conventional radioactive PI assay with the exception of 5-HT. Lastly, the new assay data correlated better with agonist-induced calcium responses in FLIPR (R(2) = 0.78) than with values determined by radioactive IP(1) method (R(2) = 0.64). Our study shows that the HTRF FRET-based assay detects IP(1) with good sensitivity and may be streamlined for high-throughput (HTS) applications.


What motivates grandparents to their altruism? We review answers from evolutionary theory, sociology, and economics. Sometimes in direct conflict with each other, these accounts of grandparental investment exist side-by-side, with little or no theoretical integration. They all account for some of the data, and none account for all of it. We call for a more comprehensive theoretical framework of grandparental investment that addresses its proximate and ultimate causes, and its variability due to lineage, values, norms, institutions (e.g., inheritance laws), and social welfare regimes. This framework needs to take into account that the demographic shift to low fecundity and mortality in economically developed countries has profoundly altered basic parameters of grandparental investment. We then turn to the possible impact of grandparental acts of altruism, and examine whether benefits of grandparental care in industrialized societies may manifest in terms of less tangible dimensions, such as the grandchildren's cognitive and verbal ability, mental health, and well-being. Although grandparents in industrialized societies continue to invest substantial amounts of time and money in their grandchildren, we find a paucity of studies investigating the influence that this investment has on grandchildren in low-risk family contexts. Under circumstances of duress - for example, teenage pregnancy or maternal depression - there is converging evidence that grandparents can provide support that helps to safeguard their children and grandchildren against adverse risks. We conclude by discussing the role that grandparents could play in what has been referred to as Europe's demographic suicide.
The neuropeptide arginine vasopressin (AVP) modulates a variety of species-specific social behaviors. In socially monogamous male prairie voles, AVP acts centrally via vasopressin V1a receptor (V1aR) to facilitate mating induced partner preferences. The display of a partner preference requires at least 2 temporally distinct processes: social bond formation as well as its recall, or expression. Studies to date have not determined in which of these processes V1aR acts to promote partner preferences. Here, male prairie voles were administered intracerebroventricularly a V1aR antagonist (AVPA) at different time points to investigate the role of V1aR in social bond formation and expression. Animals receiving AVPA prior to cohabitation with mating or immediately prior to partner preference testing failed to display a partner preference, while animals receiving AVPA immediately after cohabitation with mating and control animals receiving vehicle at all 3 time points displayed partner preferences. These results suggest that V1aR signaling is necessary for both the formation and expression of partner preferences and that these processes are dissociable.
Following stroke-like lesions to the sensorimotor cortex in rats, experience with the ipsi-to-lesion (ipsilesional), &quot;nonparetic&quot;, forelimb worsens deficits in the contralesional, &quot;paretic&quot;, forelimb. We tested whether the maladaptive effects of experience with the nonparetic limb are mediated through callosal connections and the contralesional sensorimotor cortex. Adult male rats with proficiency in skilled reaching with their dominant (for reaching) forelimb received ischemic bilateral sensorimotor cortex lesions, or unilateral lesions, with or without callosal transections. After assessing dominant forelimb function (the paretic forelimb in rats with unilateral lesions), animals were trained with their nonparetic/nondominant forelimb or underwent control procedures for 15 days. Animals were then tested with their paretic/dominant forelimb. In animals with unilateral lesions only, nonparetic forelimb training worsened subsequent performance with the paretic forelimb, as found previously. This effect was not found in animals with both callosal transections and unilateral lesions. After bilateral lesions, training the nondominant limb did not worsen function of the dominant limb compared with controls. Thus, the maladaptive effects of training the nonparetic limb on paretic forelimb function depend upon the contralesional cortex and transcallosal projections. This suggests that this experience-dependent disruption of functional recovery is mediated through interhemispheric connections of the sensorimotor cortex.
Cholesterol and sulfatides play many important roles in learning and memory. To date, our observations about the effects of cholesterol on learning have been assessed during response acquisition; that is, the learning of a new memory. Here, we report for the first time to our knowledge, on the effect of a cholesterol diet on a previously formed memory. Rabbits were given trace conditioning of the nictitating membrane response for 10 days, then fed a 2% cholesterol diet for 8 weeks, and then assessed for memory recall of the initially learned task. We show that dietary cholesterol had an adverse effect on memory recall. Second, we investigated whether dietary cholesterol caused an increase in brain cholesterol and sulfatide levels in four major brain structures (hippocampus, frontal lobe, brainstem, and cerebellum) using a technique for analyzing myelin and myelin-free fractions separately. Although our data confirm previous findings that dietary cholesterol does not directly affect cholesterol and establish that it does not affect sulfatide levels in the brain, these levels did increase rather significantly in the hippocampus and frontal lobe as a function of learning and memory.
Caloric restriction (CR), primarily known for extending life span, has proven anticonvulsant in several seizure models and antiepileptogenic in a strain of inherently seizure susceptible mice. Our animal model consisted of a seizure-prone (Fast) strain that naturally exhibits attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)-like behaviors and a comparison seizure-resistant (Slow) strain; we evaluated CR's effect on the typical seizure sensitivities and behavioral profiles of each strain. Fast and Slow rats were fed ad libitum or were calorically restricted to 80% of free-feeding body weight. Rats were then tested in the open field (hyperactivity), Morris water maze (learning and attention), and restraint (impulsivity) paradigms and finally kindled from the amygdala. Ultimately, CR abolished signs of abnormal hyperactivity in the Fast strain and retarded their kindling rates, making it the first manipulation to demonstrate an antiepileptogenic effect in this animal model. CR also shortened seizure durations in fully kindled Slow rats but had no effect on their kindling rates, implying a differential effect of CR on genotype. These results clearly endorse further investigation into the potential benefits of CR for both epilepsy and ADHD.
Newly formed memories are initially fragile and require consolidation to be transformed into an enduring state. Memory consolidation may occur during increased postlearning REM sleep. REM deprivation during these periods (termed REM sleep windows [RSWs]) impairs subsequent performance. The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPT) and adjacent deep mesencephalic reticular nuclei (DpMe) have been implicated in the generation of REM sleep. Following 24-hr baseline recording, rats were trained on the 2-way avoidance task for 50 trials/day over 2 days and retested on Day 3. EEG was recorded 22 hr after training on training Days 1 and 2. Rats were injected with the GABAB agonist baclofen or saline into the PPT/DpMe region at 0300 to coincide with the start of a known RSW. Based on shuttle performance, saline rats were assigned post hoc to a learning group (LG) that avoided the footshock at least 60% at retest or nonlearning group (NLG) that performed below this criterion. Baclofen-injected rats were not assigned post hoc into separate groups as all rats performed below the learning criterion. PPN/DpMe infusions of the inhibitory GABAB agonist baclofen decreased REM and impaired subsequent memory performance. Normal GABAergic transmission in the PPN/DpMe may be necessary for REM to occur and for the consolidation of incentive learning.
Adolescence is associated with the development of brain regions linked to cognition and emotion. Such changes are thought to contribute to the behavioral and neuropsychiatric vulnerabilities of this period. We compared adolescent (Postnatal Days 28-42) and adult (Postnatal Day 60+) rats as they performed a simple instrumental task and extinction. Rats were trained to poke into a hole for a food-pellet reinforcer. After six days of training, rats underwent extinction sessions in which the previously rewarded behavior was no longer reinforced. During extinction, we examined the effects of continued presentation of a cue light and food restriction. Adults and adolescents exhibited similar performance during training, although adolescents made more task-irrelevant pokes, consistent with increased exploration. Adults made more premature pokes, which could indicate a more exclusive focus on the task. During extinction, adolescents made more perseverative (previously reinforced) pokes than adults. This behavior was strongly modulated by the combination of motivational factors present (food restriction and cue light), indicating that adolescents were differentially sensitive to them. Furthermore, food restriction induced greater open-field activity in adolescents but not in adults. Thus, as the neural circuitry of motivated behavior develops substantially during adolescence, so too does the behavioral sensitivity to motivational factors. Understanding how such factors differently affect adolescents may shed light on mechanisms that lead to the development of disorders that are manifested during this period.
The brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is critically involved in neuroplasticity, as well as the acquisition, consolidation, and retention of hippocampal- and amygdala-dependent learning. A common functional A--&gt;G single nucleotide polymorphism (BDNFval66met) in the prodomain of the human BDNF gene is associated with abnormal intracellular trafficking and reduced activity-dependent BDNF release. We studied the effect of BDNFval66met in an aversive differential fear conditioning, and a delayed extinction paradigm in 57 healthy participants. Pictures of male faces were used as stimuli and fear learning was quantified by fear potentiated startle (FPS) and skin conductance responses (SCR). Aware BDNF met-carriers show a deficit in amygdala-dependent fear conditioning as indicated by an absence of FPS responses in the last acquisition block. This deficit was maintained in the first block of extinction. No genotype differences were found in conditioned SCR discrimination. These data provide evidence for the involvement of BDNF signaling in human amygdala-dependent learning. We suggest that the BDNF met-allele may have a protective effect for the development of affective pathologies that may be mediated via reduced synaptic plasticity induced by negative experience.
Phencyclidine (PCP), an antagonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of ionotropic glutamatergic receptors, decreases gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic inhibition, suggesting that changes in GABAergic receptor function underlie behavioral and cognitive deficits resulting from repeated administration of PCP. To test this hypothesis, male Sprague-Dawley rats treated with PCP (4.5 mg/kg, intraperitoneal, twice a day for 7 consecutive days) or saline were tested in behavioral and cognitive tasks 7 days after injections. The PCP group showed increased amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg)-stimulated locomotor activity, and exhibited a greater number of errors in the double Y-maze memory task, when compared with controls. Subchronic PCP treatment increased [H]muscimol-binding sites and decreased affinity for [H]muscimol binding in frontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum in comparison with controls. There were no changes in the expression of glutamic acid decarboxylase or the GABA membrane transporter protein. These data show that subchronic PCP administration induces an impaired performance of a previously learned task and an enhanced response to amphetamine in the rat. The observed changes in GABAA receptors in the rat brain are consistent with the notion that alterations in GABAergic receptor function contribute to the behavioral and cognitive impairments associated with repeated exposure to PCP.

Do monkeys anchor their numerical judgments based on the context in which their choices are presented? We addressed this question by varying the numerical range across sessions while macaque monkeys made ordinal judgments. Monkeys were trained to make a conditional discrimination whereby they were reinforced for ordering arrays of dots in ascending or descending numerical order, dependent on a color cue. Monkeys were tested using two ranges of numerosities that converged on a single pair. Similar to the findings of Cantlon and Brannon (2005), we found a semantic congruity effect whereby decision time was systematically influenced by the congruity between the cue (ascending or descending) and the relative Numerical Magnitude of the stimuli within each range. Furthermore, monkeys showed a context effect, such that decision time for a given pair was dependent on whether it was a relatively small or large set of values compared to the other values presented in that session. This finding suggests that, similar to humans, the semantic congruity effect observed in monkeys is anchored by the context. Thus our data provide further evidence for the existence of a shared numerical comparison process in monkeys and humans.
Docking, the stable association of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane, is considered to be the necessary first step before vesicles gain fusion-competence, but it is unclear how vesicles dock. In adrenal medullary chromaffin cells, access of secretory vesicles to docking sites is controlled by dense F-actin (filamentous actin) beneath the plasma membrane. Recently, we found that, in the absence of Munc18-1, the number of docked vesicles and the thickness of cortical F-actin are affected. In the present paper, I discuss the possible mechanism by which Munc18-1 modulates cortical F-actin and how it orchestrates the docking machinery via an interaction with syntaxin-1. Finally, a comparison of Munc18's role in embryonic mouse and adult bovine chromaffin cell model systems will be made to clarify observed differences in cortical F-actin as well as docking phenotypes.
Exocytosis of hormones occurs through the fusion of large dense-core secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane. This highly regulated process involves key proteins such as SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein-attachment protein receptors) and also specific lipids at the site of membrane fusion. Among the different lipids required for exocytosis, our recent observations have highlighted the crucial role of PA (phosphatidic acid) in the late stages of membrane fusion in various exocytotic events. An RNAi (RNA interference) strategy coupled with the detection of PA in living cells has pointed to plasma membrane-associated PLD1 (phospholipase D(1)) as the main producer of PA in response to secretagogue stimulation. We have identified several GTPases which regulate the activation level of PLD(1) in neuroendocrine cells. Finally, RSK2 (ribosomal S6 kinase 2) appears to phosphorylate and regulate the activity of PLD(1) in a calcium-dependent manner. Altogether our results have unravelled a complex set of regulatory pathways controlling the synthesis of fusogenic lipids at the secretory granule fusion site by PLD(1).
Cyclin A must be degraded at prometaphase in order to allow mitosis progression. Nevertheless, the signals that trigger cyclin A degradation at mitosis have been largely elusive. In the present paper, we review the status of cyclin A degradation in the light of recent evidence indicating that acetylation plays a role in cyclin A stability. The emerging model proposes that the acetyltransferase PCAF [p300/CREB (cAMP-response-element-binding protein)-binding protein-associated factor] [perhaps also its homologue GCN5 (general control non-derepressible 5)] acetylates cyclin A at Lys(54), Lys(68), Lys(95) and Lys(112) during mitosis, leading to its ubiquitylation by the anaphase-promoting factor/cyclosome and its subsequent degradation via proteasome. Interestingly, these four lysine residues in cyclin A also participate in the regulation of cyclin A-Cdk (cyclin-dependent kinase) activity by modulating its interaction with Cdks.
We investigated memory impairment in newly hatched chicks following in ovo exposure to a 50-Hz magnetic field (MF) of 2 mT (60 min/day) on embryonic days 12-18. Isolated and paired chicks were used to test the effect of stress during training, and memory retention was tested at 10, 30, and 120 min, following exposure to a bitter-tasting bead (100% methylanthranilate). Results showed that memory was intact at 10 min in both isolated and paired chicks with or without MF exposure. However, while isolated chicks had good memory retention levels at 30 and 120 min, those exposed to MF did not. The results suggest a potential disruption of memory formation following in ovo exposure to MF, with this effect only evident in the more stressed, isolated chicks.
In this article, we present a method for tracking changes in curvature of limit cycle solutions that arise due to inflection points. In keeping with previous literature, we term these changes false bifurcations, as they appear to be bifurcations when considering a Poincar section that is tangent to the solution, but in actual fact the deformation of the solution occurs smoothly as a parameter is varied. These types of solutions arise commonly in electroencephalogram models of absence seizures and correspond to the formation of spikes in these models. Tracking these transitions in parameter space allows regions to be defined corresponding to different types of spike and wave dynamics, that may be of use in clinical neuroscience as a means to classify different subtypes of the more general syndrome.



Increasing evidence suggests that cross-frequency spectral coupling between slow (SW) and fast (FW) wave activity in the EEG supports information exchange between separate and functionally distinct neural systems. Further, evidence suggests that states of uncertainty, anticipation and anxious apprehension involve a high degree of SW-FW coupling. We examined whether adults pre-selected for high and low social anxiety showed distinct patterns of frontal brain oscillatory coupling during resting baseline and the anticipation of a self-presentation task. As predicted, the high socially anxious group showed significantly greater SW-FW coupling than the low socially anxious group, in the right, but not left, frontal electrode sites while anticipating a public speaking task. Additionally, the low socially anxious group showed a decrease in delta power from baseline to speech anticipation, suggesting that they found the same task potentially rewarding. Exploratory analyses indicated no effects of delta-gamma coupling. However, EEG gamma band power increased during the speech anticipation condition, in the parietal electrode sites. Our results are discussed in the context of previous studies on cross-frequency EEG coupling in relation to individual differences in motivation and emotion and future directions for studying the neural correlates of anxiety.
The Guilty Actions Test (GAT) is a valid and scientifically sound technique of forensic psychophysiology that allows for the detection of concealed memories. However, its application has been challenged because the results might be affected by the culprit's forgetting of crime details as well as the leakage of information to innocents. In the current study, these aspects were examined by varying the amount of time between a mock crime and the subsequent GAT, as well as by contrasting culprits with informed innocents. It turned out that culprits specifically forgot peripheral crime details during a period of 2 weeks whereas informed innocents showed similar forgetting for all details. As a consequence, GAT validity based on electrodermal, respiratory and heart rate measures remained temporally stable for culprits whereas the amount of false positive errors for informed innocents decreased as a function of time. These results indicate that the process of memory encoding and consolidation has significant effects on the physiological response pattern in the GAT.
This article summarizes how biochemical markers may aid in the development of novel treatments that interfere with fundamental pathogenic processes in Alzheimer's disease. Details are given on the potential use of biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease clinical trials as additional inclusion criteria to enrich study populations with participants who really suffer from the disease, as a means to stratify study participants into meaningful subgroups that may benefit differently from the treatment, and as tools to detect desired biochemical effects and undesired side effects of the drug.
Oxidative damage and inflammation are important features of the brain pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Oxidative damage can be found in membranes (lipid peroxidation), proteins (nitrosylation and other post-translational changes) and nucleic acids. Inflammatory changes include activation of microglia and astrocytes, with increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines. Not all of these changes are specific to AD, and occur in other neurodegenerative disorders. Both oxidative stress and inflammation are potential therapeutic targets in AD, and biomarkers could help to identify and monitor key pathways in patients with AD. This article summarizes progress in developing cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers related to oxidative stress and inflammation, problems and pitfalls related to systemic (blood- or urine-based) biomarkers in this area, and future research directions and applications.
Printed circuit board (PCB) technology can be used for producing lab-on-a-chip (LOAC) devices. PCBs are characterized by low production costs and large-scale development, both essential elements in the frame of disposable applications. LOAC platforms have been employed not only for diagnostic and/or analytical purposes, but also for identification and isolation of eukaryotic cells, including cancer and stem cells. Accordingly, the compatibility of the employed materials with the biological system under analysis is critical for the development of LOAC devices to be proposed for efficient and safe cell isolation. In this study, we analyzed the in-vitro compatibility of a large set of materials and surface treatments used for LOAC development and evaluation with quasi-standard PCB processes. Biocompatibility was analyzed on hippocampal primary cells (a model of attached cell cultures), in comparison with the reference K562 cell line (a model of cells growing in suspension). We demonstrate here that some of the materials under study alter survival, organization, morphology and adhesion capacity of hippocampal cells, and inhibit growth and differentiation of K562 cells. Nonetheless, a subset of the materials tested did not negatively affect these functions, thus demonstrating that PCB technology, with some limitations, is suitable for the realization of LOAC devices well compatible at least with these preparations.
Nearly one hundred years ago, acetylcholine (ACh) was proposed as a chemical agent responsible for nerve transmission at the synapse, the junction area between one neuron and its target cell. Since it has been proved that ACh played, indeed, a major role in the functioning of the nerve system in the vertebrates, cholinergic nerve transmission became a basic field of study in neuroscience. The birth of histochemistry and its ulterior developments allowed in situ localization of the molecular agents related to the functioning of the cholinergic synapse. This report presents historical landmarks in the histochemistry of major cholinergic agents (acetylcholinesterase, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, choline acetyltransferase, and ACh), a domain which has greatly contributed to the knowledge of the nerve system. It is emphasized that despite extraordinary progresses made in this field, basic problems, such as in situ localization of ACh, still remain to be solved.
This Letter details the SAR of a novel series of piperidine-derived gamma-secretase modulators. Compound 10h was found to be a potent modulator in vitro, which on further profiling, was found to decrease Abeta42, increase Abeta38 and have no effect on Abeta40 levels. Furthermore, 10h demonstrated excellent pharmacokinetic parameters in the mouse, rat and dog in addition to good CNS penetration in the mouse.
Four oligomeric procyanidins were isolated from the MeOH extracts of the leaves of Crataegus pinnatifida (Rosaceae). Investigation of collagenase and gelatinase inhibitory natural components afforded four oligomeric procyanidins. Of these, 2 and 3 exhibited collagenase inhibitory activity (IC(50)) at a concentration of less than 1 microM, and 3 showed gelatinases A and B inhibitory activity (IC(50)) at 0.4 and 2.3 microM, respectively.
Sihler's stain is a whole mount nerve staining technique that renders other soft tissue translucent or transparent while staining the nerves. It permits mapping of entire nerve supply patterns of organs, skeletal muscles, mucosa, skin, and other structures after the specimens are fixed in neutralized formalin, macerated in potassium hydroxide, decalcified in acetic acid, stained in Ehrlich's hematoxylin, destained in acetic acid, and cleared in glycerin. The unique advantage of Sihler's stain over other anatomical methods is that all the nerves within the stained specimen can be visualized in their three-dimensional positions. To date, Sihler's stain is the best tool for demonstrating the precise intramuscular branching and distribution patterns of skeletal muscles, which are important not only for anatomists, but also for physiologists and clinicians. Advanced knowledge of the neural structures within mammalian skeletal muscles is critical for understanding muscle functions, performing electrophysiological experiments and developing novel neurosurgical techniques. In this review, Sihler's stain is described in detail and its use in nerve mapping is surveyed. Special emphasis is placed on staining procedures and troubleshooting, strengths and limitations, applications, major contributions to neuroscience, physiological and clinical significance, and areas for further technical improvement that deserve future research.
This report describes the isolation of rodent multipotent adult progenitor cells (MAPCs) and proliferation of these cells in both standard medium and medium without exogenous serum or growth factors conditioned by the rat cell line B104. MAPCs have exacting requirements for their proliferation in vitro but once established proliferate rapidly at low seeding density, requiring almost daily passage and media exchange. Previously published methods for growth of MAPCs in vitro all used media supplemented with serum and growth factors, which adds considerable expense.



Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) is a neuropeptide that mediates central control of reproduction by stimulating gonadotrophin secretion from the pituitary. It acts via 7 transmembrane region (7TM) receptors that lack C-terminal tails, regions that for many 7TM receptors, are necessary for agonist-induced phosphorylation and arrestin binding as well as arrestin-dependent desensitization, internalization and signalling. Recent work has revealed that human GnRH receptors (GnRHR) are poorly expressed at the cell surface. This apparently reflects inefficient exit from the endoplasmic reticulum, which is thought to be increased by pharmacological chaperones (non-peptide GnRHR antagonists that increase cell surface GnRHR expression) or reduced by point mutations that further impair GnRHR trafficking and thereby cause infertility. Here, we review recent work in this field, with emphasis on the use of semi-automated imaging to interrogate compartmentalization and trafficking of these unique 7TM receptors.
There is increasing medico-political impetus for the provision of direct access imaging services to primary care. This is likely to have fundamental effects on the way that imaging services are organised and provided, and radiologists need to be aware of the paradigm shift that is being promoted. This commentary summarises some of the key issues arising, and has been written to complement a recent conference organised by the British Institute of Radiology.
Patients with schizophrenia consistently show deficient performance on tasks requiring volitional saccades. We previously reported reduced fractional anisotropy in the white matter underlying right dorsal anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenia, which, along with lower fractional anisotropy in the right frontal eye field and posterior parietal cortex, predicted longer latencies of volitional saccades. This suggests that reduced microstructural integrity of dorsal anterior cingulate cortex white matter disrupts connectivity in the right hemisphere-dominant network for spatial attention and volitional ocular motor control. To test this hypothesis, we examined functional connectivity of the cingulate eye field component of this network, which is located in dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, during a task comprising volitional prosaccades and antisaccades. In patients with schizophrenia, we expected to find reduced functional connectivity, specifically in the right hemisphere, which predicted prolonged saccadic latency. Twenty-seven medicated schizophrenia outpatients and 21 demographically matched healthy controls performed volitional saccades during functional magnetic resonance imaging. Based on task-related activation, seed regions in the right and left cingulate eye field were defined. In both groups, the right and left cingulate eye field showed positive correlations with the ocular motor network and negative correlations with the default network. Patients showed reduced positive functional connectivity of the cingulate eye field, specifically in the right hemisphere. Negative functional connectivity of the right cingulate eye field predicted faster saccades, but these relations differed by group, and were only present in controls. This pattern of relations suggests that the coordination of activity between ocular motor and default networks is important for efficient task performance and is disrupted in schizophrenia. Along with prior observations of reduced white matter microstructural integrity (fractional anisotropy) in schizophrenia, the present finding of reduced functional connectivity suggests that functional and structural abnormalities of the right cingulate eye field disrupt connectivity in the network for spatial attention and volitional ocular motor control. These abnormalities may contribute to deficits in overcoming prepotency in the service of directing eye gaze and attention to the parts of the environment that are the most behaviourally relevant.
Retinal pigment epithelial cell malfunction is a causative feature of age-related macular degeneration, and transplantation of new retinal pigment epithelial cells is an attractive strategy to prevent further progression and visual loss. However, transplants have shown limited efficacy, mainly because transplanted cells fail to adhere and migrate onto pathological Bruch's membrane. Adhesion to Bruch's membrane is integrin-mediated. Ageing of Bruch's membrane leads to a decline in integrin ligands and, added to this, wet age-related macular degeneration leads to upregulation of anti-adhesive molecules such as tenascin-C. We have therefore investigated whether manipulation of integrin function in retinal pigment epithelial cells can restore their adhesion and migration on wet age-related macular degeneration-damaged Bruch's membrane. Using spontaneously immortalized human retinal pigment epithelial cells (adult retinal pigment epithelium-19), we show that adhesion and migration on the Bruch's membrane components is integrin-dependent and enhanced by integrin-activating agents manganese and TS2/16. These allowed cells to adhere and migrate on low concentrations of ligand, as would be found in aged Bruch's membrane. We next developed a method for stripping cells from Bruch's membrane so that adhesion and migration assays can be performed on its surface. Integrin activation had a moderate effect on enhancing retinal pigmented epithelial cell adhesion and migration on normal human and rat Bruch's membrane. However, on Bruch's membrane prepared from human wet age-related macular degeneration-affected eyes, adhesion was lower and integrin activation had a much greater effect. A candidate molecule for preventing retinal pigmented epithelial interaction with age-related macular degeneration-affected Bruch's membrane is tenascin-C which we confirm is present at high levels in wet age-related macular degeneration membrane. We show that tenascin-C is anti-adhesive for retinal pigmented epithelial cells, but after integrin activation, they can adhere and migrate on it using alphaVbeta3 integrin. Alternatively, we find that transduction of retinal pigmented epithelial cells with alpha9 integrin, a tenascin-C-binding integrin, led to a large increase in alpha9beta1-mediated adhesion and migration on tenascin-C. Both expression of alpha9 integrin and integrin activation greatly enhanced the ability of retinal pigment epithelial cells to adhere to tenascin-rich wet age-related macular degeneration-affected Bruch's membranes. Our results suggest that manipulation of retinal pigment epithelial cell integrins through integrin activating strategies, or expression of new integrins such as alpha9, could be effective in improving the efficacy of retinal pigment epithelial cell transplantation in wet age-related macular degeneration-affected eyes.
Grafts of foetal ventral mesencephalon, used in cell replacement therapy for Parkinson's disease, are known to contain a mix of dopamine neuronal subtypes including the A9 neurons of the substantia nigra and the A10 neurons of the ventral tegmental area. However, the relative importance of these subtypes for functional repair of the brain affected by Parkinson's disease has not been studied thoroughly. Here, we report results from a series of grafting experiments where the anatomical and functional properties of grafts either selectively lacking in A9 neurons, or with a typical A9/A10 composition were compared. The results show that the A9 component of intrastriatal grafts is of critical importance for recovery in tests on motor performance, in a rodent model of Parkinson's disease. Analysis at the histological level indicates that this is likely to be due to the unique ability of A9 neurons to innervate and functionally activate their target structure, the dorsolateral region of the host striatum. The findings highlight dopamine neuronal subtype composition as a potentially important parameter to monitor in order to understand the variable nature of functional outcome better in transplantation studies. Furthermore, the results have interesting implications for current efforts in this field to generate well-characterized and standardized preparations of transplantable dopamine neuronal progenitors from stem cells.
Neuropsychiatric (NP) manifestations and brain pathology are poorly understood and potentially fatal concomitants of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). For many years, autoantibodies to brain tissue (i.e., brain-reactive antibodies, BRA) were proposed as a key factor in pathogenesis of CNS manifestations. Recent evidence suggests that intrathecal BRA, rather than serum autoantibodies, are a better predictor of disturbed brain morphology and function. We presently test this hypothesis by examining the relationship among BRA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), behavioral deficits, and brain pathology in a well-established animal model of CNS lupus. We showed earlier that significant diversity in disease manifestations within genetically homogenous MRL-lpr mice allows for constructive and informative correlational analysis. Therefore, levels of CSF antibodies were presently correlated with behavioral, neuropathological and immune measures in a cohort of diseased MRL-lpr males (N=40). ELISA, Western Blotting, standardized behavioral battery, digital planimetry, HE staining, and immunohistochemistry were employed in overall data collection. The IgG antibodies from CSF were binding to different regions of brain parenchyma, with dentate gyrus, amygdale, and subventricular zones showing enhanced immunoreactivity. High levels of CSF antibodies correlated with increased immobility in the forced-swim test and density of HE(+) cells in the paraventricular nucleus. Peripheral measures of autoimmunity were associated with other deficits in behavior and neuropathology. This correlation pattern suggests that etiology of brain damage in lupus-prone mice is multifactorial. Intrathecal BRA may be important in altering motivated responses and activity of major neuroendocrine axes at the onset of SLE-like disease.
In normal aging, a peripheral immune challenge induces a sensitized and protracted neuroinflammatory response in parallel with long-term memory (LTM) impairments. Pro-inflammatory mediators of neuroinflammation impair LTM, synaptic plasticity and LTP. The immediate early gene Arc is considered a critical protein regulating LTM and synaptic plasticity. The present investigation examined whether (1) a peripheral Escherichia coli infection suppresses hippocampal Arc expression, and (2) central pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta and IL-6) mediate the effects of peripheral E. coli infection on Arc and LTM. In 24 months F344xBN F1 rats, E. coli infection suppressed basal Arc gene expression as well as contextual fear conditioning-induced Arc expression. E. coli treatment failed to alter either basal or conditioning-induced c-Fos expression. At 24h post-infection, intra-cisterna magna (ICM) treatment with the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-1RA blocked the E. coli-induced suppression of hippocampal Arc and increases in IL-6 protein. At 4-day post-infection, IL-1RA blocked the E. coli-induced LTM impairments and increases in IL-6 protein. The present results suggest that central pro-inflammatory cytokines play a salient role in the suppression of Arc and impairments of LTM by a peripheral immune challenge in older animals.
Mediators of the stress response (e.g. glucocorticoids and norepinephrine) can be immunosuppressive. Nevertheless, immune challenge leads to the release of these compounds in vertebrates. To resolve this paradox, it has been suggested that stress hormones help restore immune homeostasis, preventing self-damage. A comparative approach may provide additional hypotheses as to why an immune challenge induces the release of stress hormones/neurohormones. Octopamine, a neurohormonal mediator of the stress response in the cricket Gryllus texensis, increased in concentration in the hemolymph during an immune challenge. Therefore, the release of stress hormones during an immune response occurs in animals across phyla. Octopamine induced an increase in lipid concentration in the hemolymph. After an acute stress (flying or running) the total number of hemocytes in the hemolymph increased. Injections of octopamine had the same effect, suggesting that it may enhance hemocyte-dependent immune functions. On the other hand, octopamine decreased lysozyme-like activity in vitro, suggesting that it inhibits some immune functions. However, lysozyme-like activity was increased by the presence of heat-killed bacteria in vitro and this increase was significantly augmented by the presence of octopamine. Therefore, the effect of octopamine on immune function differed depending on the presence of pathogens. Stress hormones may help shift immune function into the most optimal configuration depending on the physiological context.
Adolescence is an evolutionarily conserved developmental phase characterized by hormonal, physiological, neural and behavioral alterations evident widely across mammalian species. For instance, adolescent rats, like their human counterparts, exhibit elevations in peer-directed social interactions, risk-taking/novelty seeking and drug and alcohol use relative to adults, along with notable changes in motivational and reward-related brain regions. After reviewing these topics, the present paper discusses conditioned preference and aversion data showing adolescents to be more sensitive than adults to positive rewarding properties of various drugs and natural stimuli, while less sensitive to the aversive properties of these stimuli. Additional experiments designed to parse specific components of reward-related processing using natural rewards have yielded more mixed findings, with reports of accentuated positive hedonic sensitivity during adolescence contrasting with studies showing less positive hedonic affect and reduced incentive salience at this age. Implications of these findings for adolescent substance abuse will be discussed.
Recent structural and functional imaging studies have provided evidence for continued development of brain regions involved in social cognition during adolescence. In this paper, we review this rapidly expanding area of neuroscience and describe models of neurocognitive development that have emerged recently. One implication of these models is that neural development underlies commonly observed adolescent phenomena such as susceptibility to peer influence and sensitivity to peer rejection. Experimental behavioural evidence of rejection sensitivity in adolescence is currently sparse. Here, we describe a study that directly compared the affective consequences of an experimental ostracism manipulation (Cyberball) in female adolescents and adults. The ostracism condition led to significantly greater affective consequences in the adolescents compared with adults. This suggests that the ability to regulate distress resulting from ostracism continues to develop between adolescence and adulthood. The results are discussed in the context of models of neurocognitive development.
Developmental differences in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis responsiveness to stressors and ongoing development of glucocorticoid-sensitive brain regions in adolescence suggest that similar to the neonatal period of ontogeny, adolescence may also be a sensitive period for programming effects of stressors on the central nervous system. Although research on this period of life is scarce compared to early life and adulthood, the available research indicates that effects of stress exposure during adolescence differ from, and may be longer-lasting than, effects of the same stress exposure in adulthood. Research progress in animal models in this field is reviewed including HPA function and the enduring effects of stress exposures in adolescence on sensitivity to drugs of abuse, learning and memory, and emotional behaviour in adulthood. The effects of adolescent stress depend on a number of factors, including the age, gender, the duration of stress exposure, the type of stressor, and the time between stress exposure and testing.
Genetic factors can contribute to autistic disorder (AD). Abnormal genes of oxidative stress pathways and increased oxidative stress have been reported in autism spectrum disorders. Polymorphisms of genes involved in glutathione metabolism, e.g. GSTP1 and GSTM1 are reportedly associated with autistic disorder. We investigated a GCG repeat polymorphism of a human glutathione peroxidase (GPX1) polyalanine repeat (ALA5, ALA6 and ALA7) in 103 trios of AD (probands and parents) using the transmission disequilibrium test. Significant transmission disequilibrium (p=0.044) was found in the overall transmission of the three alleles. The ALA6 allele was under transmitted (p=0.017). These results suggest that possessing this ALA6 allele may be protective for AD. Future study of interaction of the GPX1 GCG repeat and other gene polymorphisms such as the MnSOD ALA16 or the GPX1 Pro198Leu polymorphism in this cohort of AD families may shed light in whether the combination of the ALA6 allele with another polymorphism of antioxidant allele contributes to the increased oxidative stress in autism.
The brain activity associated with automatic semantic priming has been extensively studied. Thus far there has been no prior study that directly contrasts the neural mechanisms of semantic and affective priming. The present study employed event-related fMRI to examine the common and distinct neural bases underlying conceptual and affective priming with a lexical decision task. A special type of emotional word, a dual-meaning word containing both conceptual meaning and affective meaning, was adopted as target. Short stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) (50 ms) was used to emphasize automatic processing. Fifteen participants were scanned in the present study. We found that the left middle/superior temporal gyrus was the brain region involved in both automatic conceptual and affective priming effects, suggesting general lexical-semantic processing that share in the two types of priming. The left inferior frontal gyrus and right superior temporal gyrus were found to be the conceptual-specific areas in automatic priming effect, consistent with the role of these areas in more extensive within-category semantic processes. The results also revealed that the left fusiform gyrus and left insula were the affective-specific regions in automatic priming effect, demonstrating the involvement of the left fusiform gyrus in automatic affective priming effect, and clarifying the role of the insula in emotional processing rather than conceptual processing. Despite comparable behavioral effects of automatic conceptual priming and affective priming, the present study revealed a neural dissociation of the two types of priming, as well as the shared neural bases.
In this study, we introduce a new method to analyze the functional significance of motor commands based on the causal relationship between muscle activities and movement kinematics. We asked 4 healthy subjects to perform 2 movement tasks involving movements of the wrist joint with a manipulandum: (1) a step-tracking movement, and (2) a smooth pursuit movement to follow a smoothly moving target with a cursor. We recorded the movements of the wrist joint and the electromyography (EMG) signals from 4 prime movers of the wrist. We then identified the causal relationship between the muscle activities and the movement kinematics in terms of the torque at the wrist joint torque. Correlation coefficients (R) between the muscle activities and the movement kinematics were surprisingly high for both the step-tracking movement (0.88-0.96) and the smooth pursuit movement (0.89-0.98). Nevertheless, the ratio of the viscosity coefficient B and the elastic coefficient K for the of the causal relationship was systematically different for the 2 movement tasks. For the step-tracking movement, the elastic coefficient K was much higher than the viscosity coefficient B (K&gt;B, B/K ratio = 0-0.25), suggesting that the muscle activities were correlated mainly with position of the wrist joint. In other words, the central nervous system (CNS) mainly controls the target position during the step-tracking movement. In contrast, for the smooth pursuit movement, the elastic coefficient K and the viscosity coefficient B were similar (B approximately equal to K, B/K ratio = 1.0-2.1), suggesting that the muscle activities were correlated both with the position and velocity of the wrist joint. In other words, the CNS controls the velocity as well as position of the target during the smooth pursuit movement. Overall, the controller for the wrist movement can switch between the position-control mode and the position/velocity-control mode depending on the requirement of the task. Our new method is a unique noninvasive tool for the bedside evaluation of the condition of motor controllers in the CNS. Thus, it is useful for finding evidence of neurorehabilitation.
Our understanding of motor learning, neuroplasticity, and functional recovery after the occurrence of brain lesions has increased considerably. New findings in basic neuroscience have provided an impetus for research in motor rehabilitation. Several prospective studies have shown that repeated motor practice and motor activity in a real world environment have a favorable effect on motor recovery in stroke patients. Electrical stimulation can be applied in a variety of ways to the hemiparetic upper extremity following a stroke. In particular, electromyography (EMG)-triggered electrical muscle stimulation improves the motor function of the hemiparetic arm and hand. Triggered electrical stimulation is reported to be more effective than non-triggered electrical stimulation in facilitating upper extremity motor recovery after stroke. Power-assisted functional electrical stimulation (FES) induces greater muscle contraction by electrical stimulation that is in proportion to voluntary integrated EMG signals. Daily power-assisted FES home-program therapy with novel equipment has been shown to effectively improve wrist, finger extension, and shoulder flexion. Combined modulation of voluntary movement, proprioceptive sensory feedback, and electrical stimulation might play an important role in improving impaired sensory-motor integration by power-assisted FES therapy. A multi-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) studies in which the hemoglobin levels in the brain were non-invasively and dynamically measured during functional activity found that the cerebral blood flow in the injured sensory-motor cortex area is greater during a power-assisted FES session than during simple active movement or simple electrical stimulation. A novel power-assisted FES sleeve (Cyberhand) has been developed for the rehabilitation of hemiplegic upper extremities.



There is now accumulating evidence showing that some tumors may arise from transformed stem cells. In this study we demonstrate that adult bone marrow- derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) undergo neoplastic transformation induced by the human polyomavirus JCV, early protein, T-antigen, and are tumorigenic when transplanted into the flanks of Nude mice as compared to non-transformed MSCs. Histologically, the tumors are heterogeneous with mesenchymal and neural crest characteristics as evidenced by expression of the neural crest markers p75, SOX-10, and S-100, with populations of tumor cells exhibiting characteristics of primitive neuroectodermal cells. In addition, a subset of T-antigen positive tumor cells exhibit a high proliferation index as detected by Ki-67 labeling, and co-express CD133, a marker which is expressed on cancer stem cells. These results show that tumors with neuroectodermal characteristics may arise from transformation of MSCs, a globally accessible adult stem cell with multipotent differentiation capacity. In light of earlier reports on the association of JCV with a broad variety of human tumors, our data suggests that T-antigen transformation of adult stem cells with a multipotent capacity can serve as a possible common origin for some of these cancers, and offers a novel model for oncogenesis.
The invasiveness of glioma cells, a major cause of mortality in malignant brain tumors, is mediated in part by the cellular microenvironment. We have reported that in a three-dimensional matrix of type 1 collagen (3D-CL) gel, the extracellular matrix protein tenascin-C (TN) increased the invasiveness of glioma cells through the downstream production of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-12. In the present study, we have investigated the signaling mechanisms involved in the TN-stimulated glioma invasiveness. We found that the pan protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, bisindolylmaleimide I, decreased TN-enhanced glioma invasion in 3D-CL. Calphostin C, an inhibitor of conventional and novel PKC isozymes, and the relatively selective PKCdelta inhibitor rottlerin decreased TN-stimulated glioma invasiveness in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. These findings of the possible involvement of PKCdelta was supported by its translocation from the cytosol to membrane fraction in 3D-CL gel supplemented with TN as detected by western blot assays and immunofluorescence microscopy and by elevation of PKCdelta enzyme activity. Moreover, pharmacological blockade of PKCdelta decreased MMP-12 levels and glioma invasiveness. Finally, small interfering RNA to PKCdelta reduced TN-stimulated glioma invasiveness concurrent with decreased MMP-12 production. Our results implicate PKCdelta as a therapeutic target to reduce MMP-12 expression and glioma invasiveness when tumor cells are stimulated by the TN-enriched glioma microenvironment.
Non-viral vectors are less efficient than the use of viral vectors for delivery of genetic material to cells in vitro and especially in vivo. However, viral vectors involve the use of foreign proteins that can stimulate both the innate and acquired immune response. In contrast, plasmid DNA can be delivered without carrier proteins and is non-immunogenic. Plasmid gene delivery can be enhanced by the use of physical methods that aid the passage of the plasmid through the cell membrane. Electroporation and microbubble-enhanced ultrasound are two of the most effective physical delivery methods and these can be applied to a range of different cell types in vitro and a broad range of tissues in vivo. Both techniques also have the advantage that, unlike viral vectors, they can be used to target specific tissues with systemic delivery. Although electroporation is often the more efficient of the two, microbubble-enhanced ultrasound causes less damage and is less invasive. This review provides an introduction to the methodology and summarises the range of cells and tissues that have been genetically modified using these techniques.
Overactivation of the NMDA-subtype of glutamate receptor is known to trigger excessive calcium influx, contributing to neurodegenerative conditions. Such dysregulation of calcium signaling results in generation of excessive free radicals, including reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (ROS/RNS), including nitric oxide (NO). In turn, we and our colleagues have shown that these free radicals trigger pathological production of misfolded proteins, mitochondrial dysfunction, and apoptotic pathways in neuronal cells. Here, we discuss emerging evidence that excessive calcium-induced NO production can contribute to the accumulation of misfolded proteins, specifically by S-nitrosylation of the ubiquitin E3 ligase, parkin, and the chaperone enzyme for nascent protein folding, protein-disulfide isomerase. Additionally, excessive calcium-induced NO generation leads to the formation of S-nitrosylated dynamin-related protein 1, which causes abnormal mitochondrial fragmentation and resultant synaptic damage. In this review, we also discuss how two novel classes of pharmacological agents hold promise to interrupt these pathological processes. Firstly, the NMDA receptor antagonists, Memantine and NitroMemantine, block excessive extrasynaptic glutamate excitation while maintaining synaptic transmission, thereby limiting excessive calcium influx and production of ROS/RNS. Secondly, therapeutic pro-electrophiles are activated in the face of oxidative insult, thus protecting cells from calcium-induced oxidative stress via the Keap1/Nrf2 transcriptional pathway.
Recent data draw close parallels between cancer, including glial brain tumors, and the biology of stem and progenitor cells. At the same time, it has become clear that one of the major roles that microRNAs play is in the regulation of stem cell biology, differentiation, and cell 'identity'. For example, microRNAs have been increasingly implicated in the regulation of neural differentiation. Interestingly, initial studies in the incurable brain tumor glioblastoma multiforme strongly suggest that microRNAs involved in neural development play a role in this disease. This encourages the idea that certain miRs allow continued tumor growth through the suppression of differentiation and the maintenance of the stem cell-like properties of tumor cells. These concepts will be explored in this article.
Binaural cues are required for localization of sound sources. In the present paper, representation of binaural cues has been investigated in the adult auditory cortex. Hearing and congenitally deaf cats were stimulated through binaural cochlear implants and unit responses were collected in the subregion of field A1 showing the largest amplitudes of evoked local field potentials. Sensitivity to interaural time difference (ITD) in the range from -600 to 600 micros was tested at intensities of 0-10 dB above hearing threshold. Template ITD functions were fitted to the data and parameters of ITD functions were compared between deaf and hearing animals. In deaf animals, fewer units responded to binaural stimulation, and those that responded had smaller maximal evoked firing rate. The fit to the template ITD functions was significantly worse in deaf animals, and the modulation depth in ITD functions was smaller, demonstrating a decrease in ITD sensitivity. With increasing binaural levels, hearing controls demonstrated systematic changes in ITD functions not found in deaf animals. Bimodal responses, likely related to precedence effect, were rare in deaf animals. The data demonstrate that despite some rudimentary sensitivity to interaural timing, cortical representation of ITDs is substantially altered by congenital auditory deprivation.
The cerebellum has traditionally been viewed as a brain structure subserving skilled motor behaviors. However, the cerebellum might be involved not only in movement coordination, but also in action observation and understanding of others' actions. Veridical visual perception of human body motion is of immense importance for a variety of daily-life situations and for successful social interactions. Here, by combining visual psychophysics with a lesion analysis, we assessed visual sensitivity to human walking in patients with lesions to the left cerebellum. Patients with left lateral cerebellar lesions exhibit deficits in visual sensitivity to body motion, whereas medial lesions do not substantially affect visual perception of human locomotion. The findings point to left lateral cerebellar involvement in an action observation network. We discuss possible mechanisms of cerebellar engagement in visual social perception revealed by body motion.
To delineate the cellular mechanisms underlying the function of medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) networks, it is critical to understand how synaptic inputs from various afferents are integrated and drive neuronal activity in this region. Using a newly developed slice preparation, we were able to identify a bundle of axons that contain extraneocortical fibers projecting to neurons in the prelimbic cortex. The anatomical origin and functional connectivity of the identified fiber bundle were probed by in vivo track tracing in combination with optic and whole-cell recordings of neurons in layers 2/3 and 5/6. We demonstrate that the identified bundle contains afferent fibers primarily from the ventral hippocampus but does not include contributions from the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus, amygdala, or lateral hypothalamus/medial forebrain bundle. Further, we provide evidence that activation of this fiber bundle results in patterned activity of neurons in the mPFC, which is distinct from that of laminar stimulation of either the deep layers 5/6 or the superficial layer 1. Evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials are monosynaptic and glutamatergic and exhibit bidirectional changes in synaptic efficacy in response to physiologically relevant induction protocols. These data provide the necessary groundwork for the characterization of the hippocampal pathway projecting to the mPFC.
The parahippocampal place area (PPA) is a region of human cortex that responds more strongly to visual scenes (e.g., landscapes or cityscapes) than to other visual stimuli. It has been proposed that the primary function of the PPA is encoding of contextual information about object co-occurrence. Supporting this context hypothesis are reports that the PPA responds more strongly to strong-context than to weak-context objects and more strongly to famous faces (for which contextual associations are available) than to nonfamous faces. We reexamined the reliability of these 2 effects by scanning subjects with functional magnetic resonance imaging while they viewed strong- and weak-context objects, scrambled versions of these objects, and famous and nonfamous faces. &quot;Contextual&quot; effects for objects were observed to be reliable in the PPA at slow presentation rates but not at faster presentation rates intended to discourage scene imagery. We were unable to replicate the earlier finding of preferential PPA response to famous versus nonfamous faces. These results are difficult to reconcile with the hypothesis that the PPA encodes contextual associations but are consistent with a competing hypothesis that the PPA encodes scenic layout.

Temperamental shyness in children is characterized by avoidance of faces and eye contact, beginning in infancy. We conducted two studies to determine whether temperamental shyness was associated with deficits in sensitivity to some cues to facial identity. In Study 1, 40 typically developing 10-year-old children made same/different judgments about pairs of faces that differed in the appearance of individual features, the shape of the external contour, or the spacing among features; their parent completed the Colorado childhood temperament inventory (CCTI). Children who scored higher on CCTI shyness made more errors than their non-shy counterparts only when discriminating faces based on the spacing of features. Differences in accuracy were not related to other scales of the CCTI. In Study 2, we showed that these differences were face-specific and cannot be attributed to differences in task difficulty. Findings suggest that shy children are less sensitive to some cues to facial recognition possibly underlying their inability to distinguish certain facial emotions in others, leading to a cascade of secondary negative effects in social behaviour.
Lumbar puncture is a very common neurological diagnostic procedure which is associated with minimal risk. Epidural cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) collection can occur after puncture of the dura from extravasation of CSF from the thecal sac. On rare occasions, the epidural collection can be large enough to cause neurological dysfunction. The epidural fat has less fibrous stroma in children compared to adults, and it is postulated that this facilitates the dissection of CSF along epidural space. We report a rare case of a large symptomatic spinal epidural CSF collection shortly after lumbar puncture presenting with severe leg pain. The patient recovered fully within 48 h with bed rest and analgesia, and repeat imaging 1 month later showed good resolution of the epidural collection. Review of the literature revealed that epidural CSF collections resolve with conservative measures without the need for surgical intervention even in the setting of significant neurological symptomatology.






This study examined the interactive effects of cerebrovascular risks, advancing age, and HIV infection on neurocognition, and explored whether pharmacological treatment of cerebrovascular risk factors attenuated neurocognitive dysfunction. Participants included 98 HIV-seropositive adults (cerebrovascular risk: 23.5%; age &gt; 50: 27.6%). Cerebrovascular risk was associated with slower processing speed even after controlling for age effects (b = -2.071; p =.04), and the interaction of age and cerebrovascular risk was associated with poorer verbal fluency (b = 1.276, p =.002). Participants with pharmacologically untreated cerebrovascular risk demonstrated reduced processing speed, learning/memory, and executive functioning relative to those on medication. Poor cerebrovascular health confers significant risk for HIV+ individuals, and this effect may be of greater consequence than advancing age. The cognitive impact of risk appears to be more pronounced in the absence of adequate pharmacological treatment.
Heme oxygenase (HO)-1 degrades heme and protects against oxidative stress, but it has not been pharmacologically induced in humans. In this randomized study of 10 healthy volunteers, hemin (3 mg/kg intravenously in 25% albumin) was shown to increase plasma HO-1 protein concentration four- to fivefold and HO-1 activity ~15-fold relative to baseline at 24 and 48 h (placebo -56.41 +/- 6.31 (baseline), 69.79 +/- 13.00 (24 h), 77.44 +/- 10.62 (48 h) vs. hemin -71.70 +/- 9.20 (baseline), 1,126.20 +/- 293.30 (24 h), 1,192.20 +/- 333.30 (48 h)) in four of five subjects as compared with albumin alone (P &lt;/= 0.03). This represents the overcoming of a fundamental hurdle to HO-1 research in humans.
Patients with semantic dementia (SD) show relative preservation of number skills, contrasting with their severe multimodal semantic impairment. Underpinning this preservation, it is argued, is spared understanding of numerical quantity, a competence likened to a spatial map and subserved by the parietal lobes. The study investigated quantity knowledge in 14 SD patients to determine whether it is consistently preserved irrespective of disease severity or whether there are constraints on this preserved knowledge domain. Performance was well preserved on Piagetian conservation tasks, estimating object numerosity, and understanding of basic numerical magnitude. However, patients showed impairment on real-world estimation tasks, increasing with semantic severity. More surprisingly, on an analogue scale task, they produced implausible responses, suggesting degraded knowledge of precise numerical relationships. The findings challenge the view that knowledge of quantity is totally preserved in SD and suggest that the temporal lobes have a contributory role in the conceptual understanding of quantity.
Many recent behavioral and neuroscientific studies have revealed the importance of investigating meditation states and traits to achieve an increased understanding of cognitive and affective neuroplasticity, attention and self-awareness, as well as for their increasingly recognized clinical relevance. The investigation of states and traits related to meditation has especially pronounced implications for the neuroscience of attention, consciousness, self-awareness, empathy and theory of mind. In this article we present the main features of meditation-based mental training and characterize the current scientific approach to meditation states and traits with special reference to attention and consciousness, in light of the articles contributed to this issue.
The nature of the 'self' and self-referential awareness has been one of the most debated issues in philosophy, psychology and cognitive neuroscience. Understanding the neurocognitive bases of self-related representation and processing is also crucial to research on the neural correlates of consciousness. The distinction between an 'I', corresponding to a subjective sense of the self as a thinker and causal agent, and a 'Me', as the objective sense of the self with the unique and identifiable features constituting one's self-image or self-concept, suggested by William James, has been re-elaborated by authors from different theoretical perspectives. In this article, empirical studies and theories about the 'I' and the 'Me' in cognition and self-related awareness are reviewed, including the relationships between self and perception, self and memory, the development of the self, self-referential stimulus processing, as well as related neuroimaging studies. Subsequently, the relations between self and different aspects of consciousness are considered. On the basis of the reviewed literature and with reference to Block's distinction between phenomenal and access consciousness, a neurocognitive hypothesis is formulated about 'I'-related and 'Me'-related self-referential awareness. This hypothesis is extended to metacognitive awareness and a form of non-transitive consciousness, characteristic of meditation experiences and studies, with particular reference to the notion of mindfulness and other Buddhist constructs.


This paper summarises a consultation-liaison nurse's journey as a senior mental health clinician working within the general hospital setting. It begins with a brief history of consultation-liaison nursing (CLN) and covers the CLN experience in both the general hospital and the emergency department showing how the role evolved to become more focused on the needs of the general hospital. It shares some experiences during a stimulating, challenging and rewarding career where clinical supervision is seen as essential not only to reflect on and improve practice but to assist the CL nurse in working through the emotional demands of the role. The paper aims to increase knowledge of the CLN experience and promote interest in this specialist area of mental health nursing which is developing rapidly internationally and in Australia.
The aim of the present survey was to review scientific articles dealing with the non-visual (auditory and tactile) forms of neglect to determine: (a) whether behavioural patterns similar to those observed in the visual modality can also be observed in the non-visual modalities; (b) whether a different severity of neglect can be found in the visual and in the auditory and tactile modalities; (c) the reasons for the possible differences between the visual and non-visual modalities. Data pointing to a contralesional orienting of attention in the auditory and the tactile modalities in visual neglect patients were separately reviewed. Results showed: (a) that in patients with right brain damage manifestations of neglect for the contralesional side of space can be found not only in the visual but also in the auditory and tactile modalities; (b) that the severity of neglect is greater in the visual than in the non-visual modalities. This asymmetry in the severity of neglect across modalities seems due to the greater role that the automatic capture of attention by irrelevant ipsilesional stimuli seems to play in the visual modality.
The goal of this work was to study white matter (WM) integrity in children with cystinosis, a rare lysosomal storage disorder resulting in cystine accumulation in peripheral and central nervous system tissue. Based on previous reports of cystine crystal formation in myelin precursors as well as evidence for specific cognitive deficits in visuospatial functioning, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) was applied to 24 children with cystinosis (age 3-7 years) and to 24 typically developing age-matched controls. Scalar diffusion indices, fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD), were examined in manually defined regions of interest within the parietal and inferior temporal lobes. Diffusion indices were correlated with performance on measures of visuospatial cognition and with white blood cell cystine levels. Bilaterally decreased FA and increased MD were evident in the inferior and superior parietal lobules in children with cystinosis, with comparable FA and MD to controls in inferior temporal WM, and implicate a dissociation of the dorsal and ventral visual pathways. In older cystinosis children (age&gt;5), diminutions in visuospatial performance were associated with reduced FA in the right inferior parietal lobule. In addition, increased MD was found in the presence of high cystine levels in all children with cystinosis. This study provides new information that the average diffusion properties in children with cystinosis deviate from typically developing children. Findings suggest the presence of early microstructural WM changes in addition to a secondary effect of cystine accumulation. These alterations may impact the development of efficient fiber networks important for visuospatial cognition.
The frontal eye fields (FEF) have typically been predominantly investigated in terms of their role in the generation of eye movements. Lesions to this area, either accidental or experimental, disrupt saccades and electrical stimulation elicits eye movements. Recently there has been increasing interest in the involvement of this area in visual processes, including in tasks where eye movements were either not required or were precluded. In addition to being involved in a range of visual tasks, evidence from visual search paradigms has suggested that this area might be important when the defining quality of the target is unpredictable or that it may be involved in priming. We investigated the role of FEF in a task requiring localisation of a target defined by colour, in which the target colour was either maintained or switched across trials. Disruption of performance was seen on the task when transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was delivered over the left FEF, specifically elevating response times on trials when the target and distracter colours were switched rather than affecting any benefit of repetition of the target attribute (priming). This result is consistent with altered modulation of extrastriate areas, consequently affecting the speed with which a switch of the target colour could be detected. This both offers an explanation for effects seen in unpredictable feature search and is consistent with other TMS and microstimulation studies showing that FEF modulates responses of extrastriate cortex.


The accumulation of DNA damage has been widely implicated in premature aging and neurodegeneration. Progeroid syndromes with defects in the cellular response to DNA damage suggest that progressive genome instability represents an important aspect of the aging process. Moreover, most of the major neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by the accumulation of neuronal DNA damage, suggesting that impaired DNA repair mechanisms might be relevant to both premature aging and neurodegeneration. Two progeroid syndromes, Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome and Werner's syndrome, are characterized by clinical features mimicking physiological aging at an early age and molecular studies have implicated decreased cell proliferation and altered DNA-damage responses as common causal mechanisms in the pathogenesis of both diseases. Defects in nucleotide excision repair cause three distinct human diseases: xeroderma pigmentosum, Cockayne's syndrome and trichothiodystrophy; each of them is characterized by premature onset of pathologies that overlap with those associated with old age in humans. Increasing evidence also suggests that an impaired DNA repair, particularly the base excision repair pathway, might play a fundamental role in the development of age-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Huntington' s disease. Here, we review the current knowledge on the role of DNA repair in premature aging and neurodegenerative diseases.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the major cause of dementia in the world. Although the entorhinal cortex and hippocampal complex are best known as the sites of early pathology in AD, increasing evidence shows that the eye, particularly the retina, is also affected. The AD-related changes in the retina are associated with degeneration and loss of neurons, reduction of the retinal nerve fibres, increase in optic disc cupping, retinal vascular tortusity and thinning, and visual functional impairment. Given the fact that evaluating pathologic changes in the brain during life has always been an indirect process, largely shielded from view by the barrier of the skull, the eye can be used as a window into diseases of the brain. Using modern techniques, the changes in the retina can be visualized in real-time. In addition to the changes in the eyes of AD patients, similar mechanisms of neurodegeneration in the brain have also been demonstrated in the eye. Targeting AD-liked changes in the retina has been recently shown to be effective in the reduction of retinal neuronal degeneration and loss in eye diseases. This review will cover recent findings on retinal degeneration in AD, pathological similarities between AD and eye diseases, and highlight the potential of modern technologies for the detection of prospective biomarkers in the eye in early AD.

In 1993, an enzyme with an ATP-dependent microtubule-severing activity was purified from sea urchin eggs and named katanin, after the Japanese word for sword. Now we know that katanin, spastin, and fidgetin form a family of closely related microtubule-severing enzymes that is widely distributed in eukaryotes ranging from Tetrahymena and Chlamydomonas to humans. Here we review the diverse in vivo functions of these proteins and the recent significant advances in deciphering the biophysical mechanism of microtubule severing.
As a unique form of structural plasticity in the central nervous system, adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus alters network functions by continuously adding new neurons to the mature network, while at the same time is subjected to regulation by surrounding network activity. Here, we review the recently identified mechanisms through which network activity exerts its impacts on multiple steps of adult neurogenesis in rodents and culminates in the selective recruitment of new neurons. We also review recent progress on the study of cellular connectivity modified by new neurons in the dentate gyrus and its physiological functions in rodents. We believe that understanding these processes will allow eventual elucidation of the mechanisms controlling the development of balanced inputs and outputs for the adult-born neurons and reveal important insights into the cellular organization of learning and memory.
In bilaterally symmetric organisms, the midline is a critical organizing center for the developing central nervous system. There is a striking conservation of the molecules and mechanisms that control axon path finding at the midline in vertebrate and invertebrate nervous systems. The majority of axons in the CNS cross the midline before projecting to their contralateral synaptic targets and this crossing decision is under exquisite spatial and temporal regulation. Growing commissural axons initially respond to attractive signals, while inhibiting responses to repulsive signals. Once across, repulsion dominates, allowing axons to leave and preventing them from re-entering the midline. Here we review recent advances in flies and mice that illuminate the molecular mechanisms underlying the establishment of precise connectivity at the midline.
The proper development and patterning of axons, dendrites, and synapses is essential for the establishment of accurate neuronal circuits in the brain. A major goal in neurobiology is to identify the mechanisms and principles that govern these fundamental developmental events of neuronal circuit formation. In recent years, exciting new studies have suggested that ubiquitin signaling pathways may play crucial roles in the control of neuronal connectivity. Among E3 ubiquitin ligases, Cdh1-anaphase promoting complex (Cdh1-APC) and Cdc20-APC have emerged as key regulators of diverse aspects of neuronal connectivity, from axon and dendrite morphogenesis to synapse differentiation and remodeling.

The intramembrane receptor-receptor interactions among GPCRs demonstrated in the beginning of the 80s in the CNS probably reflect the existence of allosteric mechanisms in receptor heteromers, and the postulated assemblies of multiple GPCRs coined 'receptor mosaics' in the early 80s probably represent higher order receptor heteromers, recently demonstrated with novel biophysical techniques in living cells. The receptor interface in the GPCR heteromers is beginning to be characterized and in adenosine A(2A)-dopamine D(2)-like heteromers the electrostatic arginine-phosphate salt bridge seems to be a hot spot in the interface with covalent-like stability, possibly participating in the allosteric interactions and making possible integration of heteromer receptor function. We discuss the possible relevance of some putative D(2) receptor heteromers in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia, respectively.
Protein misfolding and aggregation in the brain have been implicated as a common molecular pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and the polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases. The polyQ diseases are a group of nine hereditary neurodegenerative diseases, including Huntington's disease (HD) and various types of spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA), which are caused by abnormal expansions of the polyQ stretch (&gt; 35-40 repeats) in unrelated disease-causative proteins. The expanded polyQ stretch is thought to trigger misfolding of these proteins, leading to their aggregation and accumulation as inclusion bodies in affected neurons, eventually resulting in neurodegeneration. Misfolding and aggregation of the polyQ protein are the most ideal therapeutic targets since they are the most upstream events in the pathogenic cascade, and therefore, therapeutic approaches using molecular chaperones, which prevent protein misfolding and assist the refolding of misfolded proteins, are being extensively investigated. Indeed, a variety of molecular chaperones such as Hsp70 and Hsp40 have been demonstrated to exert therapeutic effects against various experimental models of the polyQ diseases. Furthermore, toward developing pharmacological therapies, small chemical activators of heat shock transcription factor 1 (HSF1) such as geldanamycin and its derivative 17-AAG, which induce multiple endogenous molecular chaperones, have been proven to be effective not only in polyQ disease models, but also in other neurodegenerative disease models. We hope that brain-permeable molecular chaperone inducers will be developed as drugs against a wide range of neurodegenerative diseases in the near future.
Intra- and extracellular protein misfolding and aggregation is likely to contribute to a number of age-related central nervous system diseases (&quot;proteinopathies&quot;). Therefore, molecular chaperones, such as heat shock proteins (HSPs), that regulate protein folding, misfolding and adaption to cellular stress are emerging as therapeutic targets. Here we review the current knowledge of HSP-modulating drugs and discuss the opportunities and difficulties of their therapeutic use to treat proteinopathies such as Alzheimer's- and Parkinson's disease, the polyglutamine- and prion disorders and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.
The intent of this article is to review recent literature on ribosome inactivating proteins (RIPs) including isolation and characterization of new RIPs, studies on the crystal structures and mechanisms of actions of RIPs, the use of saporin-based neurotoxins to selectively lesion cholinergic neurons in neuroscience research, and the use of RIP-based conjugates and immunotoxins in anticancer therapy.
The establishment and maturation of appropriate synaptic connections is crucial in the development of neuronal circuits. Cellular adhesion is believed to play a central role in this process. Neuroligins are neuronal cell adhesion molecules that are hypothesized to act in the initial formation and maturation of synaptic connections. In order to establish the zebrafish as a model to investigate the in vivo role of Neuroligin proteins in nervous system development, we identified the zebrafish orthologs of neuroligin family members and characterized their expression. Zebrafish possess seven neuroligin genes. Synteny analysis and sequence comparisons show that NLGN2, NLGN3, and NLGN4X are duplicated in zebrafish, but NLGN1 has a single zebrafish ortholog. All seven zebrafish neuroligins are expressed in complex patterns in the developing nervous system and in the adult brain. The spatial and temporal expression patterns of these genes suggest that they occupy a role in nervous system development and maintenance.
In tetrapod limbs, an anteriormost digit has common traits of small, short and less-phalange morphology. In this study, we focused on three genes, Mkp3, Sef and Tsukushi (TSK), which have anterior-specific or anterior-prominent expression patterns in the developing limb bud at the autopod-forming stage. The anterior expression is not fixed in the period of limb development, but the expression domains of Mkp3, Sef and TSK change considerably from the distal domain to the anterior domain. This change in expression domains, anterior shift, of these genes involves maintenance of gene expression in the anterior side and downregulation in the posterior side. Manipulated overdose of fibroblast growth factor (FGF) in the presumptive digit 2 region of chick forelimb bud results in elongation of cartilage elements of digit 2, suggesting that attenuated FGF signaling, which Mkp3, Sef, and TSK negatively regulate, provides digit 2-specific traits of morphology. The anterior expression of Mkp3 and Sef but not TSK is conserved also in limb buds of the mouse and gecko, and the anterior shift of these genes, accumulation of their transcripts in the anterior side and appropriate regulation of strength of FGF signaling may control species-specific morphology of the anteriormost digit.

Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common gastrointestinal (GI) disorder characterized by chronic abdominal discomfort, including pain, bloating and changes in bowel habits. The exact cause of IBS is not entirely understood. Recent studies have shown that IBS may be associated with altered serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) levels within the GI tract. About 90% of 5-HT in the human body is produced and stored in enterochromaffin (EC) cells that reside in the mucosal layer of the intestine. Measurements of serotonin availability locally in the mucosa can provide insight on the functionality of these cells and potentially the pathophysiology of the disease. In this study, we used continuous amperometry with a diamond microelectrode to record serotonin levels in vitro in the ileum mucosa as an oxidation current. The boron-doped diamond (BDD) microelectrode is quite practical for these measurements because if its low background signal, low sensitivity to solution pH changes, and excellent resistance to fouling by adsorbed serotonin oxidation reaction products. In fact, the measurements are only possible because of the unique properties of diamond. We present electrochemical data that demonstrate the diamond microelectrode's utility for assessment of enterochromaffin cell function. Confirmation that the oxidation current was associated with indogenous serotonin release came from pharmacological studies. We are hopeful that these types of in vitro electrochemical measurements will lead to a better understanding of the pathophysiology of IBS.

The study on learning and memory is one of the striking subjects in neuroscience today. In the cerebral cortex, it is has been proved that, the hippocampus, the prefrontal cortex and the hippocampal-prefrontal cortical circuit are important to working memory. In this paper, we review findings of the anatomical and electrophysiological characteristics of the hippocampal-prefrontal cortical circuit and the roles of these three structures in working memory.
Fearful faces receive privileged access to awareness relative to happy and nonemotional faces. We investigated whether this advantage depends on currently available attentional resources. In an attentional blink paradigm, observers detected faces presented during the attentional blink period that could depict either a fearful or a happy expression. Perceptual load of the blink-inducing target was manipulated by increasing flanker interference. For the low-load condition, fearful faces were detected more often than happy faces, replicating previous reports. More important, this advantage for fearful faces disappeared for the high-load condition, during which fearful and happy faces were detected equally often. These results suggest that the privileged access of fearful faces to awareness does not occur mandatorily, but instead depends on attentional resources.
RFamide-related peptide (RFRP), the mammalian homolog of avian gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone, has a pronounced suppressive action on the reproductive axis across species. In mammals, RFRP acts directly on GnRH neurons, and likely at the level of the pituitary, to inhibit gonadotropin secretion. In the present study, we examined whether RFRP might act outside of mammalian brain on reproductive tissues directly. Using RT-PCR and in situ hybridization, we found that both RFRP and its receptors [G protein-coupled receptor (GPR) 147 and GPR74] are expressed in the testis of Syrian hamster. These results were confirmed and extended using double- and triple-label immunohistochemistry. RFRP expression was observed in spermatocytes and in round to early elongated spermatids. Significant expression of RFRP was not seen in Leydig cells. GPR147 protein was observed in myoid cells in all stages of spermatogenesis, pachytene spermatocytes, maturation division spermatocytes, and in round and late elongated spermatids. GPR74 proteins only appeared in late elongated spermatids. Additionally, we found that RFRP and its receptor mRNA are markedly altered by day length and reproductive condition. These findings highlight a possible novel autocrine and/or paracrine role for RFRP in Syrian hamster testis, potentially contributing to the differentiation of spermatids during spermiogenesis.

We describe the case of a 33-year-old man with complex partial seizures characterized by the feeling of being projected outside his body, including dissociation of &quot;mind and self from body&quot; (disembodiment), followed by vestibular vertigo due to right frontal lobe epilepsy caused by an oligodendroglioma. We distinguish the patient's ictal symptoms with respect to autoscopic phenomena (out-of-body experience, heautoscopy, autoscopic hallucinations) and vestibular phenomena of epileptic origin, and we discuss their neural origin with respect to vestibular and multisensory cortical mechanisms of bodily self-consciousness in temporoparietal and frontal cortex.
Mechanisms of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) are incompletely understood in part because the overwhelming majority of patients are not undergoing video telemetry when they die. Described here is a patient with Tourette syndrome and epilepsy who displayed a dangerous compulsive tic resulting in carotid occlusions and seizures as captured on video telemetry monitoring. He was later found dead, raising the possibility of SUDEP. Possible mechanisms of SUDEP are discussed in light of video, EEG, ECG, epilepsy and tic behaviors.
The purpose of this investigation was to examine the diffusion properties of cerebral white matter in children with recent onset epilepsy (n=19) compared to healthy controls (n=11). Subjects underwent DTI with quantification of mean diffusion (MD), fractional anisotropy (FA), axial diffusivity (D(ax)) and radial diffusivity (D(rad)) for regions of interest including anterior and posterior corpus callosum, fornix, cingulum, and internal and external capsules. Quantitative volumetrics were also performed for the corpus callosum and its subregions (anterior, midbody and posterior) and total lobar white and gray matter for the frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital lobes. The results demonstrated no group differences in total lobar gray or white matter volumes or volume of the corpus callosum and its subregions, but did show reduced FA and increased D(rad) in the posterior corpus callosum and cingulum. These results provide the earliest indication of microstructural abnormality in cerebral white matter among children with idiopathic epilepsies. This abnormality occurs in the context of normal volumetrics and suggests disruption in myelination processes.
The role of the amygdala during facial emotion recognition (FER) tasks as well as its clinical implications in schizophrenia patients remains unclear. While most of authors have reported hypoactivation, recently it has been suggested that patients may also exhibit hyperactivation. We studied amygdalar response during a previously validated FER task using (18)[F] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ((18)FDG-PET) technique in ten right-handed healthy volunteers and 11 right-handed non acute patients with schizophrenia. Both groups underwent two scans on different days in a random order; each consisted of 17 1/2 min of continuous emotional and control tasks. Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) 2 analysis with a region of interest approach was carried out. Left amygdalar hyperactivation among the schizophrenia group was shown in both emotional and control tasks when compared to healthy subjects. The right amygdala showed no differential activation in any of the tasks. Patients diagnosed with schizophrenia exhibit a non-task specific amygdalar hyperactivation during a continuous emotional and non-emotional task when compared to matched healthy controls.
Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neurotoxicity (CIPN) is a frequent, potentially severe and dose-limiting side-effect of cancer treatment. Despite its clinical relevance that limits the use of several antineoplastic agents and even the future development of new anticancer drugs, several crucial aspects of CIPN remain unsolved, one of which is how to assess its occurrence and severity in the most effective and reliable way. CIPN severity is generally assessed using Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) scales, although it is well known that significant inter-observer disagreement exists using these scales. Moreover, most CTC scores mix impairment, disability and quality of life measures, which could lead to misinterpretation of the results and unpredictable under- or overestimation of the effect. This uncertainty may lead to different interpretations of the results of the same clinical trials by clinicians and also by regulatory agencies. The use of other types of scale based on clinical and instrumental examinations, or the use of self-administered questionnaires for patients, has not yet really improved the accuracy of CIPN assessment, although some of these tools are promising and deserve to be further validated. As a result, there is a general recognition that CIPN has still not been properly assessed and that improvements should be made. In this review, the available data regarding the different tools used to assess CIPN will be revised and their features will be critically examined, with a special focus on their reliability and reproducibility across examiners and, when available, through direct comparison.




Certain bipolar cells in most species immunostain for GABA or its synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase. However, it is unknown whether they actually release GABA and, if so, from which cellular compartment and by what release mechanism. We investigated these questions in monkey retina where rod bipolar cells immunostain for GABA. We found that rod bipolar cells immunostain for one isoform of GAD (GAD65) in their somas, dendrites and axon terminals. Near the fovea, the somatic stain of rod bipolar cells is weaker than that of horizontal cells but, at the periphery, it is stronger. Staining for the vesicular GABA transporter in monkey rod bipolar cells is negative. However, staining for the GABA transporter GAT3 is positive in the soma and primary dendrites (but not in the axon terminals). Staining for GAT3 is also positive in horizontal cells. Double staining of rod bipolar cells and the alpha subunit of the GABAA receptor reveals scarce GABAA puncta that appose rod bipolar dendrites. We conclude that monkey rod bipolar cells use GABA and discuss the possibility that they tonically release GABA from their dendrites using a reverse action of GAT3.
The retina sends spatially ordered visual information to the superior colliculus (SC) directly and indirectly via the thalamus and primary visual cortex (V1). Gradients of Ephs and ephrins are present in all of these regions, and have been shown to be involved in establishing topography of at least some of these interconnected visual pathways. Studies in ephrin-A knockout mice show that abnormal retinotectal termination zones (TZs) are present in a majority of mice lacking (-/-) ephrin-A2 (57%), and ephrin-A2 and -A5 (89%). A similar but seemingly less disordered pattern is detected in the retina-to-dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) and dLGN-to-V1 projections. Here we analyse the dLGN-to-V1 and V1-to-SC projections in ephrin-A(-/-) mice to determine the extent to which topographic errors are transmitted across synaptic relays. Fluorescent tracers were injected into V1 of wild-type (WT), ephrin-A2(-/-) or ephrin-A2A5(-/-) mice. We examined the number, location and size of anterograde TZs in SC, and mapped the distribution of retrogradely labelled neurons in dLGN. Compared with WT and ephrin-A2(-/-) mice, the volume of individual TZs in the SC was smaller in ephrin-A2A5(-/-) mice (P = 0.002). Single V1 injections labelled two foci of dLGN neurons in 70%, and two SC TZs in 80% of ephrin-A2A5(-/-) mice. Abnormalities in one or other of the projections were detected in 10% of ephrin-A2(-/-) mice. Importantly, there was no consistent correspondence between the organization of geniculocortical and corticotectal projections in either genotype, suggesting a role for ephrin-As in maintaining topographic organization in register across multiple interconnected central visual pathways.
The olfactory tubercle (OT) is found in the brains of mammals that are highly dependent on their sense of smell. Its human analogue is the poorly understood anterior perforated substance. Previous work on rat brain slices identified two types of field potential responses from the OT. The association fibre (AF) pathway was sensitive to muscarinic modulation, whereas the lateral olfactory tract (LOT) fibre pathway was not. Here, we establish that serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) also inhibits field potential excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in the AF, but not in the LOT fibre, pathway. Parallel experiments with adenosine (ADO) excluded ADO mediation of the 5-HT effect. Exogenous 5-HT at 30 microm caused a long-lasting approximately 40% reduction in the amplitude of AF postsynaptic responses, without affecting the time-course of EPSP decline, indicating a fairly restricted disposition of the 5-HT receptors responsible. The 5-HT(1)-preferring, 5-HT(5)-preferring and 5-HT(7)-preferring agonist 5-carboxamidotryptamine caused similar inhibition at approximately 100 nm. The 5-HT(1A)-preferring ligand 8-hydroxy-di-n-propylamino-tetralin at 10 microm, and the 5-HT uptake inhibitor citalopram at 3 microm, caused inhibition of AF-stimulated field potential responses in the 5-10% range. Order-of-potency information suggested a receptor of the 5-HT(1B) or 5-HT(1D) subtype. The 5-HT(1D) agonist L-694,247 (1 microm) suppressed the AF response by approximately 10% when used on its own. After washing out of L-694,427, inhibition by 30 microm 5-HT was reduced to negligible levels. Allowing for a partial agonist action of L-694,427 and complex interactions of 5-HT receptors within the OT, these results support the presence of active 5-HT(1D)-type receptors in the principal cell layer of the OT.
In recent years, magnetic resonance imaging has allowed researchers to individuate the earlier morphological development of the right hemisphere compared with the left hemisphere during late-gestational development. Anatomical asymmetry, however, does not necessarily mean functional asymmetry, and whether the anatomical differences between hemispheres at this early age are paralleled by functional specialisations remains unknown. In this study, the presence of lateralised electrical brain activity related to both pitch detection and discrimination was investigated in 34 prematurely-born infants [24-34 gestational weeks (GWs)] all tested at the same post-conceptional age of 35 weeks. By means of a frequency-change oddball experimental paradigm, with 'standard' tones at 1000 Hz (P = 90%) and 'deviant' tones at 2000 Hz (P = 10%), we were able to record higher right event-related potential activity in the interval windows between 350 and 650 ms after stimulus onset. An explorative hierarchical cluster analysis confirmed the different distribution of the hemispheric asymmetry score in newborns &lt; 30 weeks old. Here, we show electrophysiological evidence of the early functional right lateralisation for pitch processing (detection and discrimination) arising by 30 GWs, but not before, in preterm newborns despite the longer environmental sensorial experience of newborns &lt; 30 GWs. Generally, these findings suggest that the earlier right structural maturation in foetal epochs seems to be paralleled by a right functional development.
The aim of this study was to determine whether retinal progenitor layer transplants form synaptic connections with the host and restore vision. Donor retinal sheets, isolated from embryonic day 19 rat fetuses expressing human placental alkaline phosphatase (hPAP), were transplanted to the subretinal space of 18 S334ter-3 rats with fast retinal degeneration at the age of 0.8-1.3 months. Recipients were killed at the age of 1.6-11.8 months. Frozen sections were analysed by confocal immunohistochemistry for the donor cell label hPAP and synaptic markers. Vibratome slices were stained for hPAP, and processed for electron microscopy. Visual responses were recorded by electrophysiology from the superior colliculus (SC) in 12 rats at the age of 5.3-11.8 months. All recorded transplanted rats had restored or preserved visual responses in the SC corresponding to the transplant location in the retina, with thresholds between -2.8 and -3.4 log cd/m(2). No such responses were found in age-matched S334ter-3 rats without transplants, or in those with sham surgery. Donor cells and processes were identified in the host by light and electron microscopy. Transplant processes penetrated the inner host retina in spite of occasional glial barriers between transplant and host. Labeled neuronal processes were found in the host inner plexiform layer, and formed apparent synapses with unlabeled cells, presumably of host origin. In conclusion, synaptic connections between graft and host cells, together with visual responses from corresponding locations in the brain, support the hypothesis that functional connections develop following transplantation of retinal layers into rodent models of retinal degeneration.

N-Desmethylclozapine is a major metabolite of the atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine, used in the treatment of therapy-resistant schizophrenia. Patients under clozapine treatment report a troublesome sialorrhea. Recent experiments show clozapine to exert mixed agonist/antagonist actions on salivary secretion in rats. The present study was performed to define the secretory role of N-desmethylclozapine and to compare it with that of its parent compound. N-Desmethylclozapine evoked secretion by acting directly on the muscarinic acetylcholine M1-receptors of 'silent' duct-cannulated parotid and submandibular glands of the anaesthetized rat. In chronic surgically denervated glands, the secretory response was enlarged. The methacholine-evoked secretion, as well as the parasympathetic nerve-evoked secretion, were reduced by N-desmethylclozapine and involved blockade of M3-receptors, while the sympathetic nerve-evoked response was reduced, involving blockade of alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors. Synergistic interactions between N-desmethylclozapine and the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist, isoprenaline, occurred. Compared with clozapine, the excitatory efficacy of N-desmethylclozapine was higher and the inhibitory efficacy was lower (parasympathetic activity) or about the same (sympathetic activity). Theoretically, in humans treated with clozapine, an increase in the N-desmethylclozapine : clozapine ratio would contribute to salivation during the night and at rest, and, furthermore, the magnitude of the reduction in the reflexly elicited secretion is likely to diminish.
Deficits in postural control are one of the hallmarks of disability in children with cerebral palsy (CP). Yet, much remains unknown regarding the etiology of postural deficits in these children. Here we evaluated postural control at a simplified task level by measuring head stability during quiet sitting while systematically manipulating the level of trunk support and vision in 15 children with CP (6-16 years), 26 typically developing (TD) children (4-14 years), and 11 adults. While TD children did not differ significantly from adults, children with CP had greater head movement than adults in both the sagittal and frontal planes under all conditions except frontal plane movement with Torso Support. Vision did not affect head stability in the sagittal plane for any group while it had differential effects on head stability in the frontal plane. Lack of vision improved head stability in adults and older TD children while destabilizing the head in young children (TD and CP) during the most unstable sitting position. Moreover, vision affected children with CP differently depending on their movement disorder. Children with spastic CP performed worse with eyes closed while those with dyskinetic CP had improved head stability with eyes closed. Our results demonstrate that children with mild to moderate CP have deficits in head stability even during quiet sitting.
Animal studies suggest that neuroactive steroids, in particular progesterone and its metabolites, have stress-dampening effects. However, few studies have explored these effects in humans. In this study, we investigated the effects of acute progesterone administration on responses to the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST). Healthy men participated in the TSST 3.5 hrs after intramuscular injection of 0, 50, or 100 mg progesterone (N = 16, 14, and 14). We measured cardiovascular (heart rate, blood pressure), hormonal (plasma adrenocorticotrophic hormone, cortisol, and noradrenaline), and subjective (e.g., anxiety, arousal) responses to stress in the three groups. Before the TSST, progesterone injections increased plasma levels without altering physiological or subjective states. Stress produced its expected physiological and subjective effects among placebo-treated individuals. Progesterone 50 mg attenuated peak increases in plasma cortisol and reduced changes in negative mood and alertness after stress, yet it increased plasma noradrenaline and systolic blood pressure. Progesterone 100 mg also attenuated stress-induced increases in alertness and arousal, yet it potentiated stress-induced increases in diastolic pressure. Thus, progesterone dampened some of the psychological effects of stress but produced inconsistent effects on physiological stress responses.
The transcription factor Prox1 acts in rodent retinogenesis, at least in promoting cell cycle withdrawal and horizontal cell production. In the mature retina, this protein is detected at the inner nuclear layer of all vertebrate groups. We have made a neurochemical characterisation of Prox1(+) cell types in two different vertebrate groups: mammals and fish. As well as Prox1(+) horizontal cells, we have observed Prox1(+)/PKC-alpha(+) rod bipolar cells in mouse and cone ON and mixed b bipolar cells in goldfish. In mouse, only some CB(+) and CR(+) amacrine cells are Prox1(+) and the TH(+) and CR(+) amacrine cells are Prox1(-). However, in goldfish all CR(+) amacrine cells and TH(+) interplexiform cells are Prox1(+) and in the GCL displaced amacrine cells are also Prox1(+). Besides its expression in different interneuron subpopulations, we demonstrate, for the first time, the presence of Prox1 in the GS(+) and CRALBP(+) Mller cells in the retina of adult mammals and in developing and mature retina of fish. The presence of Prox1 in these cells appears to be related to survival or maintenance of their phenotype. We also demonstrate that in fish, where retinal formation persists into adulthood, Prox1 is expressed in dividing PCNA(+) cells at the peripheral growing zone, in rod progenitors at the inner and outer nuclear layers as well as in early progenitors during a retinal regeneration process after cryo-lesion of the peripheral growing zone. Therefore, Prox1 functions in vertebrate retinogenesis may be more complex than previously expected.
Angiocidin, a matrix bound and tumor associated protein, has been shown to inhibit tumor progression and angiogenesis. We previously demonstrated that angiocidin binds to thrombospondin-1 and alpha2beta1 integrin. We now show that angiocidin binds and is a preferred substrate for tissue transglutaminase-2 (tTgase). Angiocidin bound tTgase saturably with a Kd of 26 nM, while an angiocidin deletion mutant missing the matrix binding domain of angiocidin failed to bind tTgase. tTgase colocalized with angiocidin on endothelial cells. tTgase bound anti-angiocidin immunoprecipitates of endothelial cell lysates. Breast cancer cells expressing high levels of tTgase attached to angiocidin immobilized on tissue culture plates. Angiocidin was a preferred substrate for tTgase forming high molecular weight cross-linked multimers when treated with tTgase. Cross-linked angiocidin contained iso-peptide bonds as demonstrated by Western blotting and immunohistochemical colocalization studies using endothelial cells treated with angiocidin. Cross-linked angiocidin inhibited cell migration in contrast to monomeric angiocidin and inhibited localization of fibronectin (FN), a pro-tumorigenic matrix protein, into the extracellular matrix (ECM) of tumor and HUVE cells. Our studies provide an additional explanation for the anti-tumor activity of angiocidin suggesting that cross-linked angiocidin disrupts the tumor ECM making it less permissive for tumor growth.
Alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) aggregation is a neuropathological hallmark of many diseases including Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) and Parkinson's Disease (PD), collectively termed the alpha-synucleinopathies. The mechanisms underlying alpha-syn aggregation remain elusive though emerging science has hypothesized that the interaction between cholesterol and alpha-syn may play a role. Cholesterol has been linked to alpha-synucleinopathies by recent work suggesting cholesterol metabolites appear to accelerate alpha-syn fibrillization. Consistent with these findings, cholesterol-lowering agents have been demonstrated to reduce alpha-syn accumulation and the associated neuronal pathology in vitro. In this context, this study sought to investigate the in vivo effects of the cholesterol synthesis inhibitor lovastatin on alpha-syn aggregation in two different transgenic (Tg) mouse models that neuronally overexpress human alpha-syn. Lovastatin-treated mice displayed significantly reduced plasma cholesterol levels and levels of oxidized cholesterol metabolites in the brain in comparison to saline-treated controls. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated a significant reduction of neuronal alpha-syn aggregates and alpha-syn immunoreactive neuropil in the temporal cortex of lovastatin-treated Tg mice in comparison to saline-treated alpha-syn Tg controls. Consistently, immunoblot analysis of mouse brain homogenates showed a reduction in levels of total and oxidized alpha-syn in lovastatin-treated alpha-syn Tg mice in comparison to saline-treated alpha-syn Tg controls. The reduced alpha-syn accumulation in lovastatin-treated mice was associated with abrogation of neuronal pathology. The results from this study demonstrate that lovastatin administration can reduce alpha-syn aggregation and associated neuropathology and support the possibility that treatment with cholesterol-lowering agents may be beneficial for patients with PD and/or DLB.
Importance of the field: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disease affecting millions of predominantly elderly individuals worldwide. Despite intensive efforts devoted to drug discovery, the disease remains incurable. Compounding this problem is the current lack of a truly representative mammalian model of PD. However, a number of non-mammalian models of PD have been created in recent years that hold tremendous promise to accelerate our understanding of the disease as well as to transform the drug discovery process. Areas covered in this review: This review provides an overview of the various Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila genetic models of PD that have been generated to date and discusses the utility of these model systems in the identification of molecules of potential therapeutic value for the PD patient. What the reader will gain: Readers will appreciate the strengths (and limitations) of C. elegans and Drosophila in modeling salient features of the disease as well as their usefulness in uncovering novel gene-gene interaction and pathways relevant to PD pathogenesis. Readers will also appreciate how technological advancements have allowed the direct evaluation of novel compounds in these living models of PD in a virtually high-throughput manner. Take home message: Non-mammalian models of PD provide a valuable in vivo platform for drug screening. Unlike cell-based systems, these living models with an intact nervous system allow for a more meaningful evaluation of the neuroprotective properties of genetic and chemical modifiers to be conducted.


Proinflammatory stimuli, after amyloid beta (Abeta) deposition, have been hypothesized to create a self-reinforcing positive feedback loop that increases amyloidogenic processing of the Abeta precursor protein (APP), promoting further Abeta accumulation and neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Interleukin-6 (IL-6), a proinflammatory cytokine, has been shown to be increased in AD patients implying a pathological interaction. To assess the effects of IL-6 on Abeta deposition and APP processing in vivo, we overexpressed murine IL-6 (mIL-6) in the brains of APP transgenic TgCRND8 and TG2576 mice. mIL-6 expression resulted in extensive gliosis and concurrently attenuated Abeta deposition in TgCRND8 mouse brains. This was accompanied by up-regulation of glial phagocytic markers in vivo and resulted in enhanced microglia-mediated phagocytosis of Abeta aggregates in vitro. Further, mIL-6-induced neuroinflammation had no effect on APP processing in TgCRND8 and had no effect on APP processing or steady-state levels of Abeta in young Tg2576 mice. These results indicate that mIL-6-mediated reactive gliosis may be beneficial early in the disease process by potentially enhancing Abeta plaque clearance rather than mediating a neurotoxic feedback loop that exacerbates amyloid pathology. This is the first study that methodically dissects the contribution of mIL-6 with regard to its potential role in modulating Abeta deposition in vivo.
This review aims at synthesizing the most relevant information regarding the neuroendocrine circuits controlling reproduction, mainly gonadotropin release, in teleost fish. In teleosts, the pituitary receives a more or less direct innervation by neurons sending projections to the vicinity of the pituitary gonadotrophs. Among the neurotransmitters and neuropeptides released by these nerve endings are gonadotrophin-releasing hormones (GnRH) and dopamine, acting as stimulatory and inhibitory factors (in many but not all fish) on the liberation of LH and to a lesser extent that of FSH. The activity of the corresponding neurons depends on a complex interplay between external and internal factors that will ultimately influence the triggering of puberty and sexual maturation. Among these factors are sex steroids and other peripheral hormones and growth factors, but little is known regarding their targets. However, very recently a new actor has entered the field of reproductive physiology. KiSS1, first known as a tumor suppressor called metastin, and its receptor GPR54, are now central to the regulation of GnRH, and consequently LH and FSH secretion in mammals. The KiSS system is notably viewed as instrumental in integrating both environmental cues and metabolic signals and passing this information onto the reproductive axis. In fish, there are two KiSS genes, KiSS1 and KiSS2, expressed in neurons of the preoptic area and mediobasal hypothalamus. Pionneer studies indicate that KiSS and GPR54 expression seem to be activated at puberty. Although precise information as to the physiological effects of KiSS1 in fish, notably on GnRH neurons and gonadotropin release, is still limited, KiSS neurons may emerge as the &quot;gatekeeper&quot; of puberty and reproduction in fish as in mammals.

Regulator of G-protein signaling 4 (Rgs4) regulates the strength and duration of G-protein signaling, and plays an important role in cardiac development, smooth muscle contraction and psychiatric disorders. Rgs4 expression is regulated at both mRNA and protein levels. In order to examine the transcriptional mechanism of Rgs4 expression, we have cloned and characterized rabbit Rgs4 promoter. The coding sequence of rabbit Rgs4 was obtained by degenerative RT-PCR and used for Northern blot and 5'-RACE analysis. A single transcript was identified in rabbit colonic smooth muscle cells. The 5'-untranslated region (UTR) extended 120 bp nucleotides upstream of the Rgs4 start codon. A putative promoter sequence (1389 bp) showed a consensus TATA box and cis-acting binding sites for several potential transcriptional factors. Reporter gene assay identified strong promoter activity in various cell types. Further analysis by deletion mutagenesis suggested that the proximal region had a highest core promoter activity while the distal region is suppressive. IL-1beta significantly increased the promoter activity. The in vitro and in vivo binding activities for NF-kappaB transcription factor were validated by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay respectively. Mutation of NF-kappaB site reduced the promoter activity. These data suggest that the cloned rabbit Rgs4 promoter is functionally active and NF-kappaB binding site possesses enhancer activity in regulating Rgs4 transcription. Our studies provide an important basis for further understanding of Rgs4 regulation and function in different diseases.
The zebrafish provides a useful experimental system for investigations of aural development. To permit the controlled expression of transgenes in developing hair cells, we isolated the genomic control regions of the parvalbumin 3a (pvalb3a) and parvalbumin 3b (pvalb3b) genes. Deletion analysis and somatic-cell transgenesis restricted the cis-acting control regions for hair cells to as little as 484base pairs for pvalb3a and 650base pairs for pvalb3b. Using both meganuclease-mediated and standard methods, we produced transgenic animals that transmit transgenes through their germ lines. These fish express GFP in hair cells in the inner ear and lateral line. Two stable transgenic lines express GFP prior to hair-bundle formation, so the associated promoter constructs are suitable for manipulating gene expression during bundle development. We additionally identified a transgenic line that offers variable labeling of supporting cells.
Mice lacking the serotonin receptor 1A (Htr1a knockout, Htr1a(KO)) show increased innate and conditioned anxiety. This phenotype depends on functional receptor activity during the third through fifth weeks of life and thus appears to be the result of long-term changes in brain function as a consequence of an early deficit in serotonin signaling. To evaluate whether this phenotype can be influenced by early environmental factors, we subjected Htr1a knockout mice to postnatal handling, a procedure known to reduce anxiety-like behavior and stress responses in adulthood. Offspring of heterozygous Htr1a knockout mice were separated from their mother and exposed 15 min each day from postnatal day 1 (PD1) to PD14 to clean bedding. Control animals were left undisturbed. Maternal behavior was observed during the first 13 days of life. Adult male offspring were tested in the open field, social approach and resident-intruder tests and assessed for corticosterone response to restraint stress. Knockout mice showed increased anxiety in the open field and in the social approach test as well as an enhanced corticosterone response to stress. However, while no effect of postnatal handling was seen in wild-type mice, handling reduced anxiety-like behavior in the social interaction test and the corticosterone response to stress in knockout mice. These findings extend the anxiety phenotype of Htr1a(KO) mice to include social anxiety and demonstrate that this phenotype can be moderated by early environmental factors.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 8 (mGlu(8)) is presynaptically located and regulates the release of the transmitter. Dysfunctions of this mechanism are involved in the pathophysiology of different psychiatric disorders. mGlu(8) deficient mice have been previously investigated in a range of studies, but the results are contradictory and there are still many open questions. Therefore, we tested mGlu(8)-deficient animals in different behavioral tasks that are commonly used in neuropsychiatric research. Our results show a robust contextual fear deficit in mGlu(8)-deficient mice. Furthermore, novel object recognition, chlordiazepoxide-facilitated extinction of operant conditioning and the acoustic startle response were attenuated by mGlu(8) deficiency. We found no changes in sensory processing, locomotor activity, prepulse inhibition, phencyclidine-induced changes in locomotion or prepulse inhibition, operant conditioning, conditioned fear to a discrete cue or in animal models of innate fear and post-traumatic stress disorder. We conclude that mGlu(8) might be a potential target for disorders with pathophysiological changes in brain areas where mGlu(8) modulates glutamate and gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) transmission. Our data especially point to anxiety disorders involving exaggerated contextual fear, such as generalized anxiety disorders, and to conditions with disturbed declarative memory.
Ephrins and Eph receptor tyrosine kinases are cell-surface molecules that serve a multitude of functions in cell-cell communication in development, physiology, and disease. EphA4 is a promiscuous member of the EphA subclass of Eph receptors and can bind to both EphrinAs and EphrinBs. In addition to its well-established roles in guiding the development of neuronal connectivity, EphA4 has been implicated for a role in synaptic plasticity, vascular formation, axon regeneration, and central nervous system repair following injury. However, the study of its role in the adult stage has been hampered by confounding developmental defects in EphA4 germline mutants. Here, we report the generation and molecular characterization of an EphA4 conditional allele along with a novel null allele with a knockin fluorescent reporter gene (mCFP). The conditional allele will be useful in ascertaining postdevelopmental and/or cell type-specific function of EphA4 in physiology, injury, and disease.
In eukaryotic cells, chromatin reorganizes within promoters of active genes to allow the transcription machinery and various transcription factors to access DNA. In this model, promoter-specific transcription factors bind DNA to initiate the production of mRNA in a tightly regulated manner. In the case of the human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, specific transcription factors are apparently underrepresented with regards to the size of the genome, and mechanisms underlying transcriptional regulation are controversial. Here, we investigate the modulation of DNA accessibility by chromatin remodeling during the parasite infection cycle. We have generated genome-wide maps of nucleosome occupancy across the parasite erythrocytic cycle using two complementary assays--the formaldehyde-assisted isolation of regulatory elements to extract protein-free DNA (FAIRE) and the MNase-mediated purification of mononucleosomes to extract histone-bound DNA (MAINE), both techniques being coupled to high-throughput sequencing. We show that chromatin architecture undergoes drastic upheavals throughout the parasite's cycle, contrasting with targeted chromatin reorganization usually observed in eukaryotes. Chromatin loosens after the invasion of the red blood cell and then repacks prior to the next cycle. Changes in nucleosome occupancy within promoter regions follow this genome-wide pattern, with a few exceptions such as the var genes involved in virulence and genes expressed at early stages of the cycle. We postulate that chromatin structure and nucleosome turnover control massive transcription during the erythrocytic cycle. Our results demonstrate that the processes driving gene expression in Plasmodium challenge the classical eukaryotic model of transcriptional regulation occurring mostly at the transcription initiation level.
Upregulation of expression of the close homolog of adhesion molecule L1 (CHL1) by reactive astrocytes in the glial scar reduces axonal regeneration and inhibits functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI). Here, we investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying upregulation of CHL1 expression by analyzing the signal transduction pathways in vitro. We show that astrogliosis stimulated by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) upregulates CHL1 expression in primary cultures of mouse cerebral astrocytes, coinciding with elevated protein synthesis and translocation of protein kinase delta (PKCdelta) from cytosol to the membrane fraction. Blocking PKCdelta activity pharmacologically and genetically attenuates LPS-induced elevation of CHL1 protein expression through a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) dependent pathway. LPS induces extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) phosphorylation through PKCdelta and blockade of ERK1/2 activation abolishes upregulation of CHL1 expression. LPS-triggered upregulation of CHL1 expression mediated through translocation of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) to the nucleus is blocked by a specific NF-kappaB inhibitor and by inhibition of PI3K, PKCdelta, and ERK1/2 activities, implicating NF-kappaB as a downstream target for upregulation of CHL1 expression. Furthermore, the LPS-mediated upregulation of CHL1 expression by reactive astrocytes is inhibitory for hippocampal neurite outgrowth in cocultures. Although the LPS-triggered NO-guanylate cyclase-cGMP pathway upregulates glial fibrillary acid protein expression in cultured astrocytes, we did not observe this pathway to mediate LPS-induced upregulation of CHL1 expression. Our results indicate that elevated CHL1 expression by reactive astrocytes requires activation of PI3K/PKCdelta-dependent pathways and suggest that reduction of PI3K/PKCdelta activity represents a therapeutic target to downregulate CHL1 expression and thus benefit axonal regeneration after SCI.

Arachnoid cysts represent a common, innocent, finding in routine neuroimaging of headache patients. We present the first report of symptomatic migraine with aura caused by the spontaneous rupture of a middle fossa arachnoid cyst into the subdural space. Brain imaging enabled an accurate diagnosis and, subsequently, adequate surgical management.
Topiramate is a highly effective drug in migraine prophylaxis and is considered a first-line treatment. The evidence for the efficacy of topiramate is based upon the results of several large, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. Adverse events (AEs) are common and require discontinuation of the treatment in about 20-25% of patients, but they are rarely severe. There are reviews regarding topiramate-related AEs representing a large number of patients treated in controlled trials. The most common AEs are weight loss, dizziness, somnolence, abnormal thinking, fatigue, ataxia, confusion, paresthesias, impaired concentration, nervousness, amnesia, and language difficulties. The development of cough has never been reported as an AE during topiramate prophylaxis for migraine. We present 3 cases in which the prophylactic treatment for migraine with topiramate was discontinued due to the onset of primary intractable coughing.
Electrophysiological recordings of the auditory system are commonly performed in deeply anesthetized animals. This study evaluated the effects of various concentrations of the volatile anesthetic isoflurane (1-3%) on the compound action potential (CAP), cochlear microphonic (CM) and auditory brainstem response (ABR). Recordings were initiated in the awake, lightly restrained animal. Anesthesia was induced with a single dose of Hypnorm (fentanyl and fluanisone). After tracheostomy increasing isoflurane concentrations were applied in N(2)O/O(2) via controlled ventilation. Data were compared to recordings in the awake animal using repeated measures ANOVA and Dunnett's post hoc test. On average, isoflurane dose-dependently suppressed the amplitude and increased the latency of the CAP. CM amplitude was suppressed. These effects were most profound at high frequencies and were typically significant at isoflurane concentrations of 2.5% and 3%. Amplitude and latency of the second negative peak of the CAP (N(2)) were affected to a greater extent compared to the first peak (N(1)). On average, isoflurane dose-dependently reduced the amplitude and increased the latency of the ABR. These effects were typically significant at an isoflurane concentration of 2%. Effects on peak IV and V were more pronounced compared to the early peaks I and III.
Central nervous system (CNS) tumors comprise 15% to 20% of all malignancies occurring in childhood and adolescence. They may present in a myriad of ways, often delaying diagnosis. Symptoms and signs depend on the growth rate of the tumor, its location in the central nervous system (CNS), and the age of the child. This article describes the presentation, diagnosis, and management of these tumors.
Neural activity can be captured by state-of-the-art optical imaging methods although the analysis of the resulting data sets is often manual and not standardized. Therefore, laboratories using large-scale calcium imaging eagerly await software toolboxes that can automate the process of identifying cells and inferring spikes. An algorithm proposed and implemented in a recent paper by Mukamel et al. [Neuron 63, 747-760 (2009)] used independent component analysis and offers significant improvements over conventional methods. The approach should be widely applicable, as tested with data obtained from the mouse cerebellum, neocortex, and spinal cord. The emergence of analysis tools in parallel with the rapid advances in optical imaging is an exciting development that will stimulate new discoveries and further elucidate the functions of neural circuits.
The mechanism supporting the role of the hippocampal formation in novelty detection remains controversial. A comparator function has been variously ascribed to CA1 or subiculum, whereas the theta rhythm has been suggested to separate neural firing into encoding and retrieval phases. We investigated theta phase of firing in principal cells in subiculum and CA1 as rats foraged in familiar and novel environments. We found that the preferred theta phase of firing in CA1, but not subiculum, was shifted to a later phase of the theta cycle during environmental novelty. Furthermore, the amount of phase shift elicited by environmental change correlated with the extent of place cell remapping in CA1. Our results support a relationship between theta phase and novelty-induced plasticity in CA1.
Rat with excitotoxic neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions (NVHL rats) is considered as a heuristic neurodevelopmental model for studying schizophrenia. Extensive study of this model is limited by the lack of clear validity criteria of such lesions and because ascertaining of the lesions is realized postmortem with histological examination after completing experiments. Here, in a first experiment, by assessing the locomotor response to amphetamine in adult NVHL rats, we further specify that the lesions must be bilateral and confined to the ventral hippocampus to obtain the validated behavioral phenotype. We then show a longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) protocol suitable for the detection of brain structural changes in NVHL rats. The T(2)-weighted images acquired in adult NVHL rats reveal the same structural changes as those appraised with histological protocol. Moreover, we demonstrate that the lesion status in adulthood can be accurately predicted from the T(2)-weighted images acquired in the juvenile period. As technical advantages, our MRI protocol makes possible to select animals according to lesion criteria as soon as in the juvenile period before long-lasting experiments and gives access in vivo to a quantitative parameter indicative of the lesion extent. Finally, we show that the lesion size increases only slightly between juvenile and adult periods. These latter results are discussed in the context of the specific postpubertal emergence of the behavioral deficits in NVHL rats.
Dual-process theories of episodic memory state that retrieval is contingent on two independent processes: familiarity (providing a sense of oldness) and recollection (recovering events and their context). A variety of studies have reported distinct neural signatures for familiarity and recollection, supporting dual-process theory. One outstanding question is whether these signatures reflect the activation of distinct memory traces or the operation of different retrieval mechanisms on a single memory trace. We present a computational model that uses a single neuronal network to store memory traces, but two distinct and independent retrieval processes access the memory. The model is capable of performing familiarity and recollection-based discrimination between old and new patterns, demonstrating that dual-process models need not to rely on multiple independent memory traces, but can use a single trace. Importantly, our putative familiarity and recollection processes exhibit distinct characteristics analogous to those found in empirical data; they diverge in capacity and sensitivity to sparse and correlated patterns, exhibit distinct ROC curves, and account for performance on both item and associative recognition tests. The demonstration that a single-trace, dual-process model can account for a range of empirical findings highlights the importance of distinguishing between neuronal processes and the neuronal representations on which they operate.
Expression of P2X(4) and P2X(6) receptor subunits in the gastrointestinal tract of the rat was studied with double-labeling fluorescence immunohistochemistry. The results showed that P2X(6) receptors were expressed widely in the submucosal and myenteric plexuses. In the myenteric plexus, P2X(6) receptors were expressed mainly in large size neurons which resembled Dogiel type II neurons. These P2X(6) receptor-immunoreactive (ir) neurons also expressed calbindin 28K, calretinin and neuronal nuclei (NeuN), proteins that are markers of intrinsic sensory neurons. In the submucosal plexus, all the calbindin 28K, calretinin and NeuN-ir cells were immunoreactive for P2X(6) receptors. P2X(6) receptors do not form homomultimers, but rather heteromultimers with either P2X(2) or P2X(4) receptors. P2X(4) receptors were not expressed in neurons, but were expressed in macrophages of the rat gastrointestinal tract. These data indicate that P2X(6) receptors are mainly expressed on intrinsic sensory neurons and that ATP, via P2X(6) receptors probably in heteromeric combination with P2X(2) receptors, may be involved in regulating the physiological functions of these neurons.
Canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC) subunits assemble as tetramers to form ion channels with high calcium (Ca(2+)) permeability. Here, we investigated the possibility that TRPC3 ion channels are broadly expressed in the adult guinea pig and mouse cochleae. Using immunofluorescence, pronounced labeling occurred in the spiral ganglion (SG) neurons, inner hair cells (IHC), outer hair cells (OHC) and epithelial cells lining scala media. TRPC3 expression was homogeneous in the SG throughout the cochlea. In contrast, there was marked spatial variation in the immunolabeling in the cochlear hair cells with respect to location. This likely relates to the tonotopy of these cells. TRPC3 immunolabeling was more pronounced in the IHC than OHC. Both basal region IHC and OHC had higher TRPC3 expression levels than the corresponding cells from the apical region of the cochlea. These data suggest that TRPC3 ion channels contribute to Ca(2+) homeostasis associated with the hair cells, with higher ion fluxes in more basal regions of the cochlea, and may also be a significant pathway for Ca(2+) entry associated with auditory neurotransmission via the SG neurons. TRPC3 expression was also identified within the spiral limbus region, inner and outer sulcus, but without evidence for spatial variation in expression level. Expression in these gap junction-coupled epithelial cells lining scala media is indicative of a contribution of TRPC3 channels to cochlear electrochemical homeostasis.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor, TrkB, are broadly expressed in the developing and adult mammalian brain. BDNF/TrkB-stimulated intracellular signaling is critical for neuronal survival, morphogenesis, and plasticity. It is well known that binding of BDNF to TrkB elicits various intracellular signaling pathways, including mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (MAPK/ERK), phospholipase Cg (PLCg), and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) pathways, and that BDNF exerts biological effects on neurons via activation of similar mechanisms. In addition to TrkB, a low-affinity receptor p75 is also involved in neuronal survival and plasticity. BDNF affects neurons positively or negatively through various intracellular signaling pathways triggered by activation of TrkB or p75. From a clinical standpoint, roles of BDNF have been implicated in the pathophysiology of various brain diseases. The stress-induced steroid hormone, glucocorticoid, and BDNF are putatively associated with the pathophysiology of depression. Recent reports, including our studies, demonstrate possible crosstalk between glucocorticoid- and BDNF/TrkB-mediated signaling. Here, we present a broad overview of the current knowledge concerning BDNF action and associated intracellular signaling as it relates to neuronal protection, synaptic function, and morphological change. Furthermore, understanding the secretion and intracellular dynamics of BDNF proteins is critical as the fate of secreted BDNF may contribute to differences in neuronal response.
This study investigated whether women's interest in visual sexual stimuli varied with their hormonal state. Viewing times of 30 women, 15 normal cycling (NC) and 15 oral contracepting (OC), to sexually explicit photos were measured at three different times. NC women were tested during their menstrual, periovulatory, and luteal phases, and OC women were tested at equivalent temporal intervals. Subjects viewed stimuli as long as desired, thus viewing time measured subject interest. Subjective ratings of stimulus sexual attractiveness were obtained on each test. There was no overall relationship between menstrual cycle phase and viewing time. However the participant's menstrual cycle phase during first exposure to sexual stimuli predicted subsequent interest in sexual stimuli during the next two tests. NC women who first viewed stimuli during their periovulatory phase looked longer at the sexual stimuli across all sessions than did women first tested in their luteal phase. OC women first exposed to the sexual stimuli during menstruation looked longer at the stimuli across all sessions than did OC women first exposed at other test phases. Neither current test phase nor initial cycle phase influenced subjective ratings. Women had increased interest in sexual stimuli across all sessions if first exposed to sexual stimuli when endogenous estrogens were most likely highest. These data suggest that women's interest in visual sexual stimuli is modulated by hormones such that the hormonal condition at first exposure possibly determines the stimuli's emotional valence, markedly affecting subsequent interest in sexual stimuli.
Stress-induced release or central administration of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) enhances locomotion in a wide range of vertebrates, including the roughskin newt, Taricha granulosa. Although CRF's stimulatory actions on locomotor behavior are well established, the target neurons through which CRF exerts this effect remain unknown. To identify these target neurons, we utilized a fluorescent conjugate of CRF (CRF-TAMRA 1) to track this peptide's internalization into reticulospinal and other neurons in the medullary reticular formation (MRF), a region critically involved in regulating locomotion. Epifluorescent and confocal microscopy revealed that CRF-TAMRA 1 was internalized by diverse MRF neurons, including reticulospinal neurons retrogradely labeled with Cascade Blue dextran. In addition, we immunohistochemically identified a distinct subset of serotonin-containing neurons, located throughout the medullary raph, that also internalized the fluorescent CRF-TAMRA 1 conjugate. Chronic single-unit recordings obtained from microwire electrodes in behaving newts revealed that intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of CRF-TAMRA 1 increased medullary neuronal firing and that appearance of this firing was associated with, and strongly predictive of, episodes of CRF-induced locomotion. Furthermore, icv administered CRF-TAMRA 1 produced behavioral and neurophysiological effects identical to equimolar doses of unlabeled CRF. Collectively, these findings provide the first evidence that CRF directly targets reticulospinal and serotonergic neurons in the MRF and indicate that CRF may enhance locomotion via direct effects on the hindbrain, including the reticulospinal system.
Although subtle anatomical anomalies long precede the onset of clinical symptoms in Alzheimer's disease, their impact on the reorganization of brain networks underlying cognitive functions has not been fully explored. A unique window into this reorganization is provided by presymptomatic cases of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). Here we studied neural circuitry related to semantic processing in presymptomatic FAD cases by estimating the intracranial sources of the N400 event-related potential (ERP). ERPs were obtained during a semantic-matching task from 24 presymptomatic carriers and 25 symptomatic carriers of the E280A presenilin-1 (PS-1) mutation, as well as 27 noncarriers (from the same families). As expected, the symptomatic-carrier group performed worse in the matching task and had lower N400 amplitudes than both asymptomatic groups, which did not differ from each other on these variables. However, N400 topography differed in mutation carrier groups with respect to the noncarriers. Intracranial source analysis evinced that the presymptomatic-carriers presented a decrease of N400 generator strength in right inferior-temporal and medial cingulate areas and increased generator strength in the left hippocampus and parahippocampus compared to the controls. This represents alterations in neural function without translation into behavioral impairments. Compared to controls, the symptomatic-carriers presented a similar anatomical shift in the distribution of N400 generators to that found in presymptomatic-carriers, albeit with a larger reduction in generator strength. The redistribution of N400 generators in presymptomatic-carriers indicates that early focal degeneration associated with the mutation induces neural reorganization, possibly contributing to a functional compensation that enables normal performance in the semantic task.
Functional neuroimaging has evolved into an indispensable tool for noninvasively investigating brain function. A recent development of such methodology is the creation of connectivity models for brain regions and related networks, efforts that have been inhibited by notable limitations. We present a new method for ascertaining functional connectivity of specific brain structures using metaanalytic connectivity modeling (MACM), along with validation of our method using a nonhuman primate database. Drawing from decades of neuroimaging research and spanning multiple behavioral domains, the method overcomes many weaknesses of conventional connectivity analyses and provides a simple, automated alternative to developing accurate and robust models of anatomically-defined human functional connectivity. Applying MACM to the amygdala, a small structure of the brain with a complex network of connections, we found high coherence with anatomical studies in nonhuman primates as well as human-based theoretical models of emotive-cognitive integration, providing evidence for this novel method's utility.

Control of heart rate variability via modulation of sympathovagal balance is a key function of nucleus tractus solitarii and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus localized in the dorsomedial medulla oblongata. Normal blood pressure regulation involves precise balance of glutamate (Glu)-glutamine-gamma-aminobutyric acid transmitter systems, and angiotensin II modulates these transmitters to produce tonic suppression of reflex function. It is not known, however, whether other brain transmitters/metabolites are indicators of baroreflex function. This study establishes the concept that comprehensive baseline transmitter/metabolite profiles obtained using in vivo (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy in rats with well-characterized differences in resting blood pressure and baroreflex function can be used as indices of autonomic balance or baroreflex sensitivity. Transgenic rats with over-expression of renin [m(Ren2)27] or under-expression of glial-angiotensinogen (ASrAogen) were compared with Sprague-Dawley rats. Glu concentration in the dorsal medulla is significantly higher in ASrAogen rats compared with either Sprague-Dawley or (mRen2)27 rats. Glu levels and the ratio of Glu:glutamine correlated positively with indices of higher vagal tone consistent with the importance of these neurotransmitters in baroreflex function. Interestingly, the levels of choline-containing metabolites showed a significant positive correlation with spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity and a negative correlation with sympathetic tone. Thus, we demonstrate the concept that noninvasive assessment of neurochemical biomarkers may be used as an index of baroreflex sensitivity.
Various types of neural prostheses (NPs) have been developed to restore motor function after neural injury. Surface NPs are noninvasive and inexpensive, but are often poorly selective, activating nontargeted muscles and cutaneous sensory nerves that can cause discomfort or pain. Implantable NPs are highly selective, but invasive and costly. The stimulus router system (SRS) is a novel NP consisting of fully implanted leads that &quot;capture&quot; and route some of the current flowing between a pair of surface electrodes to the vicinity of a target nerve. An SRS lead consists of a &quot;pick-up&quot; terminal that is implanted subcutaneously under one of the surface electrodes and a &quot;delivery&quot; terminal that is secured on or near the target nerve. We have published a preliminary report on the basic properties of the SRS [L. S. Gan , &quot;A new means of transcutaneous coupling for neural prostheses,&quot; IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng., vol. 54, no. 3, pp. 509-517, Mar. 2007]. Here, we further characterize the SRS and identify aspects that maximize its performance as a motor NP. The surface current needed to activate nerves with an SRS, was found to depend on the proximity of the delivery terminal(s) to the nerve, electrode configurations, contact areas of the surface electrodes and implanted terminals, and the distance between the surface anode and the delivery terminal.
The presence of microglia in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) has not been reported earlier. The dorsal root ganglia contain satellite glial cells (SGCs) and macrophages, which are considered to have infiltrated from the systemic blood. An attempt was made to investigate whether microglia as found in the central nervous system are also present in the dorsal root ganglia of untreated rats and following experimental peripheral nerve injury. Female adult Wistar rats were subjected to sciatic nerve transection injury on the right hand side. The DRGs of the right side were studied with the contralateral DRGs of the left side serving as controls. The tissues, harvested at different time points after injury, following intracardial perfusion fixation, and frozen sections were immunolabeled with anti-GFAP as a marker for SGCs and anti-Iba1 and OX-6 as markers for microglia and activated macrophagic microglia, respectively. These antibodies were also used in combination to ascertain if Iba1+ cells are the SGCs or otherwise and also if macrophagic OX-6+ cells are Iba1 positive microglia. The results indicate that Iba1 positive microglial cells are different from the SGCs in the DRGs. The Iba1 positive microglial cells respond to the sciatic nerve injury becoming activated and macrophagic and express MHCII molecules. Such activated microglia apparently may serve as neurosupportive cells, providing neuroprotection and scavenging cellular debris in response to the injury.
Polyinosinic:polycytidic acid (poly I:C) is a synthetic double stranded RNA, which mimics with viral genome and mediates immune activation response similar to double stranded RNA virus infection into the brain. Microglial cells are the immune competent cells of the central nervous system having Toll like receptors-3 on their surface. Upon establishing that poly I:C infusion into the brain causes microgliosis by creating a viral infection model, the present study was designed to evaluate the effects of microglial activation following poly I:C infusion on motor activity. We infused 100 microl of 1% solution of Poly I:C in TBE buffer directly into the lateral ventricle and TBE buffer as vehicle to controls. A significantly higher microglial cell count as compared to control on 2, 3 and 7 days post infusion was recorded. Motor activity and microglial cell count was assessed in both controls and poly I:C infused rats on 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28 days post infusion. A significant decrease in motor activity and motor coordination occurred with respect to control. The results clearly demonstrate that microglial activation has a direct relevance with decreased motor activity. Findings could also have their importance in understanding the role of microglial cells on behavioral aspects in viral diseases.
Sleep is defined on the basis of behavioural and physiological criteria dividing it into two states: non rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep which is subdivided into three stages (N1, N2, N3); and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep characterized by rapid eye movements, muscle atonia and desynchronized EEG. Circadian rhythm of sleep-wakefulness is controlled by the master clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus. The neuroanatomical substrates of the NREM sleep are located principally in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus and those of REM sleep are located in pons. A variety of significant physiological changes occur in all body systems and organs during sleep as a result of functional alterations in the autonomic and somatic nervous systems. The international classification of sleep disorders (ICSD, ed 2) lists eight categories of sleep disorders along with appendix A and appendix B. The four major sleep complaints include excessive daytime sleepiness, insomnia, abnormal movements or behaviour during sleep and inability to sleep at the desired time. The most important step in assessing a patient with a sleep complaint is obtaining a detailed history including family and previous histories, medical, psychiatric, neurological, drug, alcohol and substance abuse disorders. Some important laboratory tests for investigating sleep disorders consist of an overnight polysomnography, multiple sleep latency and maintenance of wakefulness tests as well as actigraphy. General physicians should have a basic knowledge of the salient clinical features of common sleep disorders, such as insomnia, obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome, narcolepsy-cataplexy syndrome, circadian rhythm sleep disorders (e.g., jet leg, shift work disorder, etc.) and parasomnias (e.g., partial arousal disorders, REM behaviour disorder, etc.) and these are briefly described in this chapter. The principle of treatment of sleep disorders is first to find cause of the sleep disturbance and vigorously treat the co-morbid conditions causing the sleep disturbance. If a satisfactory treatment is not available for the primary condition or does not resolve the problem, the treatment should be directed at the specific sleep disturbance. Most sleep disorders, once diagnosed, can be managed with limited consultations. The treatment of primary sleep disorders, however, is best handled by a sleep specialist. An overview of sleep and sleep disorders viz., Basic science; international classification and approach; and phenomenology of common sleep disorders are presented.
Infants' categorization of objects in different object-context relations was investigated. The experiment used a multiple-exemplar habituation-categorization procedure where 92 6-month olds formed categories of animals and vehicles embedded in congruent, incongruent, and homogeneous object-context relations. Across diverse object-context relations, infants habituated to multiple exemplars within a category and categorized novel members of both animal and vehicle categories. Infants showed a slight advantage for categorizing animals. Infant object categorization appears to be robust to diversity in object-context relations.
Objective. To assess the ability of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients to perceive emotional information and to assign subjective emotional rating scores to audiovisual presentations. Materials and Methods. 24 subjects (14 with AD, matched to controls for age and educational levels) were studied. After neuropsychological assessment, they watched a Neutral story and then a story with Emotional content. Results. Recall scores for both stories were significantly lower in AD (Neutral and Emotional: P = .001). CG assigned different emotional scores for each version of the test, P = .001, while ratings of AD did not differ, P = .32. Linear regression analyses determined the best predictors of emotional rating and recognition memory for each group among neuropsychological tests battery. Conclusions. AD patients show changes in emotional processing on declarative memory and a preserved ability to express emotions in face of arousal content. The present findings suggest that these impairments are due to general cognitive decline.
Mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) is an indicator of sperm functionality that can be assessed using specific fluorescent markers. However, the ability of distinct probes to dynamically evaluate sperm MMP has not been determined. In the present study, human sperm samples were independently labelled with MitoTracker Green, MitoTracker Red and JC-1. The ability of each probe to correctly monitor MMP was determined by incubating sperm with MMP disruptors (KCN, FCCP and valinomycin). Similarly, the effect of distinct fixatives (formaldehyde and methanol) was also tested. The three mitochondrial probes provided similar results, and were able to monitor changes in MMP when sperm had been previously incubated with MMP-disrupting agents. However, only JC-1 could, to a small extent, mirror MMP alterations after sperm labelling. Unexpectedly, the three probes were able to stain some pre-fixed sperm, even though this behaviour was very variable, especially for MitoTrackers. On the other hand, none of the probes was shown to be reliably fixable. Of the three probes tested JC-1 seems to be the most adequate, nevertheless, the choice of an MMP-specific probe may depend on the aim of each experimental setting and appropriate controls must always be performed.
Voltage-gated Na(+) channels (VGSCs) are expressed in excitable cells (e.g. neurons and muscles), as well as in some classically 'non-excitable' cells (e.g. fibroblasts), and in carcinomas. In general, functional expression of VGSCs in plasma membrane (PM) is hierarchical and dynamic. Previously, we have shown that an activity-dependent positive feedback mechanism involving cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) plays a significant role in upregulation of VGSCs in strongly metastatic rat prostate cancer Mat-LyLu cells expressing Nav1.7. Here, we investigated the possible role of PKA in VGSC regulation and its functional consequences in strongly metastatic human breast cancer (BCa) MDA-MB-231 cells, where the neonatal splice form of Nav1.5 (nNav1.5) is the predominant VGSC present. Treatment with the PKA activator forskolin for 24h increased mRNA and PM protein levels of nNav1.5, without changing the total VGSC protein level. Opposite effects were obtained by application of the PKA inhibitor KT5720 or the highly specific VGSC blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX), the latter implying activity-dependent upregulation. We tested the possibility, therefore, that the activity dependence of VGSC (nNav1.5) expression involved PKA. Indeed, TTX pretreatment reduced the level of phosphorylated PKA and eliminated basal and PKA-stimulated cellular migration. These data suggested that activity-dependent positive feedback mediated by PKA plays an important role in the functional expression of nNav1.5 in BCa, and in turn, this enhances the cells' metastatic potential.
Previous studies have shown that early life trauma induced by maternal separation or colonic irritation leads to hypersensitivity to colorectal distension in adulthood. We tested the hypothesis that repetitive colorectal distension in neonates leads to abnormalities in colonic permeability and smooth muscle function in the adult rat. In neonatal rats, repetitive colorectal distension was performed on days 8, 10, and 12. As adults, stool consistency was graded from 0 (formed stool) to 3 (liquid stool). Colonic tissue was isolated for histology and myeloperoxidase levels. The colonic mucosa was placed in modified Ussing chambers for measurements of permeability and short-circuit current responses to forskolin, electrical field stimulation, and carbachol. Segments of colonic musculature were placed in organ baths and contractile response to potassium chloride, electrical field stimulation, and carbachol were determined. In adult rats that experienced neonatal colonic irritation, no significant changes in colonic histology or myeloperoxidase activity were observed; however, stool consistency scores were increased. Mucosal permeability, measured as an increase in basal conductance, was significantly increased but no changes in short-circuit current responses were observed. In adulthood, rats that underwent colorectal distension as neonates exhibited an elevated smooth muscle contractile response to potassium chloride, but no changes in response to electrical field stimulation or carbachol. In summary, neonatal colonic irritation, shown previously to produce colonic hypersensitivity, leads to significant alterations in colonic mucosal and smooth muscle function characterized by loose stools, increased mucosal permeability, and increased smooth muscle contractility in the absence of colon inflammation in adulthood.
Several studies have indicated that the exposure of rodents to music modulates brain development and neuroplasticity, by mechanisms that involve facilitated hippocampal neurogenesis, neurotrophin synthesis and glutamatergic signaling. This study focused on the potential protection that the perinatal exposure to music, between postnatal days 2 and 32, could offer against functional deficits induced by neonatal callosotomy in rats. The spontaneous alternation and marble-burying behaviors were longitudinally measured in callosotomized and control rats that had been exposed to music or not. The results indicated that the neonatal callosotomy-induced spontaneous alternation deficits that became apparent only after postnatal day 45, about the time when the rat corpus callosum reaches its maximal levels of myelination. The perinatal exposure to music efficiently protected the spontaneous alternation performance against the deficits induced by callosotomy. The present findings may offer important insights into music-induced neuroplasticity, relevant to brain development and neurorehabilitation.
Social factors have a tremendous influence on instances of heavy drinking and in turn impact public health. However, it is extremely difficult to assess whether this influence is only a cultural phenomenon or has biological underpinnings. Research in non-human primates demonstrates that the way individuals are brought up during early development affects their future predisposition for heavy drinking, and research in rats demonstrates that social isolation, crowding or low social ranking can lead to increased alcohol intake, while social defeat can decrease drinking. Neurotransmitter mechanisms contributing to these effects (i.e., serotonin, GABA, dopamine) have begun to be elucidated. However, these studies do not exclude the possibility that social effects on drinking occur through generalized stress responses to negative social environments. Alcohol intake can also be elevated in positive social situations, for example, in rats following an interaction with an intoxicated peer. Recent studies have also begun to adapt a new rodent species, the prairie vole, to study the role of social environment in alcohol drinking. Prairie voles demonstrate a high degree of social affiliation between individuals, and many of the neurochemical mechanisms involved in regulation of these social behaviors (for example, dopamine, central vasopressin and the corticotropin releasing factor system) are also known to be involved in regulation of alcohol intake. Naltrexone, an opioid receptor antagonist approved as a pharmacotherapy for alcoholic patients, has recently been shown to decrease both partner preference and alcohol preference in voles. These findings strongly suggest that mechanisms by which social factors influence drinking have biological roots, and can be studied using rapidly developing new animal models.
Interactive context processing is a cognitive ability that is altered in psychotic states, including schizophrenia. This deficit has been linked to prefrontal cortical dysfunction in humans. The degraded contingency effect (DCE) is a simple form of interactive context processing by which contextual information interferes with a target conditioned stimulus for control over conditioned responding. We have previously shown that the DCE was disrupted by the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine and that this disruption was specifically restored by cholinergic drugs displaying an antipsychotic-like profile, such as physostigmine or xanomeline. The DCE was selectively associated with an increase in Fos immunoreactivity in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), an increase that was not observed in the presence of atropine. Here, we set out to test the actions of typical, atypical and potential antipsychotics on atropine-induced disruption of the DCE and the related mPFC Fos-immunoreactivity profile. Low doses of haloperidol, olanzapine, clozapine and N-desmethylclozapine reversed atropine-induced disruption of the DCE, but with different dose-dependent curves (linear shapes for haloperidol and N-desmethylclozapine, inverted U shapes for olanzapine and clozapine). The level of Fos within the mPFC paralleled the pharmacological profile of the different drugs. Compared to contingent control groups, an increased level of Fos immunoreactivity within the mPFC was observed only with doses that reversed atropine-induced disruption of the DCE. These results suggest that the deficit of interactive context processing, which is a hallmark of psychotic states, might originate from a mere deficit of fundamental associative processes. This deficit might result from a cholinergic blockade of the PFC.

Successful linguistic processing requires efficient encoding of successively-occurring auditory input in a time-constrained manner, especially under noisy conditions. In this study we examined the early neural response dynamics to rapidly-presented successive syllables in schizophrenia participants and healthy comparison subjects, and investigated the effects of noise on these responses. We used magnetoencephalography (MEG) to reveal the time-course of stimulus-locked activity over bilateral auditory cortices during discrimination of syllable pairs that differed either in voice onset time (VOT) or place of articulation (POA), in the presence or absence of noise. We also examined the association of these early neural response patterns to higher-order cognitive functions. The M100 response, arising from auditory cortex and its immediate environs, showed less attenuation to the second syllable in patients with schizophrenia than healthy comparison subjects during VOT-based discrimination in noise. M100 response amplitudes were similar between groups for the first syllable during all three discrimination conditions, and for the second syllable during VOT-based discrimination in quiet and POA-based discrimination in noise. Across subjects, the lack of M100 attenuation to the second syllable during VOT-based discrimination in noise was associated with poorer task accuracy, lower education and IQ, and lower scores on measures of Verbal Learning and Memory and Global Cognition. Because the neural response to the first syllable was not significantly different between groups, nor was a schizophrenia-related difference obtained in all discrimination tasks, early linguistic processing dysfunction in schizophrenia does not appear to be due to general sensory input problems. Rather, data suggest that faulty temporal integration occurs during successive syllable processing when the signal-to-noise ratio is low. Further, the neural mechanism by which the second syllable is suppressed during noise-challenged VOT discrimination appears to be important for higher-order cognition and provides a promising target for neuroscience-guided cognitive training approaches to schizophrenia.
Our previous work showed a semantic bias in interpreting ambiguous words in schizophrenia, with disproportionate misinterpretation of subordinate meanings (toast at a wedding). We proposed pre-selection in schizophrenia of dominant-meaning networks at points of lexical ambiguity, thereby misleading thought. This selection bias may be due to semantic memory hyper-priming causing strong associates to dominate cognition. Alternately, later verbal memory maintenance failure may cause weaker associates to fade more quickly than stronger associates from memory due to less initial activation. To further examine this semantic bias, patients and controls were presented short 4 word long sentences (The toast was buttered). The second word was a homograph or unambiguous noun. The last word disambiguated homographs (dominant or subordinate meaning) or was congruent or incongruent with unambiguous nouns. Previously, we showed increasingly larger N400 from unambiguous associates to dominate associates to subordinate associates to unambiguous non-associates in controls. Pre-selection of dominant meanings predicts that schizophrenia patients would show small N400 to dominant associates and as large N400 to subordinate associates as to incongruous endings. Here, controls again showed graded N400 amplitudes. Patients with schizophrenia showed small N400 to congruent and dominant endings and large N400 to subordinate and incongruous endings. These data suggest early pre-selection of dominant associates in schizophrenia. This effect is unlikely solely due to verbal memory maintenance failure, as patients were able to detect incongruity, albeit with a smaller N400 effect, and displayed generally larger N400 to all stimuli. These results suggest alterations in semantic memory associative networks coupled with verbal working memory maintenance decay in schizophrenia.
To examine whether schizotypal personality is associated with the degree to which concepts activate each other in semantic memory, event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded during a delayed lexical decision task from healthy volunteers rated for schizotypy. Each target word was directly, indirectly, or not at all related to a prime word preceding it at a 300- or 750-ms stimulus-onset asynchrony (SOA). Overall, N400 amplitudes were largest for unrelated targets, smallest for directly related targets, and intermediate for indirectly related targets. Higher total Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ) scores correlated with smaller N400 indirect priming effects (i.e., smaller N400 amplitude differences between unrelated and indirectly related targets) at both SOAs. In addition, schizotypal subscale scores were differentially associated with N400 effects. Higher SPQ Cognitive-Perceptual scores correlated with smaller N400 direct priming effects (smaller N400 amplitude differences between unrelated and directly related targets) at both SOAs, and with smaller N400 indirect priming effects at the shorter SOA. These correlations are consistent with the hypothesis that decreased use of meaningful context to activate related concepts in general, and/or to inhibit unrelated concepts, may play some role in the development of unusual beliefs.









Temporal correlations between the sound waves arriving at the two ears are used to extract the azimuthal position of sound sources. Nerve cells in the mammalian medial superior olive (MSO) that extract these binaural correlations are sensitive to interaural time differences (ITDs) in the range of about 10 micros. These neurons receive inputs from the two ears via four pathways, two excitatory and two inhibitory ones. In this paper, a simple linear model is fitted to the frequency dependence of ITD sensitivity of MSO neurons, which is quantified by the two parameters, characteristic phase and characteristic delay. The fit parameters are the relative delays and the relative strengths of the two inhibitory pathways and thus specify the underlying ITD-detecting circuit assuming a non-Jeffress-like situation, i.e., no excitatory delay lines but phase-locked inhibition. The fitting procedure finds the parameters of these inhibitory pathways such that they account for a desired frequency dependence of ITD sensitivity. It is found that positive characteristic delays require a finite amount of ipsilateral inhibition that arrives at roughly the same time as ipsilateral excitation as well as contralateral inhibition that lags contralateral excitation so much that it effectively leads excitation of the next cycle.

Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inactivates norepinephrine and dopamine via methyl conjugation, and a G-A transition in the COMT gene (rs4680) influences the enzyme activity. It is a current area of debate whether rs4680 can influence antidepressant response in major depressive disorder, and whether this influence extends to bipolar depression. Chronotherapeutic interventions, such as sleep deprivation and light therapy, are multi-target in nature and are effective in bipolar depression. Here we studied the effect of rs4680 on response to sleep deprivation combined with light therapy (36 h awake followed by a night of undisturbed sleep, with 10,000 lx light administered for 30 min during the night awake and upon awakening) in 87 bipolar depressed inpatients. Patients who were homozygotic for the Val/Val variant showed a significantly less efficient antidepressant effect after the night awake than those who were heterozygotic and homozygotic for the Met variant. This effect of rs4680 is similar to its observed influence on response to serotonergic and noradrenergic drug treatments in major depressive disorder. This is the first study reporting an influence of rs4680 on antidepressant response in bipolar depression. This finding supports the hypothesis of a major role for catecholamines in the mechanism of action of chronotherapeutics, and for rs4680 in modulating this effect.


Gender assignment, as a key aspect of identity and cultural position, has existed throughout recorded time and across all cultures. An individual's biological sex and particular cultural milieu has a profound effect on their sense of themselves as a gendered being. Sexuality is a more recent marker in identity formation. In the last few decades there has emerged a great deal of interest in the psychology of gender formation, in the interplay of biological sex, culture, brain development, and attachment experiences in the formation of gender identities. Queer theory in its post-modern deconstructionist thinking has suggested that gender is a socially 'constructed' concept having no biological or psychological precursors or realities. Contemporary developmental psychoanalysis is bridging the gap between concepts of gender as purely biological and gender as non-existent. In this paper I explore the emergence of same-sex desire at mid-life, presenting two case histories with extensive dream material. The impact of sexual desire on gender identities is examined through the lenses of culture, dynamic systems theory, neuroscience, and depth psychology. The use of dream analysis as a window into the body/mind movement of gender emergence reflects my sense of gender as a fluidly shifting reality of mind, neither hardwired nor fictional.

Thirty-four toddlers with autism and their mothers participated in an early intervention targeting joint engagement. Across the 24 intervention sessions, any significant distress episode in the child was coded for emotion regulation outcomes including child negativity, child emotion self-regulation, and mother emotion co-regulation. Results revealed that emotion regulation strategies by both mother and child were employed during distress episodes. An effect of intervention was found such that children decreased their expression of negativity across the intervention and mothers increased their emotional and motivational scaffolding. The results of this study indicate a positive effect of an intervention targeting joint engagement on emotion co-regulation outcomes.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), locus of the master circadian clock in the brain, is comprised of multioscillator neural networks that are highly plastic in responding to environmental lighting conditions. Under a 24-h light:dark:light:dark (LDLD) cycle, hamsters bifurcate their circadian locomotor activity such that wheel running occurs in each of the 2 daily dark periods with complete inactivity in between. In the present study, we explored the neural underpinning of this behavioral bifurcation. Using calbindin (CalB)- containing cells of the SCN as a regional marker, we characterized PER1 and c-FOS expression in the core and shell SCN subregions. In LD-housed animals, it is known that PER1 and c-FOS in the core and shell region are in phase with each other. In contrast, in behaviorally bifurcated animals housed in LDLD, the core and shell SCN exhibit antiphase rhythms of PER1. Furthermore, cells in the core show high FOS expression in each photophase of the LDLD cycle. The activation of FOS in the core is light driven and disappears rapidly when the photophase is replaced by darkness. The results suggest that bifurcated activity bouts in daytime and nighttime are associated with oscillating groups of cells in the core and shell subregions, respectively, and support the notion that reorganization of SCN networks underlies changes in behavioral responses under different environmental lighting conditions.
KCC2, potassium chloride cotransporter 2, is expressed exclusively in the CNS (on inhibitory neurons) and plays a major role in maintaining appropriately low intracellular chloride levels that ensure inhibitory actions of GABA(A) and glycine receptors. As such, it plays a pivotal role in inhibitory mechanisms that control neuronal excitation in the CNS. KCC2 downregulation has been implicated in various excitatory disorders, such as epilepsy and neuropathic pain. Positive modulators of KCC2 expression or activity may thus provide effective therapy for these disorders. However, the identification of such agents is hindered by the lack of a high-throughput screening method. Here the authors report the development of a fluorescence-based thallium (Tl(+)) transport assay using a Fluorometric Imaging Plate Reader (FLIPR), in which KCC2 activity is assessed by measuring the initial rate of KCC2-mediated Tl(+) transport/influx. The authors demonstrate Tl(+)/Cl(-) cotransport by KCC2, which exhibits a high apparent affinity for Tl(+) and dependency on the presence of the Cl(-) ion. Pharmacological studies revealed anticipated effects and potencies of known KCC-positive (NEM, staurosporine) and KCC-negative (DIOA, furosemide) modulators. The authors demonstrate that the assay is robust and reproducible and can be employed in high-throughput screening for positive modulators of KCC2 as potential therapeutic agents.
The self-renewal and phenotypic properties of neural stem cells make them an abundant and more physiologically relevant alternative to recombinant cell lines for drug screens to identify ligands acting at neural targets. Here, the authors use high-throughput phenotypic and signaling assays to test the ability of neural stem cells isolated from postnatal mouse hippocampus (mNSCs) to deliver high-content and physiologically relevant data on native peptide receptor activity. The authors find that mNSCs express PAC1 but not the related VPAC1 and VPAC2 receptors. PAC1 promotes both the proliferation of mNSCs and their differentiation into neuronal-like cells. In addition, the authors show that PAC1 stimulates markedly different extracellular signal-regulated kinase signals in mNSCs than in recombinant CHO-PAC1 cells and is able to couple to Ca(2+) elevation only in CHO-PAC1 cells. These data suggest that G-protein coupling in CHO-PAC1 cells is nonphysiological, which may affect the ligand binding properties of the receptor and thus distort the results of a screen by increasing numbers of false positives/negatives. This work reinforces the emerging pharmacological theory that recombinant cell lines are often inappropriate models of natively expressing primary cells, and the authors conclude that mNSCs are a viable and relevant physiological alternative for use in high-throughput drug screens.

The brain's energy supply determines its information processing power, and generates functional imaging signals, which are often assumed to reflect principal neuron spiking. Using measured cellular properties, we analysed how energy expenditure relates to neural computation in the cerebellar cortex. Most energy is used on information processing by non-principal neurons: Purkinje cells use only 18% of the signalling energy. Excitatory neurons use 73% and inhibitory neurons 27% of the energy. Despite markedly different computational architectures, the granular and molecular layers consume approximately the same energy. The blood vessel area supplying glucose and O(2) is spatially matched to energy consumption. The energy cost of storing motor information in the cerebellum was also estimated.
Thyroid hormone is critical for the proper development of the central nervous system. However, the specific role of thyroid hormone on brain angiogenesis remains poorly understood. Treatment of rats from birth to postnatal day 21 (P21) with propylthiouracil (PTU), a reversible blocker of triiodothyronine (T3) synthesis, resulted in decreased brain angiogenesis, as indicated by reduced complexity and density of microvessels. However, when PTU was withdrawn at P22, these parameters were fully recovered by P90. These changes were paralleled by an altered expression of vascular endothelial growth factor A (Vegfa) and basic fibroblast growth factor (Fgf2). Physiologic concentrations of T3 and thyroxine (T4) stimulated proliferation and tubulogenesis of rat brain-derived endothelial (RBE4) cells in vitro. Protein and mRNA levels of VEGF-A and FGF-2 increased after T3 stimulation of RBE4 cells. The thyroid hormone receptor blocker NH-3 abolished T3-induced Fgf2 and Vegfa upregulation, indicating a receptor-mediated effect. Thyroid hormone inhibited the apoptosis in RBE4 cells and altered mRNA levels of apoptosis-related genes, namely Bcl2 and Bad. The present results show that thyroid hormone has a substantial impact on vasculature development in the brain. Pathologically altered vascularization could, therefore, be a contributing factor to the neurologic deficits induced by thyroid hormone deficiency.
Pallister-Killian syndrome is a rare syndrome of multiple congenital anomalies attributable to the presence of a mosaic supernumerary isochromosome (12p). Although the clinical manifestations of Pallister-Killian syndrome are variable, the most common anomalies include craniofacial dysmorphisms, limb deformities, progressive psychomotor development delay, severe hypotonia, and epilepsy. Standard karyotype is nearly always normal, but the isochromosome (12p) is present in a high percentage of skin fibroblasts. In this article, we report the case of 2 boys with Pallister-Killian syndrome having late-onset, drug-resistant epileptic spasms. Seizures have been reported in 40% of patients with Pallister-Killian syndrome but are poorly described. Epileptic spasms are not unusual in patients with brain malformations, chromosomal aberrations, and genetic syndromes, but epileptic spasms could be easily mistaken for behavioral manifestations. A better electroclinical characterization of epileptic seizures in Pallister-Killian syndrome using appropriate polygraphic tests (video-electroencephalography, electromyography) may lead to an early diagnosis and specific treatment for this form of epileptic spasms caused by this rare syndrome.
Context: Despite the high prevalence of hyperandrogenemia, the principal biochemical abnormality in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), a definitive endocrine marker for PCOS has so far not been identified. Objective: To identify a tentative diagnostic marker for PCOS, we compared serum levels of sex steroids, their precursors, and main metabolites in women with PCOS and controls. Design and Methods: In this cross-sectional study of 74 women with PCOS and 31 controls, we used gas and liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry to analyze serum sex steroid precursors, estrogens, androgens, and glucuronidated androgen metabolites; performed immunoassays of SHBG, LH, and FSH; and calculated the LH/FSH ratio. Results: Androgens and estrogens, sex steroid precursors, and glucuronidated androgen metabolites were higher in women with PCOS than in controls. In multivariate logistic regression analyses, estrone and free testosterone were independently associated with PCOS. The odds ratios per sd increase were 24.2 for estrone [95% confidence interval (CI), 4.0-144.7] and 12.8 for free testosterone (95% CI, 3.1-53.4). In receiver operating characteristic analyses, the area under curve was 0.93 for estrone (95% CI, 0.88-0.98) and 0.91 for free testosterone (95% CI, 0.86-0.97), indicating high sensitivity and specificity. Conclusion: Women with PCOS have elevated levels of sex steroid precursors, estrogens, androgens, and glucuronidated androgen metabolites as measured with a specific and sensitive mass spectrometry-based technique. The combination of elevated estrone (&gt;50 pg/ml) and free testosterone (&gt;3.3 pg/ml) appeared to discriminate with high sensitivity and specificity between women with and without PCOS.
In the current study, typically developing children and children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) were presented with a facial-feature discrimination task including both real and cartoon faces, displayed either upright or inverted. Results demonstrated that typically developing children were more accurate at discriminating facial features from upright than from inverted faces and that this effect was specific to real faces. By contrast, children with ASD failed to show such a specific pattern of performance for processing facial features displayed in real faces. Findings of the current study suggest that face type (real vs. cartoon) does not affect perceptual ability in children with ASD as it does in typically developing children.
Mild hypothermia has an important role in the treatment of severe brain injury and there are therapeutic windows for this technique for patients with severe brain injury. We used a randomized, controlled, clinical study to investigate indexes of cerebral oxygen metabolism and neuroelectrophysiology to evaluate the efficacy of mild hypothermia treatment in severe brain injury. A total of 148 patients (106 males and 42 females), aged 18 to 64 years with acute severe brain injury were selected from June 1998 to June 2004 from the Department of Neurosurgery at The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University. All patients met the inclusion criteria: admission to hospital within 10 hours of injury; Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score 8; age &lt; 65 years; no other severe combined visceral injury; and no severe co-morbidities of the heart, lung, liver, kidney, or other visceral organs. Patients were divided into groups according to brain injury severity: GCS scores 7-8, 5-6, and 3-4. Patients in each GCS score group were randomly assigned to two subgroups: hypothermia and normothermia. Brain oxygen metabolism indexes (partial pressure of oxygen in brain tissue [P(br)O(2)] and regional cerebral oxygen saturation [rSaO(2)]) as well as neuroelectrophysiology indexes (short-latency somatosensory evoked potential [SLSEP] and brain-stem auditory evoked potential [BAEP]) were recorded in the normothermia and hypothermia subgroups (32-34 degrees C) prior to and after cooling for 5 days. Brain oxygen metabolism indexes (P(br)O(2) and rSaO(2)) and neuroelectrophysiology indexes (SLSEP and BAEP) were also compared for patients who underwent mild hypothermia and those who did not. For patients with GCS 7-8, SLSEP, BAEP and rSaO(2) following cooling were significantly improved in the hypothermia subgroup and the P(br)O(2) was less in the hypothermia subgroup. For patients with GCS 5-6, the SLSEP, BAEP and rSaO(2) were improved following hypothermia on some days, and the PbrO(2) was greater in the hypothermia subgroup on some days. For patients with GCS 3-4, there was no difference between the hypothermia and normothermia subgroups. We conclude that hypothermia had a significant therapeutic effect on severe brain injury of patients with GCS 7-8, had no effect on patients with GCS 3-4, and an uncertain effect on patients with GCS 5-6. The indexes of cerebral oxygen metabolism and neuroelectrophysiology indicated primary and secondary brain injury, respectively, and provided an effective way to evaluate brain injury.
Infection occurs frequently in the organ transplant recipients during the post-transplant period because of immunosuppression. Therefore, prophylactic antimicrobial agents are often used. The azole antifungals, widely prescribed prophylactically, are known to have many drug-drug interactions. This report presents a case of drug-drug interaction between voriconazole and tacrolimus in a kidney transplant recipient. Voriconazole treatment led to a dramatic increase in tacrolimus concentration that required its discontinuation in spite of the manufacturer's guidelines that recommend a reduction of tacrolimus dosage by one-third. The present drug-drug interaction can be attributed to a strong inhibitory effect on cytochrome P450-3A4 activity by voriconazole. When voriconazole and tacrolimus are coadministered, close monitoring of tacrolimus blood levels is recommended as the rule-of-thumb reduction of tacrolimus dose by one-third may not be satisfactory.
Neuroleptic-induced catatonia (NIC), manifested in an extrapyramidal-catatonic syndrome, has been sporadically reported in the literature. Confusion surrounds its relationship to neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) and extrapyramidal reactions to neuroleptics. This study examined (a) its clinical presentation and response to benzodiazepines, (b) the hypothesis that NIC and NMS are on the same spectrum with a continuum of symptom progression, and (c) its possible relationship to extrapyramidal reactions. Of 127 episodes of acute catatonia prospectively identified, 18 were diagnosed with NIC. All catatonia episodes received benzodiazepines. The NIC episodes were analyzed noting their clinical presentations, laboratory findings, and responses to treatments. Their responses to benzodiazepines were compared, with retrospective rating on a 7-point scale, to that for catatonia episodes associated with mania and schizophrenia. The progression of symptoms in each NIC episode was reviewed. The NIC episodes presented predominantly in the stuporous form associated with parkinsonism. Delirium, autonomic abnormality, and elevated serum creatine phosphokinase were all common. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome was diagnosed in 3 episodes (17%). The 3 catatonia groups did not differ significantly in their benzodiazepines responses: 78% (14/18) of NIC, 75% (12/16) of manic catatonia, and 67% (34/51) of schizophrenic catatonia episodes showed full responses. A spectrum of presentation across episodes was noted with simple NIC without delirium, autonomic disturbances, or fever at one end and NMS or malignant NIC at the other end. Symptoms in individual episodes showed a similar continuum progression. No extrapyramidal reactions immediately preceded the NIC episodes. Findings of this study support the hypothesis that NIC and NMS are disorders on the same spectrum and reveal no indication that extrapyramidal reactions progress to NIC.
Neuropsychological and functional imaging studies have associated the conceptual processing of numbers with bilateral parietal regions (including intraparietal sulcus). However, the processes driving these effects remain unclear because both left and right posterior parietal regions are activated by many other conceptual, perceptual, attention, and response-selection processes. To dissociate parietal activation that is number-selective from parietal activation related to other stimulus or response-selection processes, we used fMRI to compare numbers and object names during exactly the same conceptual and perceptual tasks while factoring out activations correlating with response times. We found that right parietal activation was higher for conceptual decisions on numbers relative to the same tasks on object names, even when response time effects were fully factored out. In contrast, left parietal activation for numbers was equally involved in conceptual processing of object names. We suggest that left parietal activation for numbers reflects a range of processes, including the retrieval of learnt facts that are also involved in conceptual decisions on object names. In contrast, number selectivity in right parietal cortex reflects processes that are more involved in conceptual decisions on numbers than object names. Our results generate a new set of hypotheses that have implications for the design of future behavioral and functional imaging studies of patients with left and right parietal damage.
Seasonal variation in behavior and physiology, including changes in immune function, are common. This variability is elicited by changes in photoperiod and often covaries with fluctuations in both energy reserves and reproductive state. It is unclear, however, whether changes in either variable alone drive seasonal changes in immunity. We investigated the relative contributions of reproduction and energy balance to changes in immune function. To accomplish this, we uncoupled seasonal changes in reproduction from those related to energy balance via daily injections of N-methyl-D: -aspartate (NMDA) in Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). NMDA is a glutamatergic agonist that blocks short day-induced gonadal regression, while leaving short-day declines in body mass unaffected. In Experiment 1, we examined the effect of differing doses of NMDA on testosterone production as a proxy for NMDA effects on reproduction; a dose-dependent rise in testosterone was observed. In Experiment 2, animals were maintained on long or short days and received daily injections of NMDA. After 8 weeks, all animals underwent a humoral immune challenge. Short-day animals receiving daily injections of NMDA maintained long day-like gonads; however, contrary to our predictions, no trade-off between reproduction or energy balance and immune function was observed. Unexpectedly, NMDA treatment increased immunoglobulin levels in all groups, suggesting that NMDA may provide an immunomodulatory signal, presumably through actions on peripheral glutamate receptors. These results support a previous finding that NMDA blocks reproductive regression. In addition, these findings demonstrate a general immunoenhancing effect of NMDA that appears independent of changes in reproductive or energetic state of the animal.
We examined the emergence of a critical component of sex, response to sexual signals-phonotaxis-in male and female tngara frogs (Physalaemus pustulosus). We determined the ontogenetic trajectories of phonotactic responses as animals developed from metamorphic froglets to reproductive adults. The results demonstrated that species-typical phonotaxis emerges quite early during postmetamorphic development, well before sexual maturity, suggesting that a developmentally early bias in the auditory system for species-typical signals might be a more general phenomenon than previously thought, and that the neural circuits responsible for processing and responding to conspecific advertisement signals in a species-typical manner might develop long before the coordinated behavior is demanded of the organism.
The cortex exhibits an intricate vertical and horizontal architecture, the latter often featuring spatially clustered projection patterns, so-called patches. Many network studies of cortical dynamics ignore such spatial structures and assume purely random wiring. Here, we focus on non-random network structures provided by long-range horizontal (patchy) connections that remain inside the gray matter. We investigate how the spatial arrangement of patchy projections influences global network topology and predict its impact on the activity dynamics of the network. Since neuroanatomical data on horizontal projections is rather sparse, we suggest and compare four candidate scenarios of how patchy connections may be established. To identify a set of characteristic network properties that enables us to pin down the differences between the resulting network models, we employ the framework of stochastic graph theory. We find that patchy projections provide an exceptionally efficient way of wiring, as the resulting networks tend to exhibit small-world properties with significantly reduced wiring costs. Furthermore, the eigenvalue spectra, as well as the structure of common in- and output of the networks suggest that different spatial connectivity patterns support distinct types of activity propagation.
The retino-tecto-rotundal pathway is the main visual pathway in non-mammalian vertebrates and has been found to be highly involved in visual processing. Despite the extensive receptive fields of tectal and rotundal wide-field neurons, pattern discrimination tasks suggest a system with high spatial resolution. In this paper, we address the problem of how global processing performed by motion-sensitive wide-field neurons can be brought into agreement with the concept of a local analysis of visual stimuli. As a solution to this problem, we propose a firing-rate model of the retino-tecto-rotundal pathway which describes how spatiotemporal information can be organized and retained by tectal and rotundal wide-field neurons while processing Fourier-based motion in absence of periodic receptive-field structures. The model incorporates anatomical and electrophysiological experimental data on tectal and rotundal neurons, and the basic response characteristics of tectal and rotundal neurons to moving stimuli are captured by the model cells. We show that local velocity estimates may be derived from rotundal-cell responses via superposition in a subsequent processing step. Experimentally testable predictions which are both specific and characteristic to the model are provided. Thus, a conclusive explanation can be given of how the retino-tecto-rotundal pathway enables the animal to detect and localize moving objects or to estimate its self-motion parameters.
Receptive field properties of neurons in A1 can rapidly adapt their shapes during task performance in accord with specific task demands and salient sensory cues (Fritz et al., Hearing Research, 206:159-176, 2005a, Nature Neuroscience, 6: 1216-1223, 2003). Such modulatory changes selectively enhance overall cortical responsiveness to target (foreground) sounds and thus increase the likelihood of detection against the background of reference sounds. In this study, we develop a mathematical model to describe how enhancing discrimination between two arbitrary classes of sounds can lead to the observed receptive field changes in a variety of spectral and temporal discrimination tasks. Cortical receptive fields are modeled as filters that change their spectro-temporal tuning properties so as to respond best to the discriminatory acoustic features between foreground and background stimuli. We also illustrate how biologically plausible constraints on the spectro-temporal tuning of the receptive fields can be used to optimize the plasticity. Results of the model simulations are compared to published data from a variety of experimental paradigms.

The inhibition of recombinant mouse acetylcholinesterase (rMAChE) and electric eel acetylcholinesterase (EEAChE) by seven, structurally different chromophore-based (dansyl, pyrene, dabsyl, diethylamino- and methoxycoumarin, Lissamine rhodamine B, and Texas Red) propargyl carboxamides or sulfonamides was studied. Diethylaminocoumarin, Lissamine, and Texas Red amides inhibited rMAChE with IC50 values of 1.00 microM, 0.05 microM, and 0.70 microM, respectively. Lissamine and Texas Red amides inhibited EEAChE with IC50 values of 3.57 and 10.4 microM, respectively. The other chromophore amides did not inhibit either AChE. The surprising inhibitory potency of Lissamine was examined in further detail against EEAChE and revealed a mixed-type inhibition with Ki = 11.7 microM (competitive) and Ki' = 24.9 microM (noncompetitive), suggesting that Lissamine binds to free enzyme and enzyme-substrate complex.
The synthesis and biological evaluation of 3,4,5-trimethoxyphenyl acrylamides 1a-f as novel antinarcotic agents are described. The molecules were prepared by the Wittig reaction, followed by a coupling reaction between 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid (9) and aliphatic amines, which resulted in good yields. When tested for biological activity, compounds 1d-f exhibited strong inhibitory effects on the morphine withdrawal syndrome in mice due to their high binding affinities with serotonergic 5-HT1A receptors.

A tight correspondence has been postulated between the representations of number and space. The spatial numerical association of response codes (SNARC) effect, which reflects the observation that people respond faster with the left-hand side to small numbers and with the right-hand side to large numbers, is regarded as strong evidence for this correspondence. The dominant explanation of the SNARC effect is that it results from visuospatial coding of magnitude (e.g., the mental number line hypothesis). In a series of experiments, we demonstrated that this is only part of the story and that verbal-spatial coding influences processes and representations that have been believed to be purely visuospatial. Additionally, when both accounts were directly contrasted, verbal-spatial coding was observed in absence of visuospatial coding. Relations to other number-space interactions and implications for other tasks are discussed.
In 4 studies, the authors examined how intuitions about the relative difficulties of the sciences develop. In Study 1, familiar everyday phenomena in physics, chemistry, biology, psychology, and economics were pretested in adults, so as to be equally difficult to explain. When participants in kindergarten, Grades 2, 4, 6, and 8, and college were asked to rate the difficulty of understanding these phenomena, children revealed a strong bias to see natural science phenomena as more difficult than those in psychology. The perceived relative difficulty of economics dropped dramatically in late childhood. In Study 2, children saw neuroscience phenomena as much more difficult than cognitive psychology phenomena, which were seen as more difficult than social psychology phenomena, even though all phenomena were again equated for difficulty in adults. In Study 3, we explored the basis for these results in intuitions about common knowledge and firsthand experience. Study 4 showed that the intuitions about the differences between the disciplines were based on intuitions about difficulty of understanding and not on the basis of more general intuitions about the feasibility or truth of the phenomena in question. Taken together, in the studies, the authors find an early emerging basis for judgments that some sciences are intrinsically more difficult than others, a bias that may persevere in adults in subtler forms in such settings as the courtroom.

The Nord-Trndelag Health Study (HUNT 3) performed in 2006-2008 is a replication of the cross-sectional survey from 1995 to 1997 (HUNT 2). The aim of the present study was to assess the sensitivity and specificity of questionnaire-based headache diagnoses using a personal interview by a neurologist as a gold standard. For the questionnaire-based status as headache sufferer, a sensitivity of 88%, a specificity of 86%, and a kappa statistic of 0.70 were found. Chronic headache, chronic tension-type headache (TTH), and medication overuse headache (MOH) were diagnosed with a specificity of &gt; or =99%, and a kappa statistic of &gt; or =0.73. Lower figures were found for the diagnoses of migraine and TTH. For individuals with headache &gt; or =1 day per month, a sensitivity of 58% (migraine) and 96% (TTH), a specificity of 91 and 69%, and a kappa statistic of 0.54 and 0.44 were found, respectively. The specificity for migraine with aura was 95%. In conclusion, the HUNT 3-questionnaire is a valid tool for identifying headache sufferers, and diagnosing patients with chronic headache, including chronic TTH and MOH. The more moderate sensitivity for migraine and TTH makes the questionnaire-based diagnoses of migraine and TTH suboptimal for determining the prevalence. However, the high specificity of the questionnaire-based diagnosis of migraine, in particular for migraine with aura, makes the questionnaire a valid tool for diagnosing patients with migraine for genetic studies.
Despite high rates of psychiatric morbidity among young offenders, few studies look closely at prevalence rates in terms of race/ethnicity or developmental stage. Seven hundred and ninety (790) incarcerated young people with a mean age of 18+/-1.2 years were examined. The racial/ethnic distribution was White (17%), African American (28%), Hispanic (47%) and Other (8%). White males had greater than average levels of psychosis; African American males showed lower than average alcohol dependence rates but higher levels of marijuana dependence. White females were more likely than Hispanic and African American females to have attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder and substance and stimulant dependence. Race/ethnicity and age differences can be useful when creating culturally-informed and developmentally appropriate interventions for incarcerated young people.
The treatment of acute ischaemic stroke is based on the principle that there is ischaemic but still potentially salvageable tissue that could be rescued if blood flow could be restored quickly. It is assumed that salvage might only be possible in the first few hours, and that infarct expansion is a direct result of failed recanalization of the main artery. This concept arose from experimental work in the 1970s, supported more recently by studies using imaging to identify penumbral tissue. However, although magnetic resonance diffusion and perfusion imaging is a way of imaging penumbral tissue and has been around for over a decade, it is not an easy technique to apply in practice and its use has produced conflicting results. Computed tomography perfusion, and any other tissue perfusion imaging technique, is likely to encounter the same difficulties. Indeed many factors, other than the presence of a diffusion-perfusion mismatch acutely, may determine or influence ultimate tissue fate even days after the stroke, and in turn, clinical outcome. Many of these potential influences are beginning to emerge from studies using different forms of imaging at later times after stroke. This review will explore the information now emerging from imaging studies in large artery ischaemic stroke to summarize knowledge to date and indicate unresolved issues for the future.

In this article we develop a new model of classification that is intermediate between the static, single strategy decision-bound models and the dynamic trial by trial multiple systems model, dCOVIS. The new model, referred to as the sCOVIS model, assumes hypothesis-testing and procedural-based subsystems are active on each trial, but that the parameters that govern behavior of the system are fixed (static) within a block of trials. To determine the clinical utility of the model, it was applied to nonlinear information-integration classification data from patients with Parkinson's (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). In one application, the models suggest that the locus of HD patients' nonlinear information-integration deficits is in their increased reliance on hypothesis-testing strategies, whereas the locus of PD patients' deficit is in the application of sub-optimal procedural-based strategies. In a second application, the weight associated with the hypothesis-testing subsystem is shown to account for a significant amount of the variance in longitudinal cognitive decline in non-demented PD patients above and beyond that predicted by accuracy alone. Together, the accuracy rate and this model index account for 72% of the total variance associated with cognitive decline in this sample of PD patients. Interestingly, the Wisconsin Card Sort task added no additional predictive power above and beyond that predicted by nonlinear accuracy alone.
Modern clinical research often involves multicenter studies, large and heterogeneous data flux, and intensive demands of collaboration, security and quality assurance. In the absence of commercial or academic management systems, we designed an open-source system to meet these requirements. Based on the Apache-PHP-MySQL platform on a Linux server, the system allows multiple users to access the database from any location on the internet using a web browser, and requires no specialized computer skills. Multi-level security system is implemented to safeguard the protected health information and allow partial or full access to the data by individual or class privilege. The system stores and manipulates various types of data including images, scanned documents, laboratory data and clinical ratings. Built-in functionality allows for various search, quality control, analytic data operations, visit scheduling and visit reminders. This approach offers a solution to a growing need for management of large multi-center clinical studies.
Few studies have examined traits or behaviors that may predispose some African Americans to poor cardiovascular health outcomes. While several models of personality exist, the 5-factor model (FFM) is arguably the best representation of personality and provides a useful framework for the study of personality and health. Among personality characteristics associated with health risks among African Americans, a high-effort coping style called John Henryism is among the most thoroughly examined. It is not clear if personality coping and health are connected in a meaningful way. The present study utilized data from the Baltimore Study of Black Aging (BSBA) to examine whether personality was linked to John Henryism, how personality might be linked to cardiovascular health, and how John Henryism might mediate the relationship between personality and cardiovascular health. The sample consisted of 234 older African Americans (mean age, 67 years), 28% of which were men. Regressions were used to examine the questions. The results indicated that those who are more neurotic report more cardiovascular health problems, and that openness and conscientiousness were significant predictors of active coping. The mediation analysis results suggest that coping style did not mediate the relationship between personality and reports of cardiovascular health problems. These findings highlight the importance of personality in accounting for cardiovascular health in African Americans.
To investigate the relationship between cognition and prior cannabis use in children and adolescents presenting a first episode of psychosis. A total of 107 patients with first episode of psychosis and 96 healthy controls, aged 9 to 17 years, were interviewed about their previous substance use and to assess their cognitive functions. Patients were assessed while not using cannabis by means of a comprehensive neuropsychological battery. They were divided into 2 groups depending on the history of prior cannabis use: cannabis users (CU) and cannabis nonusers (CNU). Significant differences were found in all areas evaluated between the 3 groups. Both CU and CNU patients obtained lower scores than controls on verbal learning and memory and working memory. Patients with prior cannabis use performed better on some tests of attention (Continuous performance test (CPT) number of correct responses, p = 0.002; CPT average reaction time, p &lt; 0.001) and executive functions (Trail Making Test, part B (TMT-B) number of mistakes, p &lt; 0.001; Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) number of categories completed, p &lt; 0.001) than CNU patients. CU patients performed better than CNU subjects on some cognitive measures. This may indicate lower individual vulnerability for psychosis in CU patients in whom cannabis use can be a precipitating factor of psychotic episodes.
To study the dynamical mechanism which generates Parkinsonian resting tremor, we apply coupling directionality analysis to local field potentials (LFP) and accelerometer signals recorded in an ensemble of 48 tremor epochs in four Parkinsonian patients with depth electrodes implanted in the ventro-intermediate nucleus of the thalamus (VIM) or the subthalmic nucleus (STN). Apart from the traditional linear Granger causality method we use two nonlinear techniques: phase dynamics modelling and nonlinear Granger causality. We detect a bidirectional coupling between the subcortical (VIM or STN) oscillation and the tremor, in the theta range (around 5 Hz) as well as broadband (&gt;2 Hz). In particular, we show that the theta band LFP oscillations definitely play an efferent role in tremor generation, while beta band LFP oscillations might additionally contribute. The brain--&gt;tremor driving is a complex, nonlinear mechanism, which is reliably detected with the two nonlinear techniques only. In contrast, the tremor--&gt;brain driving is detected with any of the techniques including the linear one, though the latter is less sensitive. The phase dynamics modelling (applied to theta band oscillations) consistently reveals a long delay in the order of 1-2 mean tremor periods for the brain--&gt;tremor driving and a small delay, compatible with the neural transmission time, for the proprioceptive feedback. Granger causality estimation (applied to broadband signals) does not provide reliable estimates of the delay times, but is even more sensitive to detect the brain--&gt;tremor influence than the phase dynamics modelling.
Studying neuronal processes such as synaptic summation, dendritic physiology and neural network dynamics requires complex spatiotemporal control over neuronal activities. The recent development of neural photosensitization tools, such as channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2), offers new opportunities for non-invasive, flexible and cell-specific neuronal stimulation. Previously, complex spatiotemporal control of photosensitized neurons has been limited by the lack of appropriate optical devices which can provide 2D stimulation with sufficient irradiance. Here we present a simple and powerful solution that is based on an array of high-power micro light-emitting diodes (micro-LEDs) that can generate arbitrary optical excitation patterns on a neuronal sample with micrometre and millisecond resolution. We first describe the design and fabrication of the system and characterize its capabilities. We then demonstrate its capacity to elicit precise electrophysiological responses in cultured and slice neurons expressing ChR2.
While the relationship between cerebrospinal fluid 5-HIAA (CSF 5-HIAA) and aggression is typically reported as inverse, studies of some groups of aggressive individuals demonstrate a positive (or no) relationship, between these two variables. It is possible that simultaneous examination of both CSF 5-HIAA and CSF homovanillic acid (HVA), which co-vary in human subjects may clarify differences in reported findings in different groups of aggressive individuals. CSF 5-HIAA and CSF HVA concentrations were simultaneously examined in 60 healthy human subjects (40 with personality disorder and 20 healthy controls) and were correlated with measures of aggression and impulsivity. CSF 5-HIAA concentrations correlated positively, and CSF HVA concentrations correlated inversely, with a composite measure of impulsive aggression in all subjects as well as in the personality disordered subjects. The CSF 5-HIAA findings are consistent with those demonstrating reduced post-synaptic 5-HT receptor responsiveness to 5-HT agent challenge and suggest differences in the pathophysiology between different groups of subjects with aggressive behavior, particularly with regard to severity of aggressive behavior.
Kynurenic acid is an endogenous product of the tryptophan metabolism, and as a broad-spectrum antagonist of excitatory amino acid receptors may serve as a protective agent in neurological disorders. The use of kynurenic acid as a neuroprotective agent is rather limited, however, because it has only restricted ability to cross the blood-brain barrier. Accordingly, new kynurenic acid analogues which can readily cross the blood-brain barrier and exert their complex anti-excitotoxic activity are greatly needed. Such a novel analogue, 2-(2-N,N-dimethylaminoethylamine-1-carbonyl)-1H-quinolin-4-one hydrochloride, has been developed and tested. In an in vitro electrophysiological study, in which its properties were compared with those of kynurenic acid, the new analogue behaved quite similarly to kynurenic acid: in the micromolar range, its administration led to a decrease in the amplitudes of the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, while in nanomolar concentrations it did not give rise to inhibition, but, in fact, facilitated the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Moreover, the new analogue demonstrated similar protective action against PTZ-induced facilitation to that observed after kynurenic acid administration. The findings strongly suggest that the neuroactive effects of the new analogue are comparable with those of kynurenic acid, but, in contrast with kynurenic acid, it readily crosses the blood-brain barrier. The new analogue may therefore be considered a promising candidate for clinical studies.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; 'Ecstasy') is a popular recreational drug used worldwide. This study aimed to determine the effects of this compound on the expression of nerve terminal serotonergic markers in rats. Experiment 1 investigated MDMA-induced changes in levels of the serotonin transporter (SERT) and the vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT-2) in the hippocampus, a region with sparse dopaminergic innervation, after lesioning noradrenergic input with N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4). Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered 100 mg/kg DSP-4 or saline 1 week prior to either an MDMA (10 mg/kg x 4) or saline binge. Two weeks following the binge treatment, the DSP-4/MDMA group unexpectedly showed little change in hippocampal VMAT-2 protein expression compared with DSP-4/Saline controls, despite large reductions in SERT levels in all regions examined in the MDMA-treated animals. Furthermore, animals treated with binge MDMA (Experiment 2) showed a striking decrease in SERT gene expression (and a lesser effect on VMAT-2) measured by quantitative RT-PCR in pooled dorsal and median raphe tissue punches, when compared with saline-treated controls. These results demonstrate that MDMA causes substantial regulatory changes in the expression of serotonergic markers, thus questioning the need to invoke distal axotomy as an explanation of MDMA-related serotonergic deficits.
Declining levels of estrogen in women result in increases in gonadotropins such as luteinizing hormone (LH) through loss of feedback inhibition. LH, like estrogen, is modulated by hormone replacement therapy. However, the role of post-menopausal gonadotropin increases on cognition has not been evaluated. Here, we demonstrate that the down-regulation of ovariectomy-driven LH elevations using the gonadotropin releasing hormone super-analogue, leuprolide acetate, improves cognitive function in the Morris water maze and Y-maze tests in the absence of E2. Furthermore, our data suggest that these effects are independent of the modulation of estrogen receptors alpha and beta, or activation of CYP19 and StAR, associated with the production of endogenous E2. Importantly, pathways associated with improved cognition such as CaMKII and GluR1-Ser831 are up-regulated by leuprolide treatment but not by chronic long-term E2 replacement suggesting independent cognition-modulating properties. Our findings suggest that down-regulation of gonadotropins is as effective as E2 in modulating cognition but likely acts through different molecular mechanisms. These findings provide a potential novel protective strategy to treat menopause/age-related cognitive decline and/or prevent the development of AD.
Ependymal cells located around the central canal of the adult spinal cord are considered as a source of neural stem cells (NSCs) and represent an interesting pool of endogenous stem cells for repair strategies. Physical exercise is known to increase ependymal cell proliferation, while improving functional recovery. In this work, we further characterized those endogenous NSCs within the normal and injured adult rat spinal cord and investigated the effects of treadmill training using immunohistochemical and behavioral studies. In uninjured untrained rats, Sox-2, a NSC marker, was detected in all ependymal cells of the central canal, and also scattered throughout the parenchyma of the spinal cord. Within the lesion, Sox-2 expression increased transiently, while the number of nestin-positive ependymal cells increased with a concomitant enhancement of proliferation, as indicated by the mitotic markers Ki67 and bromo-deoxyuridine. Exercise, which improved functional recovery and autonomous micturition, maintained nestin expression in both injured and uninjured spinal cords, with a positive correlation between locomotor recovery and the number of nestin-positive cells.
Chronic use of marijuana impairs synaptic plasticity and cognitive function. However, the molecular mechanisms by which marijuana alters long-term synaptic plasticity are largely unknown. Here, we show that repeated in vivo exposures to Delta9-THC for 7 consecutive days significantly impaired hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatory glutamatergic synaptic transmission. The Delta9-THC exposure-induced decrease in LTP was prevented by pharmacological inhibition or deletion of the cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB1R). To determine the molecular mechanisms underlying Delta9-THC-altered LTP, we targeted expression and function of the glutamate receptors (GluR) and phosphorylation status of cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB). Chronic in vivo exposure to Delta9-THC produced CB1R-dependent decreases in expression of hippocampal GluR1, NR2A, and NR2B, the ratio of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA)/NMDA receptor-gated currents, and phosphorylation of CREB. Our results suggest that reduced expression and function of the GluR subunits and phosphorylation of CREB may underlie the impaired long-term synaptic plasticity induced by repeated in vivo exposure to Delta9-THC.
Myelin is highly enriched in galactocerebroside (GalCer) and its sulfated form sulfatide. Mice, unable to synthesize GalCer and sulfatide (CGT(null)) or sulfatide alone (CST(null)), exhibit disorganized paranodal structures and progressive dysmyelination. To obtain insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying these defects, we examined myelin composition of these mutants by two-dimensional differential fluorescence intensity gel electrophoresis proteomic approach and immunoblotting. We identified several proteins whose expressions were significantly altered in these mutants. These proteins are known to regulate cytoskeletal dynamics, energy metabolism, vesicular trafficking or adhesion, suggesting a disruption in these physiological processes in the absence of myelin galactolipids. Further analysis of one of these proteins, nucleotide diphosphate kinase (NDK)/Nm23, showed that it was reduced in myelin of CGT(null) and increased in CST(null), but not in whole brain homogenate. Immunostaining showed an increase in its expression in the cell bodies of CGT(null)- and a decrease in CST(null)-oligodenrocytes, together leading to the hypothesis that transport of NDK/Nm23 from oligodenrocyte cell bodies into myelin may be differentially dysregulated in the absence of these galactolipids. This study provides new insights into the changes that occur in the composition/distribution of myelin proteins in mice lacking either unsulfated and/or sulfated galactolipids and reinforces the role of these lipids in intracellular trafficking.
Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ), an endogenous peptide agonist of the opioid N/OFQ receptor, has been implicated in the regulation of energy balance. In the present study, we have used immunohistochemistry to investigate the cellular localisation and colocalisation of N/OFQ-immunoreactive cell bodies in hypothalamic regions containing neurones producing orexigenic or anorexigenic transmitters. In colchicine-treated rats, N/OFQ immunoreactivity was demonstrated in many cell bodies of the arcuate nucleus (Arc), paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and lateral hypothalamic area (LHA). Double-labelling revealed that N/OFQ was present in some neurones located in the ventrolateral part of the Arc producing pro-opiomelanocortin, as shown by the presence of the anorexigenic peptides alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript and, occasionally, in single neurones of the ventrolateral Arc producing orexigenic agouti-related peptide, but not neuropeptide Y. N/OFQ immunoreactivity was also demonstrated in a few tyrosine hydroxylase- or dynorphin (DYN)-containing neurones in the dorsomedial part of the Arc. In the parvocellular PVN, N/OFQ was demonstrated in some thyrotrophin-releasing hormone- or DYN-, but not corticotrophin-releasing hormone-containing neurones. Most N/OFQ-immunoreactive neurones in the LHA contained orexin- and DYN, but not melanin-concentrating hormone. The results obtained, demonstrating the presence of N/OFQ in some alpha-MSH- and in many orexin-containing neurones, suggest a functional relationship between these neuropeptides and N/OFQ in the control of feeding behaviour and body weight.
The available evidence continues to illustrate an inhibitory influence of male gonadal activity on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis under acute stress. However, far less is known about how these systems interact during repeated stress. Because HPA output consistently declines across studies examining repeated restraint, the potential mechanisms mediating this habituation are often inferred as being equivalent, even though these studies use a spectrum of restraint durations and exposures. To test this generalisation, as well as to emphasise a potential influence of the male gonadal axis on the process of HPA habituation, we compared the effects of two commonly used paradigms of repeated restraint in the rodent: ten daily episodes of 0.5 h of restraint and five daily episodes of 3 h of restraint. Both paradigms produced comparable declines in adrenocorticotrophic hormone and corticosterone between the first and last day of testing. However, marked differences in testosterone levels, as well as corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) expression, occurred between the two stress groups. Plasma testosterone levels remained relatively higher in animals exposed to 0.5 h of restraint compared to 3 h of restraint, whereas forebrain gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) cell counts increased in both groups. AVP mRNA was increased after 3 h, but not after 0.5 h of repeated restraint, in the medial parvicellular paraventricular nucleus and in the posterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST), and increased with 0.5 h of repeated restraint in the medial amygdala. CRH mRNA was increased after 3 h, but not after 0.5 h of repeated restraint, in the central amygdala and anterior BST. The data obtained illustrate that, despite comparable declines in HPA responses, the pathways recruited for stress adaptation appear to be distinct between restraint groups. Given the extreme sensitivity of limbic AVP to testosterone, and conversely CRH to circulating glucocorticoids, whether differences in endocrine profiles might explain these neuropeptide differences remains to be seen. Nonetheless, the present study provides several new entry points for testing gonadal influences on stress-specific HPA habituation.
Although dizziness is a common presenting symptom in general and hospital practice, its social cost is not known. We assessed the social and work life impact of dizziness on patients in two contrasting European cities, Siena and London. First, we developed the 'Social life &amp; Work Impact of Dizziness questionnaire' (SWID), which was validated by administering it to 43 patients with dizziness and 45 normal controls and by correlating the results with the EQ-5D (Europe quality of life) questionnaire. The SWID and EQ-5D scores were worse in patients than controls (p &lt; 0.001) and the two correlated significantly (r = 0.50 p &lt; 0.001). Then two hundred consecutive patients per city attending tertiary specialised 'dizzy patient' clinics, one in London led by a neurologist, one in Siena led by an ear, nose and throat specialist (ENT), were investigated with SWID. Amongst the 400 patients, 27% reported changing their jobs and 21% giving up work as a result of the dizziness. Over 50% of patients felt that their efficiency at work had dropped considerably. The mean number of days off work attributed to the dizziness in the previous 6 months was 7.15 days. Social life was disrupted in 57% of all 400 patients. Factor analysis identified that detrimental effects on work, travel, social and family life combine to create a single factor accounting for much of the overall impact of their dizziness. Significant differences in some measures of handicap between London and Siena emerged, with London patients often faring worse. Reasons for these location differences include, as expected, a higher proportion of neurological patients in London than in Siena. However, factors related to city demographics and social cohesion may also modulate the impact on quality of life and working practice. Regardless of inter-city differences, these findings highlight the high social and economic impact of dizziness.


An American Academy of Neurology practice parameter recommends that long-term prophylactic anti-epileptic drugs (AED) should not be routine in patients with newly diagnosed brain tumors. However, prospective multi-center North American data shows that most newly diagnosed glioma patients receive prophylactic AED. We examined our own peri-operative AED practice patterns in newly-diagnosed patients with malignant glioma to determine if we deviate from published guidelines. A retrospective chart review was performed in adult patients with newly diagnosed malignant gliomas undergoing surgery in southern Alberta between January 2003 and December 2005. Demographic information, AED use, seizure incidence, adverse effects, tumor size, and tumor location were recorded. Of 164 eligible patients, 54 (33%) presented with seizures and all received AED. Prophylactic AED were given to 44 patients (27%). Peri-operative seizures (within 1 week) occurred in two patients without (3%) and no patients with seizure prophylaxis. Adverse AED reactions and adverse effects attributable to seizures were both rare. Prophylactic AED were continued &gt;1 week post-op in 30 patients (18%). Patients receiving prophylactic AED were more likely to have had tumors involving the temporal lobe than those who did not (50 vs. 20%; P &lt; 0.01). Patients receiving peri-operative AED prophylaxis were common, had a trend to reduced peri-operative seizures, and had few adverse effects. However, most of these patients were maintained on prophylactic AED continued beyond the first peri-operative week, contradicting published guidelines. Increased awareness of practice guidelines may help modify AED prescription patterns in malignant glioma patients.
The purpose of this study was to describe the growth pattern of congenital malignant teratoid medulloepithelioma of the ciliary body by reporting clinical and imaging findings with pathological correlation. An 11-month-old little girl presented with a whitish-pink iris mass in the right eye resulting from a small ciliary body mass consistent with medulloepithelioma at both clinical and computed tomography (CT) findings. At CT, the lesion showed heterogeneous attenuation, without intraocular calcifications. Eleven months later, clinical and ultrabiomicroscopy showed a clear enlargement of the mass, which invaded the pupil. At magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), the lesion showed T1-weighted hyperintensity and T2-weighted slight hypointensity when compared to the vitreous and a notch in the anterolateral aspect of the ipsilateral lens. After intravenous gadolinium administration, the lesion showed intense homogeneous enhancement, and there was leakage of gadolinium in the anterior chamber, resulting from impairment of blood-aqueous barrier. Biopsy revealed a malignant teratoid medulloepithelioma. The eye was then enucleated, and histology confirmed the diagnosis. Systemic chemotherapy and radiotherapy were not performed, since there was no extraocular extension. The 57-month clinical and MRI follow-up did not show disease relapse. This uncommon case displays the natural history of congenital malignant teratoid medulloepithelioma of the ciliary body. While the tumour might have been successfully treated by local excision at diagnosis, the delay in surgical treatment led to tumour overgrowth with consequent need for enucleation. The most important prognostic feature is extraocular extension, which carries a risk of local recurrence, eventually resulting in intracranial extension and/or lymphatic spread.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a serious form of brain cancer for which there is currently no effective treatment. Alternative strategies such as adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector mediated-genetic modification of brain tumor cells with genes encoding anti-tumor proteins have shown promising results in preclinical models of GBM, although the transduction efficiency of these tumors is often low. As higher transduction efficiency of tumor cells should lead to enhanced therapeutic efficacy, a means to rapidly engineer AAV vectors with improved transduction efficiency for individual tumors is an attractive strategy. Here we tested the possibility of identifying high-efficiency AAV vectors for human U87 glioma cells by selection in culture of a newly constructed chimeric AAV capsid library generated by DNA shuffling of six different AAV cap genes (AAV1, AAV2, AAV5, AAVrh.8, AAV9, AAVrh.10). After seven rounds of selection, we obtained a chimeric AAV capsid that transduces U87 cells at high efficiency (97% at a dose of 10(4) genome copies/cell), and at low doses it was 1.45-1.6-fold better than AAV2, which proved to be the most efficient parental capsid. Interestingly, the new AAV capsid displayed robust gene delivery properties to all glioma cells tested (including primary glioma cells) with relative fluorescence indices ranging from 1- to 14-fold higher than AAV2. The selected vector should be useful for in vitro glioma research when efficient transduction of several cell lines is required, and provides proof-of-concept that an AAV library can be used to generate AAV vectors with enhanced transduction efficiency of glioma cells.
The capacity to learn new motor sequences is fundamental to adaptive motor behavior. The early phase of motor sequence learning relies on the ventral and anterior striatal circuitry, whereas the late phase relies on the dorsal and posterior striatal circuitry. Early Parkinson's disease (PD) is mainly characterized by dopaminergic denervation of the dorsal and posterior striatum while sparing anterior and ventral regions. Dopaminergic medication improves dorsal and posterior striatum function by compensating for the loss of dopamine. However, previous work has shown that dopaminergic medication interferes with the ventral and anterior striatum function by overdosing this relatively intact structure in early-state PD. Here we test whether these effects are also observed over the time course of motor sequence learning. Fourteen PD patients ON and OFF dopaminergic medications and 11 healthy age-matched control participants performed an explicit motor sequence learning task. When sequence learning was compared across different learning phases in patients ON and OFF medication, a significant impairment associated with medication was observed in the early relative to later phases of learning. The rate of learning in the early phase measured trial by trial in patients ON medication was significantly slower than that in controls and when patients were OFF medication. No significant impairment was found in the later learning phases. These results demonstrate that dopaminergic medications may selectively impair early-phase motor sequence learning. These results extend and generalize the dopamine overdose effects previously reported for (antero)ventral striatum-mediated cognitive tasks to motor sequence learning.
It is known that after spinalization animals lose their ability to maintain lateral stability when standing or walking. A likely reason for this is a reduction of the postural limb reflexes (PLRs) driven by stretch and load receptors of the limbs. The aim of this study was to clarify whether spinal networks contribute to the generation of PLRs. For this purpose, first, PLRs were recorded in decerebrated rabbits before and after spinalization at T12. Second, the effects of epidural electrical stimulation (EES) at L7 on the limb reflexes were studied after spinalization. To evoke PLRs, the vertebrate column of the rabbit was fixed, whereas the hindlimbs were positioned on the platform. Periodic lateral tilts of the platform caused antiphase flexion-extension limbs movements, similar to those observed in intact animals keeping balance on the tilting platform. Before spinalization, these movements evoked PLRs: augmentation of extensor EMGs and increase of contact force during limb flexion, suggesting their stabilizing postural effects. Spinalization resulted in almost complete disappearance of PLRs. After EES, however, the PLRs reappeared and persisted for up to several minutes, although their values were reduced. The post-EES effects could be magnified by intrathecal application of quipazine (5-HT agonist) at L4-L6. Results of this study suggest that the spinal cord contains the neuronal networks underlying PLRs; they can contribute to the maintenance of lateral stability in intact subjects. In acute spinal animals, these networks can be activated by EES, suggesting that they are normally activated by a tonic supraspinal drive.
Cardiovascular and behavioral responses to circulating angiotensin require intact connectivity along the upper lamina terminalis joining the subfornical organ (SFO) with the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO). In the present study on MnPO neurons, we used whole cell patch-clamp recording techniques in brain slice preparations to evaluate the influence of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonists on modulating their intrinsic excitability and SFO-evoked glutamatergic and GABAergic postsynaptic currents. In 22/36 cells, bath application of a mGluR group I agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) induced a TTX-resistant inward current coupled with decrease in a membrane K(+) conductance but also a possible increase in a nonselective cationic conductance. By contrast, 27/49 cells responded to a mGluR group II agonist (2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (DCG IV) with a TTX-resistant outward current and increase in membrane conductance that reversed around -95 mV, suggesting opening of K(+) channels. None of 19 cells responded to the mGluR group III agonist l-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (l-AP4). Agonists for all mGluR groups suppressed SFO-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents and significantly increased paired-pulse ratios, implying a presynaptic mechanism. Only the mGluR group II agonist significantly reduced SFO-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents and caused an increase in paired-pulse ratios. These results suggest a complexity of pre- and postsynaptic mGluRs are available to modulate rapid neurotransmission along the upper lamina terminalis from SFO to MnPO.
Endocannabinoids are lipid derivatives that mediate paracrine and juxtacrine signaling between cells. In the hippocampal CA1 region, a retrograde endocannabinoid signal suppresses GABA release by acting on presynaptic cannabinoid receptor-1 (CB1) and can be functionally manifested as depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI). In the present study, whole cell patch-clamp recordings in hippocampal slices were made to examine DSI in rats from P7-P21. Robust DSI develops in rat hippocampus at postnatal ages greater than two weeks, but only modest DSI is observed in P7-9 rat. DSI in neonatal rats can be enhanced by activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) or muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in those neonatal rats. The DSI is also enhanced by sustained low-frequency (1 Hz) stimulation (5 min). This stimulus-enhanced DSI was prevented in the presence of 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (10 microM), a group I mGluR antagonist. WIN55212-2, a synthetic CB1 agonist, produced a similar level of inhibition of GABAergic synaptic transmission at different postnatal time points. Therefore postsynaptic mechanisms appear to be mainly responsible for developmental changes in DSI, although presynaptic mechanisms cannot be ruled out entirely. We have also obtained evidence that tonic endocannabinoid release suppresses GABAergic transmission in the mature but not the neonatal hippocampus. The differential DSI magnitude at different stages of maturation could alter synaptic plasticity and learning and memory during hippocampal development.
Measuring variations of intracellular free calcium concentration through the changes in fluorescence of a calcium-sensitive dye is a ubiquitous technique in neuroscience. Despite its popularity, confidence intervals (CIs) on the estimated parameters of calcium dynamics models are seldom given. To address this issue, we have developed a two-stage model for ratiometric measurements obtained with a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera. Its first element embeds a parametric calcium dynamics model into a fluorescence intensity model and its second element probabilistically describes the fluorescence measurements by a CCD camera. Using Monte Carlo simulations, we first show that the classical ratiometric transformation gives reliable CIs for time constants only and not baseline calcium concentration nor influx. We then introduce a direct method, which consists of fitting directly and simultaneously the fluorescence transients at both wavelengths, without any data ratioing. This approach uses a probabilistic description of the camera, leading to the construction of meaningful CIs for the calcium parameters. Moreover, using approaches inspired by constrained linear regression, we can take into account the finite precision on calibrated parameters (such as the dye dissociation constant in the cell). These key features are illustrated on simulated data using Monte Carlo simulations. Moreover, we illustrate the strength of the direct method on experimental recordings from insect olfactory interneurons. In particular, we show how to handle a time-dependent buffer concentration, thereby considerably improving our goodness of fit. The direct method was implemented in the open-source software R and is freely distributed in the CalciOMatic package.
The goal of this study was to determine whether the activity of neurons in the supplementary eye field (SEF) is sufficient to control saccade initiation in macaque monkeys performing a saccade countermanding (stop signal) task. As previously observed, many neurons in the SEF increase the discharge rate before saccade initiation. However, when saccades are canceled in response to a stop signal, effectively no neurons with presaccadic activity display discharge rate modulation early enough to contribute to saccade cancellation. Moreover, SEF neurons do not exhibit a specific threshold discharge rate that could trigger saccade initiation. Yet, we observed more subtle relations between SEF activation and saccade production. The activity of numerous SEF neurons was correlated with response time and varied with sequential adjustments in response latency. Trials in which monkeys canceled or produced a saccade in a stop signal trial were distinguished by a modest difference in discharge rate of these SEF neurons before stop signal or target presentation. These findings indicate that neurons in the SEF, in contrast to counterparts in the frontal eye field and superior colliculus, do not contribute directly and immediately to the initiation of visually guided saccades. However the SEF may proactively regulate saccade production by biasing the balance between gaze-holding and gaze-shifting based on prior performance and anticipated task requirements.
Spinal cord injury leads to severe problems involving impaired motor, sensory, and autonomic functions. After spinal injury there is an initial phase of hyporeflexia followed by hyperreflexia, often referred to as spasticity. Previous studies have suggested a relationship between the reappearance of endogenous plateau potentials in motor neurons and the development of spasticity after spinalization. To unravel the molecular mechanisms underlying the increased excitability of motor neurons and the return of plateau potentials below a spinal cord injury we investigated changes in gene expression in this cell population. We adopted a rat tail-spasticity model with a caudal spinal transection that causes a progressive development of spasticity from its onset after 2 to 3 wk until 2 mo postinjury. Gene expression changes of fluorescently identified tail motor neurons were studied 21 and 60 days postinjury. The motor neurons undergo substantial transcriptional regulation in response to injury. The patterns of differential expression show similarities at both time points, although there are 20% more differentially expressed genes 60 days compared with 21 days postinjury. The study identifies targets of regulation relating to both ion channels and receptors implicated in the endogenous expression of plateaux. The regulation of excitatory and inhibitory signal transduction indicates a shift in the balance toward increased excitability, where the glutamatergic N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor complex together with cholinergic system is up-regulated and the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor system is down-regulated. The genes of the pore-forming proteins Cav1.3 and Nav1.6 were not up-regulated, whereas genes of proteins such as nonpore-forming subunits and intracellular pathways known to modulate receptor and channel trafficking, kinetics, and conductivity showed marked regulation. On the basis of the identified changes in global gene expression in motor neurons, the present investigation opens up for new potential targets for treatment of motor dysfunction following spinal cord injury.
Protein kinase A (PKA) has been reported to regulate synaptic alphabetagamma gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor currents, but whether PKA regulates GABA(A) receptor peri- and extrasynaptic tonic currents is unknown. GABA(A) receptors containing alpha4 subunits are important in mediating tonic inhibition and exist as both alpha4betadelta and alpha4betagamma receptors in the brain. To mimic GABA-independent and GABA-dependent tonic currents, we transfected HEK 293T cells with alpha4beta3delta or alpha4beta3gamma2L subunits and recorded spontaneous currents in the absence of applied GABA and steady-state currents in the presence of 1 muM GABA. Both alpha4beta3delta and alpha4beta3gamma2L receptors displayed spontaneous currents, but PKA activation increased spontaneous alpha4beta3delta currents substantially more than spontaneous alpha4beta3gamma2L currents. The increase in spontaneous alpha4beta3delta currents was due to an increase in single-channel open frequency. In contrast, PKA activation did not alter steady-state tonic currents recorded in the presence of 1 muM GABA. We concluded that PKA had a GABA concentration-dependent effect on alpha4beta3delta and alpha4beta3gamma2L currents. In the absence of GABA, spontaneous alpha4beta3delta and, to a lesser extent, alpha4beta3gamma2L currents could provide a basal, tonic current that could be regulated by PKA. With increasing concentrations of extracellular GABA, however, tonic alpha4beta3delta and alpha4beta3gamma2L currents would become more GABA dependent and less PKA sensitive. Thus in brain regions with fluctuating extracellular GABA levels, the dynamic range of GABA-activated tonic currents would be set by PKA and the increase in tonic current produced by increasing GABA would be reduced by PKA-mediated phosphorylation. When ambient GABA reaches micromolar concentrations, PKA would have no effect on steady-state tonic currents.
In hippocampus, synchronous activation of CA1 pyramidal neurons causes a rapid, extracellular, population alkaline transient (PAT). It has been suggested that the plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase (PMCA) is the source of this alkalinization, because it exchanges cytosolic Ca(2+) for external H(+). Evidence supporting this hypothesis, however, has thus far been inconclusive. We addressed this long-standing problem by measuring surface alkaline transients (SATs) from voltage-clamped CA1 pyramidal neurons in juvenile mouse hippocampal slices, using concentric (high-speed, low-noise) pH microelectrodes placed against the somata. In saline containing benzolamide (a poorly permeant carbonic anhydrase blocker), a 2-s step from -60 to 0 mV caused a mean SAT of 0.02 unit pH. Addition of 5 mM HEPES to the artificial cerebrospinal fluid diminished the SAT by 91%. Nifedipine reduced the SAT by 53%. Removal of Ca(2+) from the saline abolished the SAT, and addition of BAPTA to the patch pipette reduced it by 79%. The inclusion of carboxyeosin (a PMCA inhibitor) in the pipette abolished the SAT, whether it was induced by a depolarizing step, or by simulated, repetitive, antidromic firing. The peak amplitude of the &quot;antidromic&quot; SAT of a single cell averaged 11% of the PAT elicited by comparable real antidromic activation of the CA1 neuronal population. Caloxin 2A1, an extracellular PMCA peptide inhibitor, blocked both the SAT and PAT by 42%. These results provide the first direct evidence that the PMCA can explain the extracellular alkaline shift elicited by synchronous firing.
The Ca(2+) dependence of synaptic quantal release is generally thought to be restricted to probability of vesicular release. However, some studies have suggested that the number of release sites (n) at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is also Ca(2+) dependent. In this study, we recorded endplate currents over a wide range of extracellular Ca(2+) concentrations and found the expected Ca(2+) dependency of release. A graphical technique was used to estimate p (probability of release) and n using standard binomial assumptions. The results suggested n was Ca(2+) dependent. The data were simulated using compound binomial statistics with variable n (Ca(2+) dependent) or fixed n (Ca(2+) independent). With fixed n, successful simulation of increasing Ca(2+) required that p increase abruptly at some sites from very low to high values. Successful simulation with variable n required the introduction of previously silent release sites (p = 0) with high values of p. Thus the success of both simulations required abrupt, large increases of p at a subset of release sites with initially low or zero p. Estimates of the time course of release obtained by deconvolving evoked endplate currents with average miniature endplate currents decreased slightly as Ca(2+) increased, thus arguing against sequential release of multiple quanta at higher Ca(2+) levels. Our results suggest that the apparent Ca(2+) dependence of n at the NMJ can be explained by an underlying Ca(2+) dependence of a spatially variable p such that p increases abruptly at a subset of sites as Ca(2+) is increased.
The aim of the present study was to characterize the spatial and temporal features of synaptic and discharge receptive fields (RFs), and to quantify their relationships, in cat area 17. For this purpose, neurons were recorded intracellularly while high-frequency flashing bars were used to generate RFs maps for synaptic and spiking responses. Comparison of the maps shows that some features of the discharge RFs depended strongly on those of the synaptic RFs, whereas others were less dependent. Spiking RF duration depended poorly and spiking RF amplitude depended moderately on those of the underlying synaptic RFs. At the other extreme, the optimal spatial frequency and phase of the discharge RFs in simple cells were almost entirely inherited from those of the synaptic RFs. Subfield width, in both simple and complex cells, was less for spiking responses compared with synaptic responses, but synaptic to discharge width ratio was relatively variable from cell to cell. When considering the whole RF of simple cells, additional variability in width ratio resulted from the presence of additional synaptic subfields that remained subthreshold. Due to these additional, subthreshold subfields, spatial frequency tuning predicted from synaptic RFs appears sharper than that predicted from spiking RFs. Excitatory subfield overlap in spiking RFs was well predicted by subfield overlap at the synaptic level. When examined in different regions of the RF, latencies appeared to be quite variable, but this variability showed negligible dependence on distance from the RF center. Nevertheless, spiking response latency faithfully reflected synaptic response latency.
Cognitive deficits in participants and the abrupt and traumatic way in which many neurological conditions present are two examples of the unique challenges in recruiting and retaining participants with neurological injury for research studies. The purpose of this investigation was to identify obstacles to recruitment and retention in three ongoing research studies. These studies involve persons with neurological disorders across the continuum of care, from those newly diagnosed and with emergent presentation to those with more established chronic neurological conditions. For this analysis, we evaluated the effectiveness of the strategies employed to improve participation rates. The first study was a project funded by the National Institutes of Health designed to identify biomarkers of vasospasm in persons (n = 496) with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage who presented to the neurovascular intensive care unit (National Institute of Nursing Research, R01 NR004339). The purpose of the second study was to examine biobehavioral interactions in family caregivers (n = 59) of persons with a primary malignant brain tumor recruited in the community setting. The third project involved recruiting persons (n = 1,019) within an outpatient neurosurgical center to participate in a research registry. To determine differential effectiveness of strategies, consent and attrition rates were calculated at serial points over time in three studies, and recruitment and retention strategies were compared. Sentinel time points in participants' disease trajectories played a key role in determining whether those who were approached to participate gave consent and were retained, particularly in the studies involving persons with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (consent = 85%; retention = 89%) and persons with primary malignant brain tumors and their caregivers (consent = 68%; retention = 83%). In addition, several specific recruiter and interviewer training techniques were associated with higher recruitment and retention. Targeted strategies to improve participation rates are vital for neuroscience nurses involved in any aspect of clinical research, including those who conduct studies, assist with data collection, and recruit potential participants.
Patients with multiple sclerosis often use injectable medication such as glatiramer acetate or interferons to treat their disease. Subcutaneous injections may be associated with local injection site reactions (LISRs), which can include itching, pain, swelling, or redness. Although not serious, these side effects are bothersome and can have a negative impact on adherence to the therapeutic regimen, particularly in early phases of treatment. This randomized parallel group study of 83 patients with multiple sclerosis who had recently begun glatiramer acetate therapy investigated whether administration of an oral antihistamine (cetirizine hydrochloride; Zyrtec, 10 mg) prior to each daily subcutaneous injection of glatiramer acetate would lower the incidence of LISRs compared with an oral placebo. Data for the outcome measures were derived from patient diaries and from the clinic during the baseline and the treatment periods. The primary outcome measure comparing the number of LISRs at 5 minutes after injection over 2 weeks was slightly but not significantly lower in patients who received cetirizine compared with patients who received placebo. Within-group comparisons showed that there was a significant reduction in mean LISR score from the 2-week baseline period to the 2-week cetirizine treatment period (0, 2, and 5 minutes after treatment). Both groups showed decreases in the average bothersome ratings from the baseline to treatment periods. Use of cetirizine did not affect the type of LISRs that was reported at any time point. There were no safety concerns with the concurrent administration of cetirizine with glatiramer acetate. Because there were no statistically significant differences on the primary end point between patient groups taking cetirizine and those taking placebo prior to glatiramer acetate injections, cetirizine use as a strategy to reduce LISRs in patients on glatiramer acetate therapy cannot be recommended at this time.
It is essential for neuroscience nurses everywhere to have reliable and valid instruments with which to measure functional ability, but reliability and validity have yet to be reported on the adult Alpha Functional Independence Measure (AlphaFIM) in England. The aim of this study was to determine the reliability and validity of the adult AlphaFIM instrument. Reliability was estimated using Cronbach's alpha. Validity was examined by comparing adult AlphaFIM instrument scores with Barthel Index scores and by factor analysis in a group of 551 patients admitted to acute medical units. Cronbach's alpha for the 6-item adult AlphaFIM instrument was .90. The correlation between the adult AlphaFIM instrument and the Barthel Index was .68 (p &lt; .001). The factor analysis supported a one-factor solution for the 6-item adult AlphaFIM instrument. This is the first report of reliability and validity on this instrument. The adult AlphaFIM instrument appears to be a reliable and valid tool with which to measure functional ability in an acute medical geriatric population in England.
Stenosis of the internal carotid artery due to atherosclerosis can cause embolic stroke or cerebral ischemia, both of which may result in significant morbidity, mortality, and long-term disability. Although the endovascular technique with balloons and stents to relieve arterial (i.e., coronary) stenosis has allowed a nonsurgical approach to the management of atherosclerotic disease for many years, its use in carotid vessels has only recently gained popularity. In addition, improvements in endovascular access systems have extended the use of carotid angioplasty and stenting (CAS), especially since the advent of cerebral emboli protection devices. Nowadays, CAS is emerging as an intervention for high-risk surgical patients with high-grade carotid artery stenosis. Nursing care of these patients before, during, and after CAS is challenging. Patients and family need to be educated about the aim and consequences of the procedure and its complications. To care for these patients, the nurse must understand the techniques of CAS. The purpose of this article was briefly to review the etiology of stroke, the current treatments to relieve carotid stenosis, and the basic steps of CAS. The nursing management throughout the procedure, the patient preparation before the procedure, and most importantly, the postprocedure nursing care are discussed.
Activity-driven Ca(2+) signaling plays an important role in a number of neuronal functions, including neuronal growth, differentiation, and plasticity. Both cytosolic and nuclear Ca(2+) has been implicated in these functions. In the current study, we investigated membrane-to-nucleus Ca(2+) signaling in cerebellar Purkinje neurons in culture to gain insight into the pathways and mechanisms that can initiate nuclear Ca(2+) signaling in this neuronal type. Purkinje neurons are known to express an abundance of Ca(2+) signaling molecules such as voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, ryanodine receptors, and IP3 receptors. Results show that membrane depolarization evoked by brief stimulation with K(+) saline elicits a prominent Ca(2+) signal in the cytosol and nucleus of the Purkinje neurons. Ca(2+) influx through P/Q- and L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels and Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR) from intracellular stores contributed to the Ca(2+) signal, which spread from the plasma membrane to the nucleus. At strong K(+) stimulations, the amplitude of the nuclear Ca(2+) signal exceeded that of the cytosolic Ca(2+) signal, suggesting the involvement of a nuclear amplification mechanism and/or differences in Ca(2+) buffering in these two cellular compartments. An enhanced nuclear Ca(2+) signal was more prominent for Ca(2+) signals elicited by membrane depolarization than for Ca(2+) signals elicited by activation of the metabotropic glutamate receptor pathway (mGluR1), which is linked to Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores controlled by the IP3 receptor.
FTY720, an oral sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulator, has shown efficacy in phase II trials in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS). Although this molecule is thought to immunosuppress by inhibiting lymphocyte egress from the lymph nodes, the full spectrum of FTY720's actions has not yet been uncovered. In this study, we investigated the effects of FTY720 treatment on disease severity and histopathology of MOG-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in the dark agouti (DA) rat, a model that closely mimics several features of MS. The effects of FTY720 on T-cell subsets, anti-MOG antibody production, and mRNA expression of a number of cytokines and other genes were also examined. Commencement of treatment before disease onset prevented the appearance of clinical disease. Therapeutic treatment after established disease reduced clinical scores and substantially attenuated inflammation, demyelination, and axon loss. EAE suppression was associated with a reduction in all measured T-cell subsets in blood and spleen and a significant decrease in serum IgG(2a) levels. However, in the lymph nodes, all T-cell subsets except for nave T cells and recent thymic emigrants remained unaffected. In addition, FTY720 treatment led to a significant inhibition in interferon-gamma, inducible nitric oxide synthase, and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA expression in the MOG-EAE spinal cord. In conclusion, our findings indicate that FTY720-mediated S1P receptor modulation ameliorates chronic relapsing MOG-EAE by suppressing both cellular and humoral immune responses.
Recent studies have shown that the nuclear factor I (NFI) family controls multiple stages of the postmitotic differentiation of cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). Regulation of cell-cell signaling is an integral part of this NFI program, which involves expression of the cell adhesion molecules N cadherin and ephrin B1 throughout postmitotic CGN development. Here, we identify two additional downstream targets of NFI that are involved in extracellular CGN interactions. The cell adhesion molecule Tag-1 is highly enriched in CGNs undergoing parallel fiber formation and is down-regulated prior to onset of radial migration. We found that Tag-1 expression was strongly reduced by NFI dominant repression in immature primary CGNs and in the cerebella of E18 Nfib-null mice. Transient transfection and chromatin immunoprecipitation suggested that the Tag-1 gene is directly regulated by NFI. Furthermore, functional, Nfi knockout and chromatin immunoprecipitation studies implicated Wnt7a as a direct target of NFI in maturing CGNs. Wnt7a is secreted by developing CGNs and is required for maturation of mossy fiber-CGN synaptic rosettes. Consistent with this, synapsin I was greatly reduced within the internal granule cell layer of P17 Nfia-null mice. These findings indicated that NFI controls CGN postmitotic maturation through a combination of extracellular signaling molecules that operate either continuously to regulate multiple stages of development (N cadherin and ephrin B1) or primarily at early (Tag-1) or late (Wnt7a) maturation steps. They also illustrate the importance of NFI as a critical link between cell-intrinsic mechanisms and cell-cell interactions in the development of the mouse cerebellum.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the one of the most common forms of head trauma, and it remains a leading cause of death and disability. It is known that the initial mechanical axonal injury triggers a complex cascade of neuroinflammatory and metabolic events, the understanding of which is essential for clinical, translational, and pharmacological research. These can occur even in mild TBI, and are associated with several post-concussion manifestations, including transiently heightened vulnerability to a second insult. Recent studies have challenged the tenet that ischemia is the ultimate modality of tissue damage following TBI, as metabolic dysfunction can develop in the presence of normal perfusion and before intracranial hypertension. In order to elucidate the cellular and molecular changes occurring in TBI as a direct result of neuronal injury and in the absence of ischemic damage, we performed a microarray analysis of expressed genes and molecular interaction pathways for different levels of severity of trauma using an in-vitro model. A stretch injury, equivalent to human diffuse axonal injury, was delivered to rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures, and mRNA levels following a 10% (mild) and 50% (severe) stretch were compared with controls at 24 h. More genes were differentially expressed following 10% stretch than 50% stretch, indicating the early activation of complex cellular mechanisms. The data revealed remarkable differential gene expression following mTBI, even in the absence of cell damage. Pathway analysis revealed that molecular interactions in both levels of injury were similar, with IL-1beta playing a central role. Additional pathways of neurodegeneration involving RhoA (ras homolog gene family, member A) were found in 50% stretch.
The pulsatile component of intracranial pressure (ICP) has been shown to be a predictor of outcome in normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) and traumatic brain injury (TBI). Experimental studies have demonstrated that the pulse amplitude of ICP (AMP(ICP)) is dependent on the mean ICP (mICP), and on the pulse amplitude of the cerebral arterial blood volume (AMP(CaBV)), according to the exponential craniospinal compliance curve. In this study, we compared the influence of mICP and AMP(CaBV) on AMP(ICP) in patients with NPH (infusion study) and TBI (spontaneous recording). We retrospectively analyzed 25 NPH and 43 TBI patients with continuous monitoring of ICP and cerebral blood flow velocity (CBFV), as assessed with transcranial doppler. AMP(CaBV) was extracted from the CBFV waveform. The influence of mICP and AMP(CaBV) on AMP(ICP) were determined using partial coefficients a, b, and c of the multiple regression model: AMP(ICP) = a * mICP + b * AMP(CaBV) + c. AMP(ICP) was more dependent on mICP in NPH patients than in TBI patients (partial coefficient a = 0.93 versus -0.03; p &lt; 0.001). On the contrary, AMP(ICP) was more dependent on AMP(CaBV) in patients with TBI than in those with NPH (b = 0.86 versus 0.10; p &lt; 0.001). This study shows that AMP(ICP) depends mostly on changes in mean ICP during cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) infusion studies in patients with NPH, and on changes in cerebral arterial blood volume (AMP(CaBV)) in TBI patients. Further clinical studies will reveal whether AMP(ICP) is a better indicator of clinical severity and outcome than mICP in TBI and NPH patients.
Secondary degeneration in the central nervous system involves indirect damage to neurons and glia away from the initial injury. Partial transection of the dorsal optic nerve (ON) results in precise spatial separation of the primary trauma from delayed degenerative events in ventrally placed axons and parent somata. Here we conduct an immunohistochemical survey of secondary cellular changes in and around axons and their parent retinal ganglion cell (RGC) somata during the first 3 days after a restricted, dorsal ON transection. This is before the secondary loss of RGCs and axons projecting through the uninjured, ventral portion of the ON. Within 5 min, manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD; a marker of oxidative stress) co-localizes within the astrocytic network across the entire profile of the ON. Secondary astrocyte hypertrophy of immunofluorescent labeling was evident from 3 h, with sustained increases in myelin basic protein immunoreactivity across the nerve by 24 h. Increases in NG-2-positive oligodendrocyte precursor cells, ED-1-positive activated microglia/macrophages, and Iba1-positive reactive resident microglia/macrophage numbers were only seen in ON vulnerable to secondary degeneration by 3 days. Changes within RGC somata exclusively vulnerable to secondary degeneration were detected at 24 h, as evidenced by increases in MnSOD immunoreactivity, followed by increases in c-jun immunoreactivity at 3 days. Treatment with the voltage-gated calcium channel blocker lomerizine did not alter any measured outcome. We conclude that oxidative stress spreading via the astrocytic network and from injured axons to parent RGC somata is an early event during secondary degeneration, and containment is likely to be required in order to prevent further damage to the nerve.
Bell's palsy causes about two thirds of cases of acute peripheral facial weakness. Although the majority of cases completely recover spontaneously, about 30% of cases do not and are at risk from persisting severe facial paralysis and pain. It has been suggested that herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) may be the etiological agent that causes Bell's palsy. Although corticosteroid therapy is now universally recognized as improving the outcome of Bell's palsy, the question as to whether or not a combination of antiviral agents and corticosteroids result in a better rate of complete facial recovery compared with corticosteroids alone is now a highly contentious issue. The evidence obtained from laboratory studies of animals and humans that HSV-1 may be linked to facial nerve paralysis is first outlined. The discussion then focuses on the results of different clinical trials of the efficacy of antiviral agents combined with corticosteroids in increasing the rate of complete recovery in Bell's palsy. These have often given different results leading to opposite conclusions as to the efficacy of antivirals. Of three recent meta-analyses of previous trials, two concluded that antivirals produce no added benefit to corticosteroids alone in producing complete facial recovery, and one concluded that such combined therapy may be associated with additional benefit. Although it is probably not justified at the present time to treat patients with Bell's palsy with antiviral agents in addition to corticosteroids, it remains to be shown whether antivirals may be beneficial in treating patients who present with severe or complete facial paralysis.

Reported are results of an experiment involving perceptual assessment of very large color differences using samples representing approximate mean Hering opponent generic unique hues (guHs) based on subject selections, intermediate hues (iHs) using Munsell samples intermediate between guHs, and pairings of both guHs and iHs with a neutral gray. Sample pairs were assessed by 28 color normal subjects twice, with a gap of at least 24 hours between assessments. Results were calculated for individual subjects and the entire group. The hypothesis was that perceived chromatic differences of Hering's guHs are larger than those of iHs, and this was found to be statistically valid at the 99% confidence level based on a t-test. In addition, gray as a percept was found to have prominence comparable to that of generic unique hues.


Affective instability is a prominent feature of a wide variety of psychiatric and neurological disorders, yet it has not been systematically studied. It encompasses a number of distinct phenomena, including: (1) frequent affective category shifts, (2) disturbances in affect intensity, (3) excessively rapid emotion rise-times, (4) delayed return to emotional baseline, (5) excessive reactivity to psychosocial cues, (6) endogenously driven, random, chaotic or rapid-cycling changes, and (7) overdramatic expression. To further clarify the construct of affective instability, this article examines the manifestations of affective instability in a range of psychiatric and neurologic disorders, reviews relevant neurobiological and psychological emotion regulatory processes, and considers the psychology of affective instability.
Visual information in natural scenes is distributed over a broad range of intensities and contrasts. This distribution has to be compressed in the retina to match the dynamic range of retinal neurons. In this study we examined how cones perform this compression and investigated which physiological processes contribute to this operation. M- and L-cones of the goldfish were stimulated with a natural time series of intensities (NTSI) and their responses were recorded. The NTSI displays an intensity distribution which is skewed towards the lower intensities and has a long tail into the high intensity region. Cones transform this skewed distribution into a more symmetrical one. The voltage responses of the goldfish cones were compared to those of a linear filter and a non-linear biophysical model of the photoreceptor. The results show that the linear filter under-represents contrasts at low intensities compared to the actual cone whereas the non-linear biophysical model performs well over the whole intensity range used. Quantitative analysis of the two approaches indicates that the non-linear biophysical model can capture 91 +/- 5% of the coherence rate (a biased measure of information rate) of the actual cone, where the linear filter only reaches 48 +/- 8%. These results demonstrate that cone photoreceptors transform an NTSI in a non-linear fashion. The comparison between current clamp and voltage clamp recordings and analysis of the behaviour of the biophysical model indicates that both the calcium feedback loop in the outer segment and the hydrolysis of cGMP are the major components that introduce the specific non-linear response properties found in the goldfish cones.
Undernutrition during pregnancy reduces birth weight and programmes adult phenotype with consequences for life expectancy, but its effects on the phenotype of the placenta, responsible for supplying nutrients for fetal growth, remain largely unknown. Using molecular, morphological and functional analyses, placental phenotype was examined in mice during restriction of dietary intake to 80% of control from day 3 of pregnancy. At day 16, undernutrition reduced placental, but not fetal, weight in association with decreased junctional zone volume and placental expression of glucose transporter Slc2a1. At day 19, both placental and fetal weights were reduced in undernourished mice (91% and 87% of control, respectively, P &lt; 0.01), as were the volume and surface area of the labyrinthine zone responsible for placental nutrient transfer (85% and 86%, respectively, P &lt; 0.03). However, unidirectional materno-fetal clearance of tracer glucose was maintained and methyl-aminoisobutyric acid increased 166% (P &lt; 0.005) per gram of undernourished placenta, relative to controls. This was associated with an 18% and 27% increased placental expression of glucose and system A amino acid transporters Slc2a1 and Slc38a2, respectively, at day 19 (P &lt; 0.04). At both ages, undernutrition decreased expression of the placental specific transcript of the Igf2 gene by 35% (P &lt; 0.01), although methylation of its promoter was unaffected. The placenta, therefore, adapts to help maintain fetal growth when its own growth is compromised by maternal undernutrition. Consequently, placental phenotype is responsive to environmental conditions and may help predict the risk of adult disease programmed in utero.
The objective of this study was to determine if platelet 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) sites vary as a function of aggression, and/or impulsiveness, and differ as a function of Intermittent Explosive Disorder (IED). Accordingly, the number of platelet 5-HTT sites was assessed in 100 personality disordered (PD) individuals with varying degrees of aggressiveness. The number of platelet 5-HTT sites was assessed by examining the Bmax of H(3)-Paroxetine Binding to the blood platelet. Life history of aggression was assessed by Life History of Aggression. Impulsivity was assessed by the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale. Diagnoses of IED were made by both DSM-IV and Research Criteria. Examination of the data revealed that Bmax, but not Kd, values of Platelet H(3)-Paroxetine Binding correlated inversely with the LHA Aggression score (r=-.42 n=87, p&lt;.001) but not with the BIS-11 Impulsivity score (r=.03, n=77, p=.777). PD subjects meeting Research Criteria for IED demonstrated a significant reduction in Bmax values for Platelet H(3)-Paroxetine Binding. These results were similar after accounting for the effect of lifetime history of depressive mood disorder on Bmax values for Platelet H(3)-Paroxetine Binding. These data indicate a significant inverse relationship between platelet 5-HTT and aggression, though not impulsivity, as a dimensional variable in personality disordered individuals. Results from the examination of IED as a categorical aggression variable suggest that Research, rather than DSM-IV, criteria better identify individuals with reduced numbers of platelet 5-HTT sites.
The mechanism by which 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) produces 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, serotonin) neurotoxicity has been suggested to involve an acute release of tyrosine and its non-enzymatic conversion to dopamine. To determine whether brain tyrosine availability is important in MDMA-induced neurotoxicity, brain tyrosine was acutely depleted with a tyrosine-free amino acid mixture (1 g/kg intraperitoneal; twice 1 h apart) which was administered prior to an injection of MDMA (12.5 mg/kg intraperitoneal). A small increase in both the hippocampal and striatal tyrosine concentration occurred in control rats treated with MDMA. The tyrosine-free amino acid mixture significantly decreased tyrosine levels by more than 50% in both brain regions 2 h after injection of either MDMA or saline. MDMA significantly reduced brain 5-HT content 2 h later, but this was of a similar magnitude in control and tyrosine-depleted groups. The long-term neurotoxic 5-HT loss in the hippocampus induced two weeks after MDMA administration was unaltered by the tyrosine-free amino acid mixture. Striatal dopamine content was unaffected by acute MDMA in all groups, while the tyrosine-free amino acid mixture given with MDMA significantly decreased striatal dopamine content 2 weeks later. The tyrosine-free amino acid mixture given alone had no affect on rectal body temperature but attenuated the duration of MDMA-induced hyperthermia. The results confirmed the ability of systemic MDMA to acutely increase brain tyrosine content, but also indicated that a marked acute reduction of brain tyrosine does not directly affect either immediate 5-HT release (as measured by tissue depletion) or long-term hippocampal serotonergic neurotoxicity produced by MDMA.
Implantation of allografts or nerve conduits has been used to promote regeneration following peripheral nerve injuries involving substantial axon loss. Both methods provide promising alternatives to autologous grafting and avoid donor site morbidity. We compared the relative efficacies of allografting versus conduit implantation in a rat model of sciatic nerve regeneration. Two rat strains (Lewis and Dark Agouti; n = 30) were employed. Unoperated animals served as controls (group I). Animals in groups II and III underwent left sciatic nerve resection over a distance of 15 mm; group II animals received implants of collagen type I conduits; and group III animals received allografts from the other rat strain and systemic low-dose (0.1 mg/kg/d) administration of FK506. Walking tracks were recorded after 4, 8, 12, and 16 weeks; nerve sections were stained for myelin basic protein after 16 weeks. Functional tests revealed significantly better recovery in group III animals compared with group II even though there was no significant difference in the extent of remyelination. Neither group achieved the functional or histomorphometric values of control animals. Improved functional recovery following allografting plus systemic FK506, in comparison with conduit implantation, underlines the importance of systemic administration of neurotrophic molecules for nerve regeneration.
Recent studies suggest that astroglia, a major non-neuronal cell type in the central nervous system, actively participate in synaptic activity and potentially contribute to neurological disorders including chronic pain. Astroglia exhibit a hyperactive phenotype, also referred to as reactive astrocytosis, in response to peripheral injury. This process is often referred to as astroglial activation. By immunostaining against glial fibrillary acidic proteins, an intermediate cytoskeleton filament protein selectively localized to matured astrocytes, hypertrophy of astrocytes are clearly visible in the spinal cord dorsal horn and spinal trigeminal nucleus following a variety of injuries. Injury-related astroglial activation correlates with behavioral hyperalgesia and conversely, astroglial inhibition attenuates pain hypersensitivity. Astrocytes have a close anatomical relationship with neurons. Interactions between astrocytes and neurons contribute to the mechanisms of chronic pain. Astroglial activation is accompanied by initiation of cellular signal transduction pathways that lead to transcriptional gene regulation and release of a variety of chemical mediators or gliotransmitters, down-regulation of glutamate transporter activity that directly affects synaptic transmission, changes in gap junction proteins by which calcium waves spread, and alterations of the blood brain barrier. These coordinated changes in astroglial functions in turn modulate neuronal activity and facilitate pain transmission.


Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) in immunocompetent patients is highly malignant and has a poor prognosis. The PCNSL molecular features are reminiscent to some degree of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), yet PCNSL shows unique molecular profiles and a distinct clinical behavior. This article characterizes the histopathology and expression profiles of metallothionein-I + II (MT-I + II) and their receptor megalin along with proliferation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis in PCNSL and in central nervous system (CNS) lymphomas due to relapse from DLBCL (collectively referred to as CNS lymphoma). We show for the first time that MT-I + II and megalin are significantly altered in CNS lymphoma relative to controls (reactive lymph nodes and non-lymphoma brain tissue with neuropathology). MT-I + II are secreted in the CNS and are found mainly in the lymphomatous cells, while their receptor megalin is increased in cerebral cells. This morphology likely reflects the CNS lymphoma microenvironment and molecular interactions between lymphomatous and neuronal cells.
Accelerated parallel MRI has advantage in imaging speed, and its image quality has been improved continuously in recent years. This paper introduces a two-dimensional infinite impulse response model of inverse filter to replace the finite impulse response model currently used in generalized autocalibrating partially parallel acquisitions class image reconstruction methods. The infinite impulse response model better characterizes the correlation of k-space data points and better approximates the perfect inversion of parallel imaging process, resulting in a novel generalized image reconstruction method for accelerated parallel MRI. This k-space-based reconstruction method includes the conventional generalized autocalibrating partially parallel acquisitions class methods as special cases and has a new infinite impulse response data estimation mechanism for effective improvement of image quality. The experiments on in vivo MRI data show that the proposed method significantly reduces reconstruction errors compared with the conventional two-dimensional generalized autocalibrating partially parallel acquisitions method, particularly at the high acceleration rates.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-related cataract, disorders characterized by protein aggregation causing late-onset disease, both involve oxidative stress. We hypothesize that common variants of NFE2L2 and KEAP1, the genes encoding the main regulators of the Nrf2 system, an important defence system against oxidative stress, may influence risk of AD and/or age-related cataract. This case-control study combines an AD material (725 cases and 845 controls), and a cataract material (489 cases and 182 controls). Genetic variation in NFE2L2 and KEAP1 was tagged by eight and three tag single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), respectively. Single SNPs and haplotypes were analyzed for associations with disease risk, age parameters, MMSE and AD cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers. NFE2L2 and KEAP1 were not associated with risk of AD or cataract. However, one haplotype allele of NFE2L2 was associated with 2 years earlier age at AD onset (p(c)=0.013) and 4 years earlier age at surgery for posterior subcapsular cataract (p(c)=0.019). Another haplotype of NFE2L2 was associated with 4 years later age at surgery for cortical cataract (p(c)=0.009). Our findings do not support NFE2L2 or KEAP1 as susceptibility genes for AD or cataract. However, common variants of the NFE2L2 gene may affect disease progression, potentially altering clinically recognized disease onset.

Spatial gene expression profiles provide a novel means of exploring the structural organization of the brain. Computational analysis of these patterns is made possible by genome-scale mapping of the C57BL/6J mouse brain in the Allen Brain Atlas. Here we describe methodology used to explore the spatial structure of gene expression patterns across a set of 3041 genes chosen on the basis of consistency across experimental observations (N=2). The analysis was performed on smoothed, co-registered 3D expression volumes for each gene obtained by aggregating cellular resolution image data. Following dimensionality and noise reduction, voxels were clustered according to similarity of expression across the gene set. We illustrate the resulting parcellations of the mouse brain for different numbers of clusters (K) and quantitatively compare these parcellations with a classically-defined anatomical reference atlas at different levels of granularity, revealing a high degree of correspondence. These observations suggest that spatial localization of gene expression offers substantial promise in connecting knowledge at the molecular level with higher-level information about brain organization.
We report a case of a 20-month-old male child who underwent surgery for posterior fossa tumor. Post operatively the child developed persistent hypertension. No active intervention was done as it could have compromised cerebral perfusion pressure. The possible cause is discussed.

Neuropeptides collaborate with conventional neurotransmitters to regulate synaptic output. Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) co-localizes with acetylcholine in presynaptic nerve terminals, is released by stimulation, and enhances nicotinic acetylcholine receptor- (nAChR-) mediated responses. Such findings implicate PACAP in modulating nicotinic neurotransmission, but relevant synaptic mechanisms have not been explored. We show here that PACAP acts via selective high-affinity G-protein coupled receptors (PAC(1)Rs) to enhance transmission at nicotinic synapses on parasympathetic ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons by rapidly and persistently increasing the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous, impulse-dependent nicotinic excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs). Of the canonical adenylate cyclase (AC) and phospholipase-C (PLC) transduction cascades stimulated by PACAP/PAC(1)R signaling, only AC-generated signals are critical for synaptic modulation since the increases in sEPSC frequency and amplitude were mimicked by 8-Bromo-cAMP, blocked by inhibiting AC or cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), and unaffected by inhibiting PLC. Despite its ability to increase agonist-induced nAChR currents, PACAP failed to influence nAChR-mediated impulse-independent miniature EPSC amplitudes (quantal size). Instead, evoked transmission assays reveal that PACAP/PAC(1)R signaling increased quantal content, indicating that it modulates synaptic function by increasing vesicular ACh release from presynaptic terminals. Lastly, signals generated by the retrograde messenger, nitric oxide- (NO-) are critical for the synaptic modulation since the PACAP-induced increases in spontaneous EPSC frequency, amplitude and quantal content were mimicked by NO donor and absent after inhibiting NO synthase (NOS). These results indicate that PACAP/PAC(1)R activation recruits AC-dependent signaling that stimulates NOS to increase NO production and control presynaptic transmitter output at neuronal nicotinic synapses.
After central nervous system (CNS) injury, meningeal fibroblasts migrate in the lesion center to form a fibrotic scar which is surrounded by end feet of reactive astrocytes. The fibrotic scar expresses various axonal growth-inhibitory molecules and creates a major impediment for axonal regeneration. We developed an in vitro model of the scar using coculture of cerebral astrocytes and meningeal fibroblasts by adding transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), a potent fibrogenic factor. Addition of TGF-beta1 to this coculture resulted in enhanced proliferation of fibroblasts and the formation of cell clusters which consisted of fibroblasts inside and surrounded by astrocytes. The cell cluster in culture densely accumulated the extracellular matrix molecules and axonal growth-inhibitory molecules similar to the fibrotic scar, and remarkably inhibited the neurite outgrowth of cerebellar neurons. Therefore, this culture system can be available to analyze the inhibitory property in the lesion site of CNS.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone acts via cell surface receptors but most human (h) GnRH receptors (GnRHRs) are intracellular. A membrane-permeant nonpeptide antagonist [(2S)-2-[5-[2-(2-axabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-2-yl)-1,1-dimethy-2-oxoethyl]-2-(3,5-dimethylphenyl)-1H-indol-3-yl]-N-(2-pyridin-4-ylethyl)propan-1-amine (IN3)] increases hGnRHR expression at the surface, apparently by facilitating its exit from the endoplasmic reticulum. Here we have quantified GnRHR by automated imaging in HeLa cells transduced with adenovirus expressing hemagglutinin-tagged GnRHR. Consistent with an intracellular site of action, IN3 increases cell surface hGnRHR, and this effect is not blocked or mimicked by membrane-impermeant peptide antagonists [Ac-D2Nal-D4Cpa-D3Pal-Ser-Tyr-d-Cit-Leu-Arg-Pro-d-Ala-NH(2) (cetrorelix) and antide]. However, when the C-terminal tail of a Xenopus (X) GnRHR was added (h.XGnRHR) to increase expression, both peptides further increased cell surface GnRHR. Cetrorelix also synergized with IN3 to increase expression of hGnRHR and a G-protein coupling-deficient mutant (A261K-hGnRHR). Cetrorelix also increased cell surface expression of hGnRHR, h.XGnRHR, and mouse GnRHR in gonadotrope-lineage LbetaT2 cells, and in HeLa cells it slowed h.XGnRHR internalization (measured by receptor-mediated antihemagglutinin uptake). Thus cetrorelix has effects other than GnRHR blockade; it acts as an inverse agonist in internalization assays, supporting the potential importance of ligand-biased efficacy at GnRHR. We also developed an imaging assay for GnRH function based on Ca(2+)-dependent nuclear translocation of a nuclear factor of activated T cells reporter. Using this in HeLa and LbetaT2 cells, IN3 and cetrorelix behaved as competitive antagonists when coincubated with GnRH, and long-term pretreatment (16 h) with IN3 reduced its effectiveness as an inhibitor whereas pretreatment with cetrorelix increased its inhibitory effect. This distinction between peptide and nonpeptide antagonists may prove important for therapeutic applications of GnRH antagonists.
D-amino acid oxidase (DAO) is a flavoenzyme that metabolizes certain D-amino acids, notably the endogenous N-methyl D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) co-agonist, D-serine. As such, it has the potential to modulate the function of NMDAR and to contribute to the widely hypothesized involvement of NMDAR signalling in schizophrenia. Three lines of evidence now provide support for this possibility: DAO shows genetic associations with the disorder in several, although not all, studies; the expression and activity of DAO are increased in schizophrenia; and DAO inactivation in rodents produces behavioural and biochemical effects, suggestive of potential therapeutic benefits. However, several key issues remain unclear. These include the regional, cellular and subcellular localization of DAO, the physiological importance of DAO and its substrates other than D-serine, as well as the causes and consequences of elevated DAO in schizophrenia. Herein, we critically review the neurobiology of DAO, its involvement in schizophrenia, and the therapeutic value of DAO inhibition. This review also highlights issues that have a broader relevance beyond DAO itself: how should we weigh up convergent and cumulatively impressive, but individually inconclusive, pieces of evidence regarding the role that a given gene may have in the aetiology, pathophysiology and pharmacotherapy of schizophrenia?
Previous studies have implicated DTNBP1 as a schizophrenia susceptibility gene and its encoded protein, dysbindin, as a potential regulator of synaptic vesicle physiology. In this study, we found that endogenous levels of the dysbindin protein in the mouse brain are developmentally regulated, with higher levels observed during embryonic and early postnatal ages than in young adulthood. We obtained biochemical evidence indicating that the bulk of dysbindin from brain exists as a stable component of biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex-1 (BLOC-1), a multi-subunit protein complex involved in intracellular membrane trafficking and organelle biogenesis. Selective biochemical interaction between brain BLOC-1 and a few members of the SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) superfamily of proteins that control membrane fusion, including SNAP-25 and syntaxin 13, was demonstrated. Furthermore, primary hippocampal neurons deficient in BLOC-1 displayed neurite outgrowth defects. Taken together, these observations suggest a novel role for the dysbindin-containing complex, BLOC-1, in neurodevelopment, and provide a framework for considering potential effects of allelic variants in DTNBP1--or in other genes encoding BLOC-1 subunits--in the context of the developmental model of schizophrenia pathogenesis.
Oncolytic viral (OV) therapy is a promising therapeutic modality for brain tumors. Vasculostatin (Vstat120) is the cleaved and secreted extracellular fragment of brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor 1 (BAI1), a brain-specific receptor. To date, the therapeutic efficacy of Vstat120 delivery into established tumors has not been investigated. Here we tested the therapeutic efficacy of combining Vstat120 gene delivery in conjunction with OV therapy. We constructed RAMBO (Rapid Antiangiogenesis Mediated By Oncolytic virus), which expresses Vstat120 under the control of the herpes simplex virus (HSV) IE4/5 promoter. Secreted Vstat120 was detected as soon as 4 hours postinfection in vitro and was retained for up to 13 days after OV therapy in subcutaneous tumors. RAMBO-produced Vstat120 efficiently inhibited endothelial cell migration and tube formation in vitro (P = 0.0005 and P = 0.0184, respectively) and inhibited angiogenesis (P = 0.007) in vivo. There was a significant suppression of intracranial and subcutaneous glioma growth in mice treated with RAMBO compared to the control virus, HSVQ (P = 0.0021 and P &lt; 0.05, respectively). Statistically significant reduction in tumor vascular volume fraction (VVF) and microvessel density (MVD) was observed in tumors treated with RAMBO. This is the first study to report the antitumor effects of Vstat120 delivery into established tumors and supports the further development of RAMBO as a possible cancer therapy.
The &quot;Trond&quot; protocol of nerve excitability tests has been used widely to assess axonal function in peripheral nerve. In this study, the routine Trond protocol was expanded to refine assessment of cAMP-dependent, hyperpolarization-activated current (I(h)) activity. I(h) activity is generated by hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-modulated (HCN) channels in response to hyperpolarization. It limits activity-dependent hyperpolarization, contributes to neuronal automaticity, and is implicated in chronic pain states. Published data regarding I(h) activity in motor nerve are scant. We used additional strong, prolonged hyperpolarizing conditioning stimuli in the threshold electrotonus component of the Trond protocol to demonstrate the time-course of activation of I(h) in motor axons. Fifteen healthy volunteers were tested on four occasions during 1 week. I(h) action was revealed in the threshold electrotonus by the limiting and often reversal, after about 100 ms, of the threshold increase caused by strong hyperpolarizing currents. Statistical analysis by repeated-measures analysis of variance enabled confidence limits to be established for variation between subjects and within subjects. The results demonstrate that, of all the excitability parameters, those dependent on I(h) were the most characteristic of an individual, because variance between subjects was more than four times the variance within subjects. This study demonstrates a reliable method for in vivo assessment of I(h,) and also serves to document the normal variability in nerve excitability properties within subjects.
By following a group of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients longitudinally using lower motor neuron (LMN) and upper motor neuron (UMN) markers of dysfunction it may be possible to better understand the functional relationships between these motor systems in this disease. We used neurophysiological techniques to follow UMN and LMN dysfunction in a group of 28 patients with ALS, in comparison with the ALS functional rating scale (ALS-FRS) score and the forced vital capacity (FVC). We used motor unit number estimation (MUNE), compound muscle action potential (CMAP) amplitude, and the Neurophysiological Index (NI) to quantify the LMN disorder, and transcranial motor stimulation to study cortical motor threshold, motor-evoked response amplitude, central motor conduction time, and cortical silent period (CSP). The patients were studied shortly after diagnosis and then 6 months later, using both abductor digiti minimi muscles (ADM); ADM strength was initially &gt;MRC 3 (Medical Research Council, UK). The NI and MUNE changed more than any other variable. CSP increased by about 30%, a change more marked than the slight increase observed in the cortical motor threshold (9%). The normal increase of CSP after acute muscle fatigue was preserved during disease progression. The CSP increase correlated with the MUNE rate of decay but not to the NI reduction, perhaps because NI includes F-wave frequency in itscalculation. There was no definite correlation between UMN and LMNdysfunction or progression, but there was a link between CSP and LMN changes in ALS. The CSP may be a useful variable in following UMN dysfunction in clinical practice and in clinical trials.
Scapuloperoneal spinal muscular atrophy (SPSMA) and hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type IIC (HMSN IIC, also known as HMSN2C or Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2C (CMT2C)) are phenotypically heterogeneous disorders involving topographically distinct nerves and muscles. We originally described a large New England family of French-Canadian origin with SPSMA and an American family of English and Scottish descent with CMT2C. We mapped SPSMA and CMT2C risk loci to 12q24.1-q24.31 with an overlapping region between the two diseases. Further analysis reduced the CMT2C risk locus to a 4-Mb region. Here we report that SPSMA and CMT2C are allelic disorders caused by mutations in the gene encoding the transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily V, member 4 (TRPV4). Functional analysis revealed that increased calcium channel activity is a distinct property of both SPSMA- and CMT2C-causing mutant proteins. Our findings link mutations in TRPV4 to altered calcium homeostasis and peripheral neuropathies, implying a pathogenic mechanism and possible options for therapy for these disorders.




Central pattern generators (CPGs) are spinal neuronal networks required for locomotion. Glutamatergic neurons have been implicated as being important for intrinsic rhythm generation in the CPG and for the command signal for initiating locomotion, although this has not been demonstrated directly. We used a newly generated vesicular glutamate transporter 2-channelrhodopsin2-yellow fluorescent protein (Vglut2-ChR2-YFP) mouse to directly examine the functional role of glutamatergic neurons in rhythm generation and initiation of locomotion. This mouse line expressed ChR2-YFP in the spinal cord and hindbrain. ChR2-YFP was reliably expressed in Vglut2-positive cells and YFP-expressing cells could be activated by light. Photo-stimulation of either the lumbar spinal cord or the caudal hindbrain was sufficient to both initiate and maintain locomotor-like activity. Our results indicate that glutamatergic neurons in the spinal cord are critical for initiating or maintaining the rhythm and that activation of hindbrain areas containing the locomotor command regions is sufficient to directly activate the spinal locomotor network.
Here we found that perforant path stimulation in rat hippocampal slices evoked long-lasting barrages of synaptic inputs in subpopulations of dentate gyrus mossy cells and hilar interneurons. Synaptic barrages triggered persistent firing in hilar neurons (hilar up-states). We found that synaptic barrages originate from semilunar granule cells (SGCs), glutamatergic neurons in the inner molecular layer that generate long-duration plateau potentials in response to excitatory synaptic input. MK801, nimodipine and nickel all abolished both stimulus-evoked plateau potentials in SGCs and synaptic barrages in downstream hilar neurons without blocking fast synaptic transmission. Hilar up-states triggered functional inhibition in granule cells that persisted for more than 10 s. Hilar cell assemblies, identified by simultaneous triple and paired intracellular recordings, were linked by persistent firing in SGCs. Population responses recorded in hilar neurons accurately encoded stimulus identity. Stimulus-evoked up-states in the dentate gyrus represent a potential cellular basis for hippocampal working memory.
Histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) is a nuclear enzyme involved in transcriptional repression. We detected cytosolic HDAC1 in damaged axons in brains of humans with multiple sclerosis and of mice with cuprizone-induced demyelination, in ex vivo models of demyelination and in cultured neurons exposed to glutamate and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Nuclear export of HDAC1 was mediated by the interaction with the nuclear receptor CRM-1 and led to impaired mitochondrial transport. The formation of complexes between exported HDAC1 and members of the kinesin family of motor proteins hindered the interaction with cargo molecules, thereby inhibiting mitochondrial movement and inducing localized beading. This effect was prevented by inhibiting HDAC1 nuclear export with leptomycin B, treating neurons with pharmacological inhibitors of HDAC activity or silencing HDAC1 but not other HDAC isoforms. Together these data identify nuclear export of HDAC1 as a critical event for impaired mitochondrial transport in damaged neurons.
As anyone who has suffered through a head cold knows, food eaten when the olfactory system is impaired tastes 'wrong', an experience that leads many to conclude that taste stimuli are processed normally only when the olfactory system is unimpaired. Evidence that the taste system influences olfactory perception, however, has been vanishingly rare. We found just such an influence; if taste cortex was inactivated when an odor was first presented, later presentations were properly appreciated only if taste cortex was again inactivated.
'Social value orientation' characterizes individual differences in anchoring attitudes toward the division of resources. Here, by contrasting people with prosocial and individualistic orientations using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we demonstrate that degree of inequity aversion in prosocials is predictable from amygdala activity and unaffected by cognitive load. This result suggests that automatic emotional processing in the amygdala lies at the core of prosocial value orientation.
A major long-term goal of systems neuroscience is to identify the different roles of neural subtypes in brain circuit function. The ability to causally manipulate selective cell types is critical to meeting this goal. This protocol describes techniques for optically stimulating specific populations of excitatory neurons and inhibitory interneurons in vivo in combination with electrophysiology. Cell type selectivity is obtained using Cre-dependent expression of the light-activated channel Channelrhodopsin-2. We also describe approaches for minimizing optical interference with simultaneous extracellular and intracellular recording. These optogenetic techniques provide a spatially and temporally precise means of studying neural activity in the intact brain and allow a detailed examination of the effect of evoked activity on the surrounding local neural network. Injection of viral vectors requires 30-45 min, and in vivo electrophysiology with optogenetic stimulation requires 1-4 h.
The scototaxis (dark/light preference) protocol is a behavioral model for fish that is being validated to assess the antianxiety effects of pharmacological agents and the behavioral effects of toxic substances, and to investigate the (epi)genetic bases of anxiety-related behavior. Briefly, a fish is placed in a central compartment of a half-black, half-white tank; following habituation, the fish is allowed to explore the tank for 15 min; the number and duration of entries in each compartment (white or black) are recorded by the observer for the whole session. Zebrafish, goldfish, guppies and tilapias (all species that are important in behavioral neurosciences and neuroethology) have been shown to demonstrate a marked preference for the dark compartment. An increase in white compartment activity (duration and/or entries) should reflect antianxiety behavior, whereas an increase in dark compartment activity should reflect anxiety-promoting behavior. When individual animals are exposed to the apparatus on only one occasion, results can be obtained in 20 min per fish.
Imaging neurons, glia and vasculature in the living brain has become an important experimental tool for understanding how the brain works. Here we describe in detail a protocol for imaging cortical structures at high optical resolution through a thinned-skull cranial window in live mice using two-photon laser scanning microscopy (TPLSM). Surgery can be performed within 30-45 min and images can be acquired immediately thereafter. The procedure can be repeated multiple times allowing longitudinal imaging of the cortex over intervals ranging from days to years. Imaging through a thinned-skull cranial window avoids exposure of the meninges and the cortex, thus providing a minimally invasive approach for studying structural and functional changes of cells under normal and pathological conditions in the living brain.
Here we describe a protocol for bilateral multielectrode neurophysiological recordings during intracerebral pharmacological manipulations in awake songbirds. This protocol encompasses fitting adult animals with head-posts and recording chambers, and acclimating them to periods of restraint. The adaptation period is followed by bilateral penetrations of multiple electrodes to obtain acute, sensory-driven neurophysiological responses before versus during the application of pharmacological agents of interest. These local manipulations are achieved by simultaneous and restricted drug infusions carried out independently for each hemisphere. We have used this protocol to elucidate how neurotransmitter and neuroendocrine systems shape the auditory and perceptual processing of natural, learned communication signals. However, this protocol can be used to explore the neurochemical basis of sensory processing in other small vertebrates. Representative results and troubleshooting of key steps of this protocol are presented. Following the animal's recovery from head-post and recording chamber implantation surgery, the length of the procedure is 2 d.

Dynamic aspects of interactions between astrocytes, neurons and the vasculature have recently been in the neuroscience spotlight. It has emerged that not only neurons but also astrocytes are organized into networks. Whereas neuronal networks exchange information through electrical and chemical synapses, astrocytes are interconnected through gap junction channels that are regulated by extra- and intracellular signals and allow exchange of information. This intercellular communication between glia has implications for neuroglial and gliovascular interactions and hence has added another level of complexity to our understanding of brain function.
Rarely in the history of neuroscience has a single illustration been as influential as the cytoarchitectonic map of the human brain published by Korbinian Brodmann in his monograph from 1909. The map presents the segregation of the cerebral cortex into 43 areas, as visible in cell body-stained histological sections. More importantly, Brodmann provided a comparative neuroanatomical approach and discussed ontogenetic and pathological aspects as well as structural-functional correlations. One hundred years later, a large number of neuroscientists still use Brodmann's map for localizing neuroimaging data obtained in the living human brain.

Impairments in DNA repair enzymes have been observed in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) tissues, particularly in the activity of the apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APEX1). Moreover, it was suggested that the common APEX1 Asp148Glu polymorphism might be associated with ALS risk. To further address this question we performed the present study aimed at evaluating the contribution of the APEX1 Asp148Glu polymorphism in sporadic ALS (sALS) risk and clinical presentation, including age and site of onset and disease progression. We screened 134 sALS Italian patients and 129 matched controls for the presence of the APEX1 Asp148Glu polymorphism. No difference in APEX1 Asp148Glu allele and genotype frequencies was found between the groups, nor was the polymorphism associated with age and site of onset or disease progression. Present results do not support a role for the APEX1 Asp148Glu polymorphism in sALS pathogenesis in the Italian population.
Previous evidence has suggested both preserved emotional function in aging and age-related differences in emotional processing, but the neural networks underlying such processing alterations in the context of preserved affective function are not clear. Using event-related fMRI, we scanned young and older adults while they made valence ratings for emotional pictures. Behavioral results showed a similar pattern of emotional evaluation, but older adults experienced negatively valenced pictures as being less negative. Consistent with behavioral findings, we identified common activity in the right amygdala, but age-related differences in the functional connectivity of this region with the rest of the brain. Compared to young adults, older adults had greater functional connectivity between the right amygdala and ventral anterior cingulate cortex, possibly reflecting increased emotional regulation. Conversely, older adults showed decreased functional connectivity with posterior brain regions, likely reflecting decreased perceptual processing. Thus, age-related differences in evaluating negatively valenced stimuli might reflect decreased perceptual processing of these stimuli, as well as the engagement of control processes that inhibit the response to negative emotion.
A limited amount of functional recovery commonly occurs in the weeks and months after stroke, and a number of studies show that such recovery is associated with changes in the brain's functional organization. Measures that augment this reorganization in a safe and effective way may therefore help improve outcome in stroke patients. Here we review some of the evidence for functional and anatomical reorganization under normal physiological conditions, along with strategies that augment these processes and improve outcome after brain injury in animal models. These strategies include counteracting inhibitors of axon growth associated with myelin, activating neurons' intrinsic growth state, enhancing physiological activity, and having behavioral therapy. These approaches represent a marked departure from the recent focus on neuroprotection and may provide a more effective way to improve outcome after stroke.
Impairment of sequence learning is common in Parkinson's disease (PD), but the time course of this cognitive abnormality is not known. We assessed longitudinal changes in sequence learning performance and associated task-related cerebral blood flow in 13 early stage PD patients who underwent H(2)(15)O PET at baseline and again 2 years later. Ten healthy volunteer subjects served as controls. A trend toward decline in learning performance (p=0.08) was evident over the 2 years of follow-up. During this interval, significant declines in learning-related activation were detected in parietal and temporo-occipital association areas and in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Learning-related activation in these regions was normal at baseline, but declined to subnormal levels (p&lt;0.01) at 2 years. Significant hippocampal activation (p&lt;0.005) was present in the subjects with high learning performance over time. The findings are consistent with a decline in learning-related neural activity in cortical areas with prominent Lewy body formation.
Intravitreal inflammation, induced by either lens injury, or intravitreal injection of zymosan (IVZ), protects RGC from apoptosis and stimulates axon regeneration after optic nerve transection. Here, we investigate the differential effects of intra-optic nerve zymosan (ONZ) and IVZ injections on RGC neuroprotection and axogenesis. After both IVZ and ONZ injection, zymosan-induced inflammation promoted a similar 4-/5-fold enhancement in RGC survival, compared to optic nerve transected controls, but only IVZ promoted RGC axon regeneration. IVZ was the most effective in activating retinal astrocyte/Mller cells while regulated intramembraneous proteolysis (RIP) of p75(NTR) and inactivation of Rho (key components of the axon growth inhibitory signalling cascade) occurred in both ONZ and IVZ, but only in the latter did RGC axons regenerate. We suggest that neuroprotective factors may be transported to RGC somata by retrograde transport after ONZ and diffuse into the retina after IVZ injection, but an axogenic agent is required to initiate and maintain disinhibited RGC axon regeneration that may be an exclusive property of a Mller cell-derived factor released after IVZ.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to local vascular disruption and progressive ischemia, which contribute to secondary degeneration. Enhancing angiogenesis through the induction of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A expression therefore constitutes an attractive therapeutic approach. Moreover, emerging evidence suggests that VEGF-A may also exhibit neurotrophic, neuroprotective, and neuroproliferative effects. Building on this previous work, we seek to examine the potential therapeutic benefits of an engineered zinc finger protein (ZFP) transcription factor designed to activate expression of all isoforms of endogenous VEGF-A (ZFP-VEGF). Administration of ZFP-VEGF resulted in increased VEGF-A mRNA and protein levels, an attenuation of axonal degradation, a significant increase in vascularity and decreased levels of apoptosis. Furthermore, ZFP-VEGF treated animals showed significant improvements in tissue preservation and neurobehavioural outcomes. These data suggest that activation of VEGF-A via the administration of an engineered ZFP transcription factor holds promise as a therapy for SCI and potentially other forms of neurotrauma.
The fastest, most forceful motor units are lost progressively during asymptomatic disease in the SOD1(G93A) transgenic mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. As the disease progresses the surviving motor units must increase their levels of activity to sustain posture and movement. If activity-dependent conversion of motor units to more fatigue resistant types increased their resilience and hence survival, we hypothesized that an experimental increase in motor unit activity in the hindlimb muscles of the SOD1(G93A) transgenic mouse should &quot;save&quot; those motor units that are normally lost in the first 90 days of age. To test this hypothesis, we partially denervated hindlimb muscles in SOD1(G93A) and their corresponding control SOD1(WT) transgenic mice by avulsion of either L4 or L5 spinal roots at 40 days of age. Whole muscle and single motor unit isometric twitch forces were recorded and the numbers intact motor units in fast-twitch tibialis anterior, medial gastrocnemius, extensor digitorum longus muscles and the slow-twitch soleus muscle were calculated at 90 days of age. We found that the rapid age-dependent decline in numbers of functional motor units in fast-twitch muscles of the SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice was dramatically reduced by the functional hyperactivity in the partially denervated muscles and, that these muscles comprised a significantly higher component of type IIA and type IID/X fibers than those muscles that were innervated by nerves in intact spinal roots. We conclude that the vulnerable motor units are saved by increasing their neuromuscular activity and consequently, converting them to slower, less forceful, fatigue resistant motor units.
We used (11)C-raclopride PET, a marker of D(2) dopamine receptor binding, and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) to localise cortical D(2) receptor dysfunction in individual Huntington's disease (HD) gene carriers (16 symptomatic and 11 premanifest subjects) and assess its clinical significance. 62.5% of symptomatic HD patients and 54.5% of premanifest carriers showed cortical reductions in D(2) binding. The most frequent decreases in cortical binding in individual HD subjects were seen in temporal and frontal areas. Symptomatic HD subjects with decreased cortical D(2) binding had worse scores on neuropsychological tests assessing attention and executive functions than subjects without cortical dopamine dysfunction, notwithstanding comparable reduction in striatal D(2) binding and motor disability. Our results indicate that cortical dopaminergic dysfunction is common in both symptomatic and premanifest HD gene carriers. It is an early event in HD pathophysiology and could contribute to the impairment in neuropsychological performance in these patients.
Amyloid beta peptides and microtubule-associated protein Tau are misfolded and form aggregates in brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. To examine their specific roles in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and their relevance in neurodegenerative processes, we have created TauPS2APP triple transgenic mice that express human mutated Amyloid Precursor Protein, presenilin 2 and Tau. We present a cross-sectional analysis of these mice at 4, 8, 12 and 16 months of age. By comparing with single transgenic Tau mice, we demonstrate that accumulation of Abeta in TauPS2APP triple transgenic mice impacts on Tau pathology by increasing the phosphorylation of Tau at serine 422, as determined by a novel immunodetection method that is able to reliably measure phospho-Tau species in transgenic mouse brains. The TauPS2APP triple transgenic mouse model will be very useful for studying the effect of new therapeutic paradigms on amyloid deposition and downstream neurofibrillary tangle development.
Mice can learn a food preference from odor cues transmitted on the breath of a conspecific, even if the &quot;demonstrator&quot; is anesthetized. To our knowledge there are no studies examining the effect of anesthetizing the &quot;observer&quot; on development of memory for socially transmitted food preferences (STFP). In Experiment 1 we found that 2-4 month-old F2 C57Bl/6x129sv male and female mice demonstrated a STFP after a 5min exposure to an anesthetized demonstrator mouse when tested 24h later. In Experiment 2, observer mice anesthetized with Sagatal (60 mg/kg) prior to the &quot;social interaction&quot; preferentially avoided the cued food when tested 24h later. This aversion was not due to any overt aversive effects of this dose of Sagatal because mice that ate the food and were then anesthetized, or could only smell the food for 5 min while anesthetized, showed no preference or aversion. In a third experiment we found that the Sagatal-induced aversion was not a general property of anesthesia because there were varied results produced by observer mice treated with anesthetic drugs with different mechanisms of action. Vetalar (200mg/kg) and Rompun (10 mg/kg) treated animals ate similar amounts of cued and non-cued food at test, indicating an absence of learning. Hypnorm (0.5 ml/kg) treated animals showed a preference for the cued food whereas those treated with Hypnovel (2.5 ml/kg) showed an aversion to the cued food. These results show that the food aversion observed with Sagatal is not a general property of anesthetic agents, but appears to be restricted to those acting primarily on the GABAergic system. Thus, we have shown that under certain conditions it is possible for an anesthetized observer mouse to learn a preference or aversion of a socially-linked olfactory cue.
Olfaction has particular links with learning and memory compared with other sensory cues, due to the interrelations between their neural circuitry. The present study deals with the effects of a putative stressor (i.e. a predator odor) on visuo-spatial learning in mice. Firstly, the results show that a predator odor spread during the Morris water maze task led to learning enhancement. In addition, a stereotaxic approach was used to investigate the involvement of the amygdala in this hippocampus-dependent type of learning. Thus, the performance of mice in visuo-spatial learning under predator odor conditions was dramatically reduced by an ibotenate bilateral amygdala lesion. The involvement of the amygdala was confirmed by a reduced expression of c-fos in the CA1 hippocampus of amygdala-lesioned mice at the end of the learning procedure. Mild exposure to a predator odor during hippocampus-dependent learning therefore leads to an enhancement of performance through the co-activation of the amygdala, probably by a stress mediated mechanism.
A 43-year-old woman one day experienced a dissociative fugue which she could not recall. She was married, nulliparous, with no history of dissociative disorder or other psychiatric disorders. She had been sexually abused during late childhood-early adolescence. She was examined thoroughly from both psychiatric and medical standpoints to exclude organic causes for her condition. Magnetic Resonance Imaging showed only some non-specific abnormalities. On personality tests, a histrionic structure of personality emerged, with obsessive and narcissistic traits accompanied by rigidity and anxiety, dysphoria and high risk for depression; some impairment was found in executive function tests. Final diagnosis was one of dissociative fugue. In fact, organic traits were not sufficient to establish a diagnosis of Transient Global Amnesia.
Synaptic stimulation in brain slices is accompanied by changes in tissue autofluorescence, which are a consequence of changes in tissue metabolism. Autofluorescence excited by ultraviolet light has been most extensively studied, and is due to reduced pyridine nucleotides (NADH and NADPH, collectively termed NAD(P)H). Stimulation generates a characteristic compound NAD(P)H response, comprising an initial fluorescence decrease and then an overshooting increase that slowly recovers to baseline levels. Evoked NAD(P)H transients are relatively easy to record, do not require the addition of exogenous indicators and have good signal-noise ratios. These characteristics make NAD(P)H imaging methods very useful for tracking the spread of neuronal activity in complex brain tissues, however the cellular basis of synaptically-evoked autofluorescence transients has been the subject of recent debate. Of particular importance is the question of whether signals are due primarily to changes in neuronal mitochondrial function, and/or whether astrocyte metabolism triggered by glutamate uptake may be a significant contributor to the overshooting NAD(P)H fluorescence increases. This mini-review addresses the subcellular origins of NAD(P)H autofluorescence and the evidence for mitochondrial and glycolytic contributions to compound transients. It is concluded that there is no direct evidence for a contribution to NAD(P)H signals from glycolysis in astrocytes following synaptic glutamate uptake. In contrast, multiple lines of evidence, including from complimentary flavoprotein autofluorescence signals, imply that mitochondrial NADH dynamics in neurons dominate compound evoked NAD(P)H transients. These signals are thus appropriate for studies of mitochondrial function and dysfunction in brain slices, in addition to providing robust maps of postsynaptic neuronal activation following physiological activation.
Strain-dependence of performance in the Morris water maze (MWM) has been reported but information on underlying differences at the protein level as well as linkage of hippocampal proteins to memory is limited. No data are available on differences in hippocampal protein levels between (within-strain) &quot;good&quot; and &quot;bad&quot; performers in the MWM. Hippocampi of wild-caught mouse strain Apodemus sylvaticus (AS), laboratory inbred mouse strain C57BL/6J and wild-derived inbred mouse strain PWD/PhJ, that were tested in the MWM, were taken and postsynaptic density protein 95, neuronal marker protein NeuN, dendritic spine protein drebrin, synapsins 1a and 1b and synaptosomal protein syntaxin of the SNARE complex were determined by immunoblotting. These mouse strains with known different performance in the MWM showed different hippocampal protein patterns and by the use of yoked controls proteins could be identified as linked to memory formation. When mice, classified as good or bad performers by the median of time spent in the target quadrant on day 12 of the MWM, experiments, NeuN was discriminating good from bad performers in AS at the stringent statistical level of P&lt;0.0001, an effect not seen in the corresponding yoked controls. Strain-dependence of performance in the MWM was reflected by different hippocampal protein levels. Most hippocampal proteins given above were linked to memory formation in the MWM. The finding that the neuronal protein NeuN is able to discriminate between good and bad performers in the MWM may be of major interest and may open a new area in the search for protein markers of spatial memory performance.
Spatiotemporal changes of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) in the spinal cords of chick embryonic stage day 7 (E7) and day 14 (E14) were examined by using immunohistochemistry and Western blot. Intensive NGF immunoreaction (IR) was detected in the white matter of the spinal cords, while BDNF-IR in perikaryon and neurite, and NT-3-IR in the nucleus and cytoplasm were seen in the neurons of the ventral horn in the gray matter. Comparatively, the expressions for three growth factors have expanded largely into the dorsal horn at E14, and the level of proteins for these growth factors increased significantly in the spinal cords from E7 to E14. Morphological observation showed that the lumbar spinal cords of E7 appeared rectangular, whereas it gave a butterfly shape in the gray matter consisting of the typical ventral horn, dorsal horn and intermediate zone at E14. The present findings indicated that the spatiotemporal changes of NGF, BDNF and NT-3 could be associated to the morphological changes of developing spinal cords, suggesting the possible roles of three growth factors in the development of spinal cords.
Scopolamine, an anticholinergic drug, is reported to produce amnesia by interference of long term potentiation and has been used for discerning the efficacy of various antiamnesic drugs. The intoxication with anticholinergics and benzodiazepines tend to produce neurodegeneration which cause memory deficits. Our earlier reports have shown the antiamnesic drug, B. monniera to be capable of alleviating diazepam induced memory deficits. We have now tested how scopolamine affects downstream signaling molecules of long term potentiation and if B. monniera can also modulate the scopolamine induced amnesia. We used Morris water maze scale to test the amnesic effect of scopolamine and its reversal by B. monniera. Rota-rod test was used to screen muscle coordination activity of mice before water maze investigations were carried out. The results showed that scopolamine downregulated protein kinase C and iNOS without affecting cAMP, protein kinase A, calmodulin, MAP kinase, nitrite, CREB and pCREB. B. monniera reversed the scopolamine induced amnesia by significantly improving calmodulin and by partially attenuating protein kinase C and pCREB. These observations suggest involvement of calmodulin in evoking antiamnesic effects of B. monniera.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common progressive neurodegenerative disorder, for which at present no causal treatment is available. On the understanding that the causes of PD are mainly oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction, antioxidants and other drugs are expected to be used. In the present study, we demonstrated for the first time that pure polyphenols such as gallic acid, ferulic acid, caffeic acid, coumaric acid, propyl gallate, epicatechin, epigallocatechin, and epigallocatechin gallate protect, rescue and, most importantly, restore the impaired movement activity (i.e., climbing capability) induced by paraquat in Drosophila melanogaster, a valid model of PD. We also showed for the first time that high concentrations of iron (e.g. 15 mM FeSO(4)) are able to diminish fly survival and movement to a similar extent as (20 mM) paraquat treatment. Moreover, paraquat and iron synergistically affect both survival and locomotor function. Remarkably, propyl gallate and epigallocatechin gallate protected and maintained movement abilities in flies co-treated with paraquat and iron. Our findings indicate that pure polyphenols might be potent neuroprotective agents for the treatment of PD against stressful stimuli.

Compound forms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease have been recently associated with unusually severe neuropathies, an observation that prompted the proposition that the additive effects of two mutations should be searched in patients whose clinical severity falls outside the common CMT phenotypes. In this report, we present a father and a daughter with a very mild and unusual disease that segregates with two mutations in PMP22 gene, the 17p11.2-p12 duplication and a Ser72Leu point mutation. We propose that the deleterious effects of each mutation are partially compensated by the functional effect of the other.
Variations in the mitochondrial helicase Twinkle (PEO1) gene are usually associated with autosomal dominant chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (PEO). We describe five patients from two unrelated Alsatian families with the new R374W variation in the Twinkle linker region who progressively developed an autosomal dominant multisystem disorder with PEO, hearing loss, myopathy, dysphagia, dysphonia, sensory neuropathy, and late-onset dementia resembling Alzheimer's disease. These observations demonstrate that Twinkle variations in the linker domain alter cerebral function and further implicate disrupted mitochondrial DNA integrity in the pathogenesis of dementia.
Introduced is a general framework for performing group-level analyses of fMRI data using any basis set of two functions (i.e., the canonical hemodynamic response function and its first derivative) to model the hemodynamic response to neural activity. The approach allows for flexible implementation of physiologically based restrictions on the results. Information from both basis functions is used at the group level and the limitations avoid physiologically ambiguous or implausible results. This allows for investigation of specific BOLD activity such as hemodynamic responses peaking within a specified temporal range (i.e., 4-5 s). The general nature of the presented approach allows for applications using basis sets specifically designed to investigate various physiologic phenomena, i.e., age-related variability in poststimulus undershoot, hemodynamic responses measured with cerebral blood flow imaging, or subject-specific basis sets. An example using data from a group of healthy young participants demonstrates the methods and the specific steps to study poststimulus variability are discussed. The approach is completely implemented within the general linear model and requires minimal programmatic calculations.
In-vivo volumetric measurements of hippocampus have proven to be highly informative for studying various neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. The usefulness of volumetric imaging, however, has been limited due to the poor image resolutions obtained by currently available MRI images. In this study, a new result of volumetric image measurement of the hippocampus using 7.0 T MRI images of high contrast and resolution is described. To verify the usefulness of the proposed method, its reliability and sensitivity were examined and compared with existing imaging techniques such as 1.5 T or 3.0 T MRI imaging. The results of our study with 7.0 T MRI clearly demonstrated superior boundary detection for the hippocampal head, body, and tail compared with low field MRIs. In conclusion, robust and reproducible volumetric measurements as well as 3D images of clear contrast obtained with 7.0 T suggest the usefulness of high field MR imaging and its eventual use for the accurate diagnosis of hippocampal diseases and related research.
Functional connectivity analyses of resting-state fMRI data are rapidly emerging as highly efficient and powerful tools for in vivo mapping of functional networks in the brain, referred to as intrinsic connectivity networks (ICNs). Despite a burgeoning literature, researchers continue to struggle with the challenge of defining computationally efficient and reliable approaches for identifying and characterizing ICNs. Independent component analysis (ICA) has emerged as a powerful tool for exploring ICNs in both healthy and clinical populations. In particular, temporal concatenation group ICA (TC-GICA) coupled with a back-reconstruction step produces participant-level resting state functional connectivity maps for each group-level component. The present work systematically evaluated the test-retest reliability of TC-GICA derived RSFC measures over the short-term (&lt;45 min) and long-term (5-16 months). Additionally, to investigate the degree to which the components revealed by TC-GICA are detectable via single-session ICA, we investigated the reproducibility of TC-GICA findings. First, we found moderate-to-high short- and long-term test-retest reliability for ICNs derived by combining TC-GICA and dual regression. Exceptions to this finding were limited to physiological- and imaging-related artifacts. Second, our reproducibility analyses revealed notable limitations for template matching procedures to accurately detect TC-GICA based components at the individual scan level. Third, we found that TC-GICA component's reliability and reproducibility ranks are highly consistent. In summary, TC-GICA combined with dual regression is an effective and reliable approach to exploratory analyses of resting state fMRI data.
Voxel-based morphometry studies are frequently cited as having the advantage of being objective compared to region-of-interest methods. This statement assumes, however, that all regions are treated equally both in controls and diseased cohorts. This study aimed to test whether this statement is correct by analyzing fiducial landmarks in controls, Alzheimer's disease (as a model of mild generalized atrophy model); Frontotemporal Dementia (focal atrophy model) and Semantic Dementia (extreme focal atrophy model). Standard SPM5 and DARTEL were evaluated using either raw or skull-stripped/bias corrected scans. The results indicated that with all methods there was variability in the degree of misregistration across regions and that there was a disease grouping interaction-most severely in the extreme focal atrophy model (Semantic Dementia). Preprocessing improved VBM outputs both with standard SPM and DARTEL. In the latter case, this occurred to an extreme degree-DARTEL using raw data was grossly insensitive to a ground truth (manually verified hippocampal atrophy in AD) whereas DARTEL after preprocessing yielded excellent results with respect to this yardstick.
Many decisions people make can be described as decisions under risk. Understanding the mechanisms that drive these decisions is an important goal in decision neuroscience. Two competing classes of risky decision making models have been proposed to describe human behavior, namely utility-based models and risk-return models. Here we used a novel investment decision task that uses streams of (past) returns as stimuli to investigate how consistent the two classes of models are with the neurobiological processes underlying investment decisions (where outcomes usually follow continuous distributions). By showing (a) that risk-return models can explain choices behaviorally and (b) that the components of risk-return models (value, risk, and risk attitude) are represented in the brain during choices, we provide evidence that risk-return models describe the neural processes underlying investment decisions well. Most importantly, the observed correlation between risk and brain activity in the anterior insula during choices supports risk-return models more than utility-based models because risk is an explicit component of risk-return models but not of the utility-based models.
Supervised machine learning (ML) algorithms are increasingly popular tools for fMRI decoding due to their predictive capability and their ability to capture information encoded by spatially correlated voxels. In addition, an important secondary outcome is a multivariate representation of the pattern underlying the prediction. Despite an impressive array of applications, most fMRI applications are framed as classification problems and predictions are limited to categorical class decisions. For many applications, quantitative predictions are desirable that more accurately represent variability within subject groups and that can be correlated with behavioural variables. We evaluate the predictive capability of Gaussian process (GP) models for two types of quantitative prediction (multivariate regression and probabilistic classification) using whole-brain fMRI volumes. As a proof of concept, we apply GP models to an fMRI experiment investigating subjective responses to thermal pain and show GP models predict subjective pain ratings without requiring anatomical hypotheses about functional localisation of relevant brain processes. Even in the case of pain perception, where strong hypotheses do exist, GP predictions were more accurate than any region previously demonstrated to encode pain intensity. We demonstrate two brain mapping methods suitable for GP models and we show that GP regression models outperform state of the art support vector- and relevance vector regression. For classification, GP models perform categorical prediction as accurately as a support vector machine classifier and furnish probabilistic class predictions.
In a recent electroencephalography (EEG) study (Takeichi et al., 2007a), we developed a new technique for assessing speech comprehension using speech degraded by m-sequence modulation and found a correlation peak with a 400-ms delay. This peak depended on the comprehensibility of the modulated speech sounds. Here we report the results of a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment comparable to our previous EEG experiment. We examined brain areas related to verbal comprehension of the modulated speech sound to examine which neural system processes this modulated speech. A non-integer, alternating-block factorial design was used with 23 Japanese-speaking participants, with time reversal and m-sequence modulation as factors. A main effect of time reversal was found in the left temporal cortex along the superior temporal sulcus (BA21 and BA39), left precentral gyrus (BA6) and right inferior temporal gyrus (BA21). A main effect of modulation was found in the left postcentral gyrus (BA43) and the right medial frontal gyri (BA6) as an increase by modulation and in the left temporal cortex (BA21, 39), parahippocampal gyrus (BA34), posterior cingulate (BA23), caudate and thalamus and right superior temporal gyrus (BA38) as a decrease by modulation. An interaction effect associated specifically with non-modulated speech was found in the left frontal gyrus (BA47), left occipital cortex in the cuneus (BA18), left precuneus (BA7, 31), right precuneus (BA31) and right thalamus (forward&gt;reverse). The other interaction effect associated specifically with modulation of speech sound was found in the inferior frontal gyrus in the opercular area (BA44) (forward&gt;reverse). Estimated scalp projection of the component correlation function (Cao et al., 2002) for the corresponding EEG data (Takeichi et al., 2007a, showed leftward dominance. Hence, activities in the superior temporal sulcus (BA21 and BA39), which are commonly observed for speech processing, as well as left precentral gyrus (BA6) and left inferior frontal gyrus in the opercular area (BA44) is suggested to contribute to the comprehension-related EEG signal.
Following the success of PET/CT during the last decade and the recent increasing proliferation of SPECT/CT, another hybrid imaging instrument has been gaining more and more interest: MR-PET. First combined, simultaneous PET and MR studies carried out in small animals demonstrated the feasibility of the new approach. Concurrently, some prototypes of an MR-PET scanner for simultaneous human brain studies have been built, their performance is being tested and preliminary applications have already been shown. Through this pioneering work, it has become clear that advances in the detector design are necessary for further optimization. Recently, the different issues related to the present state and future prospects of MR-PET were presented and discussed during an international 2-day workshop at the Forschungszentrum Jlich, Germany, held after, and in conjunction with, the 2008 IEEE Nuclear Science Symposium and Medical Imaging Conference in Dresden, Germany on October 27-28, 2008. The topics ranged from small animal MR-PET imaging to human MR-BrainPET imaging, new detector developments, challenges/opportunities for ultra-high field MR-PET imaging and considerations of possible future research and clinical applications. This report presents a critical summary of the contributions made to the workshop.
Inversion (rotation around 180 degrees ) impairs body recognition and affects early electrophysiological responses (especially the N170). However, the relationship between electrophysiological responses and behavior is as yet unclear. Furthermore, the presence of the head seems to have an impact on body recognition performances as well as on related electrophysiological responses. The present study aimed to investigate the course of behavioral and electrophysiological body inversion effects depending upon the degree of deviation from the upright position (0 degrees , 360 degrees ) to the inverted position (180 degrees ). Body stimuli were presented either with heads (masked face) or without heads in a delayed matching task. For human bodies presented with and without heads, there was a quadratic relationship between the angle of rotation and the behavioral performance as well as the N170 amplitude, with maximum performance disruption at 180 degrees deviation from the upright stimulus. The data indicate that configural body processing occurs during the structural encoding of body stimuli.
Much of the variation in both neuronal and behavioral responses to stimuli can be explained by pre-stimulus fluctuations in brain activity. We hypothesized that also errors are the result of stochastic fluctuations in pre-stimulus activity and investigated the temporal dynamics of the scalp topography and their concomitant intracranial generators of stimulus- and response-locked high-density event-related potentials (ERPs) to errors and correct trials in a Stroop task. We found significant differences in ERP map topography and intracranial sources before the onset of the stimulus and after the initiation of the response but not as a function of stimulus-induced conflict. Before the stimulus, topographic differences were accompanied by differential activity in lateral frontal, parietal and temporal areas known to be involved in voluntary reorientation of attention and cognitive control. Differential post-response activity propagated both medially and laterally on a rostral-caudal axis of a network typically involved in performance monitoring. Analysis of the statistical properties of error occurrences revealed their stochasticity.
There are few studies on the neuroanatomical determinants of EEG spectral properties that would explain its substantial inter-individual variability in spite of decades of biophysical modeling that predicts this type of relationship. An exception is the negative relation between head size and the spectral position of the alpha peak (P(alpha)) reported in Nunez et al. (1978)-proposed as evidence of the influence of global boundary conditions on slightly damped neocortical waves. Here, we attempt to reexamine this finding by computing the correlations of occipital P(alpha) with various measures of head size and cortical surface area, for 222 subjects from the EEG/MRI database of the Cuban Human Brain Mapping Project. No relation is found (p&gt;0.05). On the other hand, biophysical models also predict that white matter architecture, determining time delays and connectivities, could have an important influence on P(alpha). This led us to explore relations between P(alpha) and DTI fractional anisotropy by means of a multivariate penalized regression. Clusters of voxels with highly significant relations were found. These were positive within the Posterior and Superior Corona Radiata for both hemispheres, supporting biophysical theories predicting that the period of cortico-thalamocortical cycles might be modulating the alpha frequency. Posterior commissural fibers of the Corpus Callosum present the strongest relationships, negative in the inferior part (Splenium), connecting the inferior occipital lobes and positive in the superior part (Isthmus and Tapetum), connecting the superior occipital cortices. We found that white matter architecture rather than neocortical area determines the dynamics of the alpha rhythm.
Recently, structural MRI studies in children have been used to examine relations between brain volume and behavioral measures. However, most of these studies have been done in children older than 2 years of age. Obtaining volumetric measures in infants is considerably more difficult, as structures are less well defined and largely unmyelinated, making segmentation challenging. Moreover, it is still unclear whether individual anatomic variation across development, in healthy, normally developing infants, is reflected in the configuration and function of the mature brain and, as importantly, whether variation in infant brain structure might be related to later cognitive and linguistic abilities. In this longitudinal study, using T1 structural MRI, we identified links between amygdala volume in normally developing, naturally sleeping, 6-month infants and their subsequent language abilities at 2, 3 and 4 years. The images were processed and manually segmented using Cardviews to extract volumetric measures. Intra-rater reliability for repeated segmentation was 87.73% of common voxel agreement. Standardized language assessments were administered at 6 and 12 months and at 2, 3 and 4 years. Significant and consistent correlations were found between amygdala size and language abilities. Children with larger right amygdalae at 6 months had lower scores on expressive and receptive language measures at 2, 3, and 4 years. Associations between amygdala size and language outcomes have been reported in children with autism. The findings presented here extend this association to normally developing children, supporting the idea that the amygdalae might play an important but as yet unspecified role in mediating language acquisition.
We investigated differences associated with age and hypertension, a common risk factor for vascular disease, in three aspects of white matter integrity--gross regional volumes of the white matter, volume of the white matter hyperintensities (WMH) and diffusion properties. We acquired MRI scans on 93 adult volunteers (age 50-77 years; 36 with diagnosis of hypertension or elevated blood pressure), and obtained all measures in seven brain regions: frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital white matter, and the genu, body and splenium of the corpus callosum. The results demonstrated robust age-related differences in diffusion-based indices of cerebral white matter integrity and age-related increase in the WMH volume, but no age differences in the gross regional volumes of the white matter. Hypertension was associated with decline in fractional anisotropy, and exacerbated age differences in fractional anisotropy more than those in the volume of WMH. These findings indicate that of all examined measures, diffusion-based indices of white matter integrity may be the most sensitive indicators of global and regional declines and vascular damage in the aging brain.
Adaptive spatial filters (beamformers) have gained popularity as an effective method for the localization of brain activity from magnetoencephalography (MEG) data. Among the attractive features of some beamforming methods are high spatial resolution and no localization bias even in the presence of random noise. A drawback common to all beamforming methods, however, is significant degradation in performance in the presence of sources with high temporal correlations. Using numerical simulations and examples of auditory and visual evoked field responses, we demonstrate that, at typical signal-to-noise levels, the complete attenuation of fully correlated brain activity is less likely to occur, although significant localization and amplitude biases may occur. We compared various methods for correcting these biases and found the coherent source suppression model (CSSM) (Dalal et al., 2006) to be the most effective, with small biases for widely separated sources (e.g., bilateral auditory areas), however, amplitude biases increased systematically as distance between the sources was decreased. We assessed the performance and systematic biases that may result from the use of this model, and confirmed our findings with real examples of correlated brain activity in bilateral occipital and inferior temporal areas evoked by visually presented faces in a group of 21 adults. We demonstrated the ability to localize source activity in both regions, including correlated sources that are in close proximity ( approximately 3 cm) in bilateral primary visual cortex when using a priori information regarding source location. We conclude that CSSM, when carefully applied, can significantly improve localization accuracy, although amplitude biases may remain.
Many neuroscience studies have demonstrated that the human amygdala is a central element in the neural workspace that computes affective value. Emerging evidence suggests that novelty is an affective dimension that engages the amygdala independently of other affective properties. This current study is the first in which novelty, valence, and arousal were systematically examined for their relative contributions to amygdala activation during affective processing. Healthy young adults viewed International Affective Picture System (IAPS) images that varied along the dimensions of valence (positive, negative, neutral), arousal (high, mid, low), and novelty (novel, familiar). The results demonstrate that, in comparison to negative (vs. positive) and high (vs. low) arousal stimuli, the amygdala has higher peak responses and a selectively longer time course of activation to novel (vs. familiar) stimuli. In addition, novelty differentially engaged other affective brain areas including those involved in controlling and regulating amygdala responses (e.g., orbitofrontal cortex), as well as those transmitting sensory signals that the amygdala modulates (e.g., occipitotemporal visual cortex). Taken together with other findings, these results support the idea that an essential amygdala function is signaling stimulus importance or salience. The results also suggest that novelty is a critical stimulus dimension for amygdala engagement (in addition to valence and arousal).
Motivational orientation defines the source of motivation for an individual to perform a particular action and can either originate from internal desires (e.g., interest) or external compensation (e.g., money). To this end, motivational orientation should influence the way positive or negative feedback is processed during learning situations and this might in turn have an impact on the learning process. In the present study, we thus investigated whether motivational orientation, i.e., extrinsic and intrinsic motivation modulates the neural response to reward and punishment as well as learning from reward and punishment in 33 healthy individuals. To assess neural responses to reward, punishment and learning of reward contingencies we employed a probabilistic reversal learning task during functional magnetic resonance imaging. Extrinsic and intrinsic motivation were assessed with a self-report questionnaire. Rewarding trials fostered activation in the medial orbitofrontal cortex and anterior cingulate gyrus (ACC) as well as the amygdala and nucleus accumbens, whereas for punishment an increased neural response was observed in the medial and inferior prefrontal cortex, the superior parietal cortex and the insula. High extrinsic motivation was positively correlated to increased neural responses to reward in the ACC, amygdala and putamen, whereas a negative relationship between intrinsic motivation and brain activation in these brain regions was observed. These findings show that motivational orientation indeed modulates the responsiveness to reward delivery in major components of the human reward system and therefore extends previous results showing a significant influence of individual differences in reward-related personality traits on the neural processing of reward.
Op de Beeck (Op de Beeck, H., 2009. Against hyperacuity in brain reading: Spatial smoothing does not hurt multivariate fMRI analyses? Neuroimage) challenges the possibility of extracting information from subvoxel representations via random biases associated with voxel sampling, the hypothesis proposed by Kamitani and Tong (Kamitani, Y., Tong, F., 2005. Decoding the visual and subjective contents of the human brain. Nat. Neurosci. 8, 679-685). Here, we show that his results provide no evidence against the possibility, being consistent with both of the subvoxel and supravoxel representation models. Classification of spatially smoothed fMRI data is not an effective means to probe into information sources for multivoxel decoding, since smoothing does not hurt the information contents of multivoxel patterns. We point out the danger of interpreting multivoxel decoding results based on intuitions guided by the conventional brain mapping paradigm.
The role for neuroimaging in the management of patients with tremor is gradually increasing, particularly with respect to stereotactic neurosurgery and deep brain stimulation where less than 2-mm tolerance is required for accurate electrode placement. The routine use of single photon emission CT technology to image the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system is proving helpful in distinguishing essential and dystonic tremors from neurodegenerative forms of parkinsonism and in improving our understanding of the pathophysiology of rarer tremors.
The substantia nigra and subthalamic nucleus are two key structures in the midbrain that are very important in movement disorders, particularly those associated with parkinsonism. Using conventional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging, the anatomic description of both these structures can be challenging. This article describes the importance of understanding the underlying anatomy and some of the changes associated with pathology in these structures. Advances in MR imaging are discussed, including high-field MR imaging, diffusion tensor imaging, inversion-recovery imaging, and susceptibility-weighted imaging, with particular reference to the substantia nigra and subthalamic nucleus. Understanding of MR imaging features of these nuclei needs to be firmly based on underlying knowledge of anatomy and pathology from postmortem studies, and more work is needed in this field.




Platypnea-orthodeoxia is a syndrome characterized by dyspnea and hypoxemia in orthostatism relieved by supine position. This phenomenon is frequently associated with interatrial communication, mainly patent foramen ovale. The association of platypnea-orthodeoxia syndrome with recurrent stroke and patent foramen ovale is extremely uncommon. A 73-year-old woman experienced recurrent attacks of dyspnea after an ischemic stroke. Arterial blood gas analysis changes in upright and supine position confirmed the diagnosis of platypnea-orthodeoxia syndrome. Contrast-enhanced transthoracic echocardiography showed patent foramen ovale with atrial septal aneurysm and right-to-left shunt. Percutaneous closure of patent foramen ovale led to stabilization of blood oxygen saturation and resolution of dyspnea. Platypnea-orthodeoxia syndrome should be considered in patients with stroke and unexplained dyspnea. The diagnosis could lead to correction of an unknown cardiac defect and of potential risk factor for stroke.
Behcet's disease (BD) is a multisystem relapsing inflammatory disorder. Nervous system involvement is the most serious manifestation of BD. Neuro-Behcet's disease (n-BD) is classified into parenchymal meningoencephalitis pattern and non-parenchymal vascular patterns. Isolated meningitis is rarely the sole presenting feature of n-BD. We report a 19-year-old man with BD who presented with cranial polyneuropathy secondary to aseptic meningitis. He made a gradual though incomplete recovery with steroid therapy. Cranial polyneuropathy secondary to meningeal involvement can be a presentation of n-BD, and Behcet's disease should be a consideration in patients with idiopathic cranial polyneuropathy.
It has been known for some time that the somata of neurons in sensory ganglia respond to electrical or chemical stimulation and release transmitters in a Ca2+-dependent manner. The function of the somatic release has not been well delineated. A unique characteristic of the ganglia is that each neuronal soma is tightly enwrapped by satellite glial cells (SGCs). The somatic membrane of a sensory neuron rarely makes synaptic contact with another neuron. As a result, the influence of somatic release on the activity of adjacent neurons is likely to be indirect and/or slow. Recent studies of neuron-SGC interactions have demonstrated that ATP released from the somata of dorsal root ganglion neurons activates SGCs. They in turn exert complex excitatory and inhibitory modulation of neuronal activity. Thus, SGCs are actively involved in the processing of afferent information. In this review, we summarize our understanding of bidirectional communication between neuronal somata and SGCs in sensory ganglia and its possible role in afferent signaling under normal and injurious conditions. The participation of purinergic receptors is emphasized because of their dominant roles in the communication.
Astrocytes communicate with neurons, endothelial and other glial cells through transmission of intercellular calcium signals. Satellite glial cells (SGCs) in sensory ganglia share several properties with astrocytes, but whether this type of communication occurs between SGCs and sensory neurons has not been explored. In the present work we used cultured neurons and SGCs from mouse trigeminal ganglia to address this question. Focal electrical or mechanical stimulation of single neurons in trigeminal ganglion cultures increased intracellular calcium concentration in these cells and triggered calcium elevations in adjacent glial cells. Similar to neurons, SGCs responded to mechanical stimulation with increase in cytosolic calcium that spread to the adjacent neuron and neighboring glial cells. Calcium signaling from SGCs to neurons and among SGCs was diminished in the presence of the broad-spectrum P2 receptor antagonist suramin (50 muM) or in the presence of the gap junction blocker carbenoxolone (100 muM), whereas signaling from neurons to SGCs was reduced by suramin, but not by carbenoxolone. Following induction of submandibular inflammation by Complete Freund's Adjuvant injection, the amplitude of signaling among SGCs and from SGCs to neuron was increased, whereas the amplitude from neuron to SGCs was reduced. These results indicate for the first time the presence of bidirectional calcium signaling between neurons and SGCs in sensory ganglia cultures, which is mediated by the activation of purinergic P2 receptors, and to some extent by gap junctions. Furthermore, the results indicate that not only sensory neurons, but also SGCs release ATP. This form of intercellular calcium signaling likely plays key roles in the modulation of neuronal activity within sensory ganglia in normal and pathological states.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a highly familial condition and is increasingly being recognized as an important form of dementia. The literature published on this disease is often difficult to collate due to the wide range in nomenclature used. Thankfully, consensus recommendations have now been published to address this issue and hopefully the community will adopt these as intended. Much progress has been made in our understanding of the clinical, pathological and genetic understanding of FTLD in recent years. Progranulin and TDP-43 have recently been identified as new important proteins involved in the pathophysiology of FTLD and this latter protein may have potential as a biomarker of this disease. However, much remains before we have a full picture of the genes that cause FTLD and the biological pathways in which they function. The purpose of this review is to summarize the current concepts and recent advances in our knowledge of this disease.

Excessive activation of glutamate receptors contributes to Purkinje cell (PC) damage during brain ischemia, but the mechanisms of glutamate release are contentious. Age, gender and temperature all strongly influence ischemic brain damage, but the mechanisms underlying their influence are not fully understood. We determined how age, gender and temperature influence ATP loss, glutamate release, glutamate receptor activation and PC damage during cerebellar ischemia. We used voltage-clamped PCs to monitor glutamate release during simulated ischemia in slices of cerebellum of different ages and genders, and at different temperatures. While gender did not affect ischemic glutamate release, both young age and low temperature dramatically delayed the onset of glutamate release without affecting its magnitude. Glutamate receptor and transporter density were similar around young and old PCs, but the rate of ATP decline during ischemia was dramatically slowed in young animals and by lowered temperature. Bypassing the ischemia-induced loss of ATP, and disrupting ionic gradients directly by pharmacologically inhibiting the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, reduced the difference in timing of glutamate release in newborn and mature cerebellum. Ischemic damage in newborn and mature cerebellum paralleled ATP loss and glutamate release, but blocking glutamate receptors did not prevent ischemic damage. Thus, protection against brain ischemia provided by young age or lowered temperature is due to slower consumption and hence delayed loss of ATP, with a corresponding delay in glutamate release and other undetermined damage mechanisms. The protection afforded by female gender must occur downstream of ATP decline, glutamate release, and activation of glutamate receptors on PCs.
PDE10A is a member of the phosphodiesterase superfamily highly enriched within medium spiny neurons (MSN) in mammalian striatum. We have used inhibitors of PDE10A and quantitative measures of mRNA to demonstrate that PDE10A controls striatal gene expression by regulating MSN cyclic nucleotide signaling pathways. Acute treatment with PDE10A inhibitors produces rapid and transient transcription of the immediate early gene cfos in rat striatum. Although inhibition of PDE10A causes accumulation of both cAMP and cGMP, the increase in striatal cfos expression appears to depend on changes in cAMP, since the increase is present in mice deficient in nNOS which fail to increase cGMP in response to PDE10A inhibition. Consistent with its expression in a majority of striatal MSN, PDE10A inhibition significantly induces expression of both substance P and enkephalin, neuropeptide markers for the direct and indirect striatal output pathways, respectively. These findings support the hypothesis that PDE10A modulates signal transduction in both striatal output pathways and suggest that PDE10A inhibitors may offer a unique approach to the treatment of schizophrenia.
Most animal models of pain cannot separate the sensory and affective components of pain. One model that has been used to assess affective pain is the place escape avoidance paradigm (PEAP). The aim of the current study is two-fold. First, validate PEAP with Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflammation for the assessment of the affective component of pain using the reference analgesics celecoxib, diclofenac and duloxetine; fluoxetine and scopolamine were tested as negative controls. Secondly, determine if there is a difference in efficacy in PEAP in comparison to the effects of the same compounds on von Frey-evoked mechanical allodynia in CFA animals. All compounds were tested in mechanical allodynia, place escape/avoidance, and for potentially confounding side effects in locomotor activity. Results show that celecoxib, diclofenac, and duloxetine significantly increased the time spent on the side associated with stimulation of the injured paw, whereas fluoxetine and scopolamine had no effect. Higher doses of celecoxib, diclofenac, duloxetine, and fluoxetine were required to attenuate von Frey-evoked mechanical allodynia. In the side effect assays, only fluoxetine decreased locomotor activity at doses used in PEAP. These results show that in inflammatory pain induced by CFA injection, PEAP is more sensitive to the effects of pain relieving compounds than mechanical allodynia. Fluoxetine showed efficacy in the mechanical allodynia test, but not PEAP, whereas duloxetine showed efficacy in mechanical allodynia and PEAP. These studies show that methods other than reflex based measures of pain such as affective pain models could be more predictive of efficacy/potency in the clinic.
The aim of our paper is to show that there is a sense of body that is enactive in nature and that enables to capture the most primitive sense of self. We will argue that the body is primarily given to us as source or power for action, i.e., as the variety of motor potentialities that define the horizon of the world in which we live, by populating it with things at hand to which we can be directed and with other bodies we can interact with. We will show that this sense of body as bodily self is, on the one hand, antecedent the distinction between sense of agency and sense of ownership, and, on the other, it enables and refines such distinction, providing a conceptual framework for the coherent interpretation of a variety of behavioral and neuropsychological data. We will conclude by positing that the basic experiences we entertain of our selves as bodily selves are from the very beginning driven by our interactions with other bodies as they are underpinned by the mirror mechanism.
The neural circuits underlying initial sensory processing of somatic information are relatively well understood. In contrast, the processes that go beyond primary somatosensation to create more abstract representations related to the body are less clear. In this review, we focus on two classes of higher-order processing beyond somatosensation. Somatoperception refers to the process of perceiving the body itself, and particularly of ensuring somatic perceptual constancy. We review three key elements of somatoperception: (a) remapping information from the body surface into an egocentric reference frame, (b) exteroceptive perception of objects in the external world through their contact with the body, and (c) interoceptive percepts about the nature and state of the body itself. Somatorepresentation, in contrast, refers to the essentially cognitive process of constructing semantic knowledge and attitudes about the body, including: (d) lexical-semantic knowledge about bodies generally and one's own body specifically, (e) configural knowledge about the structure of bodies, (f) emotions and attitudes directed towards one's own body, and (g) the link between physical body and psychological self. We review a wide range of neuropsychological, neuroimaging and neurophysiological data to explore the dissociation between these different aspects of higher somatosensory function.
alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptor (AMPAR) surface expression in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) is enhanced after withdrawal from repeated cocaine exposure. However, it is unclear whether this contributes to the expression of locomotor sensitization and whether similar changes can be observed in other striatal regions. In this study we examined the relationship between AMPAR surface expression in the NAc and locomotor sensitization. We also examined AMPAR distribution in the dorsolateral striatum (DS) and NMDA receptor (NMDAR) distribution in the NAc and DS. Trends but no significant changes in NMDAR distribution were found in the NAc after withdrawal. No NMDAR changes were observed in the DS. AMPAR surface expression was increased in the NAc 15 days after the last exposure to cocaine, but decreased in the DS. Re-exposure to cocaine on withdrawal day 14 decreased AMPAR surface expression in the NAc 24 h, but not 30 min, after challenge, but increased it in the DS 24 h and 30 min after challenge. Locomotor sensitization was evaluated at times associated with increased or decreased AMPAR surface expression in the NAc. The magnitude of sensitization did not vary with changes in the level of AMPAR surface expression, nor was it significantly reduced by decreasing AMPAR transmission through intra-NAc infusion of CNQX before cocaine challenge. On the basis of our results, and other findings, we suggest that the expression of sensitization has no clear relationship to altered AMPAR surface expression in the NAc, although the latter may have a role in the enhanced pursuit and self-administration of drugs observed in sensitized rats.
A strong link exists between cigarette smoking and alcohol use, which may be explained by the experimental observation that alcohol ingestion promotes cigarette craving and precipitates smoking. At the neuroanatomic level, it is unclear where and how alcohol exerts these effects, although the process likely involves the ventral striatum given its function in motivational salience and appetitive reinforcement. In a double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover study, heavy drinking nondaily social smokers (ie, light smokers or 'chippers') were examined using functional magnetic resonance imaging after they ingested an acute dose of alcohol or placebo. We probed reactivity in the ventral striatum and other brain regions during exposure to visual smoking vs nonsmoking control cues. We found that alcohol enhanced self-reported ratings of desire to smoke, and in this context, significantly increased ventral striatum responses to smoking compared with control cues. In exploratory analyses, we observed that alcohol dampened orbitofrontal activity across both cue types, whereas dorsolateral prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortex activation to smoking cues was not affected by alcohol. This study bridges a pharmacological challenge approach to the study of brain reactivity to smoking cues, extends prior cigarette cue imaging studies to nondependent smokers, and elucidates a potential neurobiological mechanism to explain the co-consumption of alcohol and cigarettes in nondependent users.
Amphetamine is a stimulant drug that enhances attention and feelings of alertness. Amphetamine's effects are known to be modulated by endogenous cannabinoids, which are degraded by the enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). In this study we investigated inter-individual differences in mood response to amphetamine in relation to four polymorphisms in the FAAH gene, including the FAAH missense variant rs324420C --&gt; A (Pro129Thr), which was previously found to be associated with street drug use and addictive traits. One hundred and fifty-nine healthy Caucasian volunteers participated in a three-session, double-blind crossover study receiving either placebo or oral d-amphetamine (10 and 20 mg). Associations between individual genotypes and levels of self-reported Arousal (Profile of Mood States) after d-amphetamine ingestion were investigated using two-way ANOVAs/ANCOVAs. Association analyses for haplotypes were performed using the adaptive permutation approach implemented in PLINK. Genotypes at rs3766246 and rs2295633 were significantly associated with increased ratings of Arousal (p&lt;0.05) and Fatigue (p&lt;0.01) after the 10-mg dose. Fatigue levels were also found to be associated with the haplotypes CCC and TAT formed from rs3766246, rs324420, and rs2295633 (p&lt;0.05). These data suggest that the endocannabinoid system influences variation in subjective response to amphetamine. This has important implications for understanding the role of endogenous cannabinoids in response to amphetamine, studies of poly-substance abuse, and understanding the genetic determinants of inter-individual differences in stimulant effects and risk of abuse.
Surprisingly little scientific research has been conducted on the topic of interpersonal touch over the years, despite the importance of touch in our everyday social interactions from birth through to adulthood and old age. In this review, we critically evaluate the results of the research on this topic that have emerged from disciplines, such as cognitive and social psychology, neuroscience, and cultural anthropology. We highlight some of the most important advances to have been made in our understanding of this topic: For example, research has shown that interpersonal tactile stimulation provides an effective means of influencing people's social behaviors (such as modulating their tendency to comply with requests, in affecting people's attitudes toward specific services, in creating bonds between couples or groups, and in strengthening romantic relationships), regardless of whether or not the tactile contact itself can be remembered explicitly. What is more, interpersonal touch can be used to communicate emotion in a manner similar to that demonstrated previously in vision and audition. The recent growth of studies investigating the potential introduction of tactile sensations to long-distance communication technologies (by means of mediated or 'virtual' touch) are also reviewed briefly. Finally, we highlight the synergistic effort that will be needed by researchers in different disciplines if we are to develop a more complete understanding of interpersonal touch in the years to come.
CT (C tactile) afferents are a distinct type of unmyelinated, low-threshold mechanoreceptive units existing in the hairy but not glabrous skin of humans and other mammals. Evidence from patients lacking myelinated tactile afferents indicates that signaling in these fibers activate the insular cortex. Since this system is poor in encoding discriminative aspects of touch, but well-suited to encoding slow, gentle touch, CT fibers in hairy skin may be part of a system for processing pleasant and socially relevant aspects of touch. CT fiber activation may also have a role in pain inhibition. This review outlines the growing evidence for unique properties and pathways of CT afferents.
K(+)-selective ion channels are critical determinants of membrane excitability in neuronal cells. Like many other cells in our body, neuronal cells have a propensity to maintain their homeostasis. Action potential firing is the most important function to maintain in brain neurons, as they are the elements of neural networks. If one element fires action potentials at an abnormally high rate, the entire network could become epileptic. Therefore, brain neurons adjust their intrinsic membrane excitability to maintain the firing rate within their own optimal operational range. When a neuron receives an enormous input, it will reduce the membrane excitability to prevent overshooting. When it is deprived of stimulus, the membrane becomes more excitable to avoid total quiescence. The homeostatic regulation of intrinsic excitability provides stability to the neural network in the face of dynamic and plastic synaptic inputs. In the past decade, we have learned that neurons achieve this type of homeostatic regulation through a variety of ion channels, including K(+) channels. It has also become clear that under certain pathological conditions, these homeostatic mechanisms provide neuroprotection. In this article, I will review recent advances in our understanding of K(+) channel-mediated homeostatic regulation of neuronal excitability and discuss involvement of these channels in hyperexcitable diseases where they provide neuroprotection.
The adjacency of intracranial pathology to canonical regions of eloquence has long been considered a significant source of potential morbidity in the neurosurgical care of patients. Yet, several reports exist of patients who undergo resection of gliomas or other intracranial pathology in eloquent regions without adverse effects. This raises the question of whether anatomical and intracranial location can or should be used as a means of estimating eloquence. In this review, the authors systematically evaluate the factors that are known to affect anatomical-functional relationships, including anatomical, functional, pathology-related, and modality-specific sources of variability. This review highlights the unpredictability of functional eloquence based on anatomical features alone and the fact that patients should not be considered ineligible for surgical intervention based on anatomical considerations alone. Rather, neurosurgeons need to take advantage of modern technology and mapping techniques to create individualized maps and management plans. An individualized approach allows one to expand the number of patients who are considered for and who potentially may benefit from surgical intervention. Perhaps most importantly, an individualized approach to mapping patients with brain tumors ensures that the risk of iatrogenic functional injury is minimized while maximizing the extent of resection.

IN THE LATTER half of the sixth century BC, Croton was the site of the most famous medical school in Magna Graecia, where diseases of the human body were examined in a scientific and experimental manner instead of by using the contemporary supernatural, nearly magical concepts. Alcmaeon was one of the most active physicians interested in human physiology in the medical tradition of Croton. Although Alcmaeon was devoted to science and was a skillful experimentalist, little is known about his life and his exact birth date. The relative isolation of Alcmaeon from the great philosophical currents of his time probably facilitated his unprejudiced methodology and may have prevented him from disclosing his theories and demonstrating their value. He pioneered the concept of the relationship between the brain and the mind and was the first to identify the brain as the center of understanding and the essential organ for perceptions, sensations, and thoughts. Through systematic observations, Alcmaeon brought many things to light about the characteristics of the eye and the presence of channels connecting head sensory organs to the brain. He stated that the soul was immortal and introduced the tekmairesthai doctrine, through which the ideas of anamnesis and prognosis gave birth. We highlight his contributions to medical thought, and especially to neuroscience, which reveal Alcmaeon to be a thinker of considerable originality and one of the greatest philosophers, naturalists, and neuroscientists of all time.
Many studies have shown that deficits in olfactory and cognitive functions precede the classical motor symptoms seen in Parkinson's disease (PD) and that olfactory testing may contribute to the early diagnosis of this disorder. Although the primary cause of PD is still unknown, epidemiological studies have revealed that its incidence is increased in consequence of exposure to certain environmental toxins. In this study, most of the impairments presented by C57BL/6 mice infused with a single intranasal (i.n.) administration of the proneurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) (1 mg/nostril) were similar to those observed during the early phase of PD, when a moderate loss of nigral dopamine neurons results in olfactory and memory deficits with no major motor impairments. Such infusion decreased the levels of the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase in the olfactory bulb, striatum, and substantia nigra by means of apoptotic mechanisms, reducing dopamine concentration in different brain structures such as olfactory bulb, striatum, and prefrontal cortex, but not in the hippocampus. These findings reinforce the notion that the olfactory system represents a particularly sensitive route for the transport of neurotoxins into the central nervous system that may be related to the etiology of PD. These results also provide new insights in experimental models of PD, indicating that the i.n. administration of MPTP represents a valuable mouse model for the study of the early stages of PD and for testing new therapeutic strategies to restore sensorial and cognitive processes in PD.
Nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy is seen exclusively during sleep and is characterized by three distinct seizure phenotypes: paroxysmal arousals, paroxysmal dystonia, and episodic wandering. Mutations of CHRNA4, CHRNB2, or CHRNA2 genes encoding alpha4, beta2 or alpha2 subunits of neuronal nicotinic ACh receptor (nAChR) have been identified in the individuals with sporadic type NFLE and pedigrees with autosomal dominant type of NFLE (ADNFLE). In the past decade, various electrophysiological studies have analyzed the functional abnormalities of ADNFLE/NFLE mutant nAChR; however, the detailed pathogenesis of ADNFLE/NFLE has remained to be clarified. Therefore, to explore the pathogenesis of ADNFLE/NFLE, genetic animal models harboring ADNFLE mutant Chrna4 genes have recently been established. The face, construct and predictive validities have been demonstrated in a transgenic rat strain bearing the S284L mutant Chrna4 gene. The in vivo analyses of the functional abnormalities using genetic ADNFLE/NFLE animal models suggest the putative mechanisms of the ADNFLE/NFLE seizure onset during slow wave sleep.
This article describes the evolution of Egyptian neurosurgery. It highlights the experiences of the ancient Egyptians in treatment of the central nervous system diseases. These experiences were documented through their papyrus writings and their drawings over the walls in ancient temples. The aim of this article is not only to search for the roots of neurosurgery in Egypt but also to showcase the present and future status of neurosurgery. Neurosurgery developed as a specialty earlier in Egypt and has led the development of this specialty in Africa and the Middle East. It is worthwhile tracing the history of neurosurgery of past civilizations, ancient medicine, and the work of pioneers.


The association between multiple autoimmune diseases can make management of the ocular proptosis very difficult and challenging for the orbit surgeon. We report an interesting case of a patient affected by Stiff person syndrome, type-1 diabetes and Graves' disease with Graves' orbitopathy, who underwent orbital decompression. Anaesthesiologic problems, as well as factors affecting the post-operative result, are discussed in detail; pertinent literature review was performed and discussed.

Following spinal cord injury (SCI), individuals lose normal sensation and often develop debilitating neuropathic pain. Basic research has helped to elucidate many of the underlying mechanisms, but unanswered questions remain concerning how sensation changes after SCI and potential negative consequences of regenerative therapies. Mouse models provide an opportunity to explore these questions using genetic markers and manipulations. However, despite the increasing use of mice in pain and sensory research, the responses to sensory stimuli after SCI are poorly characterized in this species. This study evaluated behavioral responses to mechanical and nociceptive stimuli applied to the hindlimbs and the dorsal trunk in C57BL/6 mice after mid-thoracic SCI. Adult mice were subjected to laminectomy, contusion injuries of different severities, or complete transections to test the hypothesis that the patterns of sensory pathology depend on the extent of tissue damage at the injury site. In the hind paws, hyper-responsiveness to a heat stimulus developed independent of injury severity, while mechanical sensitivity decreased, except after the most severe contusion injuries sparing less than 2% of the white matter at the injury site, when enhanced sensitivity was observed. On the trunk, mechanical and pin prick testing revealed diminished sensitivity at and below the injury level, while responses above the level of the injury were unchanged. The contrast in injury severity threshold for thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity in the hind paws suggests that these responses have different underlying mechanisms. These results establish essential baseline information for murine studies of pain and changes in sensation after SCI.
It is reasonably well established that prior to the motor phase of classical Parkinson's disease (PD) there is a prodromal period of several years duration. Once typical motor features appear, the disease continues up to 20 years depending on multiple variables. The clinical features of the prodromal and motor phases may be correlated with pathological changes in the central and autonomic nervous systems to allow a sequential plan of disease progression. We present a 'best guess' for a typical individual presenting with PD in their sixties and speculate that the disease will last approximately 40 years from the earliest non-motor features to death. Appreciation of this concept may allow better strategies for slowing or halting disease progression.

A functional variant in the Histamine N-Methyltransferase gene (HNMT - rs11558538) resulting in a threonine to isoleucine substitution (Thr105Ile) has been shown to impair histamine degradation. Two recent studies reported that the threonine allele of this polymorphism might be a risk factor for Parkinson disease (PD) and essential tremor (ET) development. Although PD and ET are considered different entities, they share some clinical and pathological features, suggesting a possible joint etiology. In this study we assess the role of the Thr105Ile variant in PD and ET development, genotyping the variant in a North American Caucasian PD and ET case-control series. Statistical analysis did not identify any significant association between this variant and PD or ET; therefore, our findings do not support the HNMT Thr105Ile variant as a factor in disease development or a genetic link between the disorders.
Recently, a variant in LINGO1 (rs9652490) was found to associate with increased risk of essential tremor. We set out to replicate this association in an independent case-control series of essential tremor from North America. In addition, given the clinical and pathological overlap between essential tremor and Parkinson disease, we also evaluate the effect of LINGO1 rs9652490 in two case-control series of Parkinson disease. Our study demonstrates a significant association between LINGO1 rs9652490 and essential tremor (P = 0.014) and Parkinson disease (P = 0.0003), thus providing the first evidence of a genetic link between both diseases.
We describe two children from a consanguineous family who manifested mega-corpus callosum, polymicrogyria, and psychomotor retardation. These patients also exhibited the brain anomalies of pontine hypoplasia and an abnormal cerebellar vermis. Our report confirms the genetic nature of megalencephaly-polymicrogyria-mega-corpus callosum syndrome, suggests a possible autosomal-recessive inheritance, and expands the spectrum of this rare entity.
Measures of cognition support diagnostic and treatment decisions in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. We used an integrative neuroscience framework to assess cognition and associated brain-function correlates in large attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and healthy groups. Matched groups of 175 attention deficit hyperactivity disorder children/adolescents and 175 healthy control subjects were assessed clinically, with the touch screen-based cognitive assessment battery &quot;IntegNeuro&quot; (Brain Resource Ltd., Sydney, Australia) and the &quot;LabNeuro&quot; (Brain Resource Ltd., Sydney, Australia) platform for psychophysiologic recordings of brain function and body arousal. IntegNeuro continuous performance task measures of sustained attention classified 68% of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder patients with 76% specificity, consistent with previous reports. Our additional cognitive measures of impulsivity, intrusive errors, inhibition, and response variability improved sensitivity to 88%, and specificity to 91%. Positive predictive power was 96%, and negative predictive power, 88%. These metrics were stable across attention deficit hyperactivity disorder subtypes and age. Consistent with their brain-based validity, cognitive measures were correlated with corresponding brain-function and body-arousal measures. We propose a combination of candidate cognitive &quot;markers&quot; that define a signature for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: &quot;sustained attention,&quot; &quot;impulsivity,&quot; &quot;inhibition,&quot; &quot;intrusions,&quot; and &quot;response variability.&quot; These markers offer a frame of reference to support diagnostic and treatment decisions, and an objective benchmark for monitoring outcomes of interventions.
It has long been known that protection against pathogens invading the organism via mucosal surfaces correlates better with the presence of specific antibodies in local secretions than with serum antibodies. The most effective way to induce mucosal immunity is to administer antigens directly to the mucosal surface. The development of vaccines for mucosal application requires antigen delivery systems and immunopotentiators that efficiently facilitate the presentation of the antigen to the mucosal immune system. This review provides an overview of the events within mucosal tissues that lead to protective mucosal immune responses. The understanding of those biological mechanisms, together with knowledge of the technology of vaccines and adjuvants, provides guidance on important technical aspects of mucosal vaccine design. Not being exhaustive, this review also provides information related to modern adjuvants, including polymeric delivery systems and immunopotentiators.

The present study determined regional serotonin (5-HT) synthesis and metabolism changes associated with the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NA) and the influence of 5-HT receptor blockade in the antidepressant-like actions of L-NA in the forced swimming test (FST). Regional effects of L-NA (5,10 and 20mg/kg i.p.) on tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) activity, the rate limiting enzyme for 5-HT synthesis, were determined by measuring accumulation of the transient intermediate 5-hydoxytryptophan (5-HTP) following in vivo administration of the amino acid decarboxylase inhibitor, NSD 1015 (100mg/kg). L-NA (5-20mg/kg) dose dependently increased 5-HTP accumulation, particularly in the amygdaloid cortex, following exposure to the FST. L-NA also provoked an increase in regional brain 5-HIAA concentrations and in the 5-HIAA:5-HT metabolism ratio. Co-treatment with NSD-1015 failed to consistently modify the antidepressant-like effects of L-NA in the FST. Sub-active doses of L-NA (1mg/kg) and the 5-HT re-uptake inhibitor fluoxetine (2.5mg/kg) acted synergistically to increase swimming in the test. Co-treatment with the non-selective 5-HT receptor antagonist metergoline (1, 2 and 4mg/kg), attenuated the L-NA (20mg/kg)-induced reduction in immobility and increase in swimming behaviours. Metergoline alone however provoked an increase in immobility and reduction in swimming behaviours in the test. A similar response was obtained following co-treatment with the preferential 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist ketanserin (5mg/kg) and the 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist RO-430440 (5mg/kg). Co-treatment with the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY 100635 (0.3mg/kg) or the 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist GR 127935 (4mg/kg) failed to influence the antidepressant-like activity of L-NA. Taken together these data provide further support for a role for 5-HT in the antidepressant-like properties of NOS inhibitors.
Brain damage due to an episode of hypoxia remains a major problem in infants causing deficit in motor and sensory function. Molecular processes regulating the dopamine receptors play a very important role in motor and cognitive functions. Disturbances in the development of the dopaminergic system lead to dyskinesia, dystonia, tics and abnormal eye movements. The present study is to understand the hypoxic damage to the dopamine content and dopamine D(1), dopamine D(2) receptors in cerebellum and the neuroprotective effect of glucose supplementation prior to the current sequence of resuscitation-oxygen and epinephrine supplementation in neonatal rats. Dopamine content in the cerebellum showed a significant decrease in hypoxic neonatal rats when compared to control. Dopamine D(1) and dopamine D(2) receptors showed a decrease in B(max) during hypoxia. The cerebellar dopamine, dopamine D(1) and dopamine D(2) receptors showed significant decrease on supplementation of 100% oxygen alone to hypoxic rats when compared to control rats. Dopamine D(1) and dopamine D(2) receptors mRNA showed significant decrease during epinephrine supplementation prior to resuscitation. These dopaminergic receptor alterations were reversed to near control by glucose supplementation. Thus our results suggest that glucose acts as a neuroprotective agent in dopaminergic receptors function. This has immense clinical significance to correct the resuscitation sequence in neonatal care.

Glutamate receptors are major excitatory receptors in the brain. Recent findings have established auxiliary subunits of glutamate receptors as critical modulators of synaptic transmission, synaptic plasticity, and neurological disorder. The elucidation of the molecular rules governing glutamate receptors and subunits will improve our understanding of synapses and of neural-circuit regulation in the brain.




Atypical antipsychotics such as olanzapine and clozapine are effective at treating the multiple domains of schizophrenia, with a low risk of extra-pyramidal side-effects. However a major downfall to their use is metabolic side-effects particularly weight gain/obesity, which occurs by unknown mechanisms. The present paper explores the potential candidature of histaminergic neurotransmission in the mechanisms of atypical antipsychotic-induced weight gain, with a focus on the histaminergic H1 and H3 receptors. Olanzapine and clozapine have a high affinity for the H1 receptor, and meta-analyses show a strong correlation between risk of weight gain and H1 receptor affinity. In addition, olanzapine treatment decreases H1 receptor binding and mRNA expression in the rat hypothalamus. Furthermore, a complex role is emerging for the histamine H3 receptor in the control of hunger. The H3 receptor is a pre-synaptic autoreceptor that inhibits the synthesis and release of histamine, and a heteroreceptor that inhibits other neurotransmitters such as serotonin (5-HT), noradrenaline (NA) and acetylcholine (ACh), which are also implicated in the regulation of food intake. Thus, the H3 receptor is in a prime position to regulate food intake, both through its control of histamine and its influence on other feeding pathways. We proposed that a mechanism for atypical antipsychotic-induced weight gain may be partly through the H3 receptor, as a drug-induced decrease in H1 receptor activity may decrease histamine tone through the H3 autoreceptors, compounding the weight gain problem. In addition, atypical antipsychotics may affect food intake by influencing 5-HT, NA and ACh release via interactions with the H3 heteroreceptor.
Preclinical data suggest that cystamine stands as a promising neuroprotective agent against Huntington's and Parkinson's diseases. To decipher the mechanisms of action of cystamine, we investigated the effects of various doses of cystamine (10, 50, and 200mg/kg) on the regulation of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), its receptor tropomyosin-receptor-kinase B (TrkB) and on the heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) brain mRNA expression in relation to the time after administration. We have determined that the lower cystamine dose is the most efficient to promote putative neuroprotective effects. Indeed, an acute administration of 10mg/kg of cystamine increased the expression of BDNF mRNA in the substantia nigra compacta (SNc), although it did not significantly influence TrkB or Hsp70 mRNA. Higher cystamine doses resulted in the absence of activation of any of these markers or led to non-specific effects. We have also substantiated the neuroprotective effect of a 21-day treatment of 10mg/kg/day of cystamine in young adult mice against MPTP-induced loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-striatal fiber density, nigral dopamine cells and nigral Nurr1 mRNA expression. The neuroprotective action of cystamine in the same animals was associated with an up-regulation of BDNF in the SNc. Taken together, these results strengthen the neuroprotective potential of cystamine in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and point towards the up-regulation of BDNF as an important mechanism of action.
Glucocorticoids are known to cause psychiatric disorders including depression. Prednisolone (PSL) is one of the most widely used synthetic glucocorticoids to treat various medical diseases; however, little is known about PSL-induced behavioral changes and its molecular basis in the brain. Growing evidence has implicated that hippocampal remodeling or damage play a role in the pathogenic effect of glucocorticoids. In this study, mice were administered PSL (50 or 100mg/kg) or vehicle for 6 or 7 days and subjected to a series of behavioral tests, i.e., open field, elevated plus maze, prepulse inhibition, forced swim, and tail suspension tests. Hippocampal tissues were subject to microarray analysis using the GeneChip Mouse Genome 430 2.0 Array (Affymetrix) containing 45,101 probes of transcripts. Increased anxiety- and depression-like behaviors assessed with open field, elevated plus maze, and tail suspension tests were observed. Microarray analysis detected 108 transcripts with a fold change of &gt;2.0 or &lt;0.5 in which many cell-death-related genes were found. The microarray data was validated by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis. Our results demonstrated that PSL causes anxiety- and depression-like behaviors, and suggest that altered gene expressions related to hippocampal remodeling or damage are involved in the effect of PSL on such behaviors.
The neuropeptide Y (NPY) system has been largely studied in relation to affective disorders, in particular for its role in the mechanisms regulating the pathophysiology of anxiety and depression and in the stress-related behaviours. Although NPY has been previously investigated in a variety of animal models of mood disorders, the receptor subtype mainly involved in the modulation of the stress response has not been identified. In the present study, the chronic psychosocial stress based on the resident-intruder protocol-an ethologically relevant paradigm known to induce behavioural and endocrine modifications which mimic depression-like symptoms-was used. Two different species were investigated: rat and tree shrew (Tupaia belangeri); the latter is regarded as an intermediate between insectivores and primates and it was chosen in this study for its pronounced territoriality. In these animals, the regulation of NPY and of Y(1), Y(2) and Y(5) receptors mRNA expression was evaluated after chronic stress and chronic antidepressant treatment by in situ hybridization in selected brain regions known to be involved in the pathophysiology of mood disorders. The animals were exposed to psychosocial stress for 35 days and concomitant daily fluoxetine treatment (10 mg/kg for rats and 15 mg/kg for tree shrews) after the first week of stress. The results confirmed a major role for hippocampal and hypothalamic NPY system in the pathophysiology of mood disorders. Although there were no evident differences between rat and tree shrew in the NPY system distribution, an opposite effect of chronic psychosocial stress was observed in the two species. Moreover, chronic antidepressant treatment was able to counteract the effects of stress and restored basal expression levels, suggesting the utility of these paradigms as preclinical models of stress-induced depression. Overall, although evident species differences were found in response to chronic psychosocial stress, the present study suggests a role for NPY receptors in the stress response and in the action of antidepressant drugs, providing further support for an involvement of this neuropeptidergic system in the pathophysiology of depression and anxiety.

Protein aggregation into insoluble fibrillar structures known as amyloid characterizes several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Huntington's and Creutzfeldt-Jakob. Transthyretin (TTR), a homotetrameric plasma protein, is known to be the causative agent of amyloid pathologies such as FAP (familial amyloid polyneuropathy), FAC (familial amyloid cardiomiopathy) and SSA (senile systemic amyloidosis). It is generally accepted that TTR tetramer dissociation and monomer partial unfolding precedes amyloid fibril formation. To explore the TTR unfolding landscape and to identify potential intermediate conformations with high tendency for amyloid formation, we have performed molecular dynamics unfolding simulations of WT-TTR and L55P-TTR, a highly amyloidogenic TTR variant. Our simulations in explicit water allow the identification of events that clearly discriminate the unfolding behavior of WT and L55P-TTR. Analysis of the simulation trajectories show that (i) the L55P monomers unfold earlier and to a larger extent than the WT; (ii) the single alpha-helix in the TTR monomer completely unfolds in most of the L55P simulations while remain folded in WT simulations; (iii) L55P forms, early in the simulations, aggregation-prone conformations characterized by full displacement of strands C and D from the main beta-sandwich core of the monomer; (iv) L55P shows, late in the simulations, severe loss of the H-bond network and consequent destabilization of the CBEF beta-sheet of the beta-sandwich; (v) WT forms aggregation-compatible conformations only late in the simulations and upon extensive unfolding of the monomer. These results clearly show that, in comparison with WT, L55P-TTR does present a much higher probability of forming transient conformations compatible with aggregation and amyloid formation.
Recent evidence has identified the NR4A1 (NUR77, NGFI-B) gene as a strong candidate for involvement in tardive dyskinesia (TD). We have investigated the association of six single nucleotide polymorphisms within the NR4A family of genes with TD in a sample of 171 patients with schizophrenia of Caucasian descent. The NR4A1 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) marker rs2603751 showed a nominal association with the risk of TD, as well as with the extent of TD based on the Abnormal Involuntary Movements Scale (AIMS) scores. The haplotype generated by the markers rs2603751 and rs2701124 also showed association with TD and, after adjustment for multiple testing, both the NR4A1 marker rs2603751 and the haplotype continued to show a trend toward association with TD. Although the results of this study are limited by a small sample size, it presents important pilot data and warrants further investigation of the involvement of NR4A1 variants in TD.

The aim of the present study was to retrospectively evaluate women who were admitted to Hiroshima University Hospital, Department of Psychiatry and Neurosciences, from 1979 to 2008. The women were classified as 'depressed women' (n = 159; mean age, 52.3 +/- 5.7 years) or 'non-depressed women' (n = 182; mean age, 51.5 +/- 4.5 years). A total of 14.5% of the depressed women and 3.3% of the non-depressed women had a hysterectomy and/or oophorectomy; this difference was statistically significant (P = 0.0003). This is consistent with previous reported information as well as clinical experience that depressed women had a higher incidence of hysterectomy and/or oophorectomy.

Whether high-level properties of stimuli rendered invisible by interocular competition can influence perception and behavior remains controversial. We studied whether suppressed and invisible symbolic and nonsymbolic numerical stimuli can elicit priming. First, we established that participants were objectively unable to discriminate numerical prime stimuli when interocular suppression rendered them invisible. Next, we asked participants to enumerate a visible target set of items after being exposed to a suppressed, invisible (nonsymbolic or symbolic) prime set. Both symbolic and nonsymbolic unconsciously perceived numerical primes induced robust priming effects that were specific to the numerical distance between the target and prime. Comparison with a no-prime condition revealed that primes larger than targets interfered with target enumeration and primes the same as or smaller than targets facilitated target enumeration. Taken together, our findings provide clear evidence for high-level processing of stimuli rendered invisible through interocular suppression.
Chronic stressors and inflammatory immune activation may contribute to pathophysiological alterations associated with both major depression and cardiovascular disease. The present study, conducted in mice, assessed whether a chronic stressor of moderate severity that induced an anhedonic effect, when coupled with a bacterial endotoxin, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), additively or interactively provoked circulating and heart atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), a potentially useful diagnostic and prognostic tool in cardiac diseases. As well, given the potential role of inflammatory processes in both depression and cardiovascular disease, we assessed pro-inflammatory mRNA expression in heart in response to the stressor and the LPS treatments. Male CD-1 mice that had been exposed to a chronic, variable stressor over 4 weeks displayed reduced sucrose consumption, possibly reflecting the anhedonic effects of the stressor. Treatment with LPS (10mug) provoked increased circulating corticosterone levels in both chronically stressed and non-stressed mice. Moreover, ANP concentrations in plasma and in the left ventricle were increased by both the stressor and the LPS treatments, as were left atrial and ventricular cytokine (interleukin-1beta; tumor necrosis factor-alpha) mRNA expression. Further, these treatments synergistically influenced the rise of plasma ANP. A link may exist between stressor-provoked depressive features (anhedonia) and immune activation, with elevated levels of ANP, a potential marker of cardiovascular disturbance. These findings are consistent with the view that chronic stressors and inflammatory immune activation may represent a common denominator subserving the frequent comorbidity between these illnesses.
Methamphetamine (MA) abuse has reached epidemic proportions in the United States. Users of MA report dramatic increases in sexual drive that have been associated with increased engagement in risky sexual behavior leading to higher rates of sexually transmitted diseases and unplanned pregnancies. The ability of MA to enhance sexual drive in females is enigmatic since related psychostimulants like amphetamine and cocaine appear not to affect sexual drive in women, and in rodents models, amphetamine has been reported to be inhibitory to female sexual behavior. Examination of MA's effects on female sexual behavior in an animal model is lacking. Here, using a rodent model, we have demonstrated that MA enhanced female sexual behavior. MA (5mg/kg) or saline vehicle was administered once daily for 3 days to adult ovariectomized rats primed with ovarian steroids. MA treatment significantly increased the number of proceptive events and the lordosis response compared to hormonally primed, saline controls. The effect of MA on the neural circuitry underlying the motivation for sexual behavior was examined using Fos immunoreactivity. In the medial amygdala and the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, nuclei implicated in motivated behaviors, ovarian hormones and MA independently enhance the neuronal activation, but more striking was the significantly greater activation induced by their combined administration. Increases in dopamine neurotransmission may underlie the MA/hormone mediated increase in neuronal activation. In support of this possibility, ovarian hormones significantly increased tyrosine hydroxylase (the rate limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis) immunoreactivity in the medial amygdala. Thus our present data suggest that the interactions of MA and ovarian hormones leads to changes in the neural substrate of key nuclei involved in mediating female sexual behaviors, and these changes may underlie MA's ability to enhance these behaviors.



Aging is associated with protein damage and imbalance in redox status in a variety of cells and tissues, yet little is known about the extent of age-related oxidative stress in the peripheral nervous system. Previously, we showed a drastic decline in the expression of glial and neuronal proteins in myelinated peripheral nerves with age, which is significantly ameliorated by lifelong calorie restriction. The age-related decline in functional molecules is associated with alterations in cellular protein homeostatic mechanisms, which could lead to a buildup of damaged, aggregated proteins. To determine the extent of oxidative damage within myelinated peripheral nerves, we studied sciatic nerves from rats of four different ages (8, 18, 29, and 38 months) maintained on an ad libitum or a 40% calorie-restricted diet. We found a prominent accumulation of polyubiquitinated substrates with age, which are associated with the conglomeration of distended lysosomes and lipofuscin adducts. The occurrence of these structures is notably less frequent within nerves of age-matched rodents kept on a lifelong reduced calorie diet. Markers for lipid peroxidation, inflammation, and immune cell infiltration are all elevated in nerves of ad libitum-fed rats, whereas food restriction is able to attenuate such deleterious processes with age. Together these results show that dietary restriction is an efficient means of defying age-related oxidative damage and maintaining a younger state in peripheral nerves.
Current immunosuppressive treatments for central nervous system demyelinating diseases fail to prevent long-term motor and cognitive decline in patients. Excitingly, glial cell transplantation arises as a promising complementary strategy to challenge oligodendrocytes loss occurring in myelination disorders. A potential source of new oligodendrocytes is the subventricular zone (SVZ) pool of multipotent neural stem cells. However, this approach has been handicapped by the lack of functional methods for identification and pharmacological analysis of differentiating oligodendrocytes, prior to transplantation. In this study, we questioned whether SVZ-derived oligodendrocytes could be functionally discriminated due to intracellular calcium level ([Ca(2+)](i)) variations following KCl, histamine, and thrombin stimulations. Previously, we have shown that SVZ-derived neurons and immature cells can be discriminated on the basis of their selective [Ca(2+)](i) rise upon KCl and histamine stimulation, respectively. Herein, we demonstrate that O4+ and proteolipid protein-positive (PLP+) oligodendrocytes do not respond to these stimuli, but display a robust [Ca(2+)](i) rise following thrombin stimulation, whereas other cell types are thrombin-insensitive. Thrombin-induced Ca(2+) increase in oligodendrocytes is mediated by protease-activated receptor-1 (PAR-1) activation and downstream signaling through G(q/11) and phospholipase C (PLC), resulting in Ca(2+) recruitment from intracellular compartments. This method allows the analysis of functional properties of oligodendrocytes in living SVZ cultures, which is of major interest for the development of effective grafting strategies in the demyelinated brain. Additionally, it opens new perspectives for the search of new pro-oligodendrogenic factors to be used prior grafting.




Contrary to common belief, making a diagnosis in the patient with dizziness can be relatively straightforward. To do so, the clinician must be aware of the pitfalls in taking a history from the dizzy patient as well as be familiar with specific examination techniques, such as the Hallpike maneuver and the head thrust test. We summarize the important aspects of history taking and examination in the dizzy patient and relate these clinical aspects to the most common diagnoses that cause patients to complain of dizziness.
The past year has continued to see growth in stroke rehabilitation literature, ranging from important insights into the basic science of stroke recovery to broader multidisciplinary aspects aimed at improving global quality of life in stroke survivors. The areas that particularly stand out include 1) new evidence on old treatment strategies in clinical rehabilitation; 2) developments in the treatment of &quot;neglected&quot; impairments, such as hemianopia and sensory loss; 3) evaluation of the use of technology in stroke rehabilitation; and 4) advances in neurorestorative treatments after stroke.


Thirty-five inpatients at a Stockholm hospital drug user detoxification unit received single-session Motivational Interviewing (MI) between 2006 and 2008. At baseline and after 3 months, they were compared to a semi-randomized control group of 52 patients with treatment as usual. In the MI group, self-efficacy increased regarding abstention in connection with positive feelings, appreciation of positive drug effects increased, and participants tended to transition toward preparation/action stages of change. Despite implementation challenges, the study demonstrates the feasibility and effectiveness of single-session MI delivery in the inpatient drug detoxification setting and suggests paths for future research on delivery of single-session MI.
A case of incidentally diagnosed fenestration of the supraclinoid internal carotid artery (ICA) with an associated aneurysm is presented. We present appearances on magnetic resonance angiography, which have not been previously described. Careful interrogation of the data in volume-rendered and multiplanar reformats was required to make the diagnosis. The relationship between fenestrations and aneurysms in the anterior circulation is discussed both in general terms and with specific regard to the supraclinoid ICA. We also review the embryology of the distal ICA, which may help explain the adult anatomy of this rare lesion as a failure of caudal separation of the rostral and caudal divisions of the primitive distal ICA.

Argon-helium cryosurgery has shown encouraging therapeutic effects on some solid tumors, but its application in the treatment of gliomas remains poorly documented. To explore the cell apoptosis at the glioma foci and the cellullar immunity changes following argon-helium cryosurgery, we established Wistar rat models bearing subcutaneous C6 glioma and divided the rats into the normal control (20 rats), sham-operated (32 rats), surgical resection (20 rats), and cryosurgery (32 rats) groups with corresponding treatments. The postoperative changes in the findings by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and tumor cell morphology were observed, and the cell apoptosis at the tumor foci was assessed with TUNEL assay. Flow cytometry was performed for analysis of the T lymphocyte subset changes following the cryosurgery. The results showed that cryosurgery induced not only destruction of the tumor cells but also cell apoptosis around the cryablation foci. Compared with surgical resction that caused significant reduction in CD3+ and CD4+ cell percentages, cryosurgery resulted in significantly increased percentages of CD3+ and CD4+ cells (P&lt;0.05) with a relative increase of the CD4+/CD8+ cell ratio 14 days after the operation. These results demonstrate that in addition to tumor cell destruction, cryosurgy also results in enhanced cellular immunity and antitumor immune response of the C6 glioma-bearing rats, suggesting the great potential of argon-helium cryosurgery in clinical management of gliomas.
Protein thiol modifications including cysteinylation (CSSP) and glutathionylation (GSSP) in erythrocytes of rat treated with diamide have been reported, but mechanism and origin of CSSP formation are unknown. Experiments were performed to relate CSSP formation to GSH hydrolysis via gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (gamma-GT) and know whether cysteine may act as deglutathionylation factor. Time-dependent variations of redox forms of glutathione and cysteine were investigated in erythrocytes, plasma, liver and kidney of diamide-treated rats (0.4 mmol/kg by infusion for 45 min followed by 135 min of washout) in the presence and absence of acivicin (10 mg/kg administered twice 1 h before diamide) a known gamma-GT inhibitor. Diamide-treated rats showed decreased concentrations of erythrocyte GSH and increased levels of GSSP and CSSP. The rate of CSSP formation was slower than that of GSSP. Besides the entity of CSSP accumulation of erythrocytes was high and equivalent to approximately 3-fold of the normal plasma content of total cysteine. The result was paradoxically poorly related to gamma-GT activity because the gamma-GT inhibition only partially reduced erythrocyte CSSP. After gamma-GT inhibition, a large concentration fluctuation of glutathione (increased) and cysteine (decreased) was observed in plasma of diamide-treated rats, while little changes were seen in liver and kidney. There were indications from in vitro experiments that the CSSP accumulation in erythrocytes of diamide-treated rats derives from the coexistence of GSH hydrolysis via gamma-GT and production of reduced cysteine via plasma thiol exchanges. Moreover, reduced cysteine was found to be involved in deglutathionylation processes. Mechanisms of protein glutathionylation by diamide and deglutathionylation by cysteine were proposed.
Phagosome maturation follows a defined biochemical program and, in the vast majority of cases, the microbe inside the phagosome is killed and digested. Although, an important number of pathogens, including Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which kills around two million people every year, have acquired the ability to survive, and even replicate by arresting phagosomal maturation. To identify more of the machinery involved in phagocytosis and phagosomal maturation, we investigated the function of Rab10 in engulfment and maturation of inert particles and Mycobacterium bovis bacille Calmette-Gurin (BCG). We showed that Rab10 association with phagosomes is transient and confocal microscopy revealed detectible levels of Rab10 on phagosomal membranes at very early time-points, occurring even before Rab5 acquisition. Rab10 recruitment had strong functional consequence, as the knockdown of endogenous Rab10 by RNA interference or overexpression of Rab10 dominant-negative mutant delayed maturation of phagosomes of IgG-opsonized latex beads or heat killed-mycobacteria. These results can be explained, at least in part, by the involvement of Rab10 in recycling of some phagosomal components. More importantly, overexpression of the constitutively active mutant of Rab10 partially rescued live-Mycobacterium-containing phagosomes maturation. Indeed, we found that the membrane harbouring Mycobacterium acquired early endosome antigen 1 (EEA-1), a marker excluded from phagosomes in control cells. Altogether these results indicate that Rab10, acting upstream of Rab5, plays a prominent role in phagolysosome formation and can modulate Mycobacterium-containing phagosomes maturation.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease for which stem cell research has created hope in the last few years. Seven PD patients aged 22 to 62 years with a mean duration of disease 14.7+/-7.56 years were enrolled to participate in the prospective, uncontrolled, pilot study of single-dose, unilateral transplantation of autologous bone-marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs). The BM-MSCs were transplanted into the sublateral ventricular zone by stereotaxic surgery. Patients were followed up for a period that ranged from 10 to 36 months. The mean baseline &quot;off&quot; score was 65+/-22.06, and the mean baseline &quot;on&quot; score was 50.6+/-15.85. Three of 7 patients have shown a steady improvement in their &quot;off&quot;/&quot;on&quot; Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). The mean &quot;off&quot; score at their last follow-up was 43.3 with an improvement of 22.9% from the baseline. The mean &quot;on&quot; score at their last follow-up was 31.7, with an improvement of 38%. Hoehn and Yahr (H&amp;Y) and Schwab and England (S&amp;E) scores showed similar improvements from 2.7 and 2.5 in H&amp;Y and 14% improvement in S&amp;E scores, respectively. A subjective improvement was found in symptoms like facial expression, gait, and freezing episodes; 2 patients have significantly reduced the dosages of PD medicine. These results indicate that our protocol seems to be safe, and no serious adverse events occurred after stem-cell transplantation in PD patients. The number of patients recruited and the uncontrolled nature of the trial did not permit demonstration of effectiveness of the treatment involved. However, the results encourage future trials with more patients to demonstrate efficacy.
It is becoming increasingly apparent that spatial regulation of cell signalling processes is critical to normal cellular function. In this regard, cAMP signalling regulates many pivotal cellular processes and has provided the paradigm for signal compartmentalization. Recent advances show that isoforms of the cAMP-degrading phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) family are targeted to discrete signalling complexes. There they sculpt local cAMP gradients that can be detected by genetically encoded cAMP sensors, and gate the activation of spatially localized signalling through sequestered PKA and EPAC sub-populations. Genes for these important regulatory enzymes are linked to schizophrenia, stroke and asthma, thus indicating the therapeutic potential that selective inhibitors could have as anti-inflammatory, anti-depressant and cognitive enhancer agents.
Mitochondria play an essential role in ATP generation, calcium buffering and apoptotic signalling. In neurons, the transport of mitochondria to specific locations where they are needed has emerged as an important process for correct nerve cell function. Recent studies have shed light on the mechanisms that control mitochondrial transport and localization in neurons. We describe the machinery that is important for constitutive transport of mitochondria throughout the cell, and highlight recent advances in our understanding of how signalling pathways can converge on this machinery and allow for rapid activity-dependent control of mitochondrial trafficking and localization. Regulation of mitochondrial trafficking might work in concert with mitochondrial tethering systems to give precise control of mitochondrial delivery and localization to regions of high energy and calcium buffering requirements within neurons.
Dreams are a remarkable experiment in psychology and neuroscience, conducted every night in every sleeping person. They show that the human brain, disconnected from the environment, can generate an entire world of conscious experiences by itself. Content analysis and developmental studies have promoted understanding of dream phenomenology. In parallel, brain lesion studies, functional imaging and neurophysiology have advanced current knowledge of the neural basis of dreaming. It is now possible to start integrating these two strands of research to address fundamental questions that dreams pose for cognitive neuroscience: how conscious experiences in sleep relate to underlying brain activity; why the dreamer is largely disconnected from the environment; and whether dreaming is more closely related to mental imagery or to perception.
How does the brain learn those visual features that are relevant for behavior? In this article, we focus on two factors that guide plasticity of visual representations. First, reinforcers cause the global release of diffusive neuromodulatory signals that gate plasticity. Second, attentional feedback signals highlight the chain of neurons between sensory and motor cortex responsible for the selected action. We here propose that the attentional feedback signals guide learning by suppressing plasticity of irrelevant features while permitting the learning of relevant ones. By hypothesizing that sensory signals that are too weak to be perceived can escape from this inhibitory feedback, we bring attentional learning theories and theories that emphasized the importance of neuromodulatory signals into a single, unified framework.

Recent studies in the field of behavioural ecology have revealed intriguing variation in behaviour within single populations. Increasing evidence suggests that individual animals differ in their average level of behaviour displayed across a range of contexts (animal 'personality'), and in their responsiveness to environmental variation (plasticity), and that these phenomena can be considered complementary aspects of the individual phenotype. How should this complex variation be studied? Here, we outline how central ideas in behavioural ecology and quantitative genetics can be combined within a single framework based on the concept of 'behavioural reaction norms'. This integrative approach facilitates analysis of phenomena usually studied separately in terms of personality and plasticity, thereby enhancing understanding of their adaptive nature.
A problem of 'missing heritability' has been identified following recent genome-wide association (GWA) studies of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with complex diseases. Current GWA studies fail to detect key sources of genetic variation, particularly tandem-repeat polymorphisms (TRPs), which provide a unique source of genetic variability by modulating a range of biological processes. Expanded tandem repeats cause various monogenic disorders, including Huntington's disease and various ataxias. However, there is emerging evidence suggesting that TRPs have a role in polygenic diseases. For example, candidate gene studies have found associations between specific TRPs and various brain disorders. Future GWA studies that include all TRPs as genetic variables will reveal the full extent of their association with complex diseases. TRPs might provide substantial genetic variability contributing to complex polygenic diseases and could be an important source of the missing heritability evident in SNP-based GWA studies.
Unlike most mammalian species, the prairie vole is highly affiliative, forms enduring social bonds between mates and displays biparental behavior. Over two decades of research on this species has enhanced our understanding of the neurobiological basis not only of monogamy, social attachment and nurturing behaviors but also other aspects of social cognition. Because social cognitive deficits are hallmarks of many psychiatric disorders, discoveries made in prairie voles can direct novel treatment strategies for disorders such as autism spectrum disorder and schizophrenia. With the ongoing development of molecular, genetic and genomic tools for this species, prairie voles will likely maintain their current trajectory becoming an unprecedented model organism for basic and translational research focusing on the biology of the social brain.
The proportional relation between circulating vasopressin concentration and plasma osmolality is fundamental for body fluid homeostasis. Although changes in the sensitivity of this relation are associated with pathophysiological conditions, central mechanisms modulating osmoregulatory gain are unknown. Here, we review recent data that sheds important light on this process. The cell autonomous osmosensitivity of vasopressin neurons depends on cation channels comprising a variant of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) channel. Hyperosmotic activation is mediated by a mechanical process where sensitivity increases in proportion with actin filament density. Moreover, angiotensin II amplifies osmotic activation by a rapid stimulation of actin polymerization, suggesting that neurotransmitter-induced changes in cytoskeletal organization in osmosensory neurons can mediate central changes in osmoregulatory gain.
Intellectual disability in Down syndrome (DS) ranges from low normal to severely impaired and has a significant impact on the quality-of-life of the individuals affected and their families. Because the incidence of DS remains at approximately 1 in 700 live births and the lifespan is now &gt;50 years, development of pharmacotherapies for cognitive deficits is an important goal. DS is due to an extra copy of human chromosome 21 and has often been considered too complex a genetic abnormality to be amenable to intervention. However, recent successes in rescuing learning/memory impairments in a mouse model of DS suggest that this negative outlook may not be justified. In this contribution, we first review the DS phenotype, chromosome 21 gene content and mouse models. We then discuss recent successes and the remaining challenges in the identification of targets for and preclinical evaluation of potential therapeutics.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are widely prescribed for the treatment of depression and anxiety-related disorders. These drugs target the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) and increase serotonin signalling. Although chronic SSRI administration has few reported side effects, recent observations suggest that it could have long-term effects on neurodevelopment. First, 5-HTT is transiently expressed in many brain areas during development. Second, 5-HTT blockade during development causes wiring defects in these areas. These effects are seen most clearly in the sensory systems. Third, the behavioural effects of 5-HTT blockade during development are sometimes dramatically different from the effects of 5-HTT blockade during adulthood. Most of this evidence was collected from studies with 5-HTT knockout mice and rats. However, the phenotypes associated with low or high functioning 5-HTT alleles in humans can result from similar developmental alterations in 5-HT levels. Here, we review the existing evidence on the long-term effects of developmental SSRI exposure.


Platelet monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) has been proposed to be a biological marker for the properties of monoamine systems, with low activity being associated with vulnerability for high scores on personality traits such as sensation seeking, monotony avoidance, and impulsiveness, as well as for vulnerability for alcoholism. In the present study, platelet MAO-B activity was analysed in 78 rhesus macaques, and its relation to voluntary alcohol intake and behaviours after intravenous alcohol administration was observed. Monkeys with low platelet MAO-B activity had low levels of 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid in cerebrospinal fluid and showed excessive aggression after alcohol administration. A novel finding was that animals with low platelet MAO-B activity showed less intoxication following alcohol administration. As we have shown previously, they also voluntarily consumed more alcohol. We here replicate results from studies on both humans and non-human primates, showing the utility of platelet MAO as a marker for risk behaviours and alcohol abuse. Furthermore, we link platelet MAO activity to alcohol sensitivity.
During the past decade, three proteins that possess the capability of packaging glutamate into presynaptic vesicles have been identified and characterized. These three vesicular glutamate transporters, VGLUT1-3, are encoded by solute carrier genes Slc17a6-8. VGLUT1 (Slc17a7) and VGLUT2 (Slc17a6) are expressed in glutamatergic neurons, while VGLUT3 (Slc17a8) is expressed in neurons classically defined by their use of another transmitter, such as acetylcholine and serotonin. As glutamate is both a ubiquitous amino acid and the most abundant neurotransmitter in the adult central nervous system, the discovery of the VGLUTs made it possible for the first time to identify and specifically target glutamatergic neurons. By molecular cloning techniques, different VGLUT isoforms have been genetically targeted in mice, creating models with alterations in their glutamatergic signalling. Glutamate signalling is essential for life, and its excitatory function is involved in almost every neuronal circuit. The importance of glutamatergic signalling was very obvious when studying full knockout models of both VGLUT1 and VGLUT2, none of which were compatible with normal life. While VGLUT1 full knockout mice die after weaning, VGLUT2 full knockout mice die immediately after birth. Many neurological diseases have been associated with altered glutamatergic signalling in different brain regions, which is why conditional knockout mice with abolished VGLUT-mediated signalling only in specific circuits may prove helpful in understanding molecular mechanisms behind such pathologies. We review the recent studies in which mouse genetics have been used to characterize the functional role of VGLUT2 in the central nervous system.
Brain monoamines, and serotonin in particular, have repeatedly been shown to be linked to different psychiatric conditions such as depression, anxiety, antisocial behaviour, and dependence. Many studies have implicated genetic variability in the genes encoding monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) and the serotonin transporter (5HTT) in modulating susceptibility to these conditions. Paradoxically, the risk variants of these genes have been shown, in vitro, to increase levels of serotonin, although many of the conditions are associated with decreased levels of serotonin. Furthermore, in adult humans, and monkeys with orthologous genetic polymorphisms, there is no observable correlation between these functional genetic variants and the amount or activity of the corresponding proteins in the brain. These seemingly contradictory data might be explained if the association between serotonin and these behavioural and psychiatric conditions were mainly a consequence of events taking place during foetal and neonatal brain development. In this review we explore, based on recent research, the hypothesis that the dual role of serotonin as a neurotransmitter and a neurotrophic factor has a significant impact on behaviour and risk for neuropsychiatric disorders through altered development of limbic neurocircuitry involved in emotional processing, and development of the serotonergic neurons, during early brain development.

Adolescent depression is common. Earlier studies indicate that relapses and recurrences are common. But many questions are still unanswered. The aim of the present study has been to follow subjects with adolescent depressions, identified in a population-based study, over a 15-year period. Subjects with adolescent depression (n = 362) and a comparison group (n = 250) were followed in the National Swedish registers. The formerly depressed females had significantly more out-patient visits, and a significantly higher proportion (78.4% versus 69.6%) had at least one out-patient visit. Among the males, no significant differences were found as concerns out-patient visits. The formerly depressed females had significantly more in-patient stays (3.6 versus 2.4) and a significantly higher total number of in-patient days (27.4 versus 10.1). A significantly higher proportion had in-patient days due to mental disorders (9.5% versus 4.6%), in particular anxiety disorders (4.9% versus 1.0%). As concerns the males, a significantly higher proportion had in-patient days due to mental disorders (16.5% versus 1.8%), in particular alcohol and drug abuse (7.6% versus 0%). Among the formerly depressed females there were no significant differences against the comparison group as concerns the proportion of being a mother, number of children per woman, or age at first child. However, a significantly higher proportion of the formerly depressed females had had different, usually mild, disorders related to pregnancy (8.6% versus 0.6%). The children of the women with adolescent depressions were not affected.



The theory of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) deems that kidney essence is the material basis of formation, development and function of the brain and it maintains human being's psychomotility and behavior. Moreover, kidney essence is the material basis of emotional activity. The emotion theory in TCM deems that kidney stores will and responds to fear. The so called will in this theory refers to memory which includes three basic steps such as memorization, storage and recollection. Meanwhile, Western medicine considers stress as a kind of information that forms memory trace in central nervous system. Combining the TCM theory with the modern psychological theory on stress, and from the points of views of the emotion regulation, the formation, consolidation, extraction and extinction of fear memory, and the plasticity of amygdala-hippocampus-prefrontal cortex nervous pathway, as well as the results of pharmacological studies of prescriptions and herbs for invigorating the kidney, the authors explained in this article the pathological mechanisms of kidney deficiency due to attack of fear, and revealed the material basis, the action modes, and the neurobiological mechanisms of the kidney in controlling and regulating emotional activity.
The critical phylogenetic position of ascidians leads to the presumption that neuropeptides and hormones in vertebrates are highly likely to be evolutionarily conserved in ascidians, and the cosmopolitan species Ciona intestinalis is expected to be an excellent deuterostome Invertebrate model for studies on neuropeptides and hormones. Nevertheless, molecular and functional characterization of Ciona neuropeptides and hormone peptides was restricted to a few peptides such as a cholecystokinin (CCK)/gastrin peptide, cionin, and gonadotropin-releasing hormones (GnRHs). In the past few years, mass spectrometric analyses and database searches have detected Ciona orthologs or prototypes of vertebrate peptides and their receptors, including tachykinin, insulin/relaxin, calcitonin, and vasopressin. Furthermore, studies have shown that several Ciona peptides, including vasopressin and a novel GnRH-related peptide, have acquired ascidian-specific molecular forms and/or biological functions. These findings provided indisputable evidence that ascidians, unlike other invertebrates (including the traditional protostome model animals), possess neuropeptides and hormone peptides structurally and functionally related to vertebrate counterparts, and that several peptides have uniquely diverged in ascidian evolutionary lineages. Moreover, recent functional analyses of Ciona tachykinin in the ovary substantiated the novel tachykininergic protease-assoclated oocyte growth pathway, which could not have been revealed in studies on vertebrates. These findings confirm the outstanding advantages of ascidians in understanding the neuroscience, endocrinology, and evolution of vertebrate neuropeptides and hormone peptides. This article provides an overview of basic findings and reviews new knowledge on ascidian neuropeptides and hormone peptides.
Enzymes that synthesize retinoic acid (RA) constitute the first level of regulation of RA action. In vertebrates, enzymes of the medium-chain alcohol dehydrogenase (MDR-Adh) family catalyze the first step of the RA synthetic pathway by oxidizing retinol. Among MDR-Adh enzymes, Adh3 is the only member present in non-vertebrates, and whether Adh3 is actually involved in RA biosynthesis remains uncertain. Here, we investigate the MDR-Adh family in Oikopleura dioica, a urochordate representing the sister group to vertebrates. Oikopleura is of special interest because it has lost the classical RA role in development, which relaxed evolutionary constraints to preserve the RA-genetic machinery, leading to the loss of RA-system components. The hypothesis that Adh3 plays a role in RA synthesis predicts that the relaxation of selection in Oikopleura should have led to the loss of Adh3, or changes in residues related to retinol oxidation. The hypothesis also predicts changes in the expression pattern of Oikopleura Adh3 compared to other chordates that preserved RA-signaling. Our results, however, revealed the presence of a highly conserved Adh3 gene in Oikopleura, with no significant changes in functional residues. Our results also revealed that the Oikopleura Adh3 expression remains unchanged in comparison to other non-vertebrate chordates, restricted to specific compartments of the digestive system. Because Adh3 has been highly conserved in an animal that has dismantled the RA system, we conclude that Adh3 preservation is not due to a conserved role in RA synthesis. Thereby, if Adh3 plays a role in RA synthesis in vertebrates, it might be a lineage-specific neofunctionalization.
Development of efficient local delivery systems for the auditory organ has an important role in clinical practice for the management of inner ear disorders using pharmacological means. Chitosan, a biodegradable polymer, is a good drug carrier with bioadhesive properties. The aim of this study was to investigate the feasibility of using chitosan to deliver drugs to the inner ear across the round window membrane (RWM). Three structurally different chitosans loaded with a tracer drug, neomycin, were injected into the middle ear cavity of albino guinea pigs (n=35). After 7 days the effect of chitosans and neomycin was compared among the treatment groups. The hearing organ was analysed for hair cell loss and the RWM evaluated in term of thickness. All tested chitosan formulations successfully released the loaded neomycin which then diffused across the RWM, and exerted ototoxic effect on the cochlear hair cells in a degree depending on the concentrations used. Chitosans per se had no noxious effect on the cochlear hair cells. It is concluded that the chitosans, and especially glycosylated derivative, are safe and effective carriers for inner ear therapy.
Various methods have been used to infer functional synchrony between neuronal channels using electrode signal recordings. Such methods vary from approaches to identify the groups of neuronal channels that show similar signal patterns to approaches to figure out connectivity between neuronal channels. The inference of detailed connectivity between neuronal channels from electrode signal recordings can be computationally more complex than identifying the groups of neuronal channels. For this reason, most of previous approaches to infer connectivity between neuronal channels were based on pairwise measures. In this work, we propose the degree of combinatorial synchrony (DoCS) based on Bayesian networks for more enhanced inference of neuronal synchrony. DoCS is evaluated as the likelihood of edge connections in Bayesian network structures that capture the combinatorial dependency between neuronal channels. From the comparison with a cross-correlation measure using artificial neuronal networks, we validate that the proposed DoCS shows more accurate inference of neuronal synchrony when target neuronal networks include combinatorial synchrony.
The effect of insulin-induced hypoglycemia on cerebral glucose metabolism is largely unknown. (13)C MRS is a unique tool to study cerebral glucose metabolism, but the concurrent requirement for [1-(13)C]glucose administration limits its use under hypoglycemic conditions. To facilitate (13)C MRS data analysis we designed separate [1-(13)C]glucose infusion protocols for hyperinsulinemic euglycemic and hypoglycemic clamps in such a way that plasma isotopic enrichment of glucose was stable and comparable under both glycemic conditions. (13)C MR spectra were acquired with optimized (13)C MRS measurement techniques to obtain high quality (13)C MR spectra with these protocols.
Neuronal populations throughout the brain achieve levels of synchronous electrophysiological activity as a consequence of both normal brain function as well as during pathological states such as in epileptic seizures. Understanding this synchrony and being able to quantitatively assess the dynamics with which neuronal oscillators across the brain couple their activity is a critical component toward decoding such complex behavior. Commonly applied techniques to resolve relationships between oscillators typically make assumptions of linearity and stationarity that are likely not to be valid for complex neural signals. In this study, intracranial electroencephalographic activity was recorded bilaterally in both hippocampi and in anteromedial thalamus of rat under normal conditions and during hypersynchronous seizure activity induced by focal injection of the epileptogenic agent kainic acid. Nonlinear oscillators were first extracted using empirical mode decomposition. The technique of eigenvalue decomposition was used to assess global phase synchrony of the highest energy oscillators. The Hilbert analytical technique was then used to measure instantaneous phase synchrony of these oscillators as they evolved in time. To test the reliability of this method, we first applied it to a system of two coupled Rssler attractors under varying levels of coupling with small frequency mismatch. The application of these analytical techniques to intracranially recorded brain signals provides a means for assessing how complex oscillatory behavior in the brain evolves and changes during both normal activity and as a consequence of diseased states without making restrictive and possibly erroneous assumptions of the linearity and stationarity of the underlying oscillatory activity.
Small teleost fish are increasingly used for studying the genetic basis of vision. In particular, zebrafish (Danio rerio) and medaka (Oryzias latipes) are commonly used vertebrate model organisms in developmental research, including research on the development of visual function. A multitude of behavior-based visual tests are established for larvae that have been successfully used to identify and characterize visual defects in genetically manipulated strains of these species. Testing the visual system of adult fish has proven to be more difficult for a number of reasons, including complications in restraining fish, or shoaling and dominance behavior interfering with visual behavior in population screening assays. In this paper, we present a simple and cost-effective method to quantitatively measure the optokinetic response (OKR) of individual adult zebrafish and medaka, which can be used to characterize visual capabilities of adult fish. This method can be applied to any fish species of similar size.
The spatial organization of neuronal elements and their connectivity make up the substrate underlying the information processing carried out in the networks they form. Conventionally, anatomical findings make the initial structure which later combines with superimposed neurophysiological information to create a functional organization map. The most common neurophysiological measure is the single neuron spike train extracted from an extracellular recording. This single neuron firing pattern provides valuable clues on information processing in a given brain area; however, it only gives a sparse and focal view of this process. Even with the increase in number of simultaneously recorded neurons, inference on their large-scale functional organization remains problematic. We propose a method of utilizing additional information derived from the same extracellular recording to generate a more comprehensive picture of neuronal functional organization. This analysis is based on the relationship between the oscillatory activity of single neurons and their neighboring neuronal populations. Two signals that reflect the multiple scales of neuronal populations are used to complement the single neuron spike train: (1) the high-frequency background unit activity representing the spiking activity of small localized sub-populations and (2) the low-frequency local field potential that represents the synaptic input to a larger global population. The three coherences calculated between pairs of these three signals arising from a single source of extracellular recording are then used to infer mosaic representations of the functional neuronal organization. We demonstrate this methodology on experimental data and on simulated leaky integrate-and-fire neurons.
A cell's form and function is determined to a great extent by its cellular membrane and the underlying cytoskeleton. Understanding changes in the cellular membrane and cytoskeleton can provide insight into aging and disease of the cell. The atomic force microscope (AFM) allows unparalled resolution for the imaging of these cellular components and the ability to probe their mechanical properties. This report describes our progress toward the use of AFM as a tool in neuroscience applications. Elasticity measurements are reported on living chick embryo dorsal root ganglion and sympathetic neurons in vitro. The neuronal cellular body and growth cones regions are examined for variations in cellular maturity. In addition, cellular changes due to exposure to various environmental conditions and neurotoxins are investigated. This report includes data obtained on different AFM systems, using various AFM techniques and thus also provides knowledge of AFM instruments and methodology.
Tetrodotoxin is one of the most potent and oldest known neurotoxins. It acts by blocking the voltage-gated sodium channels in nerve cell membranes, leading to a transient silencing of neural activity. TTX is among the most widely used pharmacological agents for the temporary and selective blocking of neural structures. As such, an exact knowledge of the spatial and temporal diffusion gradient of TTX is important when planning pharmacological interventions. Here we report a method for the direct assessment of spatio-temporal TTX diffusion gradients using immunohistochemistry. TTX injections were performed in vivo via chronically implanted guiding cannulae, placed bilaterally in the dorsal entopallium of pigeons. To determine the temporal spread, animals were perfused at different time points after TTX injections. For visualization of the TTX affected area an immunohistochemical protocol was developed. The extension of staining was assessed 1h after injection when TTX was diffused over 3mm in all directions. TTX immunolabeling could be detected for up to 32 h; after 48 h no staining was found. Our findings provide a better understanding of the temporal decay and spread of intracranial TTX injections, thereby allowing a more reliable estimation of size and duration of TTX-effects.
The performance of neural electrodes in physiological fluid, especially in chronic use, is critical for the success of functional electrical stimulation devices. Tips of the Utah electrode arrays (UEAs) were coated with sputtered iridium oxide film (SIROF) and activated iridium oxide film (AIROF) to study the degradation during charge injection consistent with functional electrical stimulation (FES). The arrays were subjected to continuous biphasic, cathodal first, charge balanced (with equal cathodal and anodal pulse widths) current pulses for 7h (&gt;1 million pulses) at a frequency of 50 Hz. The amplitude and width of the current pulses were varied to determine the damage threshold of the coatings. Degradation was characterized by scanning electron microscopy, inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and cyclic voltammetry. The injected charge and charge density per phase were found to play synergistic role in damaging the electrodes. The damage threshold for SIROF coated electrode tips of the UEA was between 60 nC with a charge density of 1.9 mC/cm(2) per phase and 80 nC with a charge density of 1.0 mC/cm(2) per phase. While for AIROF coated electrode tips, the threshold was between 40 nC with a charge density of 0.9 mC/cm(2) per phase and 50 nC with a charge density of 0.5 mC/cm(2) per phase. Compared to AIROF, SIROF showed higher damage threshold and therefore is highly recommended to be used as a stimulation material.
This study examined anticipatory and consummatory pleasure in schizophrenia patients with and without negative symptoms. Negative symptom patients experienced less anticipatory pleasure than non-negative symptom patients; only one facet of consummatory pleasure was unaffected in negative schizophrenia. Greater pleasure deficits were correlated with more severe positive and negative symptoms.
The serotonin 1A receptor (5-HT1A) and its associated transcriptional regulators, five prime repressor element under dual repression (Freud-1) and nuclear-deformed epidermal autoregulatory factor (NUDR/Deaf-1) have been previously found to be the repressors for 5-HT1A in the serotonergic raphe neurons, and are also altered in postmortem brains of individuals with major depressive disorder (MDD) and in rats exposed to chronic restraint stress. We sought to find out if rats exposed to chronic social defeat (CSD) stress also show altered expression of these genes. Adult male Wistar rats were exposed to CSD stress for four consecutive weeks following which they were sacrificed and gene expression assessed in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. While CSD had no significant effects on NUDR and Freud-1 mRNA levels, 5-HT1A mRNA levels were significantly downregulated in defeated animals. The data suggest that regulatory factors other than Freud-1 and NUDR may be involved in the regulation of 5-HT1A expression in PFC during CSD stress. Furthermore, decreased levels of 5-HT1A following social defeat in the PFC are consistent with human postmortem results for this receptor in major depression and demonstrate the possibility that this receptor is involved in the pathophysiology of depression and other stress related disorders.
Effects of emotion have been reported as early as 20 ms after an auditory stimulus onset for negative valence, and bivalent effects between 30 and 130 ms. To understand how emotional state influences the listener's brainstem evoked responses to speech, subjects looked at emotion-evoking pictures while listening to an unchanging auditory stimulus (danny). The pictures (positive, negative, or neutral valence) were selected from the IAPS database and controlled for dominance and arousal. Utilizing an array of measurements to assess subcortical modulation, we have found that emotion does not substantially alter brainstem alter although there is a subtle effect of background noise suppression in both emotional conditions.
By modelling the average activity of large neuronal populations, continuum mean field models (MFMs) have become an increasingly important theoretical tool for understanding the emergent activity of cortical tissue. In order to be computationally tractable, long-range propagation of activity in MFMs is often approximated with partial differential equations (PDEs). However, PDE approximations in current use correspond to underlying axonal velocity distributions incompatible with experimental measurements. In order to rectify this deficiency, we here introduce novel propagation PDEs that give rise to smooth unimodal distributions of axonal conduction velocities. We also argue that velocities estimated from fibre diameters in slice and from latency measurements, respectively, relate quite differently to such distributions, a significant point for any phenomenological description. Our PDEs are then successfully fit to fibre diameter data from human corpus callosum and rat subcortical white matter. This allows for the first time to simulate long-range conduction in the mammalian brain with realistic, convenient PDEs. Furthermore, the obtained results suggest that the propagation of activity in rat and human differs significantly beyond mere scaling. The dynamical consequences of our new formulation are investigated in the context of a well known neural field model. On the basis of Turing instability analyses, we conclude that pattern formation is more easily initiated using our more realistic propagator. By increasing characteristic conduction velocities, a smooth transition can occur from self-sustaining bulk oscillations to travelling waves of various wavelengths, which may influence axonal growth during development. Our analytic results are also corroborated numerically using simulations on a large spatial grid. Thus we provide here a comprehensive analysis of empirically constrained activity propagation in the context of MFMs, which will allow more realistic studies of mammalian brain activity in the future.
Learning is often understood as an organism's gradual acquisition of the association between a given sensory stimulus and the correct motor response. Mathematically, this corresponds to regressing a mapping between the set of observations and the set of actions. Recently, however, it has been shown both in cognitive and motor neuroscience that humans are not only able to learn particular stimulus-response mappings, but are also able to extract abstract structural invariants that facilitate generalization to novel tasks. Here we show how such structure learning can enhance facilitation in a sensorimotor association task performed by human subjects. Using regression and reinforcement learning models we show that the observed facilitation cannot be explained by these basic models of learning stimulus-response associations. We show, however, that the observed data can be explained by a hierarchical Bayesian model that performs structure learning. In line with previous results from cognitive tasks, this suggests that hierarchical Bayesian inference might provide a common framework to explain both the learning of specific stimulus-response associations and the learning of abstract structures that are shared by different task environments.
Correlated spiking is often observed in cortical circuits, but its functional role is controversial. It is believed that correlations are a consequence of shared inputs between nearby neurons and could severely constrain information decoding. Here we show theoretically that recurrent neural networks can generate an asynchronous state characterized by arbitrarily low mean spiking correlations despite substantial amounts of shared input. In this state, spontaneous fluctuations in the activity of excitatory and inhibitory populations accurately track each other, generating negative correlations in synaptic currents which cancel the effect of shared input. Near-zero mean correlations were seen experimentally in recordings from rodent neocortex in vivo. Our results suggest a reexamination of the sources underlying observed correlations and their functional consequences for information processing.
Cytosolic cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) often mediate antagonistic cellular actions of extracellular factors, from the regulation of ion channels to cell volume control and axon guidance. We found that localized cAMP and cGMP activities in undifferentiated neurites of cultured hippocampal neurons promote and suppress axon formation, respectively, and exert opposite effects on dendrite formation. Fluorescence resonance energy transfer imaging showed that alterations of the amount of cAMP resulted in opposite changes in the amount of cGMP, and vice versa, through the activation of specific phosphodiesterases and protein kinases. Local elevation of cAMP in one neurite resulted in cAMP reduction in all other neurites of the same neuron. Thus, local and long-range reciprocal regulation of cAMP and cGMP together ensures coordinated development of one axon and multiple dendrites.

Thalamocortical and corticothalamic pathways mediate bidirectional communication between the thalamus and neocortex. These pathways are entwined, making their study challenging. Here we used lentiviruses to express channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2), a light-sensitive cation channel, in either thalamocortical or corticothalamic projection cells. Infection occurred only locally, but efferent axons and their terminals expressed ChR2 strongly, allowing selective optical activation of each pathway. Laser stimulation of ChR2-expressing thalamocortical axons/terminals evoked robust synaptic responses in cortical excitatory cells and fast-spiking (FS) inhibitory interneurons, but only weak responses in somatostatin-containing interneurons. Strong FS cell activation led to feedforward inhibition in all cortical neuron types, including FS cells. Corticothalamic stimulation excited thalamic relay cells and inhibitory neurons of the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN). TRN activation triggered inhibition in relay cells but not in TRN neurons. Thus, a major difference between thalamocortical and corticothalamic processing was the extent to which feedforward inhibitory neurons were themselves engaged by feedforward inhibition.
The pituitary hormone, prolactin, triggers lactation in nursing mothers. Under nonlactating conditions, prolactin secretion is suppressed by powerful inhibition from hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) neurons. Although firing pattern has been suggested as integral to neuroendocrine control, the electrical behavior of TIDA cells remains unknown. We demonstrate that rat TIDA neurons discharge rhythmically in a robust 0.05 Hz oscillation. The oscillation is phase locked between neurons, and while it persists during chemical synaptic transmission blockade, it is abolished by gap junction antagonists. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) potently stimulates prolactin release, an effect assumed to take place in the pituitary. In TIDA cells, TRH caused a transition from phasic to tonic firing through combined pre- and postsynaptic effects. These findings suggest a model for prolactin regulation where a TIDA network switch from oscillations to sustained discharge converts dopamine from an antagonist at high concentrations to a functional agonist as dopamine output from the network decreases.
Abnormally enhanced N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor function is implicated in Huntington's disease (HD). In this issue of Neuron and a recent issue of Nature Medicine, an abnormal balance between the activity of NMDA receptors at synaptic (prosurvival) and extrasynaptic (proapoptotic) sites has been uncovered in a cellular and a mouse model of HD.
A common theme in the contemporary medical model of psychiatry is that pathophysiological processes are centrally involved in the explanation, evaluation, and treatment of mental illnesses. Implied in this perspective is that clinical descriptors of these pathophysiological processes are sufficient to distinguish underlying etiologies. Psychiatric classification requires differentiation between what counts as normality (i.e.- order), and what counts as abnormality (i.e.- disorder). The distinction(s) between normality and pathology entail assumptions that are often deeply presupposed, manifesting themselves in statements about what mental disorders are.In this paper, we explicate that realism, naturalism, reductionism, and essentialism are core ontological assumptions of the medical model of psychiatry. We argue that while naturalism, realism, and reductionism can be reconciled with advances in contemporary neuroscience, essentialism - as defined to date - may be conceptually problematic, and we pose an eidetic construct of bio-psychosocial order and disorder based upon complex systems' dynamics. However we also caution against the overuse of any theory, and claim that practical distinctions are important to the establishment of clinical thresholds. We opine that as we move ahead toward both a new edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, and a proposed Decade of the Mind, the task at hand is to re-visit nosologic and ontologic assumptions pursuant to a re-formulation of diagnostic criteria and practice.
Cystic fibrosis mostly follows a single Phe508 deletion in CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator) (CFTRDeltaF508), thereby causing premature fragmentation of the nascent protein with concomitant alterations of diverse cellular functions. We show that CK2, the most pleiotropic protein kinase, undergoes allosteric control of its different cellular forms in the presence of short CFTR peptides encompassing the Phe508 deletion: these CFTRDeltaF508 peptides drastically inhibit the isolated catalytic subunit (alpha) of the kinase and yet up-regulate the holoenzyme, composed of two catalytic and two non-catalytic (beta) subunits. Remarkable agreement between in silico docking and our biochemical data point to different sites for the CFTRDeltaF508 peptide binding on isolated CK2alpha and on CK2beta assembled into the holoenzyme, suggesting that CK2 targeting may be perturbed in cells expressing CFTRDeltaF508; this could shed light on some pleiotropic aspects of cystic fibrosis disease.

Neurons in the developing auditory system fire bursts of action potentials before the onset of hearing. This spontaneous activity promotes the survival and maturation of auditory neurons and the refinement of synaptic connections in auditory nuclei; however, the mechanisms responsible for initiating this activity remain uncertain. Previous studies indicate that inner supporting cells (ISCs) in the developing cochlea periodically release ATP, which depolarizes inner hair cells (IHCs), leading to bursts of action potentials in postsynaptic spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs). To determine when purinergic signaling appears in the developing cochlea and whether it is responsible for initiating auditory neuron activity throughout the prehearing period, we examined spontaneous activity from ISCs, IHCs, and SGNs in cochleae acutely isolated from rats during the first three postnatal weeks. We found that ATP was released from ISCs within the cochlea from birth until the onset of hearing, which led to periodic inward currents, Ca(2+) transients, and morphological changes in these supporting cells. This spontaneous release of ATP also depolarized IHCs and triggered bursts of action potentials in SGNs for most of the postnatal prehearing period, beginning a few days after birth as IHCs became responsive to ATP, until the onset of hearing when ATP was no longer released from ISCs. When IHCs were not subject to purinergic excitation, SGNs exhibited little or no activity. These results suggest that supporting cells in the cochlea provide the primary excitatory stimulus responsible for initiating bursts of action potentials in auditory nerve fibers before the onset of hearing.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is attributable to synapse dysfunction and loss, but the nature and progression of the presynaptic structural and functional changes in AD are essentially unknown. We expressed wild-type or arctic form of beta amyloid(1-42) (Abeta) in a small group of neurons in the adult fly and performed extensive time course analysis of the function and structure of both axon and presynaptic terminals at the identified single-neuron level. Abeta accumulated intracellularly and induced a range of age-dependent changes, including depletion of presynaptic mitochondria, slowdown of bi-directional transports of axonal mitochondria, decreased synaptic vesicles, increased large vacuoles, and elevated synaptic fatigue. These structural and functional synaptic changes correlated with age-dependent deficit in motor behavior. All these alterations were accelerated in flies expressing the arctic form of Abeta. The depletion of presynaptic mitochondria was the earliest detected phenotype and was not caused by the change in axonal transport of mitochondria. Moreover, axonal mitochondria exhibited a dramatic reduction in number but a significant increase in size in aged Abeta-expressing flies, indicating a global depletion of mitochondria in the neuron and an impairment of mitochondria fission. These results suggest that Abeta accumulation depletes presynaptic and axonal mitochondria, leading to other presynaptic deficits.
Human decisions are guided by &quot;desire&quot; or &quot;reason,&quot; which control actions oriented toward either proximal or long-term goals. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to assess how the human brain mediates the balance between proximal reward desiring and long-term goals, when actions promoting a superordinate goal preclude exploitation of an immediately available reward option. Consistent with the view that the reward system interacts with prefrontal circuits during action control, we found that behavior favoring the long-term goal, but counteracting immediate reward desiring, relied on a negative functional interaction of anteroventral prefrontal cortex (avPFC) with nucleus accumbens (Nacc) and ventral tegmental area. The degree of functional interaction between avPFC and Nacc further predicted behavioral success during pursuit of the distal goal, when confronted with a proximal reward option, and scaled with interindividual differences in trait impulsivity. These findings reveal how the human brain accomplishes voluntary action control guided by &quot;reason,&quot; suggesting that inhibitory avPFC influences Nacc activity during actions requiring a restraint of immediate &quot;desires.&quot;
Functional and anatomical studies suggest that acoustic signals are processed hierarchically in auditory cortex. Although most regions of acoustically responsive cortex are not tonotopically organized, all previous electrophysiological investigations of interfield interactions have only examined tonotopically represented areas. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the functional interactions between tonotopically and nontonotopically organized fields in auditory cortex. We accomplished this goal by examining the bidirectional contributions between the cochleotopically organized primary auditory cortex (A1) and the noncochleotopically organized second auditory field (A2). Multiunit acute recording procedures in combination with reversible cooling deactivation techniques were used in eight mature cats. The synaptic activity of A1 or A2 was suppressed while the neuronal response to tonal stimuli of the noninactivated area (A1 or A2) was measured. Response strength, neuronal threshold, receptive field bandwidths, and latency measures were collected at each recorded site before, during, and after cooling deactivation epochs. Our analysis revealed comparable changes in A1 and A2 neuronal response properties. Specifically, significant decreases in neuronal response strength, increases in neuronal threshold, and shortening of response latency were found in both fields during periods of cooling deactivation. The weak anatomical connections between the two fields investigated make these findings unexpected. Furthermore, the observed neuronal changes suggest a model of corticocortical interaction among auditory fields in which neither differences in the magnitude of anatomical projections nor cortical representation of sensory stimuli are reliable determinants of modulatory functions.
Transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) antagonists are widely viewed as next-generation pain therapeutics. However, these compounds cause hyperthermia, a serious side effect. TRPV1 antagonists differentially block three modes of TRPV1 activation: by heat, protons, and chemical ligands (e.g., capsaicin). We asked what combination of potencies in these three modes of TRPV1 activation corresponds to the lowest potency of a TRPV1 antagonist to cause hyperthermia. We studied hyperthermic responses of rats, mice, and guinea pigs to eight TRPV1 antagonists with different pharmacological profiles and used mathematical modeling to find a relative contribution of the blockade of each activation mode to the development of hyperthermia. We found that the hyperthermic effect has the highest sensitivity to the extent of TRPV1 blockade in the proton mode (0.43 to 0.65) with no to moderate sensitivity in the capsaicin mode (-0.01 to 0.34) and no sensitivity in the heat mode (0.00 to 0.01). We conclude that hyperthermia-free TRPV1 antagonists do not block TRPV1 activation by protons, even if they are potent blockers of the heat mode, and that decreasing the potency to block the capsaicin mode may further decrease the potency to cause hyperthermia.
D-Serine, formed from L-serine by serine racemase (SR), is a physiologic coagonist at NMDA receptors. Using mice with targeted deletion of SR, we demonstrate a role for D-serine in NMDA receptor-mediated neurotoxicity and stroke. Brain cultures of SR-deleted mice display markedly diminished nitric oxide (NO) formation and neurotoxicity. In intact SR knock-out mice, NO formation and nitrosylation of NO targets are substantially reduced. Infarct volume following middle cerebral artery occlusion is dramatically diminished in several regions of the brains of SR mutant mice despite evidence of increased NMDA receptor number and sensitivity.
Synapses maintain synchronous, asynchronous, and spontaneous forms of neurotransmission that are distinguished by their Ca(2+) dependence and time course. Despite recent advances in our understanding of the mechanisms that underlie these three forms of release, it remains unclear whether they originate from the same vesicle population or arise from distinct vesicle pools with diverse propensities for release. Here, we used a reversible inhibitor of dynamin, dynasore, to dissect the vesicle pool dynamics underlying the three forms of neurotransmitter release in hippocampal GABAergic inhibitory synapses. In dynasore, evoked synchronous release and asynchronous neurotransmission detected after activity showed marked and unrecoverable depression within seconds. In contrast, spontaneous release remained intact after intense stimulation in dynasore or during prolonged (approximately 1 h) application of dynasore at rest, suggesting that separate recycling pathways maintain evoked and spontaneous synaptic vesicle trafficking. In addition, simultaneous imaging of spectrally separable styryl dyes revealed that, in a given synapse, vesicles that recycle spontaneously and in response to activity do not mix. These findings suggest that evoked synchronous and asynchronous release originate from the same vesicle pool that recycles rapidly in a dynamin-dependent manner, whereas a distinct vesicle pool sustains spontaneous release independent of dynamin activation. This result lends additional support to the notion that synapses harbor distinct vesicle populations with divergent release properties that maintain independent forms of neurotransmission.
At what scale is it possible to observe consistent functional specialization within human prefrontal cortex (PFC), reproducible from one individual to the next? Some studies suggest gross functional divisions between large regions of PFC, but it is not known whether PFC exhibits specialization at the fine-grained scale known to differentiate posterior cortical functions. We used fMRI to confirm a three-way segregation of function between three regions of medial anterior PFC, each centered on coordinates within 15 mm of the other two. Naive participants performed three tasks based on earlier studies, and we investigated activity at regions defined by previous results. In each task, signal was significantly greater at the predicted region than the other two, just millimeters away. These results indicate reproducible functional specialization within PFC, at a much finer scale than previously demonstrated. Furthermore, these findings suggest that divergent results from previous studies may reflect the recruitment of functionally distinct regions and that &quot;reverse inference&quot; should be undertaken with caution.
Rapid saltatory nerve conduction is facilitated by myelin structure, which is composed of Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system. Schwann cells drastically change their phenotype following peripheral nerve injury. These phenotypic changes are required for efficient degeneration/regeneration. We previously identified ZNRF1 as an E3 ubiquitin ligase containing a RING finger motif, whose expression is upregulated in the Schwann cells following nerve injury. This suggested that posttranscriptional regulation of protein expression in Schwann cells may be involved in their phenotypic changes during nerve degeneration/regeneration. Here we report the identification of glutamine synthetase (GS), an enzyme that synthesizes glutamine using glutamate and ammonia, as a substrate for E3 activity of ZNRF1 in Schwann cells. GS is known to be highly expressed in differentiated Schwann cells, but its functional significance has remained unclear. We found that during nerve degeneration/regeneration, GS expression is controlled mostly by ZNRF1-dependent proteasomal degradation. We also found that Schwann cells increase oxidative stress upon initiation of nerve degeneration, which promotes carbonylation and subsequent degradation of GS. Surprisingly, we discovered that GS expression regulates Schwann cell differentiation; i.e., increased GS expression promotes myelination via its enzymatic activity. Among the substrates and products of GS, increased glutamate concentration inhibited myelination and yet promoted Schwann cell proliferation by activating metabotropic glutamate receptor signaling. This would suggest that GS may exert its effect on Schwann cell differentiation by regulating glutamate concentration. These results indicate that the ZNRF1-GS system may play an important role in correlating Schwann cell metabolism with its differentiation.

Ghrelin and obestatin are two peptides isolated from the gastrointestinal tract and encoded by the same preproghrelin gene. They convey to the central nervous system informations concerning the nutritional status and/or the energy stores. Ghrelin, mostly acting through the GH secretagogue receptor GHS-R, is a potent GH secretagogue, an orexigenic peptide and a long-term regulator of energy homeostasis. Obestatin was initially described for its anorexigenic effects and its binding to the G protein-coupled receptor 39 (GPR39). However, the role of obestatin is still controversial and the nature of the obestatin receptor remains an open question. This review is focussed on the possible implication of the ghrelin/obestatin system in psychiatric diseases with particular emphasis on eating disorders.
Adenosine 5'-triphosphate is frequently released by cells and acts as an agonist for G protein-coupled P2Y receptors and ligand-gated P2X cationic channels in numerous tissues. The breakdown of ATP by ectonucleotidases not only terminates its extracellular messenger functions, but also provides a pathway for the generation of two additional agonists: adenosine 5'-diphosphate, acting via some P2Y receptors, and adenosine, a native agonist for G protein-coupled adenosine receptors. In the pituitary gland, adenosine 5'-triphosphate is released from the endings of magnocellular hypothalamic neurons and by anterior pituitary cells through pathway(s) that are still not well characterized. This gland also expresses several members of each family of purinergic receptors. P2X and adenosine receptors are co-expressed in the somata and nerve terminals of vasopressin-releasing neurons as well as in some secretory pituitary cells. P2X receptors stimulate electrical activity and modulate InsP(3)-dependent calcium release from intracellular stores, whereas adenosine receptors terminate electrical activity. Calcium-mobilizing P2Y receptors are expressed in pituicytes, folliculo-stellate cells and some secretory cells of the anterior pituitary.
Accurate time perception is crucial in peripheral vision especially for the spatial perception during actions. To investigate the dynamics of time perception in peripheral vision, parvocellular-biased and magnocellular-biased flashes were presented at different eccentricities (0-48 degrees ) in an interflash interval discrimination task. Results showed an increase in time compression with eccentricity for both stimuli (magnocellular-biased and parvocellular-biased flashes). Nevertheless, when stimulus visibility was 'equalized' across the visual field, the increase in time compression was only found for magnocellular-biased stimuli. Thus, we suggest that the magnocellular pathway accounts for time underestimation. Moreover, its increase with eccentricity could be an inherent property of the magnocellular system more than a result of a decrease in stimulus visibility.
C3 and C3b, the components central to the complement activation, also play a damaging role in several inflammatory disorders. Vaccinia virus complement control protein (VCP) and curcumin (Cur) are natural compounds with different biological origins reported to regulate complement activation. However, both VCP and Cur have not been investigated for their interaction with the third component (C3) prior to it being converted to its activated form (C3b). These two compounds have also not been compared to each other with respect to their interactions with C3 and C3b. Quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation monitoring (QCM-D) is a novel technology used to study the interaction of biomolecules. This technology was applied to characterize the interactions of VCP, Cur and appropriate controls with the key complement components. Cur as well as VCP showed binding to both C3 and to C3b, Cur however bound to C3b to a lesser extent.
Gambling is a widespread form of entertainment that may afford unique insights into the interaction between cognition and emotion in human decision-making. It is also a behaviour that can become harmful, and potentially addictive, in a minority of individuals. This article considers the status of two dominant approaches to gambling behaviour. The cognitive approach has identified a number of erroneous beliefs held by gamblers, which cause them to over-estimate their chances of winning. The psychobiological approach has examined case-control differences between groups of pathological gamblers and healthy controls, and has identified dysregulation of brain areas linked to reward and emotion, including the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and striatum, as well as alterations in dopamine neurotransmission. In integrating these two approaches, recent data are discussed that reveal anomalous recruitment of the brain reward system (including the vmPFC and ventral striatum) during two common cognitive distortions in gambling games: the near-miss effect and the effect of personal control. In games of chance, near-misses and the presence of control have no objective influence on the likelihood of winning. These manipulations appear to harness a reward system that evolved to learn skill-oriented behaviours, and by modulating activity in this system, these cognitive distortions may promote continued, and potentially excessive, gambling.
Emotions like regret and envy share a common origin: they are motivated by the counterfactual thinking of what would have happened had we made a different choice. When we contemplate the outcome of a choice we made, we may use the information on the outcome of a choice we did not make. Regret is the purely private comparison between two choices that we could have taken, envy adds to this the information on outcome of choices of others. However, envy has a distinct social component, in that it adds the change in the social ranking that follows a difference in the outcomes. We study the theoretical foundation and the experimental test of this view.
Methods available for quickly and objectively quantifying the behavioral phenotypes of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, lag behind in sophistication the tools developed for manipulating their genotypes. We have developed a simple, easy-to-replicate, general-purpose experimental chamber for studying the ground-based behaviors of fruit flies. The major innovative feature of our design is that it restricts flies to a shallow volume of space, forcing all behavioral interactions to take place within a monolayer of individuals. The design lessens the frequency that flies occlude or obscure each other, limits the variability in their appearance, and promotes a greater number of flies to move throughout the center of the chamber, thereby increasing the frequency of their interactions. The new chamber design improves the quality of data collected by digital video and was conceived and designed to complement automated machine vision methodologies for studying behavior. Novel and improved methodologies for better quantifying the complex behavioral phenotypes of Drosophila will facilitate studies related to human disease and fundamental questions of behavioral neuroscience.
Change is a fundamental ingredient of interaction patterns in biology, technology, the economy, and science itself: Interactions within and between organisms change; transportation patterns by air, land, and sea all change; the global financial flow changes; and the frontiers of scientific research change. Networks and clustering methods have become important tools to comprehend instances of these large-scale structures, but without methods to distinguish between real trends and noisy data, these approaches are not useful for studying how networks change. Only if we can assign significance to the partitioning of single networks can we distinguish meaningful structural changes from random fluctuations. Here we show that bootstrap resampling accompanied by significance clustering provides a solution to this problem. To connect changing structures with the changing function of networks, we highlight and summarize the significant structural changes with alluvial diagrams and realize de Solla Price's vision of mapping change in science: studying the citation pattern between about 7000 scientific journals over the past decade, we find that neuroscience has transformed from an interdisciplinary specialty to a mature and stand-alone discipline.
We report the preparation of size-defined [(15)N]N-acetylheparosan oligosaccharides from Escherichia coli-derived (15)N-enriched N-acetylheparosan. Optimized growth conditions of E. coli in minimal media containing (15)NH(4)Cl yielded [(15)N]N-acetylheparosan on a preparative scale. Depolymerization of [(15)N]N-acetylheparosan by heparitinase I yielded resolvable, even-numbered oligosaccharides ranging from disaccharide to icosaccharide. Anion-exchange chromatography-assisted fractionation afforded size-defined [(15)N]N-acetylheparosan oligosaccharides identifiable by ESI-TOFMS. These isotopically labeled oligosaccharides will prove to be valuable research tools for the chemoenzymatic synthesis of heparin and heparan sulfate oligosaccharides and for the study of their structural biology.

The cortical visuomotor grasping circuit, comprising the anterior intraparietal area (AIP), ventral premotor (PMv), and primary motor cortex (M1) allows transformation of an object's physical properties into a suitable motor command for grasp [1-9]. However, little is known about how AIP contributes to the processing of grasp-related information conveyed through the cortical grasping circuit. We addressed this by studying the consequences of AIP &quot;virtual lesions&quot; on physiological interactions between PMv and M1 at rest or during preparation to grasp objects with either a precision grip or a whole-hand grasp. We used a conditioning-test transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) paradigm to test how PMv-M1 interactions [10-12] were modified by disrupting AIP function with theta-burst TMS (cTBS) [13]. At rest, AIP virtual lesions did not modify PMv-M1 interactions. In contrast, the usual muscle-specific PMv-M1 interactions that appeared during grasp preparation were significantly reduced following AIP cTBS without directly modifying corticospinal excitability. Behaviorally, disruption of AIP was also associated with a relative loss of the grasp-specific pattern of digit muscle activity. These findings suggest that grasp-related and muscle-specific PMv-M1 interactions are driven by information about object properties provided by AIP.
What makes one person socially insightful but mathematically challenged, and another musically gifted yet devoid of a sense of direction? Individual differences in general cognitive ability are thought to be mediated by &quot;generalist genes&quot; that affect many cognitive abilities similarly without specific genetic influences on particular cognitive abilities [1]. In contrast, we present here evidence for cognitive &quot;specialist genes&quot;: monozygotic twins are more similar than dizygotic twins in the specific cognitive ability of face perception. Each of three measures of face-specific processing was heritable, i.e., more correlated in monozygotic than dizygotic twins: face-specific recognition ability, the face-inversion effect [2], and the composite-face effect [3]. Crucially, this effect is due to the heritability of face processing in particular, not to a more general aspect of cognition such as IQ or global attention. Thus, individual differences in at least one specific mental talent are independently heritable. This finding raises the question of what other specific cognitive abilities are independently heritable and may elucidate the mechanisms by which heritable disorders like dyslexia and autism can have highly uneven cognitive profiles in which some mental processes can be selectively impaired while others remain unaffected or even selectively enhanced.



Voltage-gated calcium channels are thought to exist in the plasma membrane as heteromeric proteins, in which the alpha1 subunit is associated with two auxiliary subunits, the intracellular beta subunit and the alpha(2)delta subunit; both of these subunits influence the trafficking and properties of Ca(V)1 and Ca(V)2 channels. The alpha(2)delta subunits have been described as type I transmembrane proteins, because they have an N-terminal signal peptide and a C-terminal hydrophobic and potentially transmembrane region. However, because they have very short C-terminal cytoplasmic domains, we hypothesized that the alpha(2)delta proteins might be associated with the plasma membrane through a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor attached to delta rather than a transmembrane domain. Here, we provide biochemical, immunocytochemical, and mutational evidence to show that all of the alpha(2)delta subunits studied, alpha(2)delta-1, alpha(2)delta-2, and alpha(2)delta-3, show all of the properties expected of GPI-anchored proteins, both when heterologously expressed and in native tissues. They are substrates for prokaryotic phosphatidylinositol-phospholipase C (PI-PLC) and trypanosomal GPI-PLC, which release the alpha(2)delta proteins from membranes and intact cells and expose a cross-reacting determinant epitope. PI-PLC does not affect control transmembrane or membrane-associated proteins. Furthermore, mutation of the predicted GPI-anchor sites markedly reduced plasma membrane and detergent-resistant membrane localization of alpha(2)delta subunits. We also show that GPI anchoring of alpha(2)delta subunits is necessary for their function to enhance calcium currents, and PI-PLC treatment only reduces calcium current density when alpha(2)delta subunits are coexpressed. In conclusion, this study redefines our understanding of alpha(2)delta subunits, both in terms of their role in calcium-channel function and other roles in synaptogenesis.
The enzyme ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is one of the most abundant proteins in the mammalian nervous system. In humans, UCH-L1 is also found in the ubiquitinated inclusion bodies that characterize neurodegenerative diseases in the brain, suggesting its involvement in neurodegeneration. The physiologic role of UCH-L1 in neurons, however, remains to be further elucidated. For example, previous studies have provided evidence both for and against the role of UCH-L1 in synaptic function in the brain. Here, we have characterized a line of knockout mice deficient in the UCH-L1 gene. We found that, in the absence of UCH-L1, synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) is markedly impaired. Both spontaneous and evoked synaptic activity are reduced; paired pulse-facilitation is impaired, and synaptic transmission fails to respond to high-frequency, repetitive stimulation at the NMJs of UCH-L1 knockout mice. Morphologic analyses of the NMJs further revealed profound structural defects-loss of synaptic vesicles and accumulation of tubulovesicular structures at the presynaptic nerve terminals, and denervation of the muscles in UCH-L1 knockout mice. These findings demonstrate that UCH-L1 is required for the maintenance of the structure and function of the NMJ and that the loss of normal UCH-L1 activity may result in neurodegeneration in the peripheral nervous system.
To investigate the role of M1 muscarininc acetylcholine receptors (m1 receptors) in metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-mediated long-term depression (LTD), we produced mouse lines in which deletion of the m1 gene is restricted to the forebrain (FB-m1KO) or hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons (CA3-m1KO). Stimulation in FB-m1KO hippocampal slices resulted in excitatory postsynaptic potentials and long-term synaptic plasticity (long-term potentiation and LTD) similar to controls. The mice were deficient in (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine hydrate (DHPG)-induced mGluR LTD, which correlated with a presynaptic increase in the release of neurotransmitters. Protein kinase C (PKC) activity, which is downstream from both mGluRs and m1 receptors, was reduced in CA3 but not in CA1. The presynaptic requirement of m1 receptors was confirmed by the lack of DHPG-induced mGluR LTD in the CA1 of slices from CA3-m1KO mice. mGluR LTD was rescued by stimulating PKC activity pharmacologically in CA3-m1KO mice. These data confirm a role for PKC activation in presynaptic induction of mGluR LTD and distinguish between the roles of mGluRs and m1 receptors.
Cognitive functions show many alternative outcomes and great individual variation during normal aging. We examined learning over the adult life span in CBA mice, along with morphological and electrophysiological substrates. Our aim was to compare cerebellum-dependent delay eyeblink classical conditioning and hippocampus-dependent contextual fear conditioning in the same animals using the same conditioned and unconditioned stimuli for eyeblink and fear conditioning. In a subset of the behaviorally tested mice, we used unbiased stereology to estimate the total number of Purkinje neurons in cerebellar cortex and pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus. Several forms of synaptic plasticity were assessed at different ages in CBA mice: long-term depression (LTD) in both cerebellum and hippocampus and NMDA-mediated long-term potentiation (LTP) and voltage-dependent calcium channel LTP in hippocampus. Forty-four CBA mice tested at one of five ages (4, 8, 12, 18, or 24 months) demonstrated statistically significant age differences in cerebellum-dependent delay eyeblink conditioning, with 24-month mice showing impairment in comparison with younger mice. These same CBA mice showed no significant differences in contextual or cued fear conditioning. Stereology indicated significant loss of Purkinje neurons in the 18- and 24-month groups, whereas pyramidal neuron numbers were stable across age. Slice electrophysiology recorded from an additional 48 CBA mice indicated significant deficits in LTD appearing in cerebellum between 4 and 8 months, whereas 4- to 12-month mice demonstrated similar hippocampal LTD and LTP values. Our results demonstrate that processes of aging impact brain structures and associated behaviors differentially, with cerebellum showing earlier senescence than hippocampus.
Thinking allows an animal to take an effective action in a novel situation based on a mental exploration of possibilities and previous knowledge. We describe a model animal, with a neural system based loosely on the rodent hippocampus, which performs mental exploration to find a useful route in a spatial world it has previously learned. It then mentally recapitulates the chosen route, and this intent is converted to motor acts that move the animal physically along the route. The modeling is based on spiking neurons with spike-frequency adaptation. Adaptation causes the continuing evolution in the pattern of neural activity that is essential to mental exploration. A successful mental exploration is remembered through spike-timing-dependent synaptic plasticity. The system is also an episodic memory for an animal chiefly concerned with locations.
Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-B) activation occurs following ischemic preconditioning (IPC) in brain. However, the upstream signaling messengers and down-stream targets of NF-B required for induction of IPC remain undefined. In a previous study, we demonstrated that epsilon protein kinase c (PKC) was a key mediator of IPC in brain. Activation of PKC induced cyclooygenase-2 (COX-2) expression and conferred ischemic tolerance in the neuronal and hippocampal slice models. Here, we hypothesized that IPC-mediated COX-2 expression was mediated by NF-B. We tested this hypothesis in mixed cortical neuron/astrocyte cell cultures. To simulate IPC or ischemia, cell cultures were exposed to 1 or 4 h of oxygen-glucose deprivation, respectively. Our results demonstrated translocation of p65 and p50 subunits of NF-B into nucleus following IPC or PKC activation. NF-B inhibition with pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (10 M) abolished IPC or PKC activator-mediated neuroprotection indicating that NF-B activation was involved in ischemic tolerance. In parallel studies, inhibition of either PKC or the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK 1/2) pathway reduced IPC-induced NF-B activation. Finally, inhibition of NF-B blocked IPC-induced COX-2 expression. In conclusion, we demonstrated that IPC-signaling cascade comprises PKC activationERK1/2 activationNF-B translocation to nucleusCOX-2 expression resulting in neuroprotection in mixed neuronal culture.
The pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) plays a key role in initiating an immune response within the central nervous system (CNS), and is thought to be a significant contributor to the neurodegenerative process. The actions of IL-1beta can be regulated by interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra), which prevents IL-1beta from acting on the IL-1 type I receptor (IL-1RI). Another negative regulator of the IL-1 system is the IL-1 type II receptor (IL-1RII); a decoy receptor that serves to sequester IL-1. Consequently, pharmacological strategies that tip the balance in favour of IL-1ra and IL-1RII may be of therapeutic benefit. Evidence suggests that the neurotransmitter noradrenaline elicits anti-inflammatory actions in the CNS, and consequently may play an endogenous neuroprotective role. Here we report that noradrenaline induces production of IL-1ra and IL-1RII from primary rat mixed glial cells. In contrast, noradrenaline did not alter IL-1beta expression, or expression of IL-1RI or the IL-1 type I receptor accessory protein (IL-1RAcp); both of which are required for IL-1 signalling. Our results demonstrate that the ability of noradrenaline to induce IL-1ra and IL-1RII is mediated via beta-adrenoceptor activation and downstream activation of protein kinase A and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). In parallel with its ability to increase IL-1ra and IL-1RII, noradrenaline prevented neurotoxicity in cortical primary neurons induced by conditioned medium from IL-1beta treated mixed glial cells. These data indicate that noradrenaline negatively regulates IL-1 system in glial cells and has neuroprotective properties in situations where IL-1 contributes to pathology.
Opioid receptor like-1 receptor (ORL(1)) is selective for orphaninFQ/nociceptin (OFQ/N), a peptide linked to stress. Since immunologic stimuli exert stressor-like effects, the neuroendocrine and behavioral effects of the T-cell superantigen staphylococcal enterotoxin A (SEA) were tested in ORL(1)(-/-) and ORL(1)(+/+) wildtype 129S6 mice. Within 2h of SEA challenge both genotypes showed elevated corticosterone, but only wildtypes were elevated after 4h, and had altered hypothalamic CRH mRNA. Although amygdaloid CRH and TNFalpha mRNA was increased by SEA, this did not vary with genotype. Interestingly, gustatory neophobia due to SEA challenge was augmented in ORL(1)(-/-) mice, although object neophobia tested 4days later was abrogated. These results suggest differential requirements for ORL(1) in the mediation of neuroimmune effects exerted at different times after an immune challenge.


Evidence for the involvement of inflammatory processes in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been documented for a long time. However, the inflammation hypothesis in relation to AD pathology has emerged relatively recently. Even in this hypothesis, the inflammatory reaction is still considered to be a downstream effect of the accumulated proteins (amyloid beta (Abeta) and tau). This review aims to highlight the importance of the immune processes involved in AD pathogenesis based on the outcomes of the two major inflammation-relevant treatment strategies against AD developed and tested to date in animal studies and human clinical trials - the use of anti-inflammatory drugs and immunisation against Abeta.
The molecular mechanisms by which chronic hypoxia, whether constant (CCH) or intermittent (CIH), alters the heart rhythm are still under debate. Expression level, control, maturational profile and intercoordination of 54 genes encoding heart rhythm determinants (HRDs) were analyzed in 36 mice subjected for 1, 2 or 4 weeks of their early life to normal atmospheric conditions or to CCH or CIH. Our analysis revealed a complex network of genes encoding various heart rate, inotropy and development controllers, receptors, ion channels and transporters, ankyrins, epigenetic modulators and intercalated disc components (adherens, cadherins, catenins, desmosomal, gap and tight junction proteins). The network is remodeled during maturation and substantially and differently altered by CIH and CCH. Gene Prominence Analysis that ranks the genes according to their expression stability and networking within functional gene webs, confirmed the HRD status of certain epigenetic modulators and components of the intercalated discs not yet associated with arrhythmia.



Stimulation of endogenous repair in neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease (PD), appears to be a novel and promising therapeutic application of stem cells (SCs). In fact SCs could propel local microenvironmental signals to sustain active endeavors for damaged neurons substitution, normally failing in non-supportive pathological surroundings. In this study, we demonstrated that two different doses of nave human adult mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs), implanted in the striatum of rats lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), positively survived 23 days after transplantation. Their fate was directly influenced by the surrounding host environment while grafted hMSCs, dose dependently, regionally sustained the survival of striatal/nigral dopaminergic terminals and enhanced neurogenesis in the Subventricular Zone (SVZ). The number of proliferative cells (Ki67/Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen +) as well as neuroblasts migration significantly augmented in the lesioned striatum of transplanted animals compared to controls. No SVZ astrogenesis was detected in all experimental conditions, irrespectively of graft presence. Activation of endogenous stem cell compartments and rescue of dopaminergic neurons, supported by the persistent release of specific cytokine by MSCs in vivo, appeared in principle able to contrast the neurodegenerative processes induced by the 6-OHDA lesion. Our results suggest that reciprocal influences between grafted cells and endogenous neural precursors could be important for the observed neurorescue effect on several brain regions. Altogether, our data provide remarkable cues regarding the potential of hMSCs in promoting endogenous reparative mechanisms that may prove applicable and beneficial for PD treatment.
Mutant Tg2576 mice which possess the human &quot;Swedish&quot; APP mutation have been shown to demonstrate both Abeta plaque pathology and memory deficits in behavioral tasks. These mice are routinely maintained on a mixed C57BL/6xSJL genetic background which exhibits a high frequency of retinal degeneration allele and high variability in many behavioral assays. The same APP mutation is also available maintained on a 129 genetic background, providing more genetic homogeneity, but little data are published regarding the effects of the mutation on this background. We investigated whether transgenic mice expressing the Swedish mutation on the 129 background show similar behavioral deficits and Abeta pathology as those on the mixed background. Mice on the 129 background were tested at 6-7, 11-12, or 18-19 months of age in locomotor activity, Y-maze spontaneous alternation, and contextual fear conditioning. Differences were detected between WT and Tg mice in locomotor activity at 6-7 and 18-19 months, Y-maze at 6-7 and 11-12 months, and fear conditioning at 6-7, 11-12, and 18-19 months. In contrast, Tg mice on the mixed B6/SJL background tested at 6-7 months only demonstrated significant impairment in the contextual fear conditioning assay and in the Y-maze in one of 2 cohorts tested. Despite the behavioral differences observed, similar Abeta pathology was observed between Tg mice on the two genetic backgrounds. These results indicate that mice on the 129 genetic background may generate more consistent and robust behavioral differences, providing a useful model for testing therapeutic agents for Alzheimer's disease.
There are sex differences in the neurochemistry of brainstem nuclei that participate in the control of breathing as well as sex differences in respiratory responses to hypoxia. Central chemoreception refers to the detection within the brain of minute changes in carbon dioxide (CO(2)) levels and the subsequent modulation of breathing. Putative central chemoreceptor sites are widespread and include cells located near the ventral surface of the brainstem in the retrotrapezoid nucleus (RTN), in the medullary midline raphe nuclei, and, more dorsally in the medulla, in the nucleus of the solitary tract and in the locus caeruleus at the pontomedullary junction as well as in the fastigial nucleus of the cerebellum. In this study, we ask if the cells that respond to CO(2) differ between the sexes. We used a transgenic mouse with a c-fos promoter driven tau-lacZ reporter construct (FTL) to map the locations of cells in the mouse brainstem and cerebellum that responded to exposure of mice of both sexes to 5% CO(2) or room air (control). X-gal (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-d-galactopyranoside) histochemical staining to detect the beta-galactosidase enzyme produced staining in the brains of mice of both sexes in all of the previously identified putative chemoreceptor sites, with the exception of the fastigial nucleus. Notably, the male RTN region contained significantly more x-gal-labeled cells than the female RTN region. In addition to new observations regarding potential sex differences in the retrotrapezoid region, we found the FTL mouse to be a useful tool for identifying cells that respond to the exposure of the whole animal to relatively low concentrations of CO(2).
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors constitute a major subtype of glutamate receptors at extrasynaptic sites that link multiple intracellular catabolic processes responsible for irreversible neuronal death. Here, we report that cerebral ischemia recruits death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK1) into the NMDA receptor NR2B protein complex in the cortex of adult mice. DAPK1 directly binds with the NMDA receptor NR2B C-terminal tail consisting of amino acid 1292-1304 (NR2B(CT)). A constitutively active DAPK1 phosphorylates NR2B subunit at Ser-1303 and in turn enhances the NR1/NR2B receptor channel conductance. Genetic deletion of DAPK1 or administration of NR2B(CT) that uncouples an activated DAPK1 from an NMDA receptor NR2B subunit in vivo in mice blocks injurious Ca(2+) influx through NMDA receptor channels at extrasynaptic sites and protects neurons against cerebral ischemic insults. Thus, DAPK1 physically and functionally interacts with the NMDA receptor NR2B subunit at extrasynaptic sites and this interaction acts as a central mediator for stroke damage.
We propose a new method for mapping neural connectivity optically, by utilizing Cre/Lox system Brainbow to tag synapses of different neurons with random mixtures of different fluorophores, such as GFP, YFP, etc., and then detecting patterns of fluorophores at different synapses using light microscopy (LM). Such patterns will immediately report the pre- and post-synaptic cells at each synaptic connection, without tracing neural projections from individual synapses to corresponding cell bodies. We simulate fluorescence from a population of densely labeled synapses in a block of hippocampal neuropil, completely reconstructed from electron microscopy data, and show that high-end LM is able to detect such patterns with over 95% accuracy. We conclude, therefore, that with the described approach neural connectivity in macroscopically large neural circuits can be mapped with great accuracy, in scalable manner, using fast optical tools, and straightforward image processing. Relying on an electron microscopy dataset, we also derive and explicitly enumerate the conditions that should be met to allow synaptic connectivity studies with high-resolution optical tools.
In vivo intracellular recordings of hippocampal neurons reveal the occurrence of fast events of small amplitude called spikelets or fast prepotentials. Because intracellular recordings have been restricted to anesthetized or head-fixed animals, it is not known how spikelet activity contributes to hippocampal spatial representations. We addressed this question in CA1 pyramidal cells by using in vivo whole-cell recording in freely moving rats. We observed a high incidence of spikelets that occurred either in isolation or in bursts and could drive spiking as fast prepotentials of action potentials. Spikelets strongly contributed to spiking activity, driving approximately 30% of all action potentials. CA1 pyramidal cell firing and spikelet activity were comodulated as a function of the animal's location in the environment. We conclude that spikelets have a major impact on hippocampal activity during spatial exploration.
Our understanding of neural circuits--how they mediate the computations that subserve sensation, thought, emotion, and action, and how they are corrupted in neurological and psychiatric disorders--would be greatly facilitated by a technology for rapidly targeting genes to complex 3-dimensional neural circuits, enabling fast creation of &quot;circuit-level transgenics.&quot; We have recently developed methods in which viruses encoding for light-sensitive proteins can sensitize specific cell types to millisecond-timescale activation and silencing in the intact brain. We here present the design and implementation of an injector array capable of delivering viruses (or other fluids) to dozens of defined points within the 3-dimensional structure of the brain (Figure. 1A, 1B). The injector array comprises one or more displacement pumps that each drive a set of syringes, each of which feeds into a polyimide/fused-silica capillary via a high-pressure-tolerant connector. The capillaries are sized, and then inserted into, desired locations specified by custom-milling a stereotactic positioning board, thus allowing viruses or other reagents to be delivered to the desired set of brain regions. To use the device, the surgeon first fills the fluidic subsystem entirely with oil, backfills the capillaries with the virus, inserts the device into the brain, and infuses reagents slowly (&lt;0.1 microliters/min). The parallel nature of the injector array facilitates rapid, accurate, and robust labeling of entire neural circuits with viral payloads such as optical sensitizers to enable light-activation and silencing of defined brain circuits. Along with other technologies, such as optical fiber arrays for light delivery to desired sets of brain regions, we hope to create a toolbox that enables the systematic probing of causal neural functions in the intact brain. This technology may not only open up such systematic approaches to circuit-focused neuroscience in mammals, and facilitate labeling of brain regions in large animals such as non-human primates, but may also open up a clinical translational path for cell-specific optical control prosthetics, whose precision may enable improved treatment of intractable brain disorders. Finally, such devices as described here may facilitate precisely-timed fluidic delivery of other payloads, such as stem cells and pharmacological agents, to 3-dimensional structures, in an easily user-customizable fashion.
CXCR4 and CCR5 constitute the two major coreceptors for HIV-1 entry into host cells. In the course of an HIV-infection, a coreceptor switch takes place in approximately half of the patients - from R5 HIV-1 (CCR5 utilizing) strains to X4 HIV-1 (CXCR4 utilizing) strains. Treatment of HIV-infected individuals with CXCR4 antagonists delays the onset of AIDS by preventing the CCR5 to CXCR4 coreceptor switch. In addition to the endogenous CXCR4 and CCR5 ligands, other chemokines, for example the human herpesvirus 8 encoded CC-chemokine, vCCL2, and modifications hereof, have proven efficient HIV-1 cell-entry inhibition through chemokine receptor interaction. However, pharmacokinetic and immunogenic drawbacks of chemokines and peptidic/peptoid compounds have brought the attention towards small-molecule antagonists, such as AMD3100, that displays high specificity and affinity towards CXCR4, but unfortunately no oral bioavailability. The hunt for orally active small-molecule CXCR4 antagonists led to the development of monocyclam-based compounds, and recently to the non-cyclam antagonist AMD070, which is orally active and currently in Phase II clinical trial as anti-HIV treatment. Current review provides an overview of the drug discovery within the field of anti-HIV treatment targeting CXCR4 spanning from natural occurring and modified chemokines, to HIV-mimicking peptides and peptoids ending at the non-peptide antagonists.

Inflammation, insoluble protein deposition and neuronal cell loss are important features in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. To investigate the regulatory genes responsible for the neuropathology in AD, we performed microarray analysis with APP(V717I)-CT100 transgenic mice, an animal model of AD, and isolated the S100a9 gene, which encodes an inflammation-associated calcium binding protein. In another AD animal model, Tg2576 mouse brain, and in human AD brain, induction of S100a9 was confirmed. The endogenous expression of S100a9 was induced by treatment with Abeta or CT peptides in a microglia cell line, BV2 cells. In these cells, silencing study of S100a9 showed that the induction of S100a9 increased the intracellular calcium level and up-regulated the inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta and TNFalpha) and iNOS. S100a9 lentiviral short hairpin RNA (sh-S100a9) was injected into the hippocampus region of the brains of 13-month-old Tg2576 mice. At two months after injection, we found that knockdown of S100a9 expression had improved the cognition decline of Tg2576 mice in the water maze task, and had reduced amyloid plaque burden. These results suggest that S100a9 induced by Abeta or CT contributes to cause inflammation, which then affects the neuropathology including amyloid plaques burden and impairs cognitive function. Thus, the inhibition of S100a9 is a possible target for AD therapy.
The human brain anatomy is characterized by dramatic structural changes during fetal development. It is extraordinarily complex and yet its origin is a simple tubular structure. Revealing detailed anatomy at different stages of brain development not only aids in understanding this highly ordered process, but also provides clues to detect abnormalities caused by genetic or environmental factors. However, anatomical studies of human brain development during the fetal period are surprisingly scarce and histology-based atlases have become available only recently. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) measures water diffusion to delineate the underlying neural structures. The high contrasts derived from DTI can be used to establish the brain atlas. With DTI tractography, coherent neural structures, such as white matter tracts, can be three-dimensionally reconstructed. The primary eigenvector of the diffusion tensor can be further explored to characterize microstructures in the cerebral wall of the developmental brains. In this mini-review, the application of DTI in order to reveal the structures of developmental fetal brains has been reviewed in the above-mentioned aspects. The fetal brain DTI provides a unique insight for delineating the neural structures in both macroscopic and microscopic levels. The resultant DTI database will provide structural guidance for the developmental study of human fetal brains in basic neuroscience, and reference standards for diagnostic radiology of premature newborns.
Anabolic androgenic steroids and high testosterone doses have been reported to induce impulsive behavior in man and behavioral disinhibition in rats. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether aromatization of testosterone to estradiol is of importance for the behavioral disinhibiting effect of a high testosterone dose in adult male rats. Testosterone administered via five testosterone-filled silastic capsules implanted subcutaneously (s.c.) to non-castrated, group-housed rats for six days induced behavioral disinhibition in a modified Vogel's drinking conflict model and yielded supraphysiological serum levels of testosterone and increased accessory sex organ weights. Moreover, concurrent administration of the aromatase inhibitor 1,4,6-androstatriene-3,17-dione (ATD; 60 mg/kg/day s.c.) decreased behavioral disinhibition in testosterone-treated rats (without affecting accessory sex organ weights) while behavior was not significantly affected in sham-treated animals. Since some reports indicate that ATD, in addition to inhibit aromatase, also may affect the binding of testosterone to the androgen receptor, the effect of the non-steroidal androgen receptor antagonist flutamide was investigated. Flutamide treatment did not affect disinhibited behavior in testosterone-treated rats. However, in sham-treated animals, flutamide (50mg/kg/day) produced behavioral disinhibition. These results suggest that estradiol is of importance in the mechanisms underlying behavioral disinhibition in non-castrated rats treated with a high testosterone dose. Speculatively, aromatization may be involved in pro-impulsive effects of high testosterone doses in humans.
The initiation of smoking typically begins during adolescence, suggesting that nicotine may have different motivational effects during this developmental stage compared to adulthood. Studies using the conditioned place preference (CPP) procedure have demonstrated that adolescent rats are more sensitive to the conditioned rewarding effects of subcutaneously administered nicotine compared to adult rats, whereas intravenous self-administration studies have not demonstrated consistent age differences in the reinforcing effects of nicotine. This study was designed to evaluate if intravenously administered nicotine has age-dependent conditioned rewarding effects. Using an unbiased CPP procedure, adolescent and adult male Wistar rats were conditioned with one of two intravenous doses of nicotine that are sufficient to maintain self-administration (0.03 or 0.06 mg/kg) or vehicle (saline) over a period of 8 conditioning trials (4 nicotine and 4 vehicle). Adolescent rats conditioned with 0.03 mg/kg nicotine demonstrated a significant CPP, whereas adult rats did not at either dose tested. After 8 extinction trials, reinstatement of the CPP was observed following a nicotine priming injection (0.15 mg/kg, s.c.) in adolescents that had previously been conditioned with 0.03 mg/kg nicotine; vehicle-treated rats did not show a significant preference for either compartment. The present data are consistent with previous CPP studies using subcutaneously administered nicotine and suggest that passively administered intravenous nicotine is more rewarding in adolescent compared to adult rats.

To ensure alternation of flexor and extensor muscles during locomotion, the spinal locomotor network provides rhythmic inhibition to motoneurons. The source of this inhibition in mammals is incompletely defined. We have identified a population of GABAergic interneurons located in medial laminae V/VI that express green fluorescent protein (GFP) in glutamic acid decarboxylase-65::GFP transgenic mice. Immunohistochemical studies revealed GFP+ terminals in apposition to motoneuronal somata, neurons in Clarke's column, and in laminae V/VI where they apposed GFP+ interneurons, thus forming putative reciprocal connections. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from GFP+ interneurons in spinal cord slices revealed a range of electrophysiological profiles, including sag and postinhibitory rebound potentials. Most neurons fired tonically in response to depolarizing current injection. Calcium transients demonstrated by two-photon excitation microscopy in the hemisected spinal cord were recorded in response to low-threshold dorsal root stimulation, indicating these neurons receive primary afferent input. Following a locomotor task, the number of GFP+ neurons expressing Fos increased, indicating that these neurons are active during locomotion. During fictive locomotion induced in the hemisected spinal cord, two-photon excitation imaging demonstrated rhythmic calcium activity in these interneurons, which correlated with the termination of ventral root bursts. We suggest that these dorsomedial GABAergic interneurons are involved in spinal locomotor networks, and may provide direct rhythmic inhibitory input to motoneurons during locomotion.
Calpain is a calcium-dependent protease that plays a significant role in synaptic plasticity, cell motility, and neurodegeneration. Two major calpain isoforms are present in brain, with mu-calpain (calpain1) requiring micromolar calcium concentrations for activation and m-calpain (calpain2) needing millimolar concentrations. Recent studies in fibroblasts indicate that epidermal growth factor (EGF) can activate m-calpain independently of calcium via mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated phosphorylation. In neurons, MAPK is activated by both brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and EGF. We therefore examined whether these growth factors could activate m-calpain by MAPK-dependent phosphorylation using cultured primary neurons and HEK-TrkB cells, both of which express BDNF and EGF receptors. Calpain activation was monitored by quantitative analysis of spectrin degradation and by a fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based assay, which assessed the truncation of a calpain-specific peptide flanked by the FRET fluorophore pair DABCYL and EDANS. In both cell types, BDNF and EGF rapidly elicited calpain activation, which was completely blocked by MAPK and calpain inhibitors. BDNF stimulated m-calpain but not mu-calpain serine phosphorylation, an effect also blocked by MAPK inhibitors. Remarkably, BDNF- and EGF-induced calpain activation was preferentially localized in dendrites and dendritic spines of hippocampal neurons and was associated with actin polymerization, which was prevented by calpain inhibition. Our results indicate that, in cultured neurons, both BDNF and EGF activate m-calpain by MAPK-mediated phosphorylation. These results strongly support a role for calpain in synaptic plasticity and may explain why m-calpain, although widely expressed in CNS, requires nonphysiological calcium levels for activation.
Imaging studies show that Parkinson's disease (PD) alters the activity of motor- and cognition-related metabolic brain networks. However, it is not known whether the network changes appear at or before symptom onset. In this study, we examined 15 hemiparkinsonian patients who underwent serial metabolic imaging with [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET at baseline and again 2.1 +/- 0.6 (mean +/- SD) and 3.9 +/- 0.7 years later. We assessed longitudinal changes in network activity in each cerebral hemisphere, focusing specifically on the &quot;presymptomatic&quot; hemisphere--ipsilateral to the initially involved body side. At the network level, the activity of the PD motor-related pattern (PDRP) increased symmetrically in both hemispheres over time (p &lt; 0.001), with significant bilateral elevations at each of the three time points. Hemispheric expression of the PD cognition-related pattern likewise increased symmetrically (p &lt; 0.001), although significant elevations were not evident on either side until 4 years. At the regional level, putamen metabolism contralateral to the initially affected body side was elevated at all three time points, without longitudinal change. In contrast, in the initially presymptomatic hemisphere, putamen metabolic activity increased steadily over time, reaching abnormal levels only at 4 years. Metabolic activity in the contralateral precuneus fell to subnormal levels by the final time point. These findings suggest that abnormal PDRP activity antecedes the appearance of motor signs by approximately 2 years. The timing and laterality of symptom onset relates to focal asymmetric metabolic changes at the putamenal node of this network.
Clustered Kv1 K(+) channels regulate neuronal excitability at juxtaparanodes of myelinated axons, axon initial segments, and cerebellar basket cell terminals (BCTs). These channels are part of a larger protein complex that includes cell adhesion molecules and scaffolding proteins. To identify proteins that regulate assembly, clustering, and/or maintenance of axonal Kv1 channel protein complexes, we immunoprecipitated Kv1.2 alpha subunits, and then used mass spectrometry to identify interacting proteins. We found that a disintegrin and metalloproteinase 22 (ADAM22) is a component of the Kv1 channel complex and that ADAM22 coimmunoprecipitates Kv1.2 and the membrane-associated guanylate kinases (MAGUKs) PSD-93 and PSD-95. When coexpressed with MAGUKs in heterologous cells, ADAM22 and Kv1 channels are recruited into membrane surface clusters. However, coexpression of Kv1.2 with ADAM22 and MAGUKs does not alter channel properties. Among all the known Kv1 channel-interacting proteins, only ADAM22 is found at every site where Kv1 channels are clustered. Analysis of Caspr-null mice showed that, like other previously described juxtaparanodal proteins, disruption of the paranodal junction resulted in redistribution of ADAM22 into paranodal zones. Analysis of Caspr2-, PSD-93-, PSD-95-, and double PSD-93/PSD-95-null mice showed ADAM22 clustering at BCTs requires PSD-95, but ADAM22 clustering at juxtaparanodes requires neither PSD-93 nor PSD-95. In direct contrast, analysis of ADAM22-null mice demonstrated juxtaparanodal clustering of PSD-93 and PSD-95 requires ADAM22, whereas Kv1.2 and Caspr2 clustering is normal in ADAM22-null mice. Thus, ADAM22 is an axonal component of the Kv1 K(+) channel complex that recruits MAGUKs to juxtaparanodes.
Ibuprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug widely used to relieve pain and inflammation in many disorders via inhibition of cyclooxygenases. Recently, we have demonstrated that ibuprofen inhibits intracellular signaling of RhoA and promotes significant axonal growth and functional recovery following spinal cord lesions in rodents. In addition, another study suggests that ibuprofen reduces generation of amyloid-beta42 peptide via inactivation of RhoA signaling, although it may also regulate amyloid-beta42 formation by direct inhibition of the gamma-secretase complex. The molecular mechanisms by which ibuprofen inhibits the RhoA signal in neurons, however, remain unclear. Here, we report that the transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) is essential for coupling ibuprofen to RhoA inhibition and subsequent neurite growth promotion in neurons. Ibuprofen activates PPARgamma in neuron-like PC12 and B104 cells. Activation of PPARgamma with traditional agonists mimics the RhoA-inhibiting properties of ibuprofen in PC12 cells and, like ibuprofen, promotes neurite elongation in primary cultured neurons exposed to axonal growth inhibitors. Protein knockdown with small interfering RNA specific for PPARgamma blocks RhoA suppression of PPARgamma agonists in PC12 cells. Moreover, the effect of ibuprofen on RhoA activity and neurite growth in neuronal cultures is prevented by selective PPARgamma inhibition. These findings support that PPARgamma plays an essential role in mediating the RhoA-inhibiting effect of ibuprofen. Elucidation of the novel molecular mechanisms linking ibuprofen to RhoA inhibition may provide additional therapeutic targets to the disorders characterized by RhoA activation, including spinal cord injuries and Alzheimer's disease.
We have recently demonstrated that systemic administration of 5-HT(2C) and 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonists significantly enhanced and impaired spatial reversal learning, respectively. In this study, the role of 5-HT(2C) and 5-HT(2A) receptor subtypes in the mediation of these opposing effects was further investigated with respect to neuroanatomical specificity. The roles of 5-HT(2C) and 5-HT(2A) receptors were examined within some of the brain regions implicated in cognitive flexibility, namely the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and nucleus accumbens (NAc), by means of targeted infusions of selective 5-HT(2C) and 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonists (SB 242084 and M100907, respectively). Intra-OFC 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonism produced dose-dependent effects similar to those of systemic administration, i.e., improved spatial reversal learning by reducing the number of trials (all doses: 0.1, 0.3, and 1.0 microg) and perseverative errors to criterion (0.3 and 1.0 microg) compared with controls. However, the highest dose (1.0 microg) showed a nonselective effect, as it also affected retention preceding the reversal phase and decreased learning errors. Intracerebral infusions of SB 242084 into the mPFC or NAc produced no significant effects on any behavioral measures. Similarly, no significant differences were observed with intra-OFC, -mPFC, or -NAc infusions of M100907. These data suggest that the improved performance in reversal learning observed after 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonism is mediated within the OFC. These data also bear on the issue of whether 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonism within the OFC might help elucidate the biological substrate of obsessive-compulsive disorder, offering the potential for therapeutic application.
We examined neural spike recordings from prefrontal cortex (PFC) while monkeys performed a delayed somatosensory discrimination task. In general, PFC neurons displayed great heterogeneity in response to the task. That is, although individual cells spiked reliably in response to task variables from trial-to-trial, each cell had idiosyncratic combinations of response properties. Despite the great variety in response types, some general patterns held. We used linear regression analysis on the spike data to both display the full heterogeneity of the data and classify cells into categories. We compared different categories of cells and found little difference in their ability to carry information about task variables or their correlation to behavior. This suggests a distributed neural code for the task rather than a highly modularized one. Along this line, we compared the predictions of two theoretical models to the data. We found that cell types predicted by both models were not represented significantly in the population. Our study points to a different class of models that should embrace the inherent heterogeneity of the data, but should also account for the nonrandom features of the population.
GABA, the main inhibitory transmitter in adulthood, early in postnatal development exerts a depolarizing and excitatory action. This effect, which results from a high intracellular chloride concentration ([Cl(-)](i)), promotes neuronal growth and synaptogenesis. During the second postnatal week, the developmental regulated expression of the cation-chloride cotransporter KCC2 accounts for the shift of GABA from the depolarizing to the hyperpolarizing direction. Changes in chloride homeostasis associated with high [Cl(-)](i) have been found in several neurological disorders, including temporal lobe epilepsy. Here, we report that, in adult transgenic mice engineered to express recombinant neutralizing anti-nerve growth factor antibodies (AD11 mice), GABA became depolarizing and excitatory. AD11 mice exhibit a severe deficit of the cholinergic function associated with an age-dependent progressive neurodegenerative pathology resembling that observed in Alzheimer patients. Thus, in hippocampal slices obtained from 6-month-old AD11 (but not wild-type) mice, the GABA(A) agonist isoguvacine significantly increased the firing of CA1 principal cells and, at the network level, the frequency of multiunit activity recorded with extracellular electrodes. In addition, in AD11 mice, the reversal of GABA(A)-mediated postsynaptic currents and of GABA-evoked single-channel currents were positive with respect to the resting membrane potential as estimated in perforated patch and cell attached recordings, respectively. Real-time quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and immunocytochemical experiments revealed a reduced expression of mRNA encoding for Kcc2 and of the respective protein. This novel mechanism may represent a homeostatic response that counterbalances within the hippocampal network the Alzheimer-like neurodegenerative pathology found in AD11 mice.
Neuropeptides are systematically encountered in local interneurons, but their functional contribution in neural networks is poorly documented. In the mouse main olfactory bulb (MOB), somatostatin is mainly concentrated in local GABAergic interneurons restricted to the external plexiform layer (EPL). Immunohistochemical experiments revealed that the sst2 receptor, the major somatostatin receptor subtype in the telencephalon, is expressed by mitral cells, the MOB principal cells. As odor-activated mitral cells synchronize and generate gamma oscillations of the local field potentials, we investigated whether pharmacological manipulations of sst2 receptors could influence these oscillations in freely behaving mice. In wild-type, but not in sst2 knock-out mice, gamma oscillation power decreased lastingly after intrabulbar injection of an sst2-selective antagonist (BIM-23627), while sst2-selective agonists (octreotide and L-779976) durably increased it. Sst2-mediated oscillation changes were correlated with modifications of the dendrodendritic synaptic transmission between mitral and granule cells. Finally, bilateral injections of BIM-23627 and octreotide respectively decreased and increased odor discrimination performances. Together, these results suggest that endogenous somatostatin, presumably released from EPL interneurons, affects gamma oscillations through the dendrodendritic reciprocal synapse and contributes to olfactory processing. This provides the first direct correlation between synaptic, oscillatory, and perceptual effects induced by an intrinsic neuromodulator.
An important question in sensory neuroscience is what coding strategies and mechanisms are used by the brain to detect and discriminate among behaviorally relevant stimuli. There is evidence that sensory systems migrate from a distributed and redundant encoding strategy at the periphery to a more heterogeneous encoding in cortical structures. It has been hypothesized that heterogeneity is an efficient encoding strategy that minimizes the redundancy of the neural code and maximizes information throughput. Evidence of this mechanism has been documented in cortical structures. In this study, we examined whether heterogeneous encoding of complex sounds contributes to efficient encoding in the auditory midbrain by characterizing neural responses to behaviorally relevant vocalizations in the mouse inferior colliculus (IC). We independently manipulated the frequency, amplitude, duration, and harmonic structure of the vocalizations to create a suite of modified vocalizations. Based on measures of both spike rate and timing, we characterized the heterogeneity of neural responses to the natural vocalizations and their perturbed variants. Using information theoretic measures, we found that heterogeneous response properties of IC neurons contribute to efficient encoding of behaviorally relevant vocalizations.

Nanosized titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) is used widely in various everyday products and can be applied to the medical field for diagnostic or therapeutic tools. However, its neurobiological responses have not been defined completely in the brain. To evaluate the acute inflammatory response to TiO(2) particles of two different sizes in normal and septic brains, male C57BL/6 mice were given intraperitoneal injections of fine (&lt;1 microm) or ultrafine (21 nm) TiO(2), 30 min after vehicle or lipopolysaccaride (LPS). In the normal brain, neither fine nor ultrafine TiO(2) induced inflammation. However, in the brains of LPS-exposed mice, ultrafine TiO(2) significantly elevated proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) mRNAs, and IL-1beta protein levels. Also ultrafine TiO(2) increased the levels of reactive oxygen species and activated microglia 24 h after LPS challenge. In BV2 microglial cells stimulated with LPS, ultrafine TiO(2) enhanced TNF-alpha production and augmented nuclear factor-kB binding activity. These findings suggest that nanosized TiO(2) promotes an exaggerated neuroinflammatory responses by enhancing microglial activation in the pre-inflamed brain, in part.
The development of sensitization to the locomotor effects of morphine and cross-sensitization between morphine and cocaine were evaluated in adult rats submitted to a protein malnutrition schedule from the 14th day of gestation up to 30 days of age (D-rats), and compared with well-nourished animals (C-rats). Dose-response curves to morphine-induced locomotor activity (5, 7.5, 10 or 15 mg/kg, i.p., every other day for 5 days) revealed a shift to the left in D-rats compared to C-rats. This implies that D-rats showed behavioral sensitization to the lower dose of morphine used (5 mg/kg), which was ineffective in C-rats. Furthermore, when a cocaine challenge (10 mg/kg, i.p) was given 48 h after the last morphine administration, only D-rats exhibited cross-sensitization in morphine-pretreated animals (7.5 and 10 mg/kg). In order to correlate the differential response observed with the functioning of the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system, extracellular dopamine (DA) levels were measured in the nucleus accumbens (core and shell) and the dorsal caudate-putamen. A challenge with cocaine in morphine pre-exposed animals produced an increase in DA release, but only in the nucleus accumbens &quot;core&quot; of D-rats. Similar DA levels were found in the nucleus accumbens &quot;shell&quot; and in the dorsal caudate-putamen of both groups. Finally, these results demonstrate that D-rats had a lower threshold for developing both a progressive behavioral sensitization to morphine and a cross-sensitization to cocaine. In accordance with these behavioral findings, a higher responsiveness of the nucleus accumbens core, expressed by increased DA levels, both basal and after cocaine challenge, was observed in D-rats.
In adult neostriatal projection neurons, the intracellular Ca(2+) supplied by Ca(V)2.1 (P/Q) Ca(2+) channels is in charge of both the generation of the afterhyperpolarizing potential (AHP) and the release of GABA from their synaptic terminals, thus being a major target for firing pattern and transmitter release modulations. We have shown that activation of muscarinic M(1)-class receptors modulates Ca(V)2.1 channels in these neurons in rats. This modulation is reversible, is not membrane delimited, is blocked by the specific M(1)-class muscarinic antagonist muscarine toxin 7 (MT-7), and is neither mediated by protein kinase C (PKC) nor by protein phosphatase 2B (PP-2B). Hence, the signaling mechanism of muscarinic Ca(V)2.1 channel modulation has remained elusive. The present paper shows that inactivation of phospholipase C (PLC) abolishes this modulation while inhibition of phosphoinositide kinases, PI-3K and PI-4K, prevents its reversibility, suggesting that the reconstitution of muscarinic modulation depends on phosphoinositide rephosphorylation. In support of this hypothesis, the supply of intracellular phosphatidylinositol (4,5) bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P(2)] blocked all muscarinic modulation of this channel. The results indicate that muscarinic M(1) modulation of Ca(V)2.1 Ca(2+) channels in these neurons involves phosphoinositide hydrolysis.
Relapse to drug craving is problematic in treatment for drug abuse. Evidence suggests inactivation of dopaminergic neurotransmission during drug withdrawal. Meanwhile, a tryptamine analogue, (-)-1-(benzofuran-2-yl)-2-propylaminopentane [(-)-BPAP], has been reported to enhance electrical stimulation of monoamine release. This study examined the effect of (-)-BPAP on reinstatement of methamphetamine-seeking behavior in an animal model of relapse to drug abuse. Rats were trained to i.v. self-administer methamphetamine paired with a light and tone (methamphetamine-associated cues) under a fixed-ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement for 10 days. After extinction session under saline infusions without cues, a reinstatement test under saline infusions was begun. Reinstatement induced by methamphetamine-associated cues or methamphetamine-priming injections was attenuated by repeated administration of (-)-BPAP during the extinction phase. Acute administration of (-)-BPAP on test day dose-dependently attenuated both reinstatements. Acute administration of (-)-BPAP neither reinstated methamphetamine-seeking behavior alone nor affected methamphetamine self-administration. Pretreatment with either R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine (SCH-23390), a dopamine D(1)-like receptor antagonist, or amisulpride, a dopamine D(2)-like receptor antagonist, did not appreciably affected the acute effect of (-)-BPAP on both reinstatements. Co-pretreatment with the dopamine receptor antagonists failed to alter the effects of (-)-BPAP. Meanwhile, pretreatment with a dopamine D(1)-like receptor agonist, (+/-)-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-l-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide (SKF-81297), dose-dependently attenuated reinstatement induced by the cues or methamphetamine-priming injections. In contrast to (-)-BPAP, pretreatment with SCH-23390 reversed the effects of SKF-81297. Our findings suggest activation of dopamine D(1)-like receptors results in attenuation of the reinstatement of methamphetamine-seeking behavior. Additionally, our findings provide evidence to develop (-)-BPAP and dopamine D(1)-like receptor agonists as an anti-relapse medication for methamphetamine abusers.
Learning is often prevented by events that occur after training, an outcome that is usually attributed to the disruption of consolidation-the transfer of learning to long-term memory. Here, we provide evidence from perceptual learning that improvements in performance can also be blocked by intervening events that occur during the acquisition phase of learning-the period of active practice. Listeners improved on each of two conditions of auditory temporal-interval discrimination (100 and 350 ms) when the two were practiced consecutively, even though that is a classic disruption-of-consolidation regimen. However, when practice on these two conditions was interleaved, there was no learning on either condition. The failure to improve in the interleaved case indicates that, at least in some circumstances, learning can be prevented during acquisition by events that do not disrupt consolidation itself. These results thus suggest that acquisition and consolidation are distinct phases in human learning.
Previous research has implicated limbic and prefrontal cortical areas in the control of drug-seeking behavior. The present study examined the effects of orbitofrontal-cortex (OFC) lesions on acquisition, dose-dependence, within-session patterning, and reinstatement of cocaine self-administration. Rats received OFC or sham lesions before or after acquisition (0.3 mg/kg/injection, paired with a visual stimulus), then were tested with a range of doses (0, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3 and 1). Compared to controls, rats lesioned before acquisition acquired the behavior sooner, responded more at low doses, and responded more on the first day of extinction. Rats that were lesioned after acquisition showed an even larger increase in responding (approximately 250%) at the lowest dose, and they also showed increased timeout responding and drug &quot;loading&quot; at low doses. Pre-acquisition lesions were tested and found to have no effect on cocaine-induced reinstatement. In parallel experiments examining effects of pre-acquisition OFC lesions on food-reinforced responding, lesions did not alter acquisition, maintenance, or reinstatement, but accelerated the course of extinction. The increased cocaine self-administration seen in OFC-lesioned rats did not resemble the dysregulated drug intake observed in long-access models of addiction but might be due to impaired response inhibition or impaired tracking of the reward value of drug-related cues.
Activation of microglial cells, the resident immune cells of the CNS causes neurotoxicity through the release of a wide array of inflammatory mediators including proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines and reactive oxygen species. In this study, we have investigated the expression of NG2 (also known as CSPG4), one of the members of transmembrane chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans family, in microglial cells and its role on inflammatory reaction of microglia by analyzing the expression of the proinflammation cytokines (interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)), chemokines (stromal cell-derived factor-1alpha and monocyte chemotactic protein-1) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). NG2 expression was not detectable in microglial cells expressing OX-42 in the brains of 1-day old postnatal rat pups and adult rats; it was, however, induced in activated microglial cells in pups and adult rats injected with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In vitro analysis further confirmed that LPS induced the expression of NG2 in primary microglial cells and this was inhibited by dexamethasone. It has been well demonstrated that LPS induces the expression of iNOS and proinflammatory cytokines in microglia. However in this study, LPS did not induce the mRNA expression of iNOS and cytokines including IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha in microglial cells transfected with CSPG4 siRNA. On the contrary, mRNA expression of chemokines such as monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and stromal cell-derived factor-1alpha (SDF-1alpha) was significantly increased in LPS-activated microglial cells after CSPG4 siRNA transfection in comparison with the control. The above results indicate that NG2 mediates the induction of iNOS and inflammatory cytokine expression, but not the chemokine expression in activated microglia.
Subcutaneous injection of the peptide endothelin-1 (ET-1) into the rat's footpad is known to cause rapid, transient ipsilateral mechanical and thermal sensitization and nocifensive hind paw flinching. Here we report that local injection of ET-1 (2 nmoles) into one hind paw slowly sensitizes the contralateral paw to chemical and mechanical stimulation. There was a 1.5-2-fold increase in the hind paw flinching response, over that from the first injection, to a second injection of the same dose of ET-1 delivered 24 h later into the contralateral paw. A similar increase in the number of flinches during the second phase of the response to formalin also occurred in the contralateral paw 24 h after ET-1. The contralateral paw withdrawal threshold to von Frey hairs was lowered by approximately 55% at 24 h after ipsilateral ET-1 injection. ET-1 injected s.c. at a segmentally unrelated location, the nuchal midline, caused no sensitization of the paws, obviating a systemic route of action. Local anesthetic block of the ipsilateral sciatic nerve during the period of initial response to ipsilateral ET-1 prevented contralateral sensitization, indicating the importance of local afferent transmission, although ipsilateral desensitization was not changed. These findings suggest that peripheral ET-1 actions lead to central sensitization that alters responses to selected stimuli.
Using a variety of experimental methods, a network of brain areas regulating aggressive behaviors has been identified in several groups of vertebrates. However, aggressive behavior expressed in different contexts is associated with different patterns of activity across hypothalamic and limbic brain regions. Previous studies in rodents demonstrated that short day photoperiods reliably increase both male and female aggression versus long day photoperiods. Here we used immunohistochemistry and western blots to examine the effect of photoperiod on phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK) in male California mice (Peromyscus californicus) during resident-intruder tests. Phosphorylated ERK (pERK) can alter neuronal activity in the short term and in the long term acts as a transcription factor. In the posterior bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) males tested in aggression tests had more pERK positive cells when housed in short days but not long days. This result was replicated in western blot analyses from microdissected BNST samples. In the medial amygdala (MEA), immunostaining and western analyses showed that pERK expression also was generally increased in short days. Immunostaining was also used to examine phosphorylation of cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB). CREB can be phosphorylated by pERK as well as other kinases and functions primarily as a transcription factor. Intriguingly, aggressive interactions reduced the number of cells stained positive for phosphorylated CREB in the infralimbic cortex, ventral lateral septum and MEA. This effect was observed in mice housed in long days but not short days. Overall, these data suggest that different (but overlapping) networks of aggressive behavior operate under different environmental conditions.
The olfactory system is regulated by several nervous and hormonal factors, and there is a growing body of evidence that some of these modulations already take place in the olfactory mucosa (OM). We recently suggested that, among others, vasoactive peptides might play multifaceted roles in different OM cells. Here we studied the effect of the vasoconstrictive peptide endothelin (ET) in the rat OM. We identified different components of the ET system both in the olfactory mucosa and in long-term primary culture of OM cells, composed of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) lying on a blend of non-neuronal OM cells (nNCs). We demonstrated that ET receptors are differentially expressed on OM cells, and that ET might be locally matured by the endothelin-converting enzyme ECE-1 located in OSNs. Using calcium imaging, we showed that ET triggers robust dose-dependent Ca(2+) responses in most OM cells, which consist of a transient phase, followed, in nNCs, by a sustained plateau phase. All transient responses depended on intracellular calcium release, while the sustained plateau phase also depended on subsequent external calcium entry. Using both pharmacology and spotting lethal (sl/sl) mutant rats, lacking functional ET(B) receptors, we finally demonstrated that these effects of ET are mediated through ET(B) receptors in OSNs and ET(A) receptors in nNCs.The present study therefore identifies endothelin as a potent endogenous modulator of the olfactory mucosa; specific endothelin-mediated Ca(2+) signals may serve distinct signaling functions, and thereby suggest differential functional roles of endothelin in both neuronal and non-neuronal OM cells.
Recent advances in multiple areas of research have contributed to the identification of several pathophysiological factors underlying obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). In particular, the glutamate transporter gene SLC1A1 has been associated with the diagnosis of OCD. Immunological and infectious studies have reported alterations of the immune system and the presence of immune complexes directed against the Borna disease virus in OCD patients. In addition, neuroimaging of OCD patients has demonstrated abnormalities in the anterior cingulate cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, thalamus, and the basal ganglia. Neuropsychological assessments have found several cognitive disruptions that have been identified in OCD, especially impairments in cognitive flexibility. Here, we attempt to bridge the gap between these remarkable findings through several previously unpredicted pathophysiological mechanisms. We propose an integrative hypothesis that indicates how genetic and environmental factors may contribute to the structural and functional alterations of cortico-subcortical circuits, leading to the characteristic cognitive disruptions underlying OCD symptoms.
Many important physiological, behavioral and subjective effects of i.v. cocaine (COC) are exceptionally rapid and transient, suggesting a possible involvement of peripheral neural substrates in their triggering. In the present study, we used high-speed electroencephalographic (EEG) and electromyographic (EMG) recordings (4-s resolution) in freely moving rats to characterize the central electrophysiological effects of i.v. COC at low doses within a self-administration range (0.25-1.0 mg/kg). We found that COC induces rapid, strong, and prolonged desynchronization of cortical EEG (decrease in alpha and increase in beta and gamma activity) and activation of the neck EMG that begin within 2-6 s following the start of a 10-s injection; immediate components of both effects were dose-independent. The rapid effects of COC were mimicked by i.v. COC methiodide (COC-MET), a derivative that cannot cross the blood-brain barrier. At equimolar doses (0.33-1.33 mg/kg), COC-MET had equally fast and strong effects on EEG and EMG total powers, decreasing alpha and increasing beta and gamma activities. Rapid EEG desynchronization and EMG activation was also induced by i.v. procaine, a structurally similar, short-acting local anesthetic with virtually no effects on monoamine uptake; at equipotential doses (1.25-5.0 mg/kg), these effects were weaker and shorter in duration than those of COC. Surprisingly, i.v. saline injection delivered during slow-wave sleep (but not during quiet wakefulness) also induced a transient EEG desynchronization but without changes in EMG and motor activity; these effects were significantly weaker and much shorter than those induced by all tested drugs. These data suggest that in awake animals, i.v. COC induces rapid cortical activation and a subsequent motor response via its action on peripheral non-monoamine neural elements, involving neural transmission via visceral sensory pathways. By providing a rapid neural signal and triggering neural activation, such an action might play a crucial role in the sensory effects of COC, thus contributing to the learning and development of drug-taking behavior.
Alcohol ingestion affects both neuropsychological and motor functions. We hypothesized that one of the key factors involved in such functions are neurotrophins and their receptors. We have therefore examined the effects of short-term ethanol exposure on the mRNA expression and protein levels of neurotrophin ligands and receptors in the cerebellum using real-time RT-PCR and Western blotting techniques. Male BALB/C mice were fed a liquid diet containing 5% (v/v) ethanol. The pair-fed control mice were fed an identical liquid diet except that sucrose was substituted isocalorically for ethanol. The cerebellum of mice exhibiting intoxication signs of stage 1 or 2 were used in the present study. We found that exposure to ethanol resulted in elevated levels of nerve growth factor (NGF) and TrkA mRNA expression but a decreased level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA expression. The expression of TrkB and p73 mRNA was unchanged. Changes in the level of these proteins were found to mirror these mRNA expression levels. We conclude that exposure to ethanol for a short period can cause a differential responsive in the various neurotrophin ligand/receptor systems. The functional consequences of these changes are unknown at present.
Synphilin-1 is a cytoplasmic protein with unclear function. Synphilin-1 has been identified as an interaction partner of alpha-synuclein. The interaction between synphilin-1 and alpha-synuclein has implications in Parkinson's disease. In this study, we stably overexpressed human synphilin-1 in mouse N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells. We found that overexpression of synphilin-1 shortened cell growth doubling time and increased neurite outgrowth. Knockdown of endogenous synphilin-1 caused neuronal toxicity and shortened neurite outgrowth. We further found that synphilin-1 increased activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) and mediated neurite outgrowth. Rotenone, mitochondrial complex I inhibitor, has been shown previously to induce dopaminergic neurodegeneration and Parkinsonism in rats and Drosophila. We found that Rotenone induced apoptotic cell death in N1E-115 cells via caspase-3 activation and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) cleavage. Overexpression of synphilin-1 significantly reduced Rotenone-induced cell death, caspase-3 activation and PARP cleavage. The results indicate that synphilin-1 displays trophic and protective effects in vitro, suggesting that synphilin-1 may play a protective role in Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis and may lead to a potential therapeutic target for PD intervention.
Somatodendritic Kv4.2 channels mediate transient A-type potassium currents (I(A)), and play critical roles in controlling neuronal excitability and modulating synaptic plasticity. Our studies have shown an NMDA receptor-dependent downregulation of Kv4.2 and I(A). NMDA receptors are heteromeric complexes of NR1 combined with NR2A-NR2D, mainly NR2A and NR2B. Here, we investigate NR2B receptor-mediated modulation of Kv4.2 and I(A) in cultured hippocampal neurons. Application of glutamate caused a reduction in total Kv4.2 protein levels and Kv4.2 clusters, and produced a hyperpolarized shift in the inactivation curve of I(A). The effects of glutamate on Kv4.2 and I(A) were inhibited by pretreatment of NR2B-selective antagonists. NR2B-containing NMDA receptors are believed to be located predominantly extrasynaptically. Like application of glutamate, selective activation of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors caused a reduction in total Kv4.2 protein levels and Kv4.2 clusters, which was also blocked by NR2B-selective antagonists. In contrast, specific stimulation of synaptic NMDA receptors had no effect on Kv4.2. In addition, the influx of Ca(2+) was essential for extrasynaptic modulation of Kv4.2. Calpain inhibitors prevented the reduction of total Kv4.2 protein levels following activation of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors. These results demonstrate that the glutamate-induced downregulation of Kv4.2 and I(A) is mediated by NR2B-containing NMDA receptors and is linked to proteolysis by calpain, which might contribute to the development of neuronal hyperexcitability and neurodegenerative diseases.
The neural substrates regulating sensorimotor gating in rodents are studied in order to understand the basis for gating deficits in clinical disorders such as schizophrenia. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) infusion into the ventral temporal lobe, including caudal parts of the ventral hippocampal region and amygdala, has been shown to disrupt sensorimotor gating in rats, as measured by prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle. One working model is that reduced PPI after infusion of NMDA into this region is mediated via its efferents to ventral forebrain structures, i.e. medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and nucleus accumbens. Yet, PPI-disruptive effects persist after lesions of the precommissural fornix, the principal output pathway of the hippocampal formation. Here, we aimed to characterize non-fornical forebrain projections from this region that might mediate the PPI-disruptive effects of the ventral temporal lobe. Electrolytic lesions of the precommissural fornix in male Sprague-Dawley rats were followed by infusions of fluorogold into the mPFC or by infusions of biotinylated dextan amine into the ventral temporal lobe. Projections from the ventral subiculum and CA1 regions of the ventral hippocampus to the mPFC and accumbens core and shell were interrupted by fornix lesions. Projections to the mPFC and accumbens from other regions of the ventral temporal lobe, particularly the lateral entorhinal cortex and the embedded olfactory and vomeronasal parts of the caudal amygdala, survived fornix lesions. These additional projections coursed rostrally through the amygdala and emerged via the stria terminalis, interstitial nuclei of the posterior limb of the anterior commissure, and the ventral amygdalofugal pathway. PPI-regulatory portions of the ventral temporal lobe innervate the accumbens and mPFC via multiple routes. It remains to be determined which of these non-fornical projections may be responsible for the persistent regulation of PPI after fornix lesions.
Survivors of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) often suffer from cognitive impairment such as memory loss. However, the underlying mechanisms of these impairments are not known. Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synapses in the hippocampus is generally regarded as a molecular substrate of memory. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of SAH on LTP in the hippocampal Schaffer collateral (CA3-CA1) pathway in a rat model of SAH. We found SAH caused significant vasospasm of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) compared to saline injected or sham controls (P&lt;0.001). Basic neurotransmission quantified as excitatory post synaptic and spike response from animals with SAH were significantly decreased as compared to naive controls (P&lt;0.05). However, sham operated and saline injected controls showed similar amplitude as naive controls. This suggests that reduction in basic neurotransmission is due to blood in the subarachnoid space. Similarly, analysis of LTP demonstrated that naive, sham and saline controls have a 92+/-16%, 69+/-27% and 71+/-14% increase over the baseline in the average spike amplitude following high frequency stimulation (HFS), respectively. This indicates the presence of LTP (P&lt;0.05). In contrast, the spike amplitude in animals of SAH returned to baseline level within 60 min post HFS indicating the absence of LTP. We conclude that SAH caused vasospasm of the MCA that was associated with disrupted basic neurotransmission and plasticity at CA3-CA1 synapses. These changes might be accountable for the memory loss in humans with SAH.
Glutamate and dopamine disturbances are implicated in frontal cortical dysfunction in schizophrenia. Little, however, is known about the nature of dopamine D(1) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor interactions in the illness, nor of the extent of their co-involvement in antipsychotic drug response. It is well known that early life adversity may pre-date the development of schizophrenia. Using a neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia, namely post weaning social isolation rearing (SIR), we studied the effect of SIR (post natal day 21-61) on frontal cortical NMDA and D(1) receptor binding characteristics with/without chronic haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg/day i.p.) or clozapine (5 mg/kg/day i.p.) treatment, undertaken from post-natal day 50-60. SIR increased frontal cortical NMDA-density, with decreased affinity (decreased pK(D)), but reduced D(1) receptor density (without effects on pK(D)). In socially reared animals, clozapine but not haloperidol increased NMDA receptor density without effects on pK(D.) Neither drug markedly affected D(1) receptor density, although clozapine increased D(1) affinity. Increased NMDA density in SIR animals was unaffected by haloperidol, but further increased by clozapine. However, SIR-associated decrease in NMDA affinity remained unaltered despite drug treatment. Reduced D(1) receptor density in SIR animals was exacerbated by haloperidol, but unaltered by clozapine, without changes in pK(D). SIR thus induces opposing effects on frontal cortical NMDA and D(1) radio-receptor binding characteristics, which has direct bearing on the mutual interplay of these receptors in schizophrenia. The ability of SIR to affect NMDA receptor affinity warrants deeper study. Furthermore, at the doses examined, in contrast to haloperidol, clozapine bolsters frontal cortical glutamatergic but stabilizes D(1) dopaminergic pathways in a neurodevelopmental animal model of schizophrenia, possibly explaining the atypical clinical characteristics of this drug.
Autism is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by problems in communication, social skills, and repetitive behavior. Recent studies suggest that apoptotic mechanisms may partially contribute to the pathogenesis of this disorder. Cathepsin D is the predominant lysosomal protease and is abundantly expressed in the brain. It plays an important role in regulation of cellular apoptosis and has been shown to mediate apoptosis induced by cytokines tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interferon (IFN)-gamma. In this study, we examined the expression levels of cathepsin D in the autistic brain. We found that cathepsin D protein expression was significantly increased in the frontal cortex, in pyramidal and granule cells of the hippocampus, and in cerebellar neurons in autistic subjects as compared to controls. In addition, we found that the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 was significantly decreased, while caspase-3, a critical executioner of apoptosis, was increased in the cerebellum of autistic subjects. Previously our studies have shown that Bcl-2 expression is decreased and the BDNF-Akt-Bcl-2 pathway is compromised in the frontal cortex of autistic subjects, which suggested that increased apoptosis may be involved in the pathogenesis of autism. Our current finding of decreased Bcl-2 and increased capase-3 in the cerebellum of autistic subjects further supports this suggestion. In addition, the finding of increased cathepsin D in the cerebellum of autistic subjects suggests that, through its regulation of apoptosis, the altered activities of cathepsin D in the autistic brain may play an important role in the pathogenesis of autism.
The muscarinic agonist pilocarpine has been shown to increase the duration and total number of episodes presenting theta rhythm-simultaneously in hippocampus and cortex-in rats during the waking states. Theta waves are suggested to be involved in the flow of information between hippocampus and cortex during memory processes. This work investigates this functional interdependence using the spectral and phase synchronization analysis of the electroencephalogram (EEG) theta band recorded in these brain structures of rats after pilocarpine treatment. Pilocarpine was used at doses devoid of epilepticus-like seizures effects in conscious freely moving rats. The results showed that pilocarpine administration significantly increased the relative theta power during the waking states in the cortex, but not in the hippocampus of rats. Additionally, the EEG coherence between the hippocampal EEG theta band and that arising at the frontal cortex increased after pilocarpine treatment but only during the waking states. This result reveals an increase of the linear correlation between the theta waves of these two brain structures after pilocarpine treatment during the waking states. Moreover, phase synchronization results showed an effective phase locking with non-zero phase difference between hippocampus and frontal cortex theta waves that remained after pilocarpine treatment. Therefore, pilocarpine seems to reinforce the neural transmission waves from the hippocampus toward the cortex during waking. In conclusion, the present EEG study could suggest an effect of the muscarinic cholinergic agonist pilocarpine on the hippocampal-cortical functional connectivity.
Neural computation in sensory systems is often modeled as a linear system. This first order approximation is computed by reverse correlating a stimulus with the spike train it evokes. The spectro-temporal receptive field (STRF) is a generalization of this procedure which characterizes processing in the auditory pathway in both frequency and time. While the STRF performs well in predicting the overall course of the response to a novel stimulus, it is unable to account for aspects of the neural output which are inherently nonlinear (e.g. discrete events and non-negative spike rates). We measured the STRFs of neurons in the primary auditory cortex (AI) of the awake ferret using spectro-temporally modulated auditory gratings, or ripples. We quantified the degree of nonlinearity of these neurons by comparing their responses to the responses predicted from their respective STRFs. The responses of most cells in AI exhibited a squaring, nonlinear relation to the stimuli used to evoke them. Thus, the nonlinearity of these cells was nontrivial, that is it was not solely the result of spike rate rectification or saturation. By modeling the nonlinearity as a polynomial static output function, the predictive power of the STRF was significantly improved.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most prominent form of dementia in elderly, is a yet incurable degenerative neurological illness characterized by memory loss. Here, we used an AD rat model to investigate the in vivo efficacy of caprospinol, a disease-modifying steroid developed on the concept that reduced synthesis of 22R-hydroxycholesterol in the AD brain increases beta-amyloid neurotoxicity. Caprospinol treatment of diseased rats attenuated memory impairment, as assessed using Morris watermaze tests. This recovery of cognitive function was accompanied by a reduction in hippocampal amyloid deposits, astrogliosis, neurodegeneration and Tau protein phopshorylation. In parallel studies, caprospinol bioavailability in normal rat forebrain was found to be dependent on the dose and duration of the treatment, demonstrating the ability of the compound to cross the blood-brain barrier. These results position caprospinol as a promising drug candidate for AD treatment.
We studied auditory thalamocortical interactions in vitro, using an auditory thalamocortical brain slice preparation. Cortical activity evoked by electrical stimulation of the medial geniculate nucleus (MGN) was investigated through field potential recordings and voltage sensitive dyes. Experiments were performed in slices obtained from adult mice (9-14 weeks). Stimulus evoked activity was detected in the granular and supragranular layers after a short latency (5-6 ms). In 9-14 weeks old mice infragranular activity was detected in 10 of 24 preparations and was found to be increased in younger mice (p 31-64). In 14 of 24 slices a prominent horizontal spread was observed, which extended into cortical areas lateral to A1. In these experiments, the shortest onset latencies and largest signal amplitudes were located in the supragranular layers of A1. In areas lateral to A1, shortest onset latencies were located in the granular layer, while largest signal amplitudes were found in the supragranular layers. Evoked cortical activity was sensitive to removal of extracellular Ca(2+) or application of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX, 10 microM). Short repetitive stimulation, resembling thalamic burst activity (three pulses at 100 Hz), resulted in an increase of signal amplitude and excited area by approximately 25%, without changing the overall spatiotemporal activity profile. Blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors by 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (AP5, 50 microM) reduced amplitudes and excited area by approximately 15-30%, irrespective of stimulation frequency. Application of bicuculline (10 microM) greatly increased cortical responses to thalamic stimulation. Under these conditions, evoked activity displayed a pronounced horizontal spread in combination with a 2-3-fold increase in amplitude. In conclusion, afferent thalamic inputs primarily activate supragranular and granular layers in the auditory cortex of adult mice. This activation is predominantly mediated by non-NMDA receptors, while GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition limits the horizontal and vertical spread of activity.
Synaptic plasticity in the striatum is a key mechanism that underlies processes such as reward related incentive learning and behavioral habit formation resulting from drugs of abuse. Key aspects of these functions are dependent on dopamine transmission as well as activation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIalpha (CaMKIIalpha). In this study, we examined the ability of a recently identified heteromeric complex composed of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors coupled to Gq/11 to activate striatal CaMKIIalpha. Using the dopaminergic agonist SKF83959, which selectively activates the D1-D2 complex, we demonstrated phosphorylation of CaMKIIalpha at threonine 286, both in heterologous cells and in the murine striatum in vivo. Phosphorylation of CaMKIIalpha by activation of the receptor complex required concurrent agonism of both D1 and D2 receptors and was independent of receptor pathways that modulated adenylyl cyclase. The identification of this novel mechanism by which dopamine may modulate synaptic plasticity has implications for our understanding of striatal-mediated reward and motor function, as well as neuronal disorders in which striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission is involved.
This study assessed the possible antinociceptive role of peripheral 5-HT(1) receptor subtypes in the rat formalin test. Rats were injected into the dorsum of the hind paw with 50 microl of diluted formalin (1%). Nociceptive behavior was quantified as the number of flinches of the injected paw. Reduction of flinching was considered as antinociception. Ipsilateral, but not contralateral, peripheral administration of the 5-HT(1) receptor agonists R(+)-UH-301 (5-HT(1A); 0.1-3 microg/paw), CGS-12066A (5-HT(1B); 0.01-0.3 microg/paw), GR46611 (5-HT(1B/1D); 0.3-10 microg/paw), BRL54443 (5-HT(1E/1F); 3-300 microg/paw) or LY344864 (5-HT(1F); 3-300 microg/paw) significantly reduced formalin-induced flinching. The corresponding vehicle was devoid of any effect by itself. The local antinociceptive effect of R(+)-UH-301 (0.3 microg/paw) was significantly reduced by WAY-100635 (30-100 microg/paw; a 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist). Moreover, the antagonists GR55562 (30-100 microg/paw; 5-HT(1B/D)) or SB224289 (30-100 microg/paw; 5-HT(1B)) dose-dependently reduced the antinociceptive effect of CGS-12066A (0.3 microg/paw) whereas GR55562 (30-100 microg/paw) or BRL15572 (30-100 microg/paw, 5-HT(1D)) reduced the antinociceptive effect of GR46611 (0.3 microg/paw). Interestingly, the effects of BRL54443 and LY344864 (300 microg/paw each) were partially reduced by methiothepin, but not by the highest doses of WAY-100635, SB224289 or BRL15572. The above antagonists did not produce any effect by themselves. These results suggest that peripheral activation of the 5-HT(1A,) 5-HT(1B), 5-HT(1D), 5-HT(1F) and, probably, 5-HT(1E) receptor subtypes leads to antinociception in the rat formalin test. Thus, the use of selective 5-HT(1) receptor agonists could be a therapeutic strategy to reduce inflammatory pain.
In the diurnal unstriped Nile grass rat (Arvicanthis niloticus) access to a running wheel can trigger a shift in active phase preference, with some individuals becoming night-active (NA), while others continue to be day-active (DA). To investigate the contributions of different neural systems to the support of this shift in locomotor activity, we investigated the association between chronotype and Fos expression during the day and night in three major nuclei in the basal forebrain (BF) cholinergic (ACh) arousal system - medial septum (MS), vertical and horizontal diagonal band of Broca (VDB and HDB respectively) -, and whether neural activation in these areas was related to neural activity in the orexinergic system. We also measured Fos expression in dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic cells of two components of the reward system that also participate in arousal - the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and supramammillary nucleus (SUM). NAs and DAs were compared to animals with no wheels. NAs had elevated Fos expression at night in ACh cells, but only in the HDB. In the non-cholinergic cells of the BF of NAs, enhanced nocturnal Fos expression was almost universally seen, but only associated with activation of the orexinergic system for the MS/VDB region. For some of the areas and cell types of the BF, the patterns of Fos expression of DAs appeared similar to those of NAs, but were never associated with activation of the orexinergic system. Also common to DAs and NAs was a general increase in Fos expression in non-dopaminergic cells of the SUM and anterior VTA. Thus, in this diurnal species, voluntary exercise and a shift to a nocturnal chronotype changes neural activity in arousal and reward areas of the brain known to regulate a broad range of neural functions and behaviors, which may be also affected in human shift workers.
Ferulic acid (4-hydroxy-3-methoxycinnamic acid; FA) is a plant constituent and is contained in several medicinal plants for clinical use. In this paper, we investigated the effects of FA on the proliferation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSC/NPCs) in vitro and in vivo. FA significantly increased the proliferation of NSC/NPCs cultured from the telencephalon of embryonic day-14 rats, and increased the number and size of secondary formed neurospheres. An in vitro differentiation assay showed that FA did not affect the percentage of either neuron-specific class III beta-tubulin (Tuj-1)-positive cells or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells in the total cell population. Oral administration of FA increased the number of newly generated cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus of corticosterone (CORT)-treated mice, indicating that FA enhances the proliferation of adult NSC/NPCs in vivo. We also found that oral administration of FA increased cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA level in the hippocampus of CORT-treated mice, and ameliorated the stress-induced depression-like behavior of mice. These novel pharmacological effects of FA may be useful for the treatment of mood disorders such as depression.
Excess glutamate release and stimulation of post-synaptic glutamatergic receptors have been implicated in the pathophysiology of many neurological diseases. The hippocampus, and the pyramidal cell layer of the cornu ammonus 1 (CA1) region in particular, has been noted for its selective sensitivity to excitotoxic insults. The current studies examined the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunit composition and sensitivity to stimulatory effects of the polyamine spermidine, an allosteric modulator of NMDA NR2 subunit activity, in hippocampal CA1 region sensitivity to excitotoxic insult. Organotypic hippocampal slice cultures of 8 day-old neonatal rat were obtained and maintained in vitro for 5 days. At this time, immunohistochemical analysis of mature neuron density (NeuN); microtubule associated protein-2(a,b) density (MAP-2); and NMDA receptor NR1 and NR2B subunit density in the primary cell layers of the dentate gyrus (DG), CA3, and CA1 regions, was conducted. Further, autoradiographic analysis of NMDA receptor distribution and density (i.e. [(125)I]MK-801 binding) and spermidine (100 microM)-potentiated [(125)I]MK-801 binding in the primary cell layers of these regions was examined. A final series of studies examined effects of prolonged exposure to NMDA (0.1-10 microM) on neurodegeneration in the primary cell layers of the DG, CA3, and CA1 regions, in the absence and presence of spermidine (100 microM) or ifenprodil (100 microM), an allosteric inhibitor of NR2B polypeptide subunit activity. The pyramidal cell layer of the CA1 region demonstrated significantly greater density of mature neurons, MAP-2, NR1 and NR2B subunits, and [(125)I]MK-801 binding than the CA3 region or DG. Twenty-four hour NMDA (10 microM) exposure produced marked neurodegeneration (approximately 350% of control cultures) in the CA1 pyramidal cell region that was significantly reduced by co-exposure to ifenprodil or DL-2-Amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (APV). The addition of spermidine significantly potentiated [(125)I]MK-801 binding and neurodegeneration induced by exposure to a non-toxic concentration of NMDA, exclusively in the CA1 region. This neurodegeneration was markedly reduced with co-exposure to ifenprodil. These data suggest that selective sensitivity of the CA1 region to excitotoxic stimuli may be attributable to the density of mature neurons expressing polyamine-sensitive NR2B polypeptide subunits.
Our previous study identified osteonectin (ON) in a screen of factors made by Schwann cells (SCs) which promoted peripheral and central neurons survival and neuritogenesis, however, the mechanisms of ON promoting effects are largely unknown. In the present study, we investigated the effects of ON-deficient SC-conditioned medium (SCCM) and molecular mechanisms of ON, in regulating retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) survival and neurite outgrowth. Neonatal rat RGCs and SCs were purified by immunopanning technique. RGC survival and neuritogenesis reduced significantly when treated with either ON-null mice SCCM or ON-immunodepleted (IP) SCCM (P&lt;0.05). In contrast to wild type SCCM, in the presence of a tyrosine kinase receptor (Trk) inhibitor (K252a), ON-null mice SCCM-induced neuritogenesis were further reduced by 24%. The Trk-mediated signaling pathways became more sensitive to K252a inhibition in the absence of ON. We also showed the synergistic effects of ON and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in promoting RGCs growth and the involvement of ON in two major neurotrophin-mediated signaling pathways, PI-3K-Akt and MAPK-Erk1/2. ON alone activated Akt phosphorylation and increased survival. Blockage of TrkB signalling pathway by TrkB-Fc chimera (BDNF scavenger) or K252a in ON-treated cultures reduced Akt-P level significantly. This suggests that ON induces BDNF synthesis and secretion from RGCs. The enhancement of neuritogenesis and Erk1/2 phosphorylation by ON in BDNF-treated cultures further demonstrate the signaling pathways responsible for the synergistic effect of ON on BDNF-induced neurite outgrowth. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report showing the synergistic effects of ON on classical neurotrophins which participate in the same signalling pathways in regulating RGC neurite outgrowth.
Morphine-3-glucoronide (M3G) is a major morphine metabolite detected in cerebrospinal fluid of humans receiving systemic morphine. M3G has little-to-no affinity for opioid receptors and induces pain by unknown mechanisms. The pain-enhancing effects of M3G have been proposed to significantly and progressively oppose morphine analgesia as metabolism ensues. We have recently documented that morphine activates toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), beyond its classical actions on mu-opioid receptors. This suggests that M3G may similarly activate TLR4. This activation could provide a novel mechanism for M3G-mediated pain enhancement, as (a) TLR4 is predominantly expressed by microglia in spinal cord and (b) TLR4 activation releases pain-enhancing substances, including interleukin-1 (IL-1). We present in vitro evidence that M3G activates TLR4, an effect blocked by TLR4 inhibitors, and that M3G activates microglia to produce IL-1. In vivo, intrathecal M3G (0.75 microg) induced potent allodynia and hyperalgesia, blocked or reversed by interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, minocycline (microglial inhibitor), and (+)-and (-)-naloxone. This latter study extends our prior demonstrations that TLR4 signaling is inhibited by naloxone nonstereoselectively. These results with (+)-and (-)-naloxone also demonstrate that the effects cannot be accounted for by actions at classical, stereoselective opioid receptors. Hyperalgesia (allodynia was not tested) and in vitro M3G-induced TLR4 signaling were both blocked by 17-DMAG, an inhibitor of heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) that can contribute to TLR4 signaling. Providing further evidence of proinflammatory activation, M3G upregulated TLR4 and CD11b (microglial/macrophage activation marker) mRNAs in dorsal spinal cord as well as IL-1 protein in the lumbosacral cerebrospinal fluid. Finally, in silico and in vivo data support that the glucuronic acid moiety is capable of inducing TLR4/MD-2 activation and enhanced pain. These data provide the first evidence for a TLR4 and IL-1 mediated component to M3G-induced effects, likely of at least microglial origin.
Spontaneous postsynaptic current is a reflection of spontaneous neurotransmitter release that plays multiple roles in a variety of neurobiological activities. In the present study, we recorded spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) by patch-clamp techniques in cultured rat retinal GABAergic amacrine cells (ACs), which provide inhibitory inputs to both bipolar and ganglion cells in the inner retina, and examined if and how Ca(2+) was involved in the induction of spontaneous GABA release from the terminals of these cells. sIPSCs were completely blocked by application of either 10 microM bicuculline or 10 microM gabazine, and the reversal potential of sIPSCs was close to E(Cl-), indicating that these events were exclusively mediated by GABA(A) receptors. Increase of external Ca(2+) concentrations from 2 to 5 mM significantly enhanced the frequency, but did not change the amplitude of sIPSCs. In contrast, perfusion of Ca(2+)-free external solution greatly reduced the events of sIPSCs and decreased the amplitude of sIPSCs. Consistently, the non-selective voltage-gated calcium channel blocker CdCl(2) (200 microM) considerably suppressed both the frequency and the amplitude of sIPSCs. Furthermore, the ryanodine receptor (RyR) antagonist dantrolene (10 microM) failed to affect sIPSCs, while the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) receptor antagonists 2-aminoethyl diphenylborinate (2-APB, 20 microM) and xestospongin C (XeC, 1 muM) significantly decreased the frequency of sIPSCs. In the presence of SKF96365 (10 microM), a non-specific transient receptor potential channel (TRP) blocker, 2-APB persisted to show its effect on sIPSCs. These results suggest that spontaneous GABA release from the terminals of GABAergic ACs is Ca(2+)-dependent, and both extracellular calcium influx through presynaptic calcium channels and Ca(2+) release through activation of the IP(3)-sensitive pathway, but not the ryanodine-sensitive one, from intracellular stores are responsible for the generation of sIPSCs under our experimental conditions.
Leu- and Met-enkephalins are proenkephalin-derived endogenous pentapeptides with opioid (morphine) activity. Among the seven enkephalin units found in the human proenkephalin (PENK), the fourth copy being an octapeptide: Tyr-Gly-Gly-Phe-Met-Arg-Gly-Leu ((Hs)YGGFMRGL). Bioinformatic analysis of the available PENK sequences revealed the presence of other octapeptide orthologues in these precursor polypeptides. Four types of the elongated Met-enkephalins we identified by searching protein databases, (Xl)YGGFMRGY (three frog species and platypus), (Gg)YGGFMRSV (chicken and one fish species), (Hp)YGGFMNGF (shark) and (Mm)YGGFMRSL (mouse and two lungfish species) were chemically synthesized and studied in receptor binding and G-protein activation assays performed on rat brain membranes. All peptides have also been prepared containing oxidized methionine (M(O)). The overall binding and signalling profile of the novel octapeptides revealed moderate opioid agonist activities and a rank order of potencies for the mu approximately delta&gt;kappa receptor binding sites. Peptides with the oxidized M(O) residue were found to be less potent in both receptor binding and G-protein stimulation studies. Phylogenetic neuropeptide libraries, defined here as a collection of mutationally different species variants of orthologous and paralogous peptide sequences, represent the natural molecular diversity of the neuropeptides. Such libraries can provide a wide range of structural information establishing comparative functional analyses. Since DNA sequencing data are rapidly increasing, more development in the natural peptide library approach is expected.



In mammalian cells, the flavoprotein spermine oxidase (SMO) catalyzes the oxidation of spermine to spermidine and 3-aminopropanal. Mechanistic studies have been conducted with the recombinant human enzyme. The initial velocity pattern in which the ratio between the concentrations of spermine and oxygen is kept constant establishes the steady-state kinetic pattern as ping-pong. Reduction of SMO by spermine in the absence of oxygen is biphasic. The rate constant for the rapid phase varies with the substrate concentration, with a limiting value (k(3)) of 49 s(-1) and an apparent K(d) value of 48 microM at pH 8.3. The rate constant for the slow step is independent of the spermine concentration, with a value of 5.5 s(-1), comparable to the k(cat) value of 6.6 s(-1). The kinetics of the oxidative half-reaction depend on the aging time after the spermine and enzyme are mixed in a double-mixing experiment. At an aging time of 6 s, the reaction is monophasic with a second-order rate constant of 4.2 mM(-1) s(-1). At an aging time of 0.3 s, the reaction is biphasic with two second-order constants equal to 4.0 and 40 mM(-1) s(-1). Neither is equal to the k(cat)/K(O(2)) value of 13 mM(-1) s(-1). These results establish the existence of more than one pathway for the reaction of the reduced flavin intermediate with oxygen. The k(cat)/K(M) value for spermine exhibits a bell-shaped pH profile, with an average pK(a) value of 8.3. This profile is consistent with the active form of spermine having three charged nitrogens. The pH profile for k(3) shows a pK(a) value of 7.4 for a group that must be unprotonated. The pK(i)-pH profiles for the competitive inhibitors N,N'-dibenzylbutane-1,4-diamine and spermidine show that the fully protonated forms of the inhibitors and the unprotonated form of an amino acid residue with a pK(a) of approximately 7.4 in the active site are preferred for binding.

The endosomal pathway in neuronal dendrites is essential for membrane receptor trafficking and proper synaptic function and plasticity. However, the molecular mechanisms that organize specific endocytic trafficking routes are poorly understood. Here, we identify GRIP-associated protein-1 (GRASP-1) as a neuron-specific effector of Rab4 and key component of the molecular machinery that coordinates recycling endosome maturation in dendrites. We show that GRASP-1 is necessary for AMPA receptor recycling, maintenance of spine morphology, and synaptic plasticity. At the molecular level, GRASP-1 segregates Rab4 from EEA1/Neep21/Rab5-positive early endosomal membranes and coordinates the coupling to Rab11-labelled recycling endosomes by interacting with the endosomal SNARE syntaxin 13. We propose that GRASP-1 connects early and late recycling endosomal compartments by forming a molecular bridge between Rab-specific membrane domains and the endosomal SNARE machinery. The data uncover a new mechanism to achieve specificity and directionality in neuronal membrane receptor trafficking.




Dopamine neurons carry phasic signals for a limited number of behavioural events. The events include, in descending order, reward, physically intense stimuli, risk and punishment. Recent neurophysiological studies have provided interesting details on these functions.
We performed an experiment in which eight healthy individuals made periodic eye movements at five pacing interval conditions (500 ms, 750 ms, 1000 ms, 1250 ms, and 1500 ms). Three methods of entrainment were used in the synchronization phase: saccade, continuous pursuit and discontinuous pursuit. The stimulus train was extinguished and in the continuation phase, subjects made saccadic eye movements at the entrained movement frequencies between two static targets. Using the Wing-Kristofferson model, clock and motor variance were extracted from the time series of continuation trials for all three entrainment conditions. Our results revealed a main effect of time interval on total variance clock variance (as predicted by Weber's law) and on motor variance. We also report that the pursuit entrainment conditions resulted in and mean duration and variance to the saccade entrainment. These results suggest that the neural networks recruited to support a periodic motor timing task depend on the method used to establish the temporal reference.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), which is activated by the non-cyclin regulator p35 or p39, is a proline-directed serine/threonine kinase that is implicated in many physiological and pathological processes. Here, we studied calcium signaling using the fluorescent cytosolic calcium indicator, Fura-4, in NGF-differentiated PC12 cells treated with roscovitine, a Cdk5 inhibitor. As compared to the control cells, the roscovitine-treated cells significantly potentiated intracellular calcium release by membrane depolarization (high K(+)) or through thapsigargin. In addition, roscovitine increased the magnitude of capacitative calcium entry (CCE), i.e., a calcium influx mechanism triggered by the depletion of intracellular calcium stores. Notably, roscovitine markedly slowed the rate of Ca(2+) removal from the plasma membrane. These results suggest that Cdk5 regulates intracellular calcium homeostasis and that the dysregulation of Cdk5 may contribute to disease pathogenesis by perturbing cellular Ca(2+) signaling.
Ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion (AF64A) is a neurotoxic derivative of choline that produces not only long-term presynaptic cholinergic deficits, but also various memory deficits in rats similar to some characteristics observed in Alzheimer's disease patients. This study investigated whether nicotine (NCT) administration attenuated spatial learning deficits induced by intracerebroventricular AF64A treatment. AF64A (6 nmol/6 microl)-or saline (SAL)-treated rats were trained in Morris water maze task. NCT (0.025-0.25mg/kg) was subcutaneously injected 5 min before the training every day. The results showed that moderate dose (0.10mg/kg) of NCT attenuated AF64A-induced prolongation of escape latency. Furthermore, NCT dose-dependently recovered the AF64A-induced decrease of time spent in the target quadrant in the probe test. These results suggest that NCT improves AF64A-induced spatial memory deficits, and thus it is a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of memory deficits in dementia.
Alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) is an abundant neuronal protein expressed at the synapse. In neurodegenerative disease alpha-syn accumulates in the extracellular space. Astrocytes present at neural synapses are thought to contribute to synaptogenesis through cholesterol release and normally exhibit increased glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) reactivity and apolipoprotein E (apoE) expression in neurodegenerative disease states. We proposed that extracellular alpha-syn treatment of human astrocytes would impact cholesterol levels and expression of GFAP and apolipoprotein E (apoE). Human astrocytes were treated with alpha-syn at different concentrations and time points to determine the effective membrane permeability of the peptide. After alpha-syn treatment, we analyzed apoE and cholesterol levels in the astrocyte membrane. Lastly, we performed immunocytochemistry for GFAP in control and alpha-syn treated cells. Our results indicate membrane apoE was reduced and redistributed from a nuclear and membranous dominated expression to the cytosol. Cholesterol levels were also reduced in the astrocyte cell membrane. GFAP expression was sharply increased in alpha-syn treated cells indicating that alpha-syn may contribute to reactive gliosis. Our results support the conclusion that astrocytes play a role in pathological mechanisms in synucleinopathies.
Cocaine binds with the dopamine transporter (DAT), an effect that has been extensively implicated in its reinforcing effects. However, persisting adaptations in DAT regulation after cocaine self-administration have not been extensively investigated. Here, we determined the changes in molecular mechanisms of DAT regulation in the caudate-putamen (CPu) and nucleus accumbens (NAcc) of rats with a history of cocaine self-administration, followed by 3weeks of withdrawal under extinction conditions (i.e., no cocaine available). DA uptake was significantly higher in the CPu of cocaine-experienced animals as compared to saline-yoked controls. DAT V(max) was elevated in the CPu without changes in apparent affinity for DA. In spite of elevated CPu DAT activity, total and surface DAT density and DAT-PP2Ac (protein phosphatase 2A catalytic subunit) interaction remained unaltered, although p-Ser- DAT phosphorylation was elevated. In contrast to the CPu, there were no differences between cocaine and saline rats in the levels of DA uptake, DAT V(max) and K(m) values, total and surface DAT, p-Ser-DAT phosphorylation, or DAT-PP2Ac interactions in the NAcc. These results show that chronic cocaine self-administration leads to lasting, regionally specific alterations in striatal DA uptake and DAT-Ser phosphorylation. Such changes may be related to habitual patterns of cocaine-seeking observed during relapse.
Long considered merely a trophic and mechanical support to neurons, astrocytes have progressively taken the center stage as their ability to react to acute and chronic neurodegenerative situations became increasingly clear. Reactive astrogliosis starts when trigger molecules produced at the injury site drive astrocytes to leave their quiescent state and become activated. Distinctive morphological and biochemical features characterize this process (cell hypertrophy, upregulation of intermediate filaments, and increased cell proliferation). Moreover, reactive astrocytes migrate towards the injured area to constitute the glial scar, and release factors mediating the tissue inflammatory response and remodeling after lesion. A novel view of astrogliosis derives from the finding that subsets of reactive astrocytes can recapitulate stem cell/progenitor features after damage, fostering the concept of astroglia as a promising target for reparative therapies. But which biochemical/signaling pathways modulate astrogliosis with respect to both the time after injury and the type of damage? Are reactive astrocytes overall beneficial or detrimental for neuroprotection and tissue regeneration? This debate has been animating this research field for several years now, and an integrated view on the results obtained and the possible future perspectives is needed. With this Commentary article we have attempted to answer the above-mentioned questions by reviewing the current knowledge on the molecular mechanisms controlling and sustaining the reaction of astroglia to injury and its stem cell-like properties. Moreover, the cellular/molecular mechanisms supporting the detrimental or beneficial features of astrogliosis have been scrutinized to gain insights on possible pharmacological approaches to enhance astrocyte neuroprotective activities.

Oxime reactivators are the drugs of choice for the post-treatment of OP (organophosphorus) intoxication and used widely for mechanistic and kinetic studies of OP-inhibited cholinesterases. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate new oxime compounds to reactivate acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibited by the OP paraoxon. Several new bisquaternary pyridinium oximes with heterocyclic linkers along with some known bisquaternary pyridinium oximes bearing aliphatic linkers were synthesized and evaluated for their in vitro reactivation potency against paraoxon-inhibited electric eel acetylcholinesterase (EeAChE) and recombinant human acetylcholinesterase (rHuAChE). Results herein indicate that most of the compounds are better reactivators of EeAChE than of rHuAChE. The reactivation potency of two different classes of compounds with varying linker chains was compared and observed that the structure of the connecting chain is an important factor for the activity of the reactivators. At a higher concentration (10(-3)M), compounds bearing aliphatic linker showed better reactivation than compounds with heterocyclic linkers. Interestingly, oximes with a heterocyclic linker inhibited AChE at higher concentration (10(-3)M), whereas their ability to reactivate was increased at lower concentrations (10(-4)M and 10(-5)M). Compounds bearing either a thiophene linker 26, 46 or a furan linker 31 showed 59%, 49% and 52% reactivation of EeAChE, respectively, at 10(-5)M. These compounds showed 14%, 6% and 15% reactivation of rHuAChE at 10(-4)M. Amongst newly synthesized analogs with heterocyclic linkers (26-35 and 45-46), compound 31, bearing furan linker chain, was found to be the most effective reactivator with a k(r) 0.042min(-1), which is better than obidoxime (3) for paraoxon-inhibited EeAChE. Compound 31 showed a k(r) 0.0041min(-1) that is near equal to pralidoxime (1) for paraoxon-inhibited rHuAChE.
The design and synthesis of novel opiates are reported. Based on the message-address principle a novel class of 4,4- and 3,3-biaryl piperidines was designed and synthesized. Biological evaluation confirmed that these compounds exhibit high affinity and selectivity for the delta opioid receptor. Key structure-activity relationships that influence affinity, selectivity, functional activity and clearance are reported.
A series of 3-amino-6-aryl-pyridazines have been identified as CB(2) agonists with high efficacy and selectivity against the CB(1) receptor. Details of the investigation of structure-activity relationships (SAR) are disclosed, which led to the identification of pyridazine analogue 35, a compound with high potency in an in vivo model of inflammatory pain.
The optimisation of an HTS hit series (1) leading to the identification of structurally novel, selective, orally bioavailable mGluR2 positive modulators GSK1331258 and GSK1331268 is described. Structure-activity relationships, attenuation of dopaminergic activity, and potentiation of mGluR2 responses in rat hippocampal MPP-DG synapses are also reported.
A focused exploration targeting conformationally restricted analogues of Vestipitant, resulted in the discovery of novel, in vitro potent NK(1) antagonists. In particular, two of the compounds reported exhibited a good pharmacokinetic (PK) profile and produced anxiolytic-like effects in the gerbil foot tapping (GFT) in vivo model.

Since brain metabolism is accompanied by heat production, measurement of brain temperature offers a method for assessing global alterations in metabolic neural activity. This approach, high-resolution (5-s bin) temperature recording from the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), temporal muscle, and facial skin, was used to study motivated drinking behavior in rats. Experienced animals were presented with a cup containing 5-ml of Coca-Cola(R) (Coke) beverage that resulted, within certain latencies, in initiation of a continuous chain of licking until all liquid was fully consumed. While cup presentation induced rapid, gradual NAcc temperature increase peaking at the start of drinking, temperatures slowly decreased during Coke consumption, but phasically increased again in the post-consumption period when rats were hyperactive, showing multiple interactions with an empty cup. Muscle temperatures followed a similar pattern, but the changes were weaker and delayed compared to those in the brain. Skin temperature rapidly dropped after cup presentation, steadily maintained at low levels during consumption, and slowly restored during the post-consumption period. Substitution of the expected Coke with either sugar-free Diet Coke(R) or water resulted in numerous drinking attempts but ultimately no consumption. During these tests, locomotor activation was much greater and more prolonged, brain and muscle temperatures increased monophasically, and their elevation was significantly greater than that with regular Coke tests. Food deprivation decreased drinking latencies, did not change the pattern of temperature fluctuations during Coke consumption, but temperature elevations were greater than in controls. Our data suggest sustained neural activation triggered by appetitive stimuli and associated with activational (seeking) aspects of appetitive motivated behavior. This seeking-related activation is rapidly ceased following consumption, suggesting this change as a neural correlate of reward. In contrast, inability to obtain an expected reward maintains neural activation and seeking behavior, resulting in larger deviations in physiological parameters.
There has been a growing interest during the last years on the relationship between Parkinson's disease and changes in the oscillatory activity, mostly in the cortico-basal motor loop. As Parkinson's disease (PD) is not limited to motor symptoms, it is logical to assume that the changes in oscillatory activity are not limited to this loop. Steady-state responses (SSR) are the result of averaging individual responses to trains of rhythmic stimuli delivered at a constant frequency. The amplitude of the response varies depending on the stimulus modality and stimulation rate, with a frequency of maximal response that is probably associated to the working frequency of the pathway involved. The study of SSR may be of interest in PD as a non-invasive test of cortical oscillatory activity. Our aim was to study the changes in auditory steady-state responses (ASSR) in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model of Parkinson's disease in rats. We recorded the ASSR over the auditory cortex in a group of 10 control and 17 6-OHDA lesioned rats (the latter before and after the administration of the dopaminergic agonist apomorphine) both awake and under anesthesia with ketamine/xylazine, using chirp-modulated stimuli. The three conditions (control, lesion, lesion plus apomorphine) were compared with special emphasis on the amplitude, inter-trial phase coherence, and frequency of maximal response. A reduction in the frequency of maximal response (between 40 and 60 Hz) was observed in the 6-OHDA lesioned rats that was normalized after apomorphine injection. The administration of this dopaminergic agonist also reduced the inter-trial phase coherence of the response in frequencies above 170 Hz. These findings suggest that the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system may be involved in the regulation of oscillatory activity not only in motor circuits, but also in sensory responses.
The ability to recognize previous experience depends on two neurocognitive processes, familiarity, fast-acting and relatively automatic, and recollection, slower-acting and more effortful. Familiarity appears to mature relatively early in development and is maintained with aging, whereas recollection shows protracted development and deteriorates with aging. To assess this model, ERP and behavioral data were recorded in children (9-10 years), adolescents (13-14), young (20-30) and older (65-85) adults during a recognition memory task in which the same items were studied and tested over four cycles. Participants decided whether each item was old or new and then whether the decision was associated with (Remember, R) or without (Know, K) contextual detail. Memory sensitivity was greatest in young adults, although all groups showed increases in memory sensitivity and R judgments with repetition. Familiarity-based processes (mid-frontal episodic memory, EM, effect) appeared to be used by adolescents, young and older adults, but apparently not to the same extent by children. Recollection-based processes (parietal EM effect) were recruited by children, adolescents and young adults, but to a much lesser extent by older adults. Repetition enhanced the parietal effect in all but older adults. However, post-hoc analyses indicated that reduced recollective processing was confined to poor-performing older adults. By contrast, children appeared to rely mainly on recollection concordant with their conservative decision criteria across tests. We conclude that episodic-memory development reflects the increasingly flexible and interchangeable use of familiarity and recollection with a breakdown in the latter at older ages, perhaps limited to poor-performing older adults.
Although there are some similarities in the molecular and cellular pattern of Wallerian degeneration in the PNS and CNS, in the CNS the removal of axonal and myelin debris by microglia and astrocytes is not very efficient and occurs over a much longer time frame than seen in a peripheral nerve. Several animal models have been used to study Wallerian degeneration-induced glial reactivity in the CNS and PNS. Although these models have clarified some aspects of the mechanisms underlying the differential glial cell responses in the PNS and CNS, they do not lend themselves easily to deciphering the mechanisms governing the location and extent of Wallerian degeneration-induced CNS glial reactivity. The present study develops a new animal model that entails destruction of the left sensorimotor cortex of adult rats to induce Wallerian degeneration within the total length of a fiber tract (i.e. the dorsal corticospinal tract) that extends all the way from the cerebral cortex to the sacral level of the spinal cord. Since the axonal degeneration in the ventral medulla and dorsal funiculus of the spinal cord would be confined to the corticospinal tract, it was predicted the glial reactivity would also be restricted to this fiber tract. Three distinct proximal-distal levels of this pathway were examined to determine the morphology, distribution and immunophenotype of microglia and astrocytes between 1 day and 16 weeks after sensorimotor cortex aspiration. As expected, there was a proximal to distal gradient in the appearance of glial reactivity along the length of the pathway, with the microglial reactivity being seen as early as 3 weeks in the left pyramid, and by 4 weeks (i.e. at C6) and 6 weeks (i.e. at T11) in the right dorsal corticospinal tract. Astrocytic reactivity lagged behind that of the microglial response at each level of the pathway. The microglial and astrocytic reactivity persisted up to 16 weeks after cortical injury, which was the longest survival time studied. The sensorimotor cortex aspiration model should prove extremely useful in deciphering the molecular mechanisms controlling Wallerian degeneration-induced CNS glial reactivity and in determining the relative role of astrocytes vs microglia in clearance of axonal and myelin debris.
Sex differences are prominent influences on spatial performance. One of the most common tasks to assess sex differences in spatial navigation in rodents is the Morris water task (MWT). In this task rats swim in a pool of water to locate a hidden platform employing the topographical relationships among the distal visual cues, pool wall, and goal location. Some evidence suggests that male rats display superior performance relative to females in the MWT. It is unknown, however, to what extent the sex difference in rats is task-dependent. This study compared the performance of male and female Long-Evans rats in the wet-land MWT versus the dry-land ziggurat task (ZT). The ZT represents a new dry-land task in which rats explore an arena with 16 ziggurat pyramids to locate food rewards. Several behavioural parameters, including latency, path length, path speed, probe trial performance, errors, and the number of returns were used as indices of spatial learning and memory. While males and females did not display significant differences in the traditional measures of spatial navigation within MWT, they displayed a robust sex difference in all measures of the ZT. These results indicate task-specific sex differences in spatial performance. Our findings suggest that males and females may employ different learning strategies in the MWT and ZT and that the latter task provides a more favourable task for assessing sex differences in rats.
Myocardin is an important transcriptional regulator in smooth and cardiac muscle development. We noticed that the expression of myocardin was markedly downregulated in human uterine leiomyosarcoma cells. Restoration of myocardin expression induced the reexpression of smooth muscle marker proteins and the formation of well-developed actin fibers. A concomitant increase in the expression of a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, p21, led to significantly reduced cell proliferation, via p21's inhibition of the G(1)-S transition. A p21 promoter-reporter assay showed that myocardin markedly increased p21's promoter activity. Furthermore, a serum response factor (SRF)-binding cis-element CArG box in the p21 promoter region was required for this myocardin effect. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and DNA-protein binding assays showed that myocardin indirectly bound to the CArG box in the p21 promoter through the interaction with SRF. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry revealed that the levels of myocardin and p21 were both lower in leiomyosarcoma samples than in normal smooth muscle tissue. Taken together, our results indicate that the downregulation of myocardin expression facilitates cell cycle progression via the reduction of p21 expression in human leimyosarcomas and suggest that myocardin could be a useful therapeutic target for this disease.
Native Americans have some of the highest rates of marijuana and alcohol use and abuse, yet neurobiological measures associated with dependence on these substances in this population remain unknown. The present investigation evaluated the heritability of spectral characteristics of the electroencephalogram (EEG) and their correlation with marijuana and alcohol dependence in an American Indian community. Participants (n=626) were evaluated for marijuana (MJ) and alcohol (ALC) dependence, as well as other psychiatric disorders. EEGs were collected from six cortical sites and spectral power determined in five frequency bands (delta 1.0-4.0 Hz, theta 4.0-7.5 Hz, alpha 7.5-12.0 Hz, low beta 12.0-20.0 Hz and high beta/gamma 20-50 Hz). The estimated heritability (h(2)) of the EEG phenotypes was calculated using SOLAR, and ranged from 0.16 to 0.67. Stepwise linear regression was used to detect correlations between MJ and ALC dependence and the spectral characteristics of the EEG using a model that took into account: age, gender, Native American Heritage (NAH) and a lifetime diagnosis of antisocial personality and/or conduct disorder (ASPD/CD). Increases in spectral power in the delta frequency range, were significantly correlated with gender (p&lt;0.001) and marijuana dependence (p&lt;0.003). Gender, age, NAH and ASPD/CD were all significantly (p&lt;0.001) correlated with theta, alpha and beta band power, whereas alcohol dependence (p&lt;0.01), gender (p&lt;0.001), and ASPD/CD (p&lt;0.001) were all correlated with high beta/gamma band power. These data suggest that the traits of EEG delta and high beta/gamma activity are correlated with MJ dependence and alcohol dependence, respectively, in this community sample of Native Americans.

The expression levels of caspase-3, a major contributor to the execution of neuronal apoptosis, markedly decrease in the process of brain maturation. We have previously cloned the rat caspase-3 gene promoter and identified its essential regulatory elements. In the present study, we extended previous findings by examining transcriptional regulation of caspase-3 expression in the rat brain of two different ages, corresponding to the immature and mature brain. In particular, we determined that the rate of transcription initiation substantially declines during brain maturation. Furthermore, we established that mRNA levels of Ets1, Ets2, and Sp1 do not change in the brain with maturation, suggesting that these transcription factors do not contribute to age-dependent caspase-3 down-regulation. Hence, we examined a role of DNA methylation and histone modification in this process. Utilizing bisulfite DNA sequencing, we determined the presence of age-dependent differentially methylated fragments within the caspase-3 promoter region. Strikingly, differentially methylated CpG sites correspond to the predicted binding sites for a number of transcription factors that have been previously shown to be involved in neuronal development and differentiation. Moreover, using chromatin immunoprecipitation, we found that mature brains displayed significantly lower levels of histone 3 acetylated Lys14 and histone 4 acetylated Lys5, 8, 12, and 16. This observation is consistent with the decreased level of expression of caspase-3 in the mature brain. Together with our observation that histone deacetylase inhibitor, trichostatin A, increased the level of caspase-3 mRNA in cortical neurons in vitro, these results further indicate an important role of epigenetic factors in the regulation of caspase-3 gene expression.
Damage to the brain and spinal cord leads to permanent functional disability because of the very limited capacity of the central nervous system (CNS) for repair. Transplantation of cells into regions of CNS damage represents one approach to enhancing this repair. At present, the ideal cell type for transplant-mediated repair has not been identified but autologous transplantation would be advantageous. Olfactory tissue, in part because of its capacity for regeneration, has emerged as a promising source of cells and several clinical centers are using olfactory cells or tissues in the treatment of CNS damage. Until now, the olfactory ensheathing cell, a specialized glial cell of the olfactory system has been the main focus of attention. Transplants of this cell have been shown to have a neuroprotective function, support axonal regeneration, and remyelinate demyelinated axons. However, the olfactory mucosa is a heterogeneous tissue, composed of a variety of cells supporting both its normal function and its regenerative capacity. It is therefore possible that it contains several cell types that could participate in CNS repair including putative stem cells as well as glia. Here we review the cellular composition of the olfactory tissue and the evidence that equivalent cell types exist in both rodent and human olfactory mucosa suggesting that it is potentially a rich source of autologous cells for transplant-mediated repair of the CNS.
Although many eukaryotic proteins have been secreted by transfected bacterial cells, little is known about how a bacterial protein is treated as it passes through the secretory pathway when expressed in a eukaryotic cell. The eukaryotic N-glycosylation system could interfere with folding and secretion of prokaryotic proteins whose sequence has not been adapted for glycosylation in structurally appropriate locations. Here we show that such interference does indeed occur for chondroitinase ABC from the bacterium Proteus vulgaris, and can be overcome by eliminating potential N-glycosylation sites. Chondroitinase ABC was heavily glycosylated when expressed in mammalian cells or in a mammalian translation system, and this process prevented secretion of functional enzyme. Directed mutagenesis of selected N-glycosylation sites allowed efficient secretion of active chondroitinase. As these proteoglycans are known to inhibit regeneration of axons in the mammalian central nervous system, the modified chondroitinase gene is a potential tool for gene therapy to promote neural regeneration, ultimately in human spinal cord injury.
Neurite outgrowth is known as a slow (days) process occurring in nerve cells and neurons during neurotrophin treatment and upon transfer to culture, respectively. Using Y27632, a drug that induces activation of Rac1, a downstream step of the neurotrophin signaling cascade, we have identified a new form of outgrowth, which is rapid (&lt;1 hour) and extensive (&gt;500 microm(2) surface enlargement/single cell/first hour). However, this outgrowth takes place only in cells (PC12-27 and SH-SY5Y cells, and embryonic and neonatal neurons) rich in an exocytic organelle, the enlargeosome. Golgi vesicles, TGN vesicles and endosomes are not involved. The need for enlargeosomes for plasma-membrane expansion was confirmed by the appearance of their marker, Ahnak, at the cell surface and by the dependence of neurite outgrowth on VAMP4, the vSNARE of enlargeosome exocytosis. In enlargeosome-rich cells, VAMP4 downregulation also attenuated the slow outgrowth induced by nerve growth factor (NGF). Similar to NGF-induced neurite outgrowth in enlargeosome-lacking cells, the new, rapid, Y27632-induced process required microtubules. Other properties of neurite outgrowth in cells lacking enlargeosomes - such as dependence on VAMP7, on microfilaments, on gene transcription and on protein synthesis, and blockade of mitoses and accumulation of neuronal markers - were not evident. The enlargeosome-sustained process might be useful for the rapid neurite outgrowth at peculiar stages and/or conditions of nerve and neuronal cells. However, its properties and its physiological and pathological role remain to be investigated.

The phenomenon of self-stimulation of the brain was discovered in 1954. This was one of the more important discoveries in behavioral neuroscience and psychology. The present article examines the origins of the phenomenon, describing some of the distal origins briefly, since each has a long history of its own and concentrates on the more proximal origins, including experiments preceding and closely related to the phenomenon and includes an account of the relevant knowledge at that time. A brief description of the events leading to Olds' crucial, if serendipitous, experiment is retold, followed by descriptions of some early experiments that preceded the later voluminous body of work based on it. Finally, some views are expressed about the import of the finding.
The interdisciplinary field, &quot;neuroscience,&quot; began at MIT in 1962 with the founding of the Neurosciences Research Program (NRP) by Francis O. Schmitt and a group of US and international scientists - physical, biological, medical, and behavioral - interested in understanding the brain basis of behavior and mind. They organized and held specialist meetings of basic topics in neuroscience, and the journal and book publications over the next 20 years, based on these meetings, helped establish the new field.
Dysregulation of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a hallmark feature of numerous neurologic disorders as diverse as multiple sclerosis, stroke, epilepsy, viral hemorrhagic fevers, cerebral malaria, and acute hemorrhagic leukoencephalitis. CD8 T cells are one immune cell type that have been implicated in promoting vascular permeability in these conditions. Our laboratory has created a murine model of CD8 T cell-mediated CNS vascular permeability using a variation of the Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus system traditionally used to study multiple sclerosis. Previously, we demonstrated that CD8 T cells have the capacity to initiate astrocyte activation, cerebral endothelial cell tight junction protein alterations and CNS vascular permeability through a perforin-dependent process. To address the downstream mechanism by which CD8 T cells promote BBB dysregulation, in this study, we assess the role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in this model. We demonstrate that neuronal expression of VEGF is significantly upregulated prior to, and coinciding with, CNS vascular permeability. Phosphorylation of fetal liver kinase-1 is significantly increased early in this process indicating activation of this receptor. Specific inhibition of neuropilin-1 significantly reduced CNS vascular permeability and fetal liver kinase-1 activation, and preserved levels of the cerebral endothelial cell tight junction protein occludin. Our data demonstrate that CD8 T cells initiate neuronal expression of VEGF in the CNS under neuroinflammatory conditions, and that VEGF may be a viable therapeutic target in neurologic disease characterized by inflammation-induced BBB disruption.
When the nervous system is infected with HIV-1, it commonly results in neuroinflammation leading to overt neuronal dysfunction and subsequent cognitive and behavioral impairments. The multifaceted disease process, now referred to as HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND), provides a range of molecular targets for adjunctive therapies. One is CEP-1347, an inhibitor of mixed lineage kinases that elicits neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory responses in models of neurodegenerative diseases. Since HAND is associated with inflammatory encephalopathy induced by virus infection and mononuclear phagocytes (perivascular macrophages and microglia) immune activation, we investigated whether CEP-1347 could ameliorate disease in laboratory models of HAND. We now demonstrate that CEP-1347 reduces the levels of secreted proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines in HIV-1-infected human macrophages and attenuates dose-dependent neurotoxicity in rodent cortical neurons. CEP-1347-treated mice readily achieve therapeutic drug levels in peripheral blood. HIV-1 encephalitis (HIVE) mice, where human virus-infected monocyte-derived macrophages are stereotactically injected into the basal ganglia of CB17 severe combined immunodeficient mice, received daily intraperitoneal injections of CEP-1347. Here, CEP-1347 treatment of HIVE mice showed a dose-dependent reduction in microgliosis. Dendritic integrity and neuronal loss were sustained and prevented, respectively. These results demonstrate that CEP-1347 elicits anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective responses in an HIVE model of human disease and as such warrants further study as an adjunctive therapy for human disease.
A 53-year-old female developed unilateral shoulder girdle pain, entire body paresthesiae and imbalance starting 10 days after completing a course of rituximab for chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura. Neuroimaging studies showed inflammatory demyelinating lesions of the cervical spinal cord and cerebellum. Immunocytochemistry of spinal fluid lymphocytic pleocytosis showed an absolute B cell depletion and a polyclonal/inflammatory T cell response. Intravenous immunoglobulin infusions were associated with clinical and radiological improvements. Anti-CD20-therapy possibly resulted in an imbalance between B cell and T cell populations in the central nervous system, and may have triggered a predominantly cell-mediated immune attack against unidentified nervous system antigens.
While several studies have assessed the brain patterns of cortical activations following executed and observed movements of the dominant and non-dominant lower limbs in right-handed (RH) subjects, the functional correlates of foot movement in left-handed (LH) subjects have not been investigated, yet. We investigated brain function lateralization during action execution and observation with the dominant and non-dominant feet in 8 left-handers (LH). Thirteen right-handers (RH) were also studied while performing the same tasks with their right-foot. Compared to left-foot movement, during right-foot movement, LH had greater activations of the left primary sensorimotor cortex (SMC) and the right cerebellum. Compared to right-foot movement, during left-foot movement, LH subjects activated areas of the sensorimotor network, the mirror-neurons system (MNS) and the visual network lateralized to the contralateral hemisphere. During right-foot movement no between-group difference was found. LH had a pattern of activations lateralized to the right hemisphere during right-foot observation and to the left hemisphere during left-foot observation. Compared to left-foot observation, during right-foot observation, LH had greater activations of frontal and parietal regions and visual areas. The opposite contrast showed higher activation of the right lateral occipito-temporal cortex in LH during left-foot observation. During right-foot observation, compared to RH, LH had greater activations of the bilateral primary SMC and of MNS and visual system regions. In LH, the performance of simple motor acts with the dominant lower limb might be achieved through a complex adaptation and interaction between different neuronal pathways and the daily-life environment.



The neuromuscular junction (NMJ) in Drosophila larvae serves as an important model system to study synaptic vesicle recycling, plasticity, development, and organelle trafficking in nerve terminals. Here we provide a protocol that reliably localizes proteins subcellularly in this system in combination with good preservation of the ultrastructure of the NMJ. In this protocol, the NMJs are cut open to increase access of reagents to the interior of the synapse, stained with primary antibodies followed by secondary antibodies conjugated to Fluoronanogold particles to allow selection of the best-stained areas for electron microscopic (EM) analysis using confocal microscopy. To improve visualization at the EM level, the nanogold particles are silver enhanced. Good penetration of the antibodies in this protocol allows for a three-dimensional reconstruction of the labeling pattern from serial ultrathin sections. To explore the utility and resolution of this approach, we determined the ultrasturcutral localization of the cell adhesion molecule Fascicline II (Fas II) at rest using an antibody raised against the cytoplasmic epitope. We observed that Fas II-ir is accumulated at the cytoplasmic surfaces of pre- and postsynaptic elements of the synapse at equal distances from the membranes, thus supporting the model that it has a similar orientation in these opposing synaptic structures. Fas II-ir delineates active zones and is compartmentalized from CSP, Dap160, and Bruchpilot immunolabeling. We conclude that Fas II immunolabeling in Drosophila can be reliably used to evaluate changes in the size of the active zone region at rest in genetic and functional experiments.
Recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors (AAVs) are very promising gene transfer tools for the nervous system. We have compared the efficiency of gene expression of seven AAV serotypes in young adult rats following a single injection in a major nucleus of the mid brain, the red nucleus, which is the origin of the rubrospinal tract. AAV serotypes 1-6 and 8 and a lentiviral vector (LV) were used, all encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP) under control of the cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter. AAV vectors were titer matched at 5x10(11) genomic copies (GC)/ml and 1mul was injected into the red nucleus. The proportion of transduced neurons in the red nucleus was determined at 1 and 4 weeks post-injection. AAV1 would be the vector of choice if the aim would be to overexpress a transgene at high level for a longer period of time. AAV5 and AAV8 would be the preferred serotype if onset of expression is should be somewhat delayed. The use of lentiviral vectors should be considered when transduction of both glial cells and neurons is required. Serotypes 3 and 4 did not transduce red nucleus neurons. AAV1, AAV6 and LV would be the vectors of choice if the aim of the experiment would be to rapidly express a transgene. The current data are important for the design of experiments that aim to study the effects of transgene products on the regenerative capacity of injured red nucleus neurons.
Migraine is a neurovascular disorder that induces debilitating headaches associated with multiple symptoms including facial allodynia, characterized by heightened responsivity to normally innocuous mechanical stimuli. It is now well accepted that immune activation and immune-derived inflammatory mediators enhance pain responsivity, including the trigeminal system. Nociceptive (&quot;pain&quot; responsive) trigeminal nerves densely innervate the cranial meninges. We have recently proposed that the meninges may serve as a previously unidentified, key interface between the peripheral immune system and the CNS with potential implications for understanding underlying migraine mechanisms. Our focus here is the development of a model for facial allodynia associated with migraine. We developed a model wherein an indwelling catheter is placed between the skull and dura, allowing immunogenic stimuli to be administered over the dura in awake and freely moving rats. Since the catheter does not contact the brain itself, any proinflammatory cytokines induced following manipulation derive from resident or recruited meningeal immune cells. While surgery alone does not alter immune activation markers, TNF or IL6 mRNA and/or protein, it does decrease gene expression and increase protein expression of IL-1 at 4 days after surgery. Using this model we show the induction of facial allodynia in response to supradural administration of either the HIV glycoprotein gp120 or inflammatory soup (bradykinin, histamine, serotonin, and prostaglandin E2), and the induction of hindpaw allodynia in our model after inflammatory soup. This model allows time- and dose-dependent assessment of the relationship between changes in meningeal inflammation and corresponding exaggerated pain behaviors.
Brain surface electrocorticographic (ECoG) recordings can investigate human brain electrophysiology at the cortical surface with exceptionally high signal to noise ratio and spatio-temporal resolution. To be able to use the high spatial resolution of ECoG for accurate brain function mapping and neurophysiology studies, the exact location of the ECoG electrodes on the brain surface should be known. Several issues complicate robust localization: surgical photographs of the electrode array made after implantation are often incomplete because the grids may be moved underneath the skull, beyond the exposed area. Computed tomography (CT) scans made after implantation will clearly localize electrodes, but the effects of surgical intervention may cause the exposed brain to move away from the skull and assume an unpredictable shape (the so-called brain shift). First, we present a method based on a preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) coregistered with a post-implantation CT scan to localize the electrodes and that automatically corrects for the brain shift by projecting the electrodes to the surface of the cortex. The calculated electrode positions are visualized on the individual subjects brain surface rendering. Second, the method was validated by comparison with surgical photographs, finding a median difference between photographic and calculated electrode centers-of-mass of only 2.6mm, across 6 subjects. Third, to illustrate its utility we demonstrate how functional MRI and ECoG findings in the same subject may be directly compared in a simple motor movement experiment even when electrodes are not visible in the craniotomy.
Solenoid valves are a core component of most solution perfusion systems used in neuroscience research. As they open and close, they control the flow of solution through each perfusion line, thereby modulating the timing and sequence of chemical stimulation. The valves feature a ferromagnetic plunger that moves due to the magnetization of the solenoid and returns to its initial position with the aid of a spring. The delays between the time of voltage application or removal and the actual opening or closing of the valve are difficult to predict beforehand and have to be measured experimentally. Here we propose a simple method for monitoring whether and when the solenoid valve opens and closes. The proposed method detects the movement of the plunger as it generates a measurable signal on the solenoid that surrounds it. Using this plunger signal, we detected the opening and closing of diaphragm and pinch solenoid valves with a systematic error of less than 2ms. After this systematic error is subtracted, the trial-to-trial error was below 0.2ms.
We describe a computer-controlled tactile stimulator for use in human psychophysical and monkey neurophysiological studies of 3D shape perception. The stimulator is constructed primarily of commercially available parts, as well as a few custom-built pieces for which we will supply diagrams upon request. There are two components to the stimulator: a tactile component and a hand positioner component. The tactile component consists of multiple stimulating units that move about in a Cartesian plane above the restrained hand. Each stimulating unit contains a servo-controlled linear motor with an attached small rotary stepper motor, allowing arbitrary stimulus shapes to contact the skin through vibration, static indentation, or scanning. The hand positioner component modifies the conformation of the restrained hand through a set of mechanical linkages under motorized control. The present design controls the amount of spread between digits 2 and 3, the spread between digits 4 and 3, and the degree to which digit 3 is flexed or extended, thereby simulating different conformations of the hand in contact with objects. This design is easily modified to suit the needs of the experimenter. Because the two components of the stimulator are independently controlled, the stimulator allows for parametric study of the mechanoreceptive and proprioceptive contributions to 3D tactile shape perception.
Stereotaxy is commonly used to implant microelectrodes or microprobes in specific structures of the brain in vivo. In this technique, the positions of the brain nuclei are determined as the distance from a defined reference point on the skull. Thus, it is crucial to correctly locate the reference point. On the rodent skull cap, the principal stereotaxic reference point is called the bregma and is defined as the midpoint of the curve of best fit along the coronal suture. Rough determination of the position of the bregma often results in error. In our experiments we developed and tested an alternative method of locating the bregma point on the skull of mature Wistar rats. In this method, a digital picture of the exposed skull cap is analyzed by a computer. The curve is mathematically fitted to the outline of the coronal suture, and the brain midline is delineated based on the temporal ridges of the skull. The crossing of these two lines is defined as the bregma. Systematic, experimental testing of this new method revealed that, in many cases, the position of the bregma point as located by two different methods (old, rough method and the new one) varied by as much as hundreds of microns. The error in stereotaxic positioning of the microprobe in the brain was significantly decreased when the bregma was determined using the new approach. These results confirm that the new method of locating the stereotaxic reference point improves the precision of in vivo electrode implantation.
Peptidergic nerve terminals of the neurohypophysis (NH) secrete both oxytocin and vasopressin upon stimulation with peptide-specific bursts of action potentials from magnocellular neurons. These bursts vary in both frequency and action potential duration and also induce in situ ionic changes both inside and outside the terminals in the NH. These temporary effects include the increase of external potassium and decrease of external calcium, as well as the increase in internal sodium and chloride concentrations. In order to determine any mechanism of action that these ionic changes might have on secretion, stimulus-induced capacitance recordings were performed on isolated terminals of the NH using action potential burst patterns of varying frequency and action potential width. The results indicate that in NH terminals: (1) increased internal chloride concentration improves the efficiency of action potential-induced capacitance changes, (2) increasing external potassium increases stimulus-induced capacitance changes, (3) decreasing external calcium decreases the capacitance induced by low frequency broadened action potentials, while no capacitance change is observed with high frequency un-broadened action potentials, and (4) increasing internal sodium increases the capacitance change induced by low frequency bursts of broadened action potentials, more than for high frequency bursts of narrow action potentials. These results are consistent with previous models of stimulus-induced secretion, where optimal secretory efficacy is determined by particular characteristics of action potentials within a burst. Our results suggest that positive effects of increased internal sodium and external potassium during a burst may serve as a compensatory mechanism for secretion, counterbalancing the negative effects of reduced external calcium. In this view, high frequency un-broadened action potentials (initial burst phase) would condition the terminals by increasing internal sodium for optimal secretion by the physiological later phase of broadened action potentials. Thus, ionic changes occurring during a burst may help to make such stimulation more efficient at inducing secretion. Furthermore, these effects are thought to occur within the initial few seconds of incoming burst activity at both oxytocin and vasopressin types of NH nerve terminals.
The role of somatotropin and insulin treatment in the regulation of neurotransmitter levels in the ageing brain is not fully established. We evaluated the long-term, low dose effects of somatotropin and insulin on acetylcholine and glutamate receptor subtypes functional regulation in the cerebral cortex of young (4-16 weeks) and old rats (60-90 weeks). Somatotropin and insulin treated young rats showed significant upregulation in muscarinic M1 and M3 expression whereas in old rats, somatotropin and insulin treatment downregulated M1 and M3 expression. N-methyl-D-aspartate and metabotropic glutamate receptor gene expression were significantly downregulated with somatotropin treatment while insulin treatment showed upregulation in both young and old rats. Acetylcholine esterase activity showed a decrease with age and after somatotropin and insulin treatment, the activity increased in both young and old rats. Electroencephalogram studies confirmed the brain wave activity in both young and old somatotropin and insulin treated rats. The results highlight long-term low dose somatotropin and insulin treatment in regulating cholinergic and glutamergic receptors subtypes in ageing rats and rejuvenation of brain function.
Dystonia is associated with impaired somatosensory ability. The electrophysiological method of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) can be used for noninvasive stimulation of the human cortex and can alter cortical excitability and associated behavior. Among others, rTMS can alter/improve somatosensory discrimation abilities, as shown in healthy controls. We applied 5Hz-rTMS over the left primary somatosensory cortex (S1) in 5 patients with right-sided writer's dystonia and 5 controls. We studied rTMS effects on tactile discrimination accuracy and concomitant rTMS-induced changes in hemodynamic activity measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Before rTMS, patients performed worse on the discrimination task than controls even though fMRI showed greater task-related activation bilaterally in the basal ganglia (BG). In controls, rTMS led to improved discrimination; fMRI revealed this was associated with increased activity of the stimulated S1, bilateral premotor cortex and BG. In dystonia patients, rTMS had no effect on discrimination; fMRI showed similar cortical effects to controls except for no effects in BG. Improved discrimination after rTMS in controls is linked to enhanced activation of S1 and BG. Failure of rTMS to increase BG activation in dystonia may be associated with the lack of effect on sensory discrimination in this group and may reflect impaired processing in BG-S1 connections. Alternatively, the increased BG activation seen in the baseline state without rTMS may reflect a compensatory strategy that saturates a BG contribution to this task.
To unveil cognitive-nigrostriatal correlations in Parkinson's disease (PD), 30 de novo, drug-nave PD patients and 15 patients with essential tremor (Controls, CTR) underwent a neuropsychological (NPS) battery and brain SPECT with [I-123]Ioflupane, as a biomarker of nigrostriatal function. Automatic extraction of uptake at caudate and putamen level was conducted through the BasGan software, also allowing partial volume effect correction. Because of the multicollinearity among neuropsychological tests and among SPECT variables, factor analysis was applied to 16 neuropsychological scores; moreover, the four SPECT variables were merged into a mean SPECT value (mSPECT). Factor analysis identified four NPS factors: a dys-executive (NPS-EX), a visuospatial (NPS-VS), a verbal memory (NPS-VM), and a &quot;mixed&quot; (NPD-MIX) factor. In PD group, there were inverse correlations between UPDRS-III score and both NPS-VS (P &lt; 0.01) and mSPECT (P &lt; 0.05), and a direct correlation between mSPECT and NPS-EX (P &lt; 0.05). Post hoc analysis showed a direct correlation between NPS-EX and caudate uptake in both hemispheres (P &lt; 0.05). Moreover, inverse correlations were found between UPDRS-III and, respectively, putamen uptake in the less affected hemisphere (P &lt; 0.01), and putamen and caudate uptake in the more affected hemisphere (P &lt; 0.05). In CTR, no correlation was found between mSPECT and either NPS or GDS values. Nigro-caudate function affects executive capabilities in PD but not in CTR, which appears to be unrelated to the disease motor severity at its onset. Instead, PD motor severity is related to nigro-putaminal impairment and visuospatial dysfunction. The role of these data as predictive features of cognitive decline and eventually dementia remains to be established in longitudinal studies.
Phase contrast imaging holds great potential for in vivo biodistribution studies of paramagnetic molecules and materials. However, in vivo quantification of iron storage and other paramagnetic materials requires improvements in reconstruction and processing of MR complex images. To achieve this, we have developed a framework including (i) an optimal coil sensitivity smoothing filter for phase imaging determined at the maximal signal to noise ratio, (ii) a phase optimised and a complex image optimised reconstruction approach, and (iii) a magnitude and phase correlation test criterion to determine the low pass filter parameter for background phase removal. The method has been evaluated using 3T and 7T MRI data containing cortical regions, the basal ganglia including the caudate, and the midbrain including the substantia nigra. The optimised reconstruction improves phase image contrast and noise suppression compared with conventional reconstruction approaches, and the correlation test criterion provides an objective method for separation of the local phase signal from the background phase measurements. Phase values of several brain regions of interest have been calculated, including gray matter (-1.23 Hz at 7T and -0.55 Hz at 3T), caudate (-3.8 Hz at 7T), and the substantia nigra (-6.2 Hz at 7T).
Although many studies have found similar cortical areas activated during the recognition of objects encoded through vision or touch, little is known about cortical areas involved in the crossmodal recognition of dynamic objects. Here, we investigated which cortical areas are involved in the recognition of moving objects and were specifically interested in whether motion areas are involved in the recognition of dynamic objects within and across sensory modalities. Prior to scanning, participants first learned to recognise a set of 12 novel objects, each presented either visually or haptically, and either moving or stationary. We then conducted fMRI whilst participants performed an old-new task with static images of learned or not-learned objects. We found the fusiform and right inferior frontal gyri more activated to within-modal visual than crossmodal object recognition. Our results also revealed increased activation in area hMT+, LOC and the middle occipital gyrus, in the right hemisphere only, for the objects learned as moving compared to the learned static objects, regardless of modality. We propose that the network of cortical areas involved in the recognition of dynamic objects is largely independent of modality and have important implications for understanding the neural substrates of multisensory dynamic object recognition.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has become a ubiquitous tool in cognitive neuroscience. The technique allows noninvasive measurements of cortical responses in the human brain, but only on the millimeter scale. Because a typical voxel contains many thousands of neurons with varied properties, establishing the selectivity of their responses directly is impossible. In recent years, two methods using fMRI aimed at studying the selectivity of neuronal populations on a 'subvoxel' scale have been heavily used. The first technique, fMRI adaptation, relies on the observation that the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) response in a given voxel is reduced after prolonged presentation of a stimulus, and that this reduction is selective to the characteristics of the repeated stimuli (adapters). The second technique, multivariate pattern analysis (MVPA), makes use of multivariate statistics to recover small biases in individual voxels in their responses to different stimuli. It is thought that these biases arise due to the uneven distribution of neurons (with different properties) sampled by the many voxels in the imaged volume. These two techniques have not been compared explicitly, however, and little is known about their relative sensitivities. Here, we compared fMRI results from orientation-specific visual adaptation and orientation-classification by MVPA, using optimized experimental designs for each, and found that the multivariate pattern classification approach was more sensitive to small differences in stimulus orientation than the adaptation paradigm. Estimates of orientation selectivity obtained with the two methods were, however, very highly correlated across visual areas.
We casually observe many interactions that do not really concern us. Yet sometimes we need to be able to rapidly appraise whether an interaction between two people represents a real threat for one of them rather than an innocent tease. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we investigated whether small differences in the body language of two interacting people are picked up by the brain even if observers are performing an unrelated task. Fourteen participants were scanned while watching 3-s movies (192 trials and 96 scrambles) showing a male person either threatening or teasing a female one. In one task condition, observers categorized the interaction as threatening or teasing, and in the other, they monitored randomly appearing dots and categorized the color. Our results clearly show that right amygdala responds more to threatening than to teasing situations irrespective of the observers' task. When observers' attention is not explicitly directed to the situation, this heightened amygdala activation goes together with increased activity in body sensitive regions in fusiform gyrus, extrastriate body area-human motion complex and superior temporal sulcus and is associated with a better behavioral performance of the participants during threatening situations. In addition, regions involved in action observation (inferior frontal gyrus, temporoparietal junction, and inferior parietal lobe) and preparation (premotor, putamen) show increased activation for threat videos. Also regions involved in processing moral violations (temporoparietal junction, hypothalamus) reacted selectively to the threatening interactions. Taken together, our results show which brain regions react selectively to witnessing a threatening interaction even if the situation is not attended because the observers perform an unrelated task.
Cytoarchitectonic maps of human striate and extrastriate visual cortex based upon post-mortem brains can be correlated with functionally defined cortical areas using, for example, fMRI. We here assess the correspondence of anatomical maps of the visual cortex with functionally defined in vivo visual areas using retinotopic mapping. To this end, anatomical maximum probability maps (aMPM) derived from individual cytoarchitectonic maps of striate and extrastriate visual areas were compared with functional localisers for the early visual areas. Using fMRI, we delineated dorsal and ventral human retinotopic areas V1, V2, and V3, as well as a quarter-field visual field representation lateral to V3v, V4(v), in 24 healthy subjects. Based on these individual definitions, a functional maximum probability map (fMPM) was then computed in analogy to the aMPM. Functional and anatomical MPMs were highly correlated at group level: 78.5% of activated voxels in the fMPM were correctly assigned by the aMPM. The group aMPM was less effective in predicting functional retinotopic areas in the individual brain due to the large inter-individual variability in the location and extent of visual areas (mean overlap 32-69%). We conclude that cytoarchitectonic maps of striate and extrastriate visual areas may provide a valuable method for assigning functional group activations and thus add valuable a priori knowledge to the analysis of functional imaging data of the visual cortex.
Healthy aging is associated with brain volume reductions that involve the frontal cortex, but also affect other brain regions. We sought to identify an age-related network pattern of MRI gray matter using a multivariate statistical model of regional covariance, the Scaled Subprofile Model (SSM) with voxel based morphometry (VBM) in 29 healthy adults, 23-84 years of age (Group 1). In addition, we evaluated the reproducibility of the age-related gray matter pattern derived from a prior SSM VBM study of 26 healthy adults, 22-77 years of age (Group 2; Alexander et al., 2006) in relation to the current sample and tested the ability of the network analysis to extract an age-related pattern from both cohorts combined. The SSM VBM analysis of Group 1 identified a regional pattern of gray matter atrophy associated with healthy aging (R(2)=0.64, p&lt;0.000001) that included extensive reductions in bilateral dorsolateral and medial frontal, anterior cingulate, insula/perisylvian, precuneus, parietotemporal, and caudate regions with areas of relative preservation in bilateral cerebellum, thalamus, putamen, mid cingulate, and temporal pole regions. The age-related SSM VBM gray matter pattern, previously reported for Group 2, was highly expressed in Group 1 (R(2)=0.52, p&lt;0.00002). SSM analysis of the combined cohorts extracted a common age-related pattern of gray matter showing reductions involving bilateral medial frontal, insula/perisylvian, anterior cingulate and, to a lesser extent, bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal, lateral temporal, parietal, and caudate brain regions with relative preservation in bilateral cerebellum, temporal pole, and right thalamic regions. The results suggest that healthy aging is associated with a regionally distributed pattern of gray matter atrophy that has reproducible regional features. Whereas the network patterns of atrophy included parietal, temporal, and subcortical regions, involvement of the frontal brain regions showed the most consistently extensive and reliable reductions across samples. Network analysis with SSM VBM can help detect reproducible age-related MRI patterns, assisting efforts in the study of healthy and pathological aging.
In classical Pavlovian fear conditioning, a neutral stimulus (conditioned stimulus, CS) comes to be evaluated as threatening due to its association with an aversive stimulus (unconditioned stimulus, UCS), and elicits fear. In a subtype of fear conditioning paradigms, called instructed fear or anticipatory anxiety, subjects are made aware of the CS-UCS association prior to actually experiencing it. Initial fear elicitation during this type of conditioning results from the negative evaluation of the CS as a consequence of CS-UCS contingency awareness. Prior reports have suggested that this conscious appraisal process is mediated by a variety of brain regions, including rostral dorsomedial prefrontal/dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dmPFC/dACC), lateral prefrontal cortex (lPFC), posterior cingulate, hippocampus/parahippocampus, and nucleus accumbens, but there is little overlap between results. We reasoned that a formal meta-analysis of existing instructed fear studies should help narrow down the search for conscious appraisal areas in fear conditioning to those consistently activated across studies. We found consistent activation in rostral dmPFC but not in the other candidate areas. These results allow for maintaining the theory that the rostral dmPFC is involved in conscious threat appraisal. We also report a meta-analysis of uninstructed (classical) fear conditioning studies in which we found notable activation in more posterior parts of the dmPFC/dACC that overlapped with some of the instructed fear activations. These data suggest that mid regions of the dmPFC/dACC are part of a &quot;core&quot; fear network that is activated irrespective of how fear was learnt.
In the visual system, neurons with similar functional properties such as orientation and direction selectivity are clustered together to form modules. Optical imaging recordings in combination with episodic paradigms have been previously used to estimate direction selectivity, a fundamental property of visual neurons. The major drawback of the episodic approach is that the extraction of the signal from various forms of physiological noise is difficult, leading to a poor estimation of direction. Recent work, based on periodic stimulation and Fourier decomposition improved the extraction of periodic stimulus responses from noise and thus, reduced the recording time considerably. Given the success of this new paradigm in mapping orientation, the present study evaluated its reliability to measure direction selectivity in the visual cortex of anesthetized cats. Here, a model that exploits the harmonics of the Fourier decomposition is proposed where the first harmonic is related to direction responses, and the second to orientation. As expected, the first harmonic was absent when a static stimulus was presented. Contrarily, the first harmonic was present when moving stimuli were presented and the amplitude was greater with random dots kinematograms than with drifting gratings. The phase of the first harmonic showed a good agreement with direction preference measured by episodic paradigm. The ratio of the first/the second harmonic amplitude, related to a direction index, was weaker in fracture. It was also weaker in areas of the ventral pathway (areas 17 and 21a) where direction selectivity is known to be reduced. These results indicate that a periodic paradigm can be easily used to measure specific parameters in optical signals, particularly in situations when short acquisition periods are needed.
The human brain is a complex dynamic system capable of generating a multitude of oscillatory waves in support of brain function. Using fMRI, we examined the amplitude of spontaneous low-frequency oscillations (LFO) observed in the human resting brain and the test-retest reliability of relevant amplitude measures. We confirmed prior reports that gray matter exhibits higher LFO amplitude than white matter. Within gray matter, the largest amplitudes appeared along mid-brain structures associated with the &quot;default-mode&quot; network. Additionally, we found that high-amplitude LFO activity in specific brain regions was reliable across time. Furthermore, parcellation-based results revealed significant and highly reliable ranking orders of LFO amplitudes among anatomical parcellation units. Detailed examination of individual low frequency bands showed distinct spatial profiles. Intriguingly, LFO amplitudes in the slow-4 (0.027-0.073 Hz) band, as defined by Buzski et al., were most robust in the basal ganglia, as has been found in spontaneous electrophysiological recordings in the awake rat. These results suggest that amplitude measures of LFO can contribute to further between-group characterization of existing and future &quot;resting-state&quot; fMRI datasets.
Non-invasive event-related potential (ERP) recordings have become a popular technique to study neural activity associated with saccades in humans. To date, it is not known whether nonhuman primates exhibit similar saccade-related ERPs. Here, we recorded ERPs associated with the performance of randomly interleaved pro- and anti-saccades in macaque monkeys. Stimulus-aligned ERPs showed short-latency visual component with more negative P2 and N2 peak amplitudes on anti- than on pro-saccade trials. Saccade-aligned ERPs showed a larger presaccadic negativity on anti- than pro-saccade trials, and a presaccadic positivity on pro-saccade trials, which was attenuated or absent on anti-saccade trials. This was followed by sharp negative spike potential immediately prior to the movement. Overall, these findings demonstrate that macaque monkeys, like humans, exhibit task-related differences of visual ERPs associated with pro- and anti-saccades and furthermore share presaccadic positivity as well as a spike potential prior to these tasks. We suggest that the presaccadic positivity on pro-saccade trials is generated by a source in the contralateral frontal eye fields and that the more negative voltage on anti-saccade trials is the result of additional sources of opposite polarity in neighboring frontal areas.
Recent studies have shown evidence of somatosensory deficits in individuals with attentional difficulties yet relatively little is known about the role of attention in the processing of somatosensory input. Neuromagnetic imaging studies have shown that rhythmic oscillations within the human somatosensory cortex are strongly modulated by somatosensory stimulation and may reflect the normal processing of such stimuli. However, few studies have examined how attention influences these cortical oscillations. We examined attentional effects on human somatosensory oscillations during median nerve stimulation by conducting time-frequency analyses of neuromagnetic recordings in healthy adults. We found that selective attention modulated somatosensory oscillations in the alpha, beta, and gamma bands that were both phase-locked and non-phase-locked to the stimulus. In the primary somatosensory cortex (SI), directing the subject's attention toward the somatosensory stimulus resulted in increased gamma band power (30-55 Hz) that was phase-locked to stimulus onset. Directed attention also produced an initial suppression (desynchrony) followed by enhancement (synchrony) of beta band power (13-25 Hz) that was not phase-locked to the stimulus. In the secondary somatosensory cortex (SII), directing attention towards the stimulus increased phase-locked alpha (7-9 Hz) power approximately 30 ms after onset of phase-locked gamma in SI, followed by a non-phase-locked increase in alpha power. We suggest that earlier phase-locked oscillatory power may reflect the relay of input from SI to SII, whereas later non-phase-locked rhythms reflect stimulus-induced oscillations that are modulated by selective attention and may thus reflect enhanced processing of the stimulus underlying the perception of somatosensory events.
Studying children experiencing psychotic symptoms provides a unique opportunity to examine the vulnerability to psychosis within the context of development. Using neuroimaging techniques this study investigated cognitive control functions, brain volumetrics and white matter integrity in an at-risk cohort of children. Between-subjects assessment of brain function and structure among 11 school-going, non-treatment seeking children aged 11-13 who were at symptomatic risk for psychosis (AR) and 14 healthy control children aged 11-12 without subclinical psychotic symptoms (CON). MRI assessments included functional measures of response inhibition and error-related processes, whole brain voxel-based morphometry (VBM) of gray matter (GM) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) utilizing fractional anisotropy to probe white matter (WM) integrity. fMRI results showed reduced activity in the AR group within right frontal and bilateral temporal cortex for response inhibition and reduced activity within the anterior cingulate, insula and middle frontal gyrus for error-related processing (p&lt;.05, corrected). VBM analysis revealed GM increases in the AR group within middle and superior temporal gyri, angular gyrus, orbitofrontal gyrus and GM decrease within the inferior temporal gyrus (p&lt;.05, corrected). DTI analysis identified WM decreases in the AR group along the inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus, cingulum and inferior longitudinal fasciculus (p&lt;.05, corrected). This multimodal investigation revealed aberrant prefrontal-temporal dysfunction in addition to cingulate and insular dysfunctions which provide potential early neurocognitive risk markers related to the susceptibility for developing psychosis and subsequently the neurodevelopmental trajectory leading to schizophrenia.
Self-criticism is strongly correlated with a range of psychopathologies, such as depression, eating disorders and anxiety. In contrast, self-reassurance is inversely associated with such psychopathologies. Despite the importance of self-judgements and evaluations, little is known about the neurophysiology of these internal processes. The current study therefore used a novel fMRI task to investigate the neuronal correlates of self-criticism and self-reassurance. Participants were presented statements describing two types of scenario, with the instruction to either imagine being self-critical or self-reassuring in that situation. One scenario type focused on a personal setback, mistake or failure, which would elicit negative emotions, whilst the second was of a matched neutral event. Self-criticism was associated with activity in lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) regions and dorsal anterior cingulate (dAC), therefore linking self-critical thinking to error processing and resolution, and also behavioural inhibition. Self-reassurance was associated with left temporal pole and insula activation, suggesting that efforts to be self-reassuring engage similar regions to expressing compassion and empathy towards others. Additionally, we found a dorsal/ventral PFC divide between an individual's tendency to be self-critical or self-reassuring. Using multiple regression analyses, dorsolateral PFC activity was positively correlated with high levels of self-criticism (assessed via self-report measure), suggesting greater error processing and behavioural inhibition in such individuals. Ventrolateral PFC activity was positively correlated with high self-reassurance. Our findings may have implications for the neural basis of a range of mood disorders that are characterised by a preoccupation with personal mistakes and failures, and a self-critical response to such events.
Sleep deprivation (SD) affects attention but it is an open question as to whether all subtypes of attention are similarly affected. We investigated the effects of 24 h of total SD on object-selective attention. 26 healthy, young adults viewed quartets of alternating faces or place scenes and performed selective judgments on faces only, scenes only or both faces and scenes. Volunteers underwent fMRI following a normal night of sleep and again following approximately 24 h of total sleep deprivation in a counterbalanced fashion. Sleep deprivation resulted in slower and less accurate picture classification as well as poorer recognition memory for scenes. Attention strongly modulated activation in the Parahippocampal Place Area (PPA). Task-related activation in the fronto-parietal cortex and PPA was reduced in SD, but the relative modulation of PPA activation by attention was preserved. Psychophysiological interaction between the left intra-parietal sulcus and the PPA that was clearly present after a normal night of sleep was reduced below threshold following SD suggesting that PPI may be a more sensitive method of detecting change in selective attention. Sleep deprivation may affect object-selective attention in addition to exerting a task-independent deficit in attention.
Understanding the neurocognitive basis of risk-taking behavior is an important issue, especially in economic decision-making. Classical behavioral studies have shown that risk-attitude changes across different contexts, but little is so far known about the brain correlates of processing of outcomes across such context shifts. In this study, EEG was recorded while subjects performed a gambling task. Participants could choose between a risky and a safer option, within two different contexts: one in which options yielded gains and losses of the same magnitude (Zero Expected Value context) and another in which gains were larger than losses (Positive Expected Value context). Based on their risk-attitude, two groups were compared: subjects who are risk-seekers in the zero Expected Value context (Zero-Oriented group) and subjects who are risk-seekers in the positive Expected Value condition (Positive-Oriented group). The Feedback Related Negativity (FRN) reflects this distinction, with each group being insensitive to magnitude of outcomes in the condition in which they were risk-prone. P300 amplitude mirrored the behavioral results, with larger amplitudes in the condition in which each group showed a higher risk-tendency. Source analyses highlighted the involvement of posterior cingulate cortex in risky decision-making. Taken together, the findings make a contribution to the clarification of the neurocognitive substrates of risky decision-making.
Twin studies offer the opportunity to determine the relative contribution of genes versus environment in traits of interest. Here, we investigate the extent to which variance in brain structure is reduced in monozygous twins with identical genetic make-up. We investigate whether using twins as compared to a control population reduces variability in a number of common magnetic resonance (MR) structural measures, and we investigate the location of areas under major genetic influences. This is fundamental to understanding the benefit of using twins in studies where structure is the phenotype of interest. Twenty-three pairs of healthy MZ twins were compared to matched control pairs. Volume, T2 and diffusion MR imaging were performed as well as spectroscopy (MRS). Images were compared using (i) global measures of standard deviation and effect size, (ii) voxel-based analysis of similarity and (iii) intra-pair correlation. Global measures indicated a consistent increase in structural similarity in twins. The voxel-based and correlation analyses indicated a widespread pattern of increased similarity in twin pairs, particularly in frontal and temporal regions. The areas of increased similarity were most widespread for the diffusion trace and least widespread for T2. MRS showed consistent reduction in metabolite variation that was significant in the temporal lobe N-acetylaspartate (NAA). This study has shown the distribution and magnitude of reduced variability in brain volume, diffusion, T2 and metabolites in twins. The data suggest that evaluation of twins discordant for disease is indeed a valid way to attribute genetic or environmental influences to observed abnormalities in patients since evidence is provided for the underlying assumption of decreased variability in twins.
Polarized light imaging (PLI) enables the evaluation of fiber orientations in histological sections of human postmortem brains, with ultra-high spatial resolution. PLI is based on the birefringent properties of the myelin sheath of nerve fibers. As a result, the polarization state of light propagating through a rotating polarimeter is changed in such a way that the detected signal at each measurement unit of a charged-coupled device (CCD) camera describes a sinusoidal signal. Vectors of the fiber orientation defined by inclination and direction angles can then directly be derived from the optical signals employing PLI analysis. However, noise, light scatter and filter inhomogeneities interfere with the original sinusoidal PLI signals. We here introduce a novel method using independent component analysis (ICA) to decompose the PLI images into statistically independent component maps. After decomposition, gray and white matter structures can clearly be distinguished from noise and other artifacts. The signal enhancement after artifact rejection is quantitatively evaluated in 134 histological whole brain sections. Thus, the primary sinusoidal signals from polarized light imaging can be effectively restored after noise and artifact rejection utilizing ICA. Our method therefore contributes to the analysis of nerve fiber orientation in the human brain within a micrometer scale.

Current analysis of event-related potentials (ERP) data is usually based on the a priori selection of channels and time windows of interest for studying the differences between experimental conditions in the spatio-temporal domain. In this work we put forward a new strategy designed for situations when there is not a priori information about 'when' and 'where' these differences appear in the spatio-temporal domain, simultaneously testing numerous hypotheses, which increase the risk of false positives. This issue is known as the problem of multiple comparisons and has been managed with methods that control the false discovery rate (FDR), such as permutation test and FDR methods. Although the former has been previously applied, to our knowledge, the FDR methods have not been introduced in the ERP data analysis. Here we compare the performance (on simulated and real data) of permutation test and two FDR methods (Benjamini and Hochberg (BH) and local-fdr, by Efron). All these methods have been shown to be valid for dealing with the problem of multiple comparisons in the ERP analysis, avoiding the ad hoc selection of channels and/or time windows. FDR methods are a good alternative to the common and computationally more expensive permutation test. The BH method for independent tests gave the best overall performance regarding the balance between type I and type II errors. The local-fdr method is preferable for high dimensional (multichannel) problems where most of the tests conform to the empirical null hypothesis. Differences among the methods according to assumptions, null distributions and dimensionality of the problem are also discussed.



Multiple types of indirect evidence have been used to support theories of altered cortical connectivity in autism spectrum disorders (ASD). In other developmental disorders reduced spine expression is commonly found, while conditions such as fragile X syndrome show increased spine densities. Despite its relevance to theories of altered cortical connectivity, synaptic spine expression has not been systematically explored in ASD. Here we examine dendritic spines on Golgi-impregnated cortical pyramidal cells in the cortex of ASD subjects and age-matched control cases. Pyramidal cells were studied within both the superficial and deep cortical layers of frontal, temporal, and parietal lobe regions. Relative to controls, spine densities were greater in ASD subjects. In analyses restricted to the apical dendrites of pyramidal cells, greater spine densities were found predominantly within layer II of each cortical location and within layer V of the temporal lobe. High spine densities were associated with decreased brain weights and were most commonly found in ASD subjects with lower levels of cognitive functioning. Greater spine densities in ASD subjects provide structural support for recent suggestions of connectional changes within the cerebral cortex that may result in altered cortical computations.
Trans sodium crocetinate (TSC) is a synthetic small-molecule antioxidant that has the ability to enhance oxygen diffusion to hypoxic tissue. Because TSC is a promising drug candidate to treat acute ischemic stroke (AIS), we tested the hypothesis that TSC may be neuroprotective following cerebral ischemia using a rabbit small clot embolic stroke model (RSCEM) using clinical rating scores as the endpoint. TSC or saline was administered IV following the injection of small blood clots into the brain vasculature. Behavior was measured 24 h following embolization in order to calculate the effective stroke dose (P(50)) that produces neurological deficits in 50% of the rabbits. A treatment is considered beneficial if it significantly increases the P(50) compared to control. TSC (0.25 mg/kg) given 5 or 60 min following embolization significantly (p&lt;0.05) increased P(50) values by 104% and 181%; but not when given 3 h post-embolization (48% increase, p&gt;0.05). tPA (3.3 mg/kg) produced a significant increase in P(50) when given 1, but not 3 h following embolization. In combination studies, when TSC was administered 1 h and tPA was given either 1 or 3 h following embolization, the group P(50) values were increased by 291% and 140%, respectively. In addition, TSC plus tPA administered 3 h following embolization significantly (p&lt;0.05) increased the group P(50) value by 90%. There were no significant effects (p&gt;0.05) of either TSC alone or TSC administered in combination with tPA on intracerebral hemorrhage incidence. This study suggests that TSC may be used for the treatment of AIS either alone or when administered before or concomitant with tPA to improve clinical rating scores with a therapeutic window for TSC therapy up to 3 h in rabbits. Moreover, it appears that TSC can be administered with tPA, since the combination did not result in any significant change in intracerebral hemorrhage incidence.
Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a devastating stroke with no clinically proven treatment. Deferoxamine (DFX), an iron chelator, is a promising therapy that lessens edema, mitigates peri-hematoma cell death, and improves behavioral recovery after whole-blood-induced ICH in rodents. In this model, blood is directly injected into the brain, usually into the striatum. This mimics many but not all clinical features of ICH (e.g., there is no spontaneous bleed). Thus, we tested whether DFX improves outcome after collagenase-induced striatal ICH in rats. In the first experiment, 3- and 7-day DFX regimens (100 mg/kg twice per day starting 6 h after ICH), similar to those shown effective in the whole-blood model, were compared to saline treatment. Functional recovery was evaluated from 3 to 28 days with several behavioral tests. Except for one instance, DFX failed to lessen ICH-induced behavioral impairments and it did not lessen brain injury, which averaged 43.5 mm(3) at a 28-day survival. In the second experiment, 3 days of DFX treatment were given starting 0 or 6 h after collagenase infusion. Striatal edema occurred, but it was not affected by either DFX treatment (vs. saline treatment). Therefore, in contrast to studies using the whole-blood model, DFX treatment did not improve outcome in the collagenase model. Our findings, when compared to others, suggest that there are critical differences between these ICH models. Perhaps, the current clinical work with DFX will help identify the more clinically predictive model for future neuroprotection studies.
The discovery of new highly potent and selective dopamine (DA) D(3) receptor antagonists has recently allowed the characterization of the DA D(3) receptor in a range of preclinical animal models of drug addiction. A novel series of 1,2,4-triazol-3-yl-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexanes, members of which showed a high affinity and selectivity for the DA D(3) receptor and excellent pharmacokinetic profiles, is reported here. Members of a group of derivatives from this series showed good oral bioavailability and brain penetration and very high in vitro affinity and selectivity for the DA D(3) receptor, as well as high in vitro potency for antagonism at this receptor. Several members of this series also significantly attenuate the expression of conditioned place preference (CPP) to nicotine and cocaine.



The protein alpha-synuclein accumulates in the brain of patients with sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD), and increased gene dosage causes a severe, dominantly inherited form of PD, but we know little about the effects of synuclein that precede degeneration. alpha-Synuclein localizes to the nerve terminal, but the knockout has little if any effect on synaptic transmission. In contrast, we now find that the modest overexpression of alpha-synuclein, in the range predicted for gene multiplication and in the absence of overt toxicity, markedly inhibits neurotransmitter release. The mechanism, elucidated by direct imaging of the synaptic vesicle cycle, involves a specific reduction in size of the synaptic vesicle recycling pool. Ultrastructural analysis demonstrates reduced synaptic vesicle density at the active zone, and imaging further reveals a defect in the reclustering of synaptic vesicles after endocytosis. Increased levels of alpha-synuclein thus produce a specific, physiological defect in synaptic vesicle recycling that precedes detectable neuropathology.
The density of GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) at synapses regulates brain excitability, and altered inhibition may contribute to Huntington's disease, which is caused by a polyglutamine repeat in the protein huntingtin. However, the machinery that delivers GABA(A)Rs to synapses is unknown. We demonstrate that GABA(A)Rs are trafficked to synapses by the kinesin family motor protein 5 (KIF5). We identify the adaptor linking the receptors to KIF5 as the huntingtin-associated protein 1 (HAP1). Disrupting the HAP1-KIF5 complex decreases synaptic GABA(A)R number and reduces the amplitude of inhibitory postsynaptic currents. When huntingtin is mutated, as in Huntington's disease, GABA(A)R transport and inhibitory synaptic currents are reduced. Thus, HAP1-KIF5-dependent GABA(A)R trafficking is a fundamental mechanism controlling the strength of synaptic inhibition in the brain. Its disruption by mutant huntingtin may explain some of the defects in brain information processing occurring in Huntington's disease and provides a molecular target for therapeutic approaches.
The mechanisms underlying the brain response to systemic inflammation remain unclear. In this issue of Neuron, Serrats and colleagues demonstrate that two cell types that produce prostaglandins that act on the brain, perivascular and endothelial cells, have an unexpectedly complex interaction in regulating the timing and types of brain responses that occur.
Lamina I of the rat spinal cord contains neurons that project to various brain areas including thalamus, periaqueductal grey matter (PAG), lateral parabrachial area (LPb), caudal ventrolateral medulla and a region in dorsal medulla that includes the nucleus tractus solitarius and dorsal reticular nucleus. We have shown that spinothalamic lamina I neurons are infrequent in rat lumbar enlargement, where they constitute approximately 5% of the estimated 400 projection neurons on each side of the L4 segment (Al-Khater and Todd, 2009). They are more numerous in cervical enlargement, but the total number of lamina I projection neurons in this region was not known. Here we have used paired injections of retrograde tracers into the brainstem to estimate the number of lamina I projection cells in the C7 segment. Our results suggest that there are approximately 215 lamina I projection cells per side, and that spinothalamic cells therefore make up approximately 42% of this population. The proportion of lamina I projection neurons labelled from PAG is higher in cervical than lumbar enlargement, while the proportion labelled from dorsal medulla is similar in the two regions. We also found that lamina I cells in L4 that project to the dorsal medulla are included in the population retrogradely labelled from LPb, thus confirming the estimate that there are around 400 lamina I projection cells in this segment.
The inferior colliculus (IC) is the consensus site for seizure initiation in the genetically epilepsy-prone rat (GEPR). We have previously reported that the current density of high threshold voltage-activated (HVA) calcium (Ca(2+)) channels was markedly enhanced in IC neurons of the GEPR-3 (moderate seizure severity substrain of the GEPR). The present study examines whether subunit protein levels of HVA Ca(2+) channels are altered in IC neurons that exhibit enhanced Ca(2+) current density. Quantification shows that the levels of protein expression of the Ca(2+) channel pore-forming alpha1D (L-type) and alpha1E subunits (R-type) were significantly increased in IC neurons of seizure-naive GEPR-3s (SN-GEPR-3s) compared to control Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. Significant increases and decreases in the levels of protein expression of Ca(2+) channel regulatory beta3 and alpha2delta subunits occurred in IC neurons of SN-GEPR-3s compared to control SD rats, respectively. No changes occurred in the protein expression of Ca(2+) channel pore-forming alpha1A (P/Q-type), alpha1B (N-type) and alpha1C (L-type) subunits in IC neurons of SN-GEPR-3s compared to control SD rats. A single seizure selectively enhanced protein expression of Ca(2+) channel alpha1A subunits in IC neurons of GEPR-3s. Thus, up-regulation of Ca(2+) channel alpha1D and alpha1E subunits may represent the molecular mechanisms for the enhanced current density of L- and R-type of HVA Ca(2+) channels in IC neurons of the GEPR, and may contribute to the genetic basis of their enhanced seizure susceptibility. The up-regulation of Ca(2+) channel alpha1A subunits induced by seizures may contribute to the increasing IC neuronal excitability that results from repetitive seizures in the GEPR.
In the cochlea, spiral ganglion neurons play a critical role in hearing as they form the relay between mechanosensory hair cells in the inner ear and cochlear nuclei in the brainstem. The proneural basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors Neurogenin1 (Neurog1) and NeuroD1 have been shown to be essential for the development of otocyst-derived inner ear sensory neurons. Here, we show neural competence of nonsensory epithelial cells in the cochlea, as ectopic expression of either Neurog1 or NeuroD1 results in the formation of neuronal cells. Since the high-mobility-group type transcription factor Sox2, which is also known to play a role in neurogenesis, is expressed in otocyst-derived neural precursor cells and later in the spiral ganglion neurons along with Neurog1 and NeuroD1, we used both gain- and loss-of-function experiments to examine the role of Sox2 in spiral ganglion neuron formation. We demonstrate that overexpression of Sox2 results in the production of neurons, suggesting that Sox2 is sufficient for the induction of neuronal fate in nonsensory epithelial cells. Furthermore, spiral ganglion neurons are absent in cochleae from Sox2(Lcc/Lcc) mice, indicating that Sox2 is also required for neuronal formation in the cochlea. Our results indicate that Sox2, along with Neurog1 and NeuroD1, are sufficient to induce a neuronal fate in nonsensory regions of the cochlea. Finally, we demonstrate that nonsensory cells within the cochlea retain neural competence through at least the early postnatal period.
Fragile X syndrome, the most common form of inherited mental retardation and leading genetic cause of autism, is caused by transcriptional silencing of the Fmr1 gene. The fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), the gene product of Fmr1, is an RNA binding protein that negatively regulates translation in neurons. The Fmr1 knock-out mouse, a model of fragile X syndrome, exhibits cognitive deficits and exaggerated metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-dependent long-term depression at CA1 synapses. However, the molecular mechanisms that link loss of function of FMRP to aberrant synaptic plasticity remain unclear. The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling cascade controls initiation of cap-dependent translation and is under control of mGluRs. Here we show that mTOR phosphorylation and activity are elevated in hippocampus of juvenile Fmr1 knock-out mice by four functional readouts: (1) association of mTOR with regulatory associated protein of mTOR; (2) mTOR kinase activity; (3) phosphorylation of mTOR downstream targets S6 kinase and 4E-binding protein; and (4) formation of eukaryotic initiation factor complex 4F, a critical first step in cap-dependent translation. Consistent with this, mGluR long-term depression at CA1 synapses of FMRP-deficient mice is exaggerated and rapamycin insensitive. We further show that the p110 subunit of the upstream kinase phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and its upstream activator PI3K enhancer PIKE, predicted targets of FMRP, are upregulated in knock-out mice. Elevated mTOR signaling may provide a functional link between overactivation of group I mGluRs and aberrant synaptic plasticity in the fragile X mouse, mechanisms relevant to impaired cognition in fragile X syndrome.
The molecular architecture of developing serotonin (5HT) neurons is poorly understood, yet its determination is likely to be essential for elucidating functional heterogeneity of these cells and the contribution of serotonergic dysfunction to disease pathogenesis. Here, we describe the purification of postmitotic embryonic 5HT neurons by flow cytometry for whole-genome microarray expression profiling of this unitary monoaminergic neuron type. Our studies identified significantly enriched expression of hundreds of unique genes in 5HT neurons, thus providing an abundance of new serotonergic markers. Furthermore, we identified several hundred transcripts encoding homeodomain, axon guidance, cell adhesion, intracellular signaling, ion transport, and imprinted genes associated with various neurodevelopmental disorders that were differentially enriched in developing rostral and caudal 5HT neurons. These findings suggested a homeodomain code that distinguishes rostral and caudal 5HT neurons. Indeed, verification studies demonstrated that Hmx homeodomain and Hox gene expression defined an Hmx(+) rostral subtype and Hox(+) caudal subtype. Expression of engrailed genes in a subset of 5HT neurons in the rostral domain further distinguished two subtypes defined as Hmx(+)En(+) and Hmx(+)En(-). The differential enrichment of gene sets for different canonical pathways and gene ontology categories provided additional evidence for heterogeneity between rostral and caudal 5HT neurons. These findings demonstrate a deep transcriptome and biological pathway duality for neurons that give rise to the ascending and descending serotonergic subsystems. Our databases provide a rich, clinically relevant resource for definition of 5HT neuron subtypes and elucidation of the genetic networks required for serotonergic function.
Animals depend on a large variety of rewards but their brains have a limited dynamic coding range. When rewards are uncertain, neuronal coding needs to cover a wide range of possible rewards. However, when reward is likely to occur within a specific range, focusing the sensitivity on the predicted range would optimize the discrimination of small reward differences. One way to overcome the trade-off between wide coverage and optimal discrimination is to adapt reward sensitivity dynamically to the available rewards. We investigated how changes in reward distribution influenced the coding of reward in the orbitofrontal cortex. Animals performed an oculomotor task in which a fixation cue predicted the SD of the probability distribution of juice volumes, while the expected mean volume was kept constant. A subsequent cue specified the exact juice volume obtained for a correct saccade response. Population responses of orbitofrontal neurons that reflected the predicted juice volume showed adaptation to the reward distribution. Statistical tests on individual responses revealed that a quarter of value-coding neurons shifted the reward sensitivity slope significantly between two reward distributions, whereas the remaining neurons showed insignificant change or lack of adaptation. Adaptations became more prominent when reward distributions changed less frequently, indicating time constraints for assessing reward distributions and adjusting neuronal sensitivity. The observed neuronal adaptation would optimize discrimination and contribute to the efficient coding of a large variety of potential rewards by neurons with limited dynamic range.
We studied wild-type (WT) and Cav1.3(-/-) mouse chromaffin cells (MCCs) with the aim to determine the isoform of L-type Ca(2+) channel (LTCC) and BK channels that underlie the pacemaker current controlling spontaneous firing. Most WT-MCCs (80%) were spontaneously active (1.5 Hz) and highly sensitive to nifedipine and BayK-8644 (1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-5-nitro-4-[2-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-pyridinecarboxylic acid, methyl ester). Nifedipine blocked the firing, whereas BayK-8644 increased threefold the firing rate. The two dihydropyridines and the BK channel blocker paxilline altered the shape of action potentials (APs), suggesting close coupling of LTCCs to BK channels. WT-MCCs expressed equal fractions of functionally active Cav1.2 and Cav1.3 channels. Cav1.3 channel deficiency decreased the number of normally firing MCCs (30%; 2.0 Hz), suggesting a critical role of these channels on firing, which derived from their slow inactivation rate, sizeable activation at subthreshold potentials, and close coupling to fast inactivating BK channels as determined by using EGTA and BAPTA Ca(2+) buffering. By means of the action potential clamp, in TTX-treated WT-MCCs, we found that the interpulse pacemaker current was always net inward and dominated by LTCCs. Fast inactivating and non-inactivating BK currents sustained mainly the afterhyperpolarization of the short APs (2-3 ms) and only partially the pacemaker current during the long interspike (300-500 ms). Deletion of Cav1.3 channels reduced drastically the inward Ca(2+) current and the corresponding Ca(2+)-activated BK current during spikes. Our data highlight the role of Cav1.3, and to a minor degree of Cav1.2, as subthreshold pacemaker channels in MCCs and open new interesting features about their role in the control of firing and catecholamine secretion at rest and during sustained stimulations matching acute stress.
Embryonic CNS neurons can migrate from the ventricular zone to their final destination by radial glial-guided locomotion. Another less appreciated mechanism is somal translocation, where the young neuron maintains its primitive ventricular and pial processes, through which the cell body moves. A major problem in studying translocation has been the identification of neuronal-specific markers that appear in primitive, radially shaped cells. We used enhanced yellow fluorescent protein under control of the Pet-1 enhancer/promoter region (ePet-EYFP), a specific marker of early differentiated serotonergic neurons, to study their migration via immunohistology and time-lapse imaging of living slice cultures. As early as E10.0, ePet-EYFP-expressing neurons were axonless, radially oriented, and spanned the entire neuroepithelium. The soma translocated within the pial process toward the pial surface and could also translocate through its neurites, which sprouted from the pial process. The dynamin inhibitor dynasore significantly reduced translocation velocity, while the nonmuscle myosin II inhibitor blebbistatin and the kinesin inhibitor AMP-PNP had no significant effect. Here we show for the first time that serotonergic neurons migrate by somal translocation mediated, in part, by dynamin.

We cloned chicken cadherin-19 that demonstrates high similarity to human and rat cadherin-19. Chicken cadherin-19 is a type II classic cadherin that is located on the long arm of chicken chromosome 2 and is composed of 13 exons and 12 introns. The expression profile of cadherin-19 was analyzed by semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and in situ hybridization during chicken embryonic development. Its expression starts at E2.5, then gradually increases to reach a peak at E20. In contrast to previous results obtained in rat, chicken cadherin-19 is expressed both in Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes, also at late stages of development. We found no other cell type positive for cadherin-19 in the chicken embryo throughout development, suggesting that cadherin-19 is selectively expressed by myelin-forming cells and might play a role in myelin formation. The sequence of cadherin-19 shares high similarity with that of cadherin-7 and cadherin-20, and the three genes form a cluster on chromosome 2. Their expression patterns, however, are rather distinct although partial overlap is observed. For example, cadherin-19 and cadherin-7 are co-expressed by Schwann cells but not by oligodendrocytes. Moreover, a subset of interneurons express cadherin-7 but not cadherin-19 or cadherin-20. Despite their close genetic relation, the three cadherins have acquired functions in rather different cell types during nervous system development.
Activation of glutamate receptors is known to modulate K(+) channel surface trafficking, phosphorylation, and function, and increasing evidence has implicated K(+) channels in plastic changes in glutamatergic synapses. Kv4.2 channels control the amplitude of back-propagating action potentials and shape postsynaptic responses in hippocampus, and synaptic glutamate receptor activation leads to increased phosphorylation of Kv4.2 channels that is associated with enhanced synaptic plasticity. Thus, we investigated the possibility that activation of extrasynaptic NMDA-type glutamate receptors couples to Kv4.2 channel dephosphorylation. In hippocampal neurons, we found that selective activation of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors dephosphorylates Kv4.2 channels, and driving synaptic activity increases phosphorylation of Kv4.2. We also observed that Ca(2+) entry through NMDA receptors is necessary for dephosphorylation of Kv4.2 channels. Consistent with a synaptic and extrasynaptic localization at hippocampal synapses, a fraction of Kv4.2 channel clusters was found to localize outside of pre- and postsynaptic markers. Excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) regulate ambient extracellular glutamate levels that active extrasynaptic NMDA receptors, and inhibition of glutamate uptake by blocking EAATs with the non-selective transporter inhibitor dl-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartic acid (TBOA) or the EAAT1/3 selective inhibitor l-serine O-sulfate (SOS) dephosphorylates Kv4.2 channels. These findings in conjunction with previous reports support the interesting possibility that synaptic and extrasynaptic NMDA receptors bi-directionally regulate phosphorylation levels of Kv4.2 channels in hippocampus. Moreover, we observed that EAAT activity controls extrasynaptic NMDA receptor modulation of Kv4.2 channel dephosphorylation.
Dendritic spines are postsynaptic structures at excitatory synapses that play important roles in synaptic transmission and plasticity. Dendritic spine morphology and function are regulated by an actin-based cytoskeletal network. Drebrin A, an adult form of drebrin, is an actin-binding protein in dendritic spines, and its decrease is purportedly concerned with synaptic dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease. Rapid conversion of drebrin E, an embryonic form of drebrin, to drebrin A occurs in parallel with synaptic maturation. To understand the physiological role of drebrin isoform conversion in vivo, we generated knockout mice in which a drebrin A-specific exon was deleted from the drebrin gene. Drebrin A-specific knockout (DAKO) mice expressed drebrin E, which substituted for drebrin A. Subcellular fractionation experiment indicated that cytosolic form of drebrin was increased in the brains of DAKO mice. Furthermore, drebrin accumulation in synaptosomes of DAKO mice was much higher than that of wild-type (WT) mice. DAKO mice were viable and showed no apparent abnormalities in their gross brain morphology and general behaviors. However, DAKO mice were impaired in a context-dependent freezing after fear conditioning. These data indicate that drebrin A plays an indispensable role in some processes of generating fear learning and memory.
The mammalian retina consists of five major classes of neuronal cells, as well as glial cells, and it contains more than 50 cell types. The ability to manipulate gene expression in specific cell type(s) in the retina is important for understanding the molecular mechanisms of retinal function and diseases. The Cre/LoxP recombination system has become a powerful tool, allowing gene deletion, over-expression, and ectopic expression in vivo in a cell- and tissue-specific fashion. The key to this tool is the availability of Cre mouse lines with cell- or tissue-type specific expression of Cre recombinase. To date, a large number of Cre-transgenic mouse lines have been generated to target Cre recombinase expression to specific neuronal and glial cell populations in the central nervous system; however, information about the expression patterns of Cre recombinase lines in the retina is largely lacking. In this study, we examined and characterized the expression patterns of Cre recombinase in the retinas of 15 Cre-transgenic mouse lines. Significant Cre-induced recombination or expression of Cre recombinase was observed in the majority of these lines. In particular, we found several Cre lines in which the Cre-induced recombination was found to target exclusively or predominantly a single type or class of retinal cells, including bistratified retinal ganglion cells, starburst amacrine cells, rod bipolar cells, and Mller glial cells. In other lines, the Cre-induced recombination was found in several retinal cell types. These Cre lines provide a valuable resource for retinal research.
Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) is considered as a fundamental mechanism for learning and memory formation. A role for GABA was reported for the induction and early but not late maintenance of LTP. We have now investigated whether GABA-receptor function is involved in the prolonged maintenance of LTP (&gt;4 h) at afferent synapses at apical dendrites of cornu ammonis 1 (CA1)-pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices in vitro. Our data demonstrate that GABA-receptor mediated events are not required for conventional, tetanically-induced early- or late-LTP in the hippocampal CA1-region in vitro. Inhibition of GABA-ergic transmission did not negatively influence either early- or late-LTP. In contrast, an additional facilitation was observed at time points corresponding to the establishment of late-LTP (after 3-4 h). Investigation of a second, non-tetanized control input to the same neuronal population revealed that the elevated potentiation of late-LTP in the tetanized input was not LTP-specific. Therefore, we have examined, whether continuous application of GABA-receptor inhibitors also affected the time course of the recorded potentials when a low-frequency stimulation protocol was used. Under these conditions two distinct forms of a late-onset potentiation occurred 5-6 h after drug application. Investigation of mechanisms responsible for this prolonged enhancement of potentials revealed that the higher form of potentiation (potentiation levels above 200%) was dependent on presynaptic activity and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor activation, whereas the lower form (potentiation less than 200%) did not require these mechanisms. However, the latter potentiation was prevented by nifedipine, an L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel inhibitor.
We have previously demonstrated that cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptide colocalizes with GABA, dynorphin, D1 receptors, and substance P in some neurons in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). One of the main nuclei that receive accumbal efferents is the ventral pallidum (VP), and both dynorphin and substance P have been shown to be present in the cell bodies and terminals of this projection. Thus, we investigated whether CART peptide is also present in the VP in terminals that originate in the accumbens. The anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leukoagglutinin (PHA-L) colocalized with CART in neuronal processes in the VP when injected into the NAcc. Also, CART colocalized with the retrograde tracer r-BDA in accumbens cell bodies after the tracer was injected into the VP. Using electron microscopic immunocytochemistry, we examined CART terminals in the VP and found that CART-immunoreactive terminals formed symmetric synapses consistent with inhibitory GABAergic synapses. These synapses closely resemble GABAergic synapses in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), another nucleus that receives some CART-containing accumbal efferents. Lastly, we found that intra-pallidal injection of CART 55-102 inhibited cocaine-induced locomotion, indicating that CART peptide in the VP can have functional effects.
Combining the results of behavioral, neuronal immediate early gene activation, lesion and neuroanatomical experiments, we have presently investigated the role of the superior colliculus (SC) in predatory hunting. First, we have shown that insect hunting is associated with a characteristic large increase in Fos expression in the lateral part of the intermediate gray layer of the SC (SCig). Next, we have shown that animals with bilateral NMDA lesions of the lateral parts of the SC presented a significant delay in starting to chase the prey and longer periods engaged in other activities than predatory hunting. They also showed a clear deficit to orient themselves toward the moving prey and lost the stereotyped sequence of actions seen for capturing, holding and killing the prey. Our Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin analysis revealed that the lateral SCig, besides providing the well-documented descending crossed pathway to premotor sites in brainstem and spinal cord, projects to a number of midbrain and diencephalic sites likely to influence key functions in the context of the predatory behavior, such as general levels of arousal, motivational level to hunt or forage, behavioral planning, appropriate selection of the basal ganglia motor plan to hunt, and motor output of the primary motor cortex. In contrast to the lateral SC lesions, medial SC lesions produced a small deficit in predatory hunting, and compared to what we have seen for the lateral SCig, the medial SCig has a very limited set of projections to thalamic sites related to the control of motor planning or motor output, and provides conspicuous inputs to brainstem sites involved in organizing a wide range of anti-predatory defensive responses. Overall, the present results served to clarify how the different functional domains in the SC may mediate the decision to pursue and hunt a prey or escape from a predator.
Successful adaption requires learning to respond appropriately to cues associated with response-reinforcer contingencies. In this investigation, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to characterize changes in frontal and limbic activation associated with learning under a positive reinforcement contingency. Imaging analyses identified linear and nonlinear changes in brain activation across nine reinforcement trials when response accuracy and reaction times were stable. The development of contingency control was generally associated with linear increases or inverted-U shaped changes in activation in superior, medial and orbitofrontal (OFC) regions, amygdala, insula and the medial temporal lobe. Linear decreases and U-shaped changes in activation were generally observed in parietal, occipital and cerebellar regions. Results highlighting linear increases in activation in superior, medial and OFC regions suggest involvement in the development of contingency control, even when behavior is stable. Results also highlighted a positive correlation between changes in OFC activation and amygdala activation. However, inspection of the correspondence between group changes and individual subject changes in OFC, amygdala and insula activation revealed that approximately half of subjects exhibited changes resembling group changes and the strength of the OFC-amygdala relationship varied markedly between subjects. Such disparities highlight a unique opportunity for exploring individual differences in regional sensitivity to contingency as well as improving experimental preparations to better highlight and control the effects of extraneous variables.
Axonal release of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) in the CNS is typically regulated by presynaptic 5-HT autoreceptors. Release of 5-HT in substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), a principal output from the basal ganglia, has seemed an interesting exception to this rule. The SNr receives one of the highest densities of 5-HT innervation in mammalian brain and yet negative feedback regulation of axonal 5-HT release by endogenous 5-HT has not been identified here. We explored whether we could identify autoregulation of 5-HT release by 5-HT(1B) receptors in rat SNr slices using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry at carbon-fiber microelectrodes to detect 5-HT release evoked by discrete stimuli (50 Hz, 20 pulses) paired over short intervals (1-10 s) within which any autoreceptor control should occur. Evoked 5-HT release exhibited short-term depression after an initial stimulus that recovered by 10 s. Antagonists for 5-HT(1B) receptors, isamoltane (1 microM) or SB 224-289 (1 microM), did not modify release during a stimulus train, but rather, they modestly relieved depression of subsequent release evoked after a short delay (&lt; or =2 s). Release was not modified by antagonists for GABA (picrotoxin, 100 microM, saclofen, 50 microM) or histamine-H(3) (thioperamide, 10 microM) receptors. These data indicate that 5-HT release can activate a 5-HT(1B)-receptor autoinhibition of subsequent release, which is mediated directly via 5-HT axons and not via GABAergic or histaminergic inputs. These data reveal that 5-HT release in SNr is not devoid of autoreceptor regulation by endogenous 5-HT, but rather is under modest control which only weakly limits 5-HT signaling.
The cell adhesion molecule close homologue of L1 (CHL1) is important for apical dendritic projection and laminar positioning of pyramidal neurons in caudal regions of the cerebral cortex. The p21-activated kinase (PAK1-3) subfamily of serine/threonine kinases has also been implicated in regulating cell adhesion, migration, and morphology. Immunofluorescence staining in mouse embryonic brain showed that PAK1-3 was expressed in embryonic cortex and colocalized with CHL1 during neuronal migration and differentiation. To investigate a cooperative function for CHL1 and PAK in pyramidal cell differentiation or migration, a dominant-negative PAK mutant (PAK1 AID) that inhibits PAK1-3 kinase activity while coexpressing a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter was electroporated into the lateral ventricles of wild type (WT) and CHL1 null mutant mouse embryos (E14.5), then brain slices were cultured and neurons analyzed for laminar positioning and morphology by confocal microscopy after 3 days in vitro. Expression of PAK1 AID in CHL1 mutant cortex inactivated PAK and caused embryonic cortical neurons to branch profusely in the intermediate zone (IZ) and cortical plate (CP). The number of nodes, terminals and length of leading processes/apical dendrites of CHL1 mutant embryos expressing PAK1 AID increased dramatically, compared to CHL1 mutants without PAK1 AID, or WT embryos with or without PAK1 AID. These findings suggest that CHL1 and PAK1-3 kinase cooperate, most likely in independent pathways, in regulating morphological development of the leading process/apical dendrite of embryonic cortical neurons.
It is important to investigate the effect of anesthesia on blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals in an animal model. Many researchers have investigated the BOLD response to visual, sensory, and chemical stimuli in anesthetized rats. There are no reports, however, comparing the differences in the BOLD signal change between anesthetized and conscious rats when a visceral nutrient signal arises. Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we investigated the differences in the BOLD signal changes after intragastric administration of l-glutamate (Glu) under three anesthesia conditions: conscious, alpha-chloralose-anesthetized, and isoflurane-anesthetized condition. Under the conscious and alpha-chloralose condition, we observed the significant BOLD signal increase in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), insular cortex (IC), hippocampus, and several hypothalamic regions including the lateral and ventromedial nucleus. In chloralose group, however, gut Glu stimulation induced BOLD signal increase in the prelimbic cortex and orbital cortex, which did not activate in conscious condition. Meanwhile, under isoflurane-anesthetized condition, we did not observe the BOLD signal increase in these areas. BOLD signal intensity in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), to which vagus nerve transmits the visceral information from the gastrointestinal tract, increased in all conditions. Importantly, under conscious condition, we observed increased BOLD signal intensity in several regions related to the metabolic state (i.e. hunger or satiety), such as the mPFC, ventromedial and lateral hypothalamus (LH). Our results suggest that alpha-chloralose and isoflurane anesthesia caused distinct effects on BOLD response to the gut l-Glu stimulation in several brain regions.
Gangliosides, sialic acid-containing glycosphingolipids, are related to various synaptic functions in the rat brain. Previously, we investigated the behavioral effects of the ganglioside GQ1b on learning and memory using the Y-maze and Morris water maze test. GQ1b-treated rats showed highly increased memory performance on the Y-maze and the Morris water maze test. In this study, we determined the role of GQ1b on the activation of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor signaling pathway in H19-7 rat hippocampal cells and the hippocampus of rats. After 12 h of treatment with GQ1b, the expression levels of NMDA receptor subunit 2A and 2B were increased in H19-7 cells and the hippocampus of rats. In addition, treatment of GQ1b increased the tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2B that may enhance NMDA receptor synaptic activation and enhancement of NMDA receptors. Also, following GQ1b treatment, the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) and protein kinase A, a cAMP activated protein kinase (PKA) increased in H19-7 cells and the hippocampus of rats. These increases resulted in an increase in the phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (CREB). These results suggest that GQ1b might facilitate the activation of the NMDA receptor signaling pathway in the hippocampus of rats, an effect which is dependent on ERK1/2, PKA and CREB phosphorylation. Also, these data support our previous result that GQ1b improves the learning and memory of rats.
Drug addiction is viewed as a form of neural plasticity, and neurotrophic factors have been implicated in many forms of plasticity in the adult nervous system. Here we show that the fibroblast growth factor-1 (FGF-1), that is expressed on dopamine and GABA neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), is involved in the sensitizing effects of morphine. The receptor FGFR-1 is expressed on VTA astrocytes, as well as dopamine and GABA neurons. FGF-1 or anti-FGF-1 infusions into the VTA during the induction (not expression) phase of sensitization advanced or blocked morphine's activating motor effects respectively, in a dose-dependent manner. Infusions into the adjacent substantia nigra, whose neurons also express FGF-1 and FGFR-1, did not modify normal morphine-induced sensitization. Biochemical traits related to morphine's sensitizing effects were altered by intra-VTA anti-FGF-1 because morphine-induced upregulation of both tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and N-methyl d-aspartate glutamate receptor 1 (NMDAR1) in the VTA was blocked after anti-FGF-1. Changes in the activation state of VTA calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase type II seem to participate in FGF-1-induced effects as well. We conclude that the FGF-1 system of the ventral tegmental area is required for biochemical and behavioral sensitization to this drug.
Insulin-induced hypoglycemia causes the death of neurons in particular brain regions including the cerebral cortex, the striatum and the hippocampus, while the cerebellum and the brain stem are more resistant. The mechanisms underlying this selective vulnerability to hypoglycemic damage are unknown. In the present study we have analyzed the presence of lipoperoxidation products and nitrosilated protein residues in different rat brain regions during and after the induction of hypoglycemia. Insulin-injected hypoglycemic rats were sacrificed before the onset of the isoelectric period or infused with glucose to end hypoglycemia, and then sacrificed at different times. Increased lipoperoxidation levels were observed before the onset of the isoelectric period, while 3-nitrotyrosine (NT) residues in proteins and NT-positive cells were only observed after glucose reperfusion. These changes were found only in vulnerable brain regions, while none of them was evident in the cerebellum, suggesting a correlation between oxidative damage and vulnerability to hypoglycemic neuronal death in selective brain regions. Results suggest that a pro-oxidant state is promoted in certain brain regions during hypoglycemia and after the glucose reperfusion phase, which might result from the activation of several oxidative stress pathways and may be related to subsequent cell death.
Vagal afferent neurons, serving as the primary afferent limb of the parasympathetic reflex, could be involved in diabetic autonomic neuropathy. Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels are expressed in the vagal afferent neurons and play an important role in determining cell membrane excitation. In the present study, the protein expression and the electrophysiological characteristics of HCN channels were investigated in nodose ganglion (NG) afferent neurons (A-fiber and C-fiber neurons) from sham and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. In the sham NG, HCN1, HCN3, and HCN4 were expressed in the A-fiber neurons; and HCN2, HCN3, and HCN4 were expressed in the C-fiber neurons. Compared to the sham NG neurons, diabetes induced the expression of HCN2 in the A-fiber neurons besides overexpression of HCN1 and HCN3; and enhanced the expression of HCN2 and HCN3 in C-fiber neurons. In addition, whole-cell patch-clamp data revealed diabetes also increased HCN currents in A-fiber and C-fiber neurons. However, we found that diabetes did not alter the total nodose afferent neuron number and the ratio of A-fiber/C-fiber neurons. These results indicate that diabetes induces the overexpression of HCN channels and the electrophysiological changes of HCN currents in the A- and C-fiber nodose neurons, which might contribute to the diabetes-induced alteration of cell excitability in the vagal afferent neurons.
Creatine is involved in brain ATP homeostasis and it may also act as neurotransmitter. Creatine transport was measured in synaptosomes obtained from the diencephalon and telencephalon of suckling and 2 month-old rats. Synaptosomes accumulate [(14)C]-creatine and this accumulation was Na(+)- and Cl(-)-dependent and inhibited by high external K(+). The latter suggests that the uptake process is electrogenic. The kinetic study revealed a K(m) for creatine of 8.7 microM. A 100-fold excess of either non-labelled creatine or guanidinopropionic acid abolished NaCl/creatine uptake, whereas GABA uptake was minimally modified, indicating a high substrate specificity of the creatine transporter. The levels of NaCl/creatine transporter (CRT) activity and those of the 4.2 kb CRT transcript (Northern's) were higher in the diencephalon than in the telencephalon, whereas the 2.7 kb transcript levels were similar in both brain regions and lower than those of the 4.2 kb. These observations suggest that the 4.2 kb transcript may code for the functional CRT. CRT activity and mRNA levels were similar in suckling and adult rats. To our knowledge the current results constitute the first description of the presence of a functional CRT in the axon terminal membrane that may serve to recapture the creatine released during the synapsis.
Using lumbar 5 (L5) dorsal root rhizotomy-bearing rats, we examined the extent to which L5 spinal nerve lesion (SNL)-induced mechanical hyperalgesia was governed by two peripheral components, that is Wallerian degeneration (WD) and peripherally-propagating injury discharge (PID). The contribution of WD to SNL-induced hyperalgesia was studied by excluding PID with lidocaine treatment that blocked nerve conduction temporarily, but completely at the time of injury, whereas PID was examined separately by using brief tetanic electrical stimulation of the spinal nerve mimicking PID. Following the disappearance of L5 rhizotomy-induced transient hyperalgesia, L5 SNL resulted in long-lasting mechanical hyperalgesia as early as one day post-SNL despite a PID block, highlighting the role of WD. In a comparative experiment, a delayed onset of hyperalgesia (7 days) was measured in L3 rhizotomy-bearing rats following L3 SNL with a PID block, in which injured fiber (L3) was separated from intact fibers (L4 and L5) anatomically until they meet at the peripheral terminals, supporting the importance of interactions between degenerating and adjacent intact fibers for WD-induced hyperalgesia. Tetanic electrical stimulation of decentralized L5 spinal nerve resulted in mechanical hyperalgesia developing within 1 day and persisting for 7 days. This hyperalgesia was prevented by lidocaine blockade of the L5 nerve, and was unaffected by lidocaine blockades of the central inputs from L3 and L4 fibers during L5 nerve stimulation, suggesting the mediation of PID-induced hyperalgesia by sensitization, not activation, of peripheral terminals of adjacent intact afferents. The similar hyperalgesia was also observed following electrical stimulation of decentralized L3 spinal nerve. Prior elimination of L4 C-fibers by local capsaicin prevented hyperalgesia induced either by L5 SNL with a PID block or by L5 nerve stimulation. These results suggest that neighboring C-afferents remaining intact after partial nerve injury play a critical role in the development of mechanical hyperalgesia through interaction with degenerating afferents, and also via peripheral sensitization by PID.
The Onecut (OC) transcription factors, namely Hepatocyte nuclear factor 6 (HNF-6), OC-2 and OC-3, are transcriptional activators expressed in liver, pancreas and nervous system during development. Although their expression and roles in endoderm-derived tissues and in the trigeminal ganglia have been investigated, their expression in the CNS has not been described yet. In this study, we report a qualitative and quantitative expression profile of the OC factors in the developing spinal motor neurons (MN). We provide evidence that OC expression is initiated in newly-born MN. At later stages, they are differentially and dynamically expressed in subsets of differentiating motor neuron within the four motor columns. We also show that the expression profile of HNF-6 in spinal MN is conserved in chick embryos. Together, our data unveil a complex and dynamic expression profile of the OC proteins in spinal MN, which suggests that these factors may participate in regulatory networks that control different steps of motor neuron development.
Although stroke can affect cerebral structure and function, the brain has a potential for plasticity thanks to which some degree of function can be restored. The pathways of such recovery are of great interest, since the dynamics of rewiring of the injured brain may become the basis for designing appropriate strategies of rehabilitation. We investigated the spontaneous plasticity of cortical somatosensory representations following a focal unilateral stroke in the barrel cortex of rats. Ischemic lesions were produced with the photothrombotic technique in the cortical representation of vibrissae. Functional activation of the brain in response to the stimulation of vibrissae with destroyed cortical representation was monitored through the 2 months post-stroke survival period with [(14)C] 2-deoxyglucose (2DG) autoradiographic brain mapping (1, 7, 28, 56 days after the stroke). 2DG uptake was measured on autoradiograms of tangential sections in several regions of somatosensory cortex and in motor, auditory and prefrontal cortex. Behavioral deficit was assessed by the gap-crossing test 3, 28, 56 days after the stroke. Changes in the activation pattern of the intact hemisphere and non-vibrissal somatosensory representations of the lesioned hemisphere evolved during the observation period. Full recovery of the behavioral function was reached 2 months after the stroke and at the same time, new foci of activation were observed in the lesioned hemisphere. At that time, hyperactivation of the somatosensory areas in the intact hemisphere subsided. The new activation foci located in representations of anterior vibrissae, front paw and hind paw were specific for the vibrissae stimulation and were most probably a new functional representation of the vibrissae. We demonstrated spatial and temporal remodeling of the brain induced by cortical stroke, leading to vicariation of function.
A critical period in respiratory network development occurs in the rat around postnatal days (P) 12-13, when abrupt neurochemical, metabolic, and physiological changes were evident. As serotonin and its receptors are involved in respiratory modulation, and serotonergic abnormality is implicated in sudden infant death syndrome, we hypothesized that 5-HT receptors are significantly downregulated during the critical period. This was documented recently for 5-HT(2A)R in several respiratory nuclei. The present study represents a comprehensive analysis of postnatal development of 5-HT(1A)R and 5-HT(1B)R in 10 brain stem nuclei and 5-HT(2A)R in six nuclei not previously examined. Optical densitometric analysis of immunohistochemically-reacted neurons from P2 to P21 indicated four developmental patterns of expression: (1) Pattern I: a high level of expression at P2-P11, an abrupt and significant reduction at P12, followed by a plateau until P21 (5-HT(1A)R and 5-HT(1B)R in raph magnus [RM], raph obscurus [ROb], raph pallidus [RP], pre-Btzinger complex [PBC], nucleus ambiguus [Amb], and hypoglossal nucleus [XII; 5-HT(1A)R only]). (2) Pattern II: a high level at P2-P9, a gradual decline from P9 to P12, followed by a plateau until P21 (5-HT(1A)R and 5-HT(1B)R in the retrotrapezoid nucleus (RTN)/parafacial respiratory group (pFRG)). (3) Pattern III: a high level at P2-P11, followed by a gradual decline until P21 (5-HT(1A)R in the ventrolateral subnucleus of solitary tract nucleus [NTS(VL)] and the non-respiratory cuneate nucleus [CN]). (4) Pattern IV: a relatively constant level maintained from P2 to P21 (5-HT(1A)R in the commissural subnucleus of solitary tract nucleus (NTS(COM)); 5-HT(1B)R in XII, NTS(VL), NTS(COM), and CN; and 5-HT(2A)R in RM, ROb, RP, RTN/pFRG, NTS(VL), and NTS(COM)). Thus, a significant reduction in the expression of 5-HT(1A)R, 5-HT(1B)R, and 5-HT(2A)R in multiple respiratory-related nuclei at P12 is consistent with reduced serotonergic transmission during the critical period, thereby rendering the animals less able to respond adequately to ventilatory distress.
The insular cortex (IC), composing unique anatomical connections, receives multi-modal sensory inputs including visceral, gustatory and somatosensory information from sensory thalamic nuclei. Axonal projections from the limbic structures, which have a profound influence on induction of epileptic activity, also converge onto the IC. However, functional connectivity underlying the physiological and pathological roles characteristic to the IC still remains unclear. The present study sought to elucidate the spatiotemporal dynamics of excitatory propagation and their cellular mechanisms in the IC using optical recording in urethane-anesthetized rats. Repetitive electrical stimulations of the IC at 50 Hz demonstrated characteristic patterns of excitatory propagation depending on the stimulation sites. Stimulation of the granular zone of the IC (GI) and other surrounding cortices such as the motor/primary sensory/secondary sensory cortices evoked round-shaped excitatory propagations, which often extended over the borders of adjacent areas, whereas excitation of the agranular and dysgranular zones in the IC (AI and DI, respectively) spread along the rostrocaudal axis parallel to the rhinal fissure. Stimulation of AI/DI often evoked excitation in the dorsolateral orbital cortex, which exhibited spatially discontinuous topography of excitatory propagation in the IC. Pharmacological manipulations using 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3(1H,4H)-dione (DNQX), a non-NMDA receptor antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D-APV), an NMDA receptor antagonist, and bicuculline methiodide, a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, indicate that excitatory propagation was primarily regulated by non-NMDA and GABA(A) receptors. Microinjection of lidocaine or incision of the supragranular layers of the rostrocaudally middle part of excitatory regions suppressed excitation in the remote regions from the stimulation site, suggesting that the excitatory propagation in the IC is largely mediated by cortical local circuits. These features of excitatory propagation in the AI/DI, that is the propagation along the rostrocaudal axis with less propagation in the ventro-dorsal direction, may play an important role for transmitting neural excitation arising from the limbic structures to the frontal and orbital cortices.
Homophone interference effects in Stroop experiments are often taken as evidence for the hypothesis that semantic access in written Chinese language is mediated by activation of phonological processing. We here aim to test this hypothesis with Chinese single-character words by means of event related potential (ERP) recordings. Using color words, homophones of color words and color-word associates as materials in a Stroop task, we found behavioral Stroop interference effects for all stimulus types and an N450 for incongruent color words and color-word associates. Critically, there was no difference in the ERP waveforms elicited by congruent and incongruent homophones in the N450 time window. However, in a later time window (600-800 ms) the incongruent homophones elicited an apparent positivity over left posterior regions. A similar effect was also observed for incongruent color words. These findings thus indicate that phonology does not play an important role in semantic activation of Chinese single-character words, and that the behavioral Stroop effects for homophones possibly arises at later stage of lexical processing.
Maternal separation of rat pups for 15 min each day over the first one to two postnatal weeks (MS15) has been shown to increase the active maternal care received by pups and to decrease their later neuroendocrine and behavioral stress reactivity compared to non-separated (NS) controls. Stress responses prominently feature altered gastric secretion and motility, and we previously reported that the developmental assembly of forebrain circuits underlying gastric autonomic control, including gastric responses to stress, is delayed by MS15 in neonatal rats [Card JP, Levitt P, Gluhovsky M, Rinaman L (2005) J Neurosci 25(40):9102-9111]. To determine how this early delay affects the later organization of central gastric autonomic circuits, the present study examined the effects of neonatal MS15 on central pre-gastric circuits assessed in post-weaning, juvenile rats. For this purpose, the retrograde transynaptic viral tracer, pseudorabies virus (PRV), was microinjected into the stomach wall of 28-30 day old male rats with an earlier developmental history of either MS15 or NS. Rats were perfused 72 h later and tissue was processed to reveal PRV-positive cells. Transynaptic PRV immunolabeling was quantified in selected preautonomic brainstem and forebrain regions, including the area postrema, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, central nucleus of the amygdala, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), and visceral cortices. Compared to NS controls, MS15 rats displayed a significantly greater amount of PRV labeling within the PVN, including both the dorsal cap and ventral subnuclei. There were no postnatal group differences in the amount of PRV labeling within any other brain region examined in this study. This effect of MS15 to enhance hypothalamic preautonomic circuit structure indicates a strengthening of this pathway and may provide insight into how early life experience produces differential effects on later stress reactivity, including gastric secretory and motor responses to stress.
The 5-HT mixed agonist/antagonist 1-(2-methoxyphenyl)4-[4-(phthalimido)butyl]-piperazine hydrobromide (NAN-190) has been shown to greatly potentiate photic phase shifts in hamsters. The mechanism of this potentiation has yet to be determined. NAN-190 is believed to act primarily through the 5-HT(1A) receptor, but also binds to several other receptors, making it uncertain as to which receptor underlies its potentiation of photic phase shifts. Also uncertain are the intracellular changes in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) which are associated with such enhanced phase shifting. Here we examine the role of the 5-HT(1A) receptor as well as the physiological underpinnings, in terms of both gene expression and biochemical activation, in the behavioral responses to photic stimuli following pretreatment with NAN-190. Administration of NAN-190 to wildtype mice significantly potentiated late subjective night photic phase shifts, while mice lacking the 5-HT(1A) receptor (knockouts) exhibited an attenuated behavioral response to light when pretreated with NAN-190. In wildtype mice, the protein product of the immediate-early gene c-fos, induced following photic stimulation, was found to be significantly decreased with NAN-190 pretreatment. Similarly, the levels of phosphorylated CREB protein, involved in a biochemical pathway leading to gene transcription, were also attenuated by NAN-190 in the wildtype mice. However, activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase I/II (ERK) pathway in wildtype mice, following the light pulse, was not affected by NAN-190 pretreatment, nor was the expression of the circadian clock components Period1 and Period2. These findings suggest that the 5-HT(1A) receptor plays a critical role in the potentiation effect observed with NAN-190, and that NAN-190 may potentiate photic phase shifts at least partly by down-regulating the activity of some (but not all) genes and biochemical pathways involved in coupling the light signal to the output of the circadian clock.
This study evaluates the intra- and inter-subject variability of digit maps in area 3b of anesthetized squirrel monkeys. Maps were collected using high field blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). BOLD responses to individual digit stimulations were mapped and their response properties (location, area of activation, % signal change, time to peak response) were compared within and across imaging sessions separated by up to 20 months. During single digit stimulation using a block design, the spatiotemporal response of the BOLD signal for individual runs within and across sessions and animals was well conserved, with a time to peak BOLD response of 20+/-4 s. The variability in the center of BOLD activation in area 3b was 0.41+/-0.24 mm (mean+/-SD) across individual 5-7 min runs within a scanning session and 0.55+/-0.15 mm across sessions. The average signal change across all animals, runs and sessions was 0.62+/-0.38%, and varied 32% within and 40% across sessions. In a comparison of the stability and reproducibility of the area of single digit activation obtained using three approaches, use of a fixed statistical threshold (P&lt;10(-5)) yielded an average area of 4.8+/-3.5 mm(2) (mean+/-SD), adaptive statistical thresholding 1.32+/-1.259 mm(2) (mean+/-SD), and combined fixed statistical and adaptive BOLD signal amplitude 4.4+/-2.5 mm(2) (mean+/-SD) across image runs and sessions. The somatotopic organization was stable within animals across sessions, while across animals, there was some variation in overall activation pattern and inter-digit distances. These results confirm that BOLD activation maps of single digits in area 3b as characterized by activation center, signal amplitudes, and temporal profile are very stable. The activation sizes determined by various criteria are the most variable measure in this preparation, but adaptive statistical thresholding appears to yield the most stable and reproducible maps. This study serves as a baseline assessment of the limits imposed on the detection of plastic changes by experimental variations of the digit BOLD fMRI activation maps in normal animals, and as an indicator of the likely performance limits in human studies.
Cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels are nonselective cation channels opened by binding of intracellular cyclic GMP or cyclic AMP. CNG channels mediate sensory transduction in the rods and cones of the retina and in olfactory sensory neurons, but in addition, CNG channels are also expressed elsewhere in the CNS, where their physiological roles have not yet been well defined. Besides the CNG channel subtypes that mediate vision and olfaction, zebrafish has an additional subtype, CNGA5, which is expressed almost exclusively in the brain. We have generated CNGA5-specific monoclonal antibodies, which we use here to show that immunoreactivity for CNGA5 channels is highly enriched in synaptic terminals of a discrete set of neurons that project to a subregion of the pituitary, as well as diffusely in the brain and spinal cord. Double labeling with a variety of antibodies against pituitary hormones revealed that CNGA5 is located in the terminals of neuroendocrine cells that secrete the nonapeptide hormone/transmitter isotocin in the neurohypophysis, brain, and spinal cord. Furthermore, we show that CNGA5 channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes are highly permeable to Ca(2+), which suggests that the channels are capable of modulating isotocin release in the zebrafish brain and pituitary. Isotocin is the teleost homolog of the mammalian hormone oxytocin, and like oxytocin, it regulates reproductive and social behavior. Therefore, the high calcium permeability of CNGA5 channels and their strategic location in isotocin-secreting synaptic terminals suggest that activation of CNGA5 channels in response to cyclic nucleotide signaling may have wide-ranging neuroendocrine and behavioral effects.
Thiamine monophosphatase (TMPase, also known as Fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase or FRAP) is a classic histochemical marker of small- to medium-diameter dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons and has primarily been studied in the rat. Previously, we found that TMPase was molecularly identical to Prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) using mice. In addition, PAP was expressed in a majority of nonpeptidergic, isolectin B4-binding (IB4+) nociceptive neurons and a subset of peptidergic, calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing (CGRP+) nociceptive neurons. At the time, we were unable to determine if PAP was present in rat DRG neurons because the antibody we used did not cross-react with PAP in rat tissues. In our present study, we generated a chicken polyclonal antibody against the secretory isoform of mouse PAP. This antibody detects mouse, rat and human PAP protein on western blots. Additionally, this antibody detects PAP in mouse and rat small- to medium-diameter DRG neurons and axon terminals in lamina II of spinal cord. In the rat, 92.5% of all PAP+ cells bind the nonpeptidergic marker IB4 and 31.8% of all PAP+ cells contain the peptidergic marker CGRP. Although PAP is found in peptidergic and nonpeptidergic neurons of mice and rats, the percentage of PAP+ neurons that express these markers differs between species. Moreover, PAP+ axon terminals in the rat partially overlap with Protein kinase Cgamma (PKCgamma+) interneurons in dorsal spinal cord whereas PAP+ axon terminals in the mouse terminate dorsal to PKCgamma+ interneurons. Collectively, our studies highlight similarities and differences in PAP localization within nociceptive neurons of mice and rats.

The 2009 news in medicine regarding dependence confirm the bio-psycho-social field of addiction medicine and psychiatry. First a statement is made about the risk of cardiac arythmy in opioid substitution treatments. Then a review of the treatment of C hepatitis shows its importance in an addicted population. In the field of cognitive neuroscience, progress has been made in the knowledge of &quot;craving&quot; and of its endophenotypical components. Electronic medias related disorders are on the border of addiction: a case study is exploring this new domain. At last, recent datas are presented on the relationship between cannabis and psychosis.
Signals from non-primary modalities can influence neural activity in 'unimodal' sensory areas of the neocortex, but whether this 'extra-modal' influence has any relevant consequences for neural coding has been unclear. Recent findings show that vision enhances the information content of neural signals in auditory cortex, but in a counter-intuitive fashion.
For more than 20 years, researchers have attempted to identify diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for psychiatric disorders including schizophrenia, major (unipolar) depression, and bipolar disorder. Advocates of this research contend that identifying such biomarkers will aid in the diagnosis of these disorders, as well as the possible development of effective psychiatric medications to treat them. Currently, there are no diagnostic tests available. This is largely due to the multi-factorial nature of psychiatric disorders. Biomarker testing of individuals is also prohibitively expensive because significant expertise is required to conduct tests and follow-up counseling for the patient is often necessary. It is cautioned that widespread biomarker testing could lead to negative consequences such as discrimination in health insurance and employment, as well as selective abortion.




One of the central problems in computational neuroscience is to understand how the object-recognition pathway of the cortex learns a deep hierarchy of nonlinear feature detectors. Recent progress in machine learning shows that it is possible to learn deep hierarchies without requiring any labelled data. The feature detectors are learned one layer at a time and the goal of the learning procedure is to form a good generative model of images, not to predict the class of each image. The learning procedure only requires the pairwise correlations between the activations of neuron-like processing units in adjacent layers. The original version of the learning procedure is derived from a quadratic 'energy' function but it can be extended to allow third-order, multiplicative interactions in which neurons gate the pairwise interactions between other neurons. A technique for factoring the third-order interactions leads to a learning module that again has a simple learning rule based on pairwise correlations. This module looks remarkably like modules that have been proposed by both biologists trying to explain the responses of neurons and engineers trying to create systems that can recognize objects.
Estradiol affects the structure and function of the hippocampus. We have found that repeated estradiol affects neurogenesis and cell death in the hippocampus of adult female, but not male rats. In the present study we sought to determine whether using the same regimen of estradiol would influence hippocampus-dependent behaviour. Adult male and female rats were given estradiol or sesame oil for 15 days, and then tested using a contextual pre-exposure paradigm in which performance depends on the hippocampus. The time spent freezing displayed by rats was scored on subsequent days in (1) the training context, (2) a novel context in which rats had never been shocked, and (3) the training context a second time. Irrespective of treatment, males showed stronger memory for the context by exhibiting greater freezing in both the training context exposures and the novel context. Previous estradiol treatment, in either sex, did not affect the ability to learn and retain information about the training context. However, female rats treated with estradiol and exposed to a novel context after fear conditioning exhibited less freezing behaviour than controls. Taken together, our results demonstrate that gonadectomized male rats outperform females, regardless of previous treatment with estradiol, on a hippocampus-contextual fear conditioning test, and that previous estradiol treatment has a subtle effect on performance in female but not male rats.
Weight gain and adiposity are often attributed to the overconsumption of unbalanced, high-fat diets however, the pattern of consumption can also contribute to associated body weight and compositional changes. The present study explored the rapid alterations in meal patterns of normal-weight rats given continuous access to high-fat diet and examined body weight and composition changes compared to chow fed controls. Ten Long-Evans rats were implanted with subcutaneous microchips for meal pattern analysis. Animals were body weight matched and separated into two groups: high-fat or chow fed. Each group was maintained on their assigned diet for nine days and monitored for 22 h each day for meal pattern behavior. Body weight was evaluated every other day, and body composition measures were taken prior and following diet exposure. High-fat fed animals gained more weight and adipose tissue than chow fed controls and displayed a reduced meal frequency and increased meal size. Furthermore, meal size was significantly correlated with the gain of adipose tissue. Together, these results suggest that consumption of a high-fat diet can rapidly alter meal patterns, which in turn contribute to the development of adiposity.
Endocannabinoids such as anandamide [N-arachidonoylethanolamine (AEA)] and 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG) are known orexigenic mediators that act via CB(1) receptors in hypothalamus and limbic forebrain to induce appetite and stimulate food intake. Circulating endocannabinoid levels inversely correlate with plasma levels of leptin, an anorexigenic mediator that reduces food intake by acting on hypothalamic receptors. Recently, taste has been found to be a peripheral target of leptin. Leptin selectively suppresses sweet taste responses in wild-type mice but not in leptin receptor-deficient db/db mice. Here, we show that endocannabinoids oppose the action of leptin to act as enhancers of sweet taste. We found that administration of AEA or 2-AG increases gustatory nerve responses to sweeteners in a concentration-dependent manner without affecting responses to salty, sour, bitter, and umami compounds. The cannabinoids increase behavioral responses to sweet-bitter mixtures and electrophysiological responses of taste receptor cells to sweet compounds. Mice genetically lacking CB(1) receptors show no enhancement by endocannnabinoids of sweet taste responses at cellular, nerve, or behavioral levels. In addition, the effects of endocannabinoids on sweet taste responses of taste cells are diminished by AM251, a CB(1) receptor antagonist, but not by AM630, a CB(2) receptor antagonist. Immunohistochemistry shows that CB(1) receptors are expressed in type II taste cells that also express the T1r3 sweet taste receptor component. Taken together, these observations suggest that the taste organ is a peripheral target of endocannabinoids. Reciprocal regulation of peripheral sweet taste reception by endocannabinoids and leptin may contribute to their opposing actions on food intake and play an important role in regulating energy homeostasis.
The potential for endogenous remyelination and axonal protection can be an important factor in determining disease outcome in demyelinating diseases like multiple sclerosis. In many multiple sclerosis (MS) patients CNS repair fails or is incomplete whereas in others the disease is accompanied by extensive repair of demyelinated lesions. We have described significant differences in the ability of two strains of mice to repair CNS damage following Theiler's virus-induced demyelination: FVB/NJ (FVB) mice repair damaged myelin spontaneously and completely, whereas B10.D1-H2(q)/SgJ (B10.Q) mice are deficient in the repair process. A QTL analysis was performed to identify genetic loci that differentially regulate CNS repair following chronic demyelination in these strains and two QTL were detected: one on chromosome 3 with a LOD score of 9.3 and a second on chromosome 9 with a LOD score of 14.0. The mouse genes for epidermal growth factor (EGF) and Tyk2 are encoded within the QTL on chromosomes 3 and 9, respectively. Sequence polymorphisms between the FVB and B10.Q strains at both the EGF and Tyk2 loci define functional variations consistent with roles for these genes in regulating myelin repair. EGF is a key regulator of cell growth and development and we show a sevenfold increase in EGF expression in FVB compared to B10.Q mice. Tyk2 is a Janus kinase that plays a central role in controlling the T(H)1 immune response and we show that attenuation of Tyk2 function correlates with enhanced CNS repair.
We studied human cancer cell models in which we detected constitutive activation of ERK. A fraction of active ERK was found to be located in mitochondria in RWPE-2 cells, obtained by v-Ki-Ras transformation of the epithelial prostate RWPE-1 cell line; in metastatic prostate cancer DU145 cells; and in osteosarcoma SAOS-2 cells. All these tumor cells displayed marked resistance to death caused by apoptotic stimuli like arachidonic acid and the BH3 mimetic EM20-25, which cause cell death through the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP). PTP desensitization and the ensuing resistance to cell death induced by arachidonic acid or EM20-25 could be ablated by inhibiting ERK with the drug PD98059 or with a selective ERK activation inhibitor peptide. ERK inhibition enhanced glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3)-dependent phosphorylation of the pore regulator cyclophilin D, whereas GSK-3 inhibition protected from PTP opening. Neither active ERK in mitochondria nor pore desensitization was observed in non-transformed RWPE-1 cells. Thus, in tumor cells mitochondrial ERK activation desensitizes the PTP through a signaling axis that involves GSK-3 and cyclophilin D, a finding that provides a mechanistic basis for increased resistance to apoptosis of neoplastic cells.
Giacobbi PR, Jr, Levy CE, Dietrich FD, Winkler SH, Tillman MD, Chow JW: Wheelchair users' perceptions of and experiences with power assist wheels. OBJECTIVE:: To assess wheelchair users' perceptions of and experiences with power assist wheels using qualitative interview methods. DESIGN:: Qualitative evaluations were conducted in a laboratory setting with a focus on users' experiences using power assist wheel in their naturalistic environments. Participants consisted of seven women and 13 men (M = 42.75, SD = 14.68) that included one African American, one Hispanic, 17 whites, and one individual from Zambia. Qualitative interviews were conducted before, during, and after use of a power assist wheel. Main outcome measures included the wheelchair users' evaluations and experiences related to the use of power assist wheels. RESULTS:: The primary evaluations included wheeling on challenging terrains, performance of novel activities, social/family aspects, fatigue, and pain. These descriptions indicated that most participants perceived positive experiences with the power assist wheels, including access to new and different activities. Secondary evaluations indicated that the unit was cumbersome and prohibitive for some participants because of difficulties with transport in and out of a vehicle and battery life. Most participants felt that power assist wheels provided more independence and social opportunities. CONCLUSIONS:: The power assist wheel seems to offer physical and social benefits for most wheelers. Clinicians should consider users' home environment and overall life circumstances before prescribing.

A simple pressure injection technique was developed to deliver substances into specific regions of the embryonic and neonatal mouse brain in vivo. The retrograde tracers Fluorogold and cholera toxin B subunit were used to test the validity of the technique. Injected animals survived the duration of transport (24-48 h) and then were sacrificed and perfused with fixative. Small injections (&lt;or=50 nL) were contained within targeted structures of the perinatal brain and labeled distant cells of origin in several model neural pathways. Traced neural pathways in the perinatal mouse were further examined with immunohistochemical methods to test the feasibility of double labeling experiments during development. Several experimental situations in which this technique would be useful are discussed, for example, to label projection neurons in slice or culture preparations of mouse embryos and neonates. The administration of pharmacological or genetic vectors directly into specific neural targets during development should also be feasible. An examination of the form of neural pathways during early stages of life may lead to insights regarding the functional changes that occur during critical periods of development and provide an anatomic basis for some neurodevelopmental disorders.
The discovery of neural stem cells (NSCs) provides new therapeutic strategies for brain injury by means of endogenous cell renewal. In the injured mouse brain, bio-liberated gold ions from gold implants mediate anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic effects and activation of NSCs. This paper investigates the neuroprotective effects of gold following brain injury in mice. We show for the first time that endogenous NSCs express macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) as part of their post-injury activation and that gold implants increase this response. Also, gold increases expression of neurotrophin (NT)-4, transforming growth factor-beta 3 (TGF-beta 3), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and metallothionein I+II (MT-I+II) post-injury. This paper shows that gold ions modulate neurotrophic factors after injury and that hematopoietic factor M-CSF is expressed in activated NSCs.
The aim of this study consisted of using neuropsychological data obtained in two patients (VL and StG) showing a selective atrophy of the anterior parts of the right (VL) and left (StG) temporal lobes to check current cognitive models of familiar people identification. According to these models, information coming from modality-specific &quot;face&quot;, &quot;voice&quot; and &quot;name&quot; recognition units converge into &quot;Person Identity Nodes&quot; (PINs) where familiarity feelings are generated and which provide a modality-free gateway to a unitary semantic system, where information about people is stored in an amodal format. Data obtained in patient VL (and to a lesser degree in StG) were at variance with this model because VL showed: (1) a very impaired familiarity for faces, contrasting with a spared familiarity for names, indicating that familiarity judgments are generated at the level of modality-specific recognition units and not at a supramodal PIN; (2) a prevalent impairment of person-specific information available from faces rather than from names also for people that (being recognized as familiar from both their face and their name) should be normally represented at the PINs level. This last finding is at variance with the hypothesis assuming that the PINs may provide a modality-free gateway to a unitary semantic system, where information about people is stored in an amodal format.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain, and the responsiveness of neurons to GABA can be modulated by sex steroids. To better understand how ovarian steroids influence the GABAergic system in the primate brain, we evaluated the expression of genes encoding GABA receptor subunits, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and a GABA transporter in the brains of female rhesus macaques. Ovariectomized adults were subjected to a hormone replacement paradigm involving either 17beta-estradiol (E), or E plus progesterone (E+P). Untreated animals served as controls. Using GeneChip microarray analysis and real-time RT-PCR (qPCR), we examined gene expression differences within and between the amygdala (AMD), hippocampus (HPC) and arcuate nuclei of the medial basal hypothalamus (MBH). The results from PCR corresponded with results from representative GeneChip probesets, and showed similar effects of sex steroids on GABA receptor subunit gene expression in the AMD and HPC, and a more pronounced expression than in the MBH. Exposure to E+P attenuated GAD1, GAD2 and SLC32A1 gene expression in the AMD and HPC, but not in the MBH. GABA receptor subunit gene expression was generally higher in the AMD and HPC than in the MBH, with the exception of receptor subunits epsilon and gamma 2. Taken together, the data demonstrate differential regulation of GABA receptor subunits and GABAergic system components in the MBH compared to the AMD and HPC of rhesus macaques. Elevated epsilon and reduced delta subunit expression in the MBH supports the hypothesis that the hypothalamic GABAergic system is resistant to the modulatory effects of sex steroids.
Studies into the mechanisms of corticosteroid action continue to be a rich bed of research, spanning the fields of neuroscience and endocrinology through to immunology and metabolism. However, the vast literature generated, in particular with respect to corticosteroid actions in the brain, tends to be contentious, with some aspects suffering from loose definitions, poorly-defined models, and appropriate dissection kits. Here, rather than presenting a comprehensive review of the subject, we aim to present a critique of key concepts that have emerged over the years so as to stimulate new thoughts in the field by identifying apparent shortcomings. This article will draw on experience and knowledge derived from studies of the neural actions of other steroid hormones, in particular estrogens, not only because there are many parallels but also because 'learning from differences' can be a fruitful approach. The core purpose of this review is to consider the mechanisms through which corticosteroids might act rapidly to alter neural signaling.

In the early 1970's the term &quot;neuropeptide&quot; was used for the first time by David de Wied for peptides related to peptide hormones but with non-endocrine biological activity in the brain. This early notion appreciated neuropeptides as a specific class of chemical signals produced by neurons, released in a regulated fashion and acting on other neural cells. As we define them today, neuropeptides are encoded by over 70 genes in mammalian genomes. Neuropeptides can be clustered in at least 10 subfamilies according to structural features, for which often shared or related receptors exist. A complete overview is provided through hyperlinks to bioinformatic databases on genome and transcripts, protein structure and brain expression. Other proteineous signaling molecules in the nervous system which originally were discovered in other biological systems, particularly chemokines, growth factors and peptide hormones, share the hallmarks of classical neuropeptides and may be considered as neuropeptides as well.
Major depression (MD) is a severe mental disorder characterized by alterations in mood and cognition, with disease severity correlating inversely with cognition scores. Neuropathology can be found abundantly in the limbic system, which is thought to regulate affect, attention and memory. Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis overdrive, as well as decreased serotonin levels, have often been implicated in the pathogenesis of this illness. Interestingly, there is substantial interaction between these two systems, with receptors of one system influencing the function of the other. This results in impaired neural networks, which give rise to the wide range of depressive symptoms. Recently, it has been implied that MD could serve as a risk factor for developing Alzheimer's disease (AD), with patients suffering from lifetime depression having a twofold higher chance of developing AD and exhibiting more AD-related neuropathology. Modifications in the HPA-axis and the serotonergic system may contribute to the development of cognitive decline and eventually AD. These two systems may therefore be involved in the pathogenesis of both illnesses and could provide a link between MD and AD. Obtaining more knowledge on their interactive role in the relation between MD and AD may eventually aid in the development of more effective treatment strategies.
David de Wied was a natural leader with many a talent. He was the director of the Rudolf Magnus Institute at Utrecht University and president of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences. He coached over 75 Ph.D. students and hosted some 200 foreign scientists who joined him in his multidisciplinary neuropeptide research. Many of them became lifelong friends, frequenting the home of Liedje and David de Wied. Born in Deventer (The Netherlands) on January 12th, 1925, David de Wied's early boyhood first in Deventer and later in Leeuwarden appears to have been no different from that of any other provincial Dutch boys in pre-war Holland. After the war David enrolled at Groningen University to study medicine. Subsequently he specialized in experimental pharmacology. To understand the determination of David de Wied is to understand the drive of a Jewish young man, who during the war, had been forced to go underground and unable to develop in a free and independent manner. Therefore, later in life, time became very precious to him and everything that came across his path had to be taken seriously. In this short sketch of David de Wied I will try to highlight his outstanding scientific accomplishments as well as his personality as both have inspired a generation of young scientists. It is a great honour and a pleasure to be part of this meeting in memory of David de Wied.

Neuropeptides represent by far the most common signalling molecules in the central nervous system. They are involved in a wide range of physiological functions and can act as neurotransmitters, neuromodulators or hormones in the central nervous system and in the periphery. Accumulating evidence during the past 40 years has implicated a number of neuropeptides in various cognitive functions including learning and memory. A major focus has been on the possibility that neuropeptides, by coexisting with classical neurotransmitters, can modulate classical transmitter function of importance for cognition. It has become increasingly clear that most transmitter systems in the brain can release a cocktail of signalling molecules including classical transmitters and several neuropeptides. However, the neuropeptides seem to come into action mainly under conditions of severe stress or aversive events, which have linked their action also to regulation of affective components of behaviour. This paper summarises some of the results of three neuropeptides, which can impact on hippocampal cognition by intrinsic (dynorphins, nociceptin) or extrinsic (galanin) modulation. The results obtained with these neuropeptides in rodent studies indicate that they are important for various aspects of hippocampal learning and memory as well as hippocampal plasticity. Recent studies in humans have also shown that dysregulation of these neuropeptides may be of importance for both neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders associated with cognitive impairments. It is concluded that compounds acting on neuropeptide receptor subtypes will represent novel targets for a number of disorders, which involve cognitive deficiencies.
Extensive research has revealed a fundamental organization of the cerebellum consisting of functional parasagittal zones. This compartmentalization has been well documented with respect to physiology, biochemical markers, and climbing fiber afferents. Less is known about the organization of mossy fiber afferents in general, and more specifically in relation to molecular markers such as zebrin. Zebrin is expressed by Purkinje cells that are distributed as a parasagittal array of immunopositive and immunonegative stripes. We examined the concordance of zebrin expression with visual mossy fiber afferents in the vestibulocerebellum (folium IXcd) of pigeons. Visual afferents project directly to folium IXcd as mossy fibers and indirectly as climbing fibers via the inferior olive. These projections arise from two retinal recipient nuclei: the lentiformis mesencephali (LM) and the nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR). Although it has been shown that these two nuclei project to folium IXcd, the detailed organization of these projections has not been reported. We injected anterograde tracers into LM and nBOR to investigate the organization of mossy fiber terminals and subsequently related this organization to the zebrin antigenic map. We found a parasagittal organization of mossy fiber terminals in folium IXcd and observed a consistent relationship between mossy fiber organization and zebrin stripes: parasagittal clusters of mossy fiber terminals were concentrated in zebrin-immunopositive regions. We also describe the topography of projections from LM and nBOR to the inferior olive and relate these results to previous studies on the organization of climbing fibers and zebrin expression.
C-fiber sensory neurons comprise nociceptors and smaller populations of cells detecting innocuous thermal and light tactile stimuli. Markers identify subpopulations of these cells, aiding our understanding of their physiological roles. The transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) cation channel is characteristic of polymodal C-fiber nociceptors and is sensitive to noxious heat, irritant vanilloids, and protons. By using immunohistochemistry, in situ hybridization, and retrograde tracing, we anatomically characterize a small subpopulation of C-fiber cells that express high levels of TRPV1 (HE TRPV1 cells). These cells do not express molecular markers normally associated with C-fiber nociceptors. Furthermore, they express a unique complement of neurotrophic factor receptors, namely, the trkC receptor for neurotrophin 3, as well as receptors for neurturin and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor. HE TRPV1 cells are distributed in sensory ganglia throughout the neuraxis, with higher numbers noted in the sixth lumbar ganglion. In this ganglion and others of the lumbar and sacral regions, 75% or more of such HE TRPV1 cells express estrogen receptor alpha, suggestive of their regulation by estrogen and a role in afferent sensation related to reproduction. Afferents from these cells provide innervation to the hairy skin of the perineal region and can be activated by thermal stimuli from 38 degrees C, with a maximal response at 42 degrees C, as indicated by induction of extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation. We hypothesize that apart from participating in normal thermal sensation relevant to thermoregulation and reproductive functions, HE TRPV1 cells may mediate burning pain in chronic pain syndromes with perineal localization.
Neurofibromin and calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine protein kinase (CASK) are membrane-associated signalling and scaffolding proteins which are mutated in human genetic neurological disorders. Syndecan-2 is a highly glycosylated transmembrane protein whose intracellular C-terminus has previously been shown to interact with the post-synaptic density 95/discs large/zonula occludens-1 (PDZ) domain of CASK and with two separate regions of neurofibromin. These three proteins collaborate to orchestrate the induction of filopodia and dendritic spines. We have used systematic mutagenesis of the intracellular region of syndecan-2 and a quantitative yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) assay to study the determinants of their interactions. We show that syndecan's interactions with both CASK and neurofibromin are dependent on syndecan homodimerization and that neurofibromin largely interacts with the membrane-proximal part of the dimeric syndecan intracellular domain, leaving the membrane-distal C-terminus free to interact with CASK. We conducted a phylogenetic study of syndecan sequences, finding correspondence between conserved residues and mutations affecting both dimerization and interactions; we also find that fish have a very different syndecan repertoire from tetrapods. Further Y2H screens reveal that syndecan-2 interacts with a third distinct region of neurofibromin, and that the multiple neurofibromin regions bind competitively, rather than co-operatively, to syndecan. We combine these results to propose a model for the ternary syndecan-neurofibromin-CASK complex.

Transcranial near infrared laser therapy (NILT) improves behavioral outcome following embolic strokes in embolized rabbits and clinical rating scores in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients; however, the cellular mechanism(s) involved in NILT neuroprotection have not been elucidated. It has been proposed that mitochondrial energy production may underlie a response to NILT, but this has not been demonstrated using an in vivo embolic stroke model. Thus, we evaluated the effect of NILT on cortical ATP content using the rabbit small clot embolic stroke model (RSCEM), the model originally used to demonstrate NILT efficacy and initiate the NEST-1 clinical trial. Five minutes following embolization, rabbits were exposed to 2 min of NILT using an 808 nm laser source, which was driven to output either continuous wave (CW), or pulsed wave modes (PW). Three hours after embolization, the cerebral cortex was excised and processed for the measurement of ATP content using a standard luciferin-luciferase assay. NILT-treated rabbits were directly compared to sham-treated embolized rabbits and nave control rabbits. Embolization decreased cortical ATP content in ischemic cortex by 45% compared to naive rabbits, a decrease that was attenuated by CW NILT which resulted in a 41% increase in cortical ATP content compared to the sham embolized group (p&gt;0.05). The absolute increase in ATP content was 22.5% compared to naive rabbits. Following PW NILT, which delivered 5 (PW1) and 35 (PW2) times more energy than CW, we measured a 157% (PW1 p=0.0032) and 221% (PW2 p=0.0001) increase in cortical ATP content, respectively, compared to the sham embolized group. That represented a 41% and 77% increase in ATP content compared to naive control rabbits. This is the first demonstration that embolization can decrease ATP content in rabbit cortex and that NILT significantly increases cortical ATP content in embolized rabbits, an effect that is correlated with cortical fluence and the mode of NILT delivery. The data provide new insight into the molecular mechanisms associated with clinical improvement following NILT.
The retrorubral field (RRF) contains numerous dopaminergic neurons and projects to the parvicellular reticular formation (RFp) of the medullary and pontomedullary brainstem, where many premotor neurons project to the orofacial motor nuclei. To know how the amygdala affects the RRF-RFp pathway in the rat, we first examined the synaptic organization between the central amygdaloid nucleus (CeA) fibers and the RFp-projecting RRF neurons by using combined anterograde and retrograde tracing techniques. After ipsilateral injections of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the CeA and Fluoro-gold (FG) into the RFp, the prominent overlapping distribution of BDA-labeled axon terminals and FG-labeled neurons was found in the lateral part of the RRF ipsilateral to the injection sites, where the BDA-labeled axon terminals made symmetrical synapses with somata and dendrites of the FG-labeled neurons. Using a combination of retrograde tracing and immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), we secondly demonstrated that the RFp-projecting RRF neurons were immunonegative for TH. Using a combination of anterograde tracing and immunohistochemistry for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), we finally revealed that the CeA axon terminals in the RRF were immunoreactive for GAD. The present results suggest that GABAergic CeA neurons may exert inhibitory influences on non-dopaminergic RRF neurons that project to the RFp in the control of orofacial movements closely related to emotional behavior.
Thyrotoxic hypokalemic periodic paralysis (TPP) is characterized by acute attacks of weakness, hypokalemia, and thyrotoxicosis of various etiologies. These transient attacks resemble those of patients with familial hypokalemic periodic paralysis (hypoKPP) and resolve with treatment of the underlying hyperthyroidism. Because of the phenotypic similarity of these conditions, we hypothesized that TPP might also be a channelopathy. While sequencing candidate genes, we identified a previously unreported gene (not present in human sequence databases) that encodes an inwardly rectifying potassium (Kir) channel, Kir2.6. This channel, nearly identical to Kir2.2, is expressed in skeletal muscle and is transcriptionally regulated by thyroid hormone. Expression of Kir2.6 in mammalian cells revealed normal Kir currents in whole-cell and single-channel recordings. Kir2.6 mutations were present in up to 33% of the unrelated TPP patients in our collection. Some of these mutations clearly alter a variety of Kir2.6 properties, all altering muscle membrane excitability leading to paralysis.
Expression of the calcium channels Ca(V)2.1 and Ca(V)2.2 is markedly suppressed by co-expression with truncated constructs containing Domain I. This is the basis for the phenomenon of dominant negative suppression observed for many of the episodic ataxia type 2 mutations in Ca(V)2.1 that predict truncated channels. The process of dominant negative suppression has been shown previously to stem from interaction between the full-length and truncated channels and to result in downstream consequences of the unfolded protein response and endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation. We have now identified the specific domain that triggers this effect. For both Ca(V)2.1 and Ca(V)2.2, the minimum construct producing suppression was the cytoplasmic N terminus. Suppression was enhanced by tethering the N terminus to the membrane with a CAAX motif. The 11-amino acid motif (including Arg(52) and Arg(54)) within the N terminus, which we have previously shown to be required for G protein modulation, is also essential for dominant negative suppression. Suppression is prevented by addition of an N-terminal tag (XFP) to the full-length and truncated constructs. We further show that suppression of Ca(V)2.2 currents by the N terminus-CAAX construct is accompanied by a reduction in Ca(V)2.2 protein level, and this is also prevented by mutation of Arg(52) and Arg(54) to Ala in the truncated construct. Taken together, our evidence indicates that both the extreme N terminus and the Arg(52), Arg(54) motif are involved in the processes underlying dominant negative suppression.
Lafora disease (LD) is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder caused by mutation in either the dual specificity phosphatase laforin or ubiquitin ligase malin. A pathological hallmark of LD is the accumulation of cytoplasmic polyglucosan inclusions commonly known as Lafora bodies in both neuronal and non-neuronal tissues. How mutations in these two proteins cause disease pathogenesis is not well understood. Malin interacts with laforin and recruits to aggresomes upon proteasome inhibition and was shown to degrade misfolded proteins. Here we report that malin is spontaneously misfolded and tends to be aggregated, degraded by proteasomes, and forms not only aggresomes but also other cytoplasmic and nuclear aggregates in all transfected cells upon proteasomal inhibition. Malin also interacts with Hsp70. Several disease-causing mutants of malin are comparatively more unstable than wild type and form aggregates in most transfected cells even without the inhibition of proteasome function. These cytoplasmic and nuclear aggregates are immunoreactive to ubiquitin and 20 S proteasome. Interestingly, progressive proteasomal dysfunction and cell death is also most frequently observed in the mutant malin-overexpressed cells compared with the wild-type counterpart. Finally, we demonstrate that the co-chaperone carboxyl terminus of the Hsc70-interacting protein (CHIP) stabilizes malin by modulating the activity of Hsp70. All together, our results suggest that malin is unstable, and the aggregate-prone protein and co-chaperone CHIP can modulate its stability.



Cocaine-induced alterations in gene expression cause changes in neuronal morphology and behavior that may underlie cocaine addiction. In mice, we identified an essential role for histone 3 lysine 9 (H3K9) dimethylation and the lysine dimethyltransferase G9a in cocaine-induced structural and behavioral plasticity. Repeated cocaine administration reduced global levels of H3K9 dimethylation in the nucleus accumbens. This reduction in histone methylation was mediated through the repression of G9a in this brain region, which was regulated by the cocaine-induced transcription factor DeltaFosB. Using conditional mutagenesis and viral-mediated gene transfer, we found that G9a down-regulation increased the dendritic spine plasticity of nucleus accumbens neurons and enhanced the preference for cocaine, thereby establishing a crucial role for histone methylation in the long-term actions of cocaine.


Diffusion MRI (dMRI) is widely used to measure microstructural features of brain white matter, but commonly used dMRI measures have limited capacity to resolve the orientation structure of complex fiber architectures. While several promising new approaches have been proposed, direct quantitative validation of these methods against relevant histological architectures remains missing. In this study, we quantitatively compare neuronal fiber orientation distributions (FODs) derived from ex vivo dMRI data against histological measurements of rat brain myeloarchitecture using manual recordings of individual myelin stained fiber orientations. We show that accurate FOD estimates can be obtained from dMRI data, even in regions with complex architectures of crossing fibers with an intrinsic orientation error of approximately 5-6 degrees in these regions. The reported findings have implications for both clinical and research studies based on dMRI FOD measures, and provide an important biological benchmark for improved FOD reconstruction and fiber tracking methods.
The molecular composition of the hair cell transduction channel has not been identified. Here we explore the novel hypothesis that hair cell transduction channels include HCN subunits. The HCN family of ion channels includes four members, HCN1-4. They were originally identified as the molecular correlates of the hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide gated ion channels that carry currents known as If, IQ or Ih. However, based on recent evidence it has been suggested that HCN subunits may also be components of the elusive hair cell transduction channel. To investigate this hypothesis we examined expression of mRNA that encodes HCN1-4 in sensory epithelia of the mouse inner ear, immunolocalization of HCN subunits 1, 2 and 4, uptake of the transduction channel permeable dye, FM1-43 and electrophysiological measurement of mechanotransduction current. Dye uptake and transduction current were assayed in cochlear and vestibular hair cells of wildtype mice exposed to HCN channel blockers or a dominant-negative form of HCN2 that contained a pore mutation and in mutant mice that lacked HCN1, HCN2 or both. We found robust expression of HCNs 1, 2 and 4 but little evidence that localized HCN subunits in hair bundles, the site of mechanotransduction. Although high concentrations of the HCN antagonist, ZD7288, blocked 50-70% of the transduction current, we found no reduction of transduction current in either cochlear or vestibular hair cells of HCN1- or HCN2- deficient mice relative to wild-type mice. Furthermore, mice that lacked both HCN1 and HCN2 also had normal transduction currents. Lastly, we found that mice exposed to the dominant-negative mutant form of HCN2 had normal transduction currents as well. Taken together, the evidence suggests that HCN subunits are not required for mechanotransduction in hair cells of the mouse inner ear.
We previously demonstrated that activated ED1+ macrophages induce extensive axonal dieback of dystrophic sensory axons in vivo and in vitro. Interestingly, after spinal cord injury, the regenerating front of axons is typically found in areas rich in ED1+ cells, but devoid of reactive astrocyte processes. These observations suggested that another cell type must be present in these areas to counteract deleterious effects of macrophages. Cells expressing the purportedly inhibitory chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan NG2 proliferate in the lesion and intermingle with macrophages, but their influence on regeneration is highly controversial. Our in vivo analysis of dorsal column crush lesions confirms the close association between NG2+ cells and injured axons. We hypothesized that NG2+ cells were growth promoting and thereby served to increase axonal stability following spinal cord injury. We observed that the interactions between dystrophic adult sensory neurons and primary NG2+ cells derived from the adult spinal cord can indeed stabilize the dystrophic growth cone during macrophage attack. NG2+ cells expressed high levels of laminin and fibronectin, which promote neurite outgrowth on the surface of these cells. Our data also demonstrate that NG2+ cells, but not astrocytes, use matrix metalloproteases to extend across a region of inhibitory proteoglycan, and provide a permissive bridge for adult sensory axons. These data support the hypothesis that NG2+ cells are not inhibitory to regenerating sensory axons and, in fact, they may provide a favorable substrate that can stabilize the regenerating front of dystrophic axons in the inhibitory environment of the glial scar.
Protein kinase C (PKC) enhances NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-mediated currents and promotes NMDAR delivery to the cell surface via SNARE-dependent exocytosis. Although the mechanisms of PKC potentiation are established, the molecular target of PKC is unclear. Here we show that synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25), a SNARE protein, is functionally relevant to PKC-dependent NMDAR insertion, and identify serine residue-187 as the molecular target of PKC phosphorylation. Constitutively active PKC delivered via the patch pipette potentiated NMDA (but not AMPA) whole-cell currents in hippocampal neurons. Expression of RNAi targeting SNAP-25 or mutant SNAP-25(S187A) and/or acute disruption of the SNARE complex by treatment with BoNT A, BoNT B or SNAP-25 C-terminal blocking peptide abolished NMDAR potentiation. A SNAP-25 peptide and function-blocking antibody suppressed PKC potentiation of NMDA EPSCs at mossy fiber-CA3 synapses. These findings identify SNAP-25 as the target of PKC phosphorylation critical to PKC-dependent incorporation of synaptic NMDARs and document a postsynaptic action of this major SNARE protein relevant to synaptic plasticity.
Theories of spatial attentional control have been largely based upon studies of patients suffering from visuospatial neglect, resulting from circumscribed lesions of frontal and posterior parietal cortex. In the intact brain, the control of spatial attention has been related to a distributed frontoparietal attention network. Little is known about the nature of the control mechanisms exerted by this network. Here, we used a novel region-of-interest approach to relate activations of the attention network to recently described topographic areas in frontal cortex [frontal eye field (FEF), PreCC/IFS (precentral cortex/inferior frontal sulcus)] and parietal cortex [intraparietal sulcus areas (IPS1-IPS5) and an area in the superior parietal lobule (SPL1)] to examine their spatial attention signals. We found that attention signals in most topographic areas were spatially specific, with stronger responses when attention was directed to the contralateral than to the ipsilateral visual field. Importantly, two hemispheric asymmetries were found. First, a region in only right, but not left SPL1 carried spatial attention signals. Second, left FEF and left posterior parietal cortex (IPS1/2) generated stronger contralateral biasing signals than their counterparts in the right hemisphere. These findings are the first to characterize spatial attention signals in topographic frontal and parietal cortex and provide a neural basis in support of an interhemispheric competition account of spatial attentional control.
Many bioactive neuropeptides containing RFamide at their C terminus have been described in both invertebrates and vertebrates. To obtain insight into the functional logic of RFamide signaling, we investigate it here in the feeding system of Aplysia. We focus on the expression, localization, and actions of two families of RFamide peptides, the FRFamides and FMRFamide, in the central neuronal circuitry and the peripheral musculature that generate the feeding movements. We describe the cloning of the FRFamide precursor protein and show that the FRFamides and FMRFamide are derived from different precursors. We map the expression of the FRFamide and FMRFamide precursors in the feeding circuitry using in situ hybridization and immunostaining and confirm proteolytic processing of the FRFamide precursor by mass spectrometry. We show that the two precursors are expressed in different populations of sensory neurons in the feeding system. In a representative feeding muscle, we demonstrate the presence of both FRFamides and FMRFamide and their release, probably from the processes of the sensory neurons in the muscle. Both centrally and in the periphery, the FRFamides and FMRFamide act in distinct ways, apparently through distinct mechanisms, and nevertheless, from an overall functional perspective, their actions are complementary. Together, the FRFamides and FMRFamide convert feeding motor programs from ingestive to egestive and depress feeding muscle contractions. We conclude that these structurally related peptides, although derived from different precursors, expressed in different neurons, and acting through different mechanisms, remain related to each other in the functional roles that they play in the system.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinases (CaM-kinases) are central to various forms of long-term memory (LTM) in a number of evolutionarily diverse organisms. However, it is still largely unknown what contributions specific CaM-kinases make to different phases of the same specific type of memory, such as acquisition, or early, intermediate, and late consolidation of associative LTM after classical conditioning. Here, we investigated the involvement of CaM-kinase II (CaMKII) in different phases of associative LTM induced by single-trial reward classical conditioning in Lymnaea, a well established invertebrate experimental system for studying molecular mechanisms of learning and memory. First, by using a general CaM-kinase inhibitor, KN-62, we found that CaM-kinase activation was necessary for acquisition and late consolidation, but not early or intermediate consolidation or retrieval of LTM. Then, we used Western blot-based phosphorylation assays and treatment with CaMKIINtide to identify CaMKII as the main CaM-kinase, the intrinsic activation of which, in a critical time window ( approximately 24 h after learning), is central to late consolidation of LTM. Additionally, using MK-801 and CaMKIINtide we found that acquisition was dependent on both NMDA receptor and CaMKII activation. However, unlike acquisition, CaMKII-dependent late memory consolidation does not require the activation of NMDA receptors. Our new findings support the notion that even apparently stable memory traces may undergo further molecular changes and identify NMDA-independent intrinsic activation of CaMKII as a mechanism underlying this &quot;lingering consolidation.&quot; This process may facilitate the preservation of LTM in the face of protein turnover or active molecular processes that underlie forgetting.
Previous studies have shown that a group of ventrally located neurons, designated V2a interneurons, play a key role in maintaining locomotor rhythmicity and in ensuring appropriate left-right alternation during locomotion (Crone et al., 2008, 2009). These V2a interneurons express the transcription factor Chx10. The aim of the present study was to characterize the locomotor-related activity of individual V2a interneurons, their cellular properties, and their detailed anatomical attributes in Chx10-GFP mice. A dorsal horn-removed preparation was developed to allow for visual whole-cell patch recordings from V2a interneurons along the entire lumbar spinal cord while at the same time leaving enough of the spinal cord intact to generate fictive locomotion. During drug-evoked locomotor-like activity, a large proportion of Chx10 cells showed rhythmic firing or membrane potential fluctuations related to either flexor or extensor activity in every lumbar segment. Chx10 cells received predominantly rhythmic excitatory input. Chx10 neurons displayed a wide variety of firing and potential rhythmogenic properties. However, none of these properties was obviously related to the observed rhythmicity during locomotor-like activity. In dual recordings, we found no evidence of Chx10 neuron interconnectivity. Intracellular fills revealed diverse projection patterns with most Chx10 interneurons being local with projections to the central pattern generator and motor neuron regions of the spinal cord and others with long ascending and/or descending branches. These data are compatible with V2a neurons having a role in regulating segmental left-right alternation and ipsilateral motor neuron firing with little effect on rhythm generation.
All botulinum toxins (BoNTs, types A-G) inhibit synaptic transmitter release from motoneurons, and thus result in respiratory arrest and death. Rapid treatment with anti-BoNT antibodies can prevent progression, but recovery still requires weeks on a ventilator. Even after recovery, there is a potential for persistent fatigue in some cases of botulism even years after the insult, possibly because of motoneuron dropout for previously unknown reasons. Unique among BoNTs, the C-type (BoNT/C) cleaves two proteins involved in neurotransmitter release, syntaxin and SNAP-25, and induces apoptotic cell death in cultured cerebellar neurons. It is not clear, however, whether BoNT/C also affects neurons that encounter toxin in vivo, namely motoneurons. Here, we provide experimental evidence that BoNT/C causes a slow degeneration of motoneurons both in vitro and in vivo. This novel form of BoNT/C-induced cell death may require new treatment strategies.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is involved in multiple brain functions. To clarify the cause of abnormal behavior in PACAP deficient-mice, we attempted the identification of genes whose expression was altered in the dentate gyrus of PACAP-deficient mice using the differential display method. Expression of stathmin1 was up-regulated in the dentate gyrus at both the mRNA and protein levels. PACAP stimulation inhibited stathmin1 expression in PC12 cells, while increased stathmin1expression in neurons of the subgranular zone and in primary cultured hippocampal neurons induced abnormal arborization of axons. We also investigated the pathways involved in PACAP deficiency. Ascl1 binds to E10 box of the stathmin1 promoter and increases stathmin1 expression. Inhibitory bHLH proteins (Hes1 and Id3) were rapidly up-regulated by PACAP stimulation, and Hes1 could suppress Ascl1 expression and Id3 could inhibit Ascl1 signaling. We also detected an increase of stathmin1 expression in the brains of schizophrenic patients. These results suggest that up-regulation of stathmin1 in the dentate gyrus, secondary to PACAP deficiency, may create abnormal neuronal circuits that cause abnormal behavior.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a severe anxiety disorder characterized by obsessions and compulsions. The core symptom of OCD is compulsivity, the inability to stop thinking or acting when you want to, despite being aware of the uselessness of the content or the adverse consequences. To initiate a systematic search for genetic mechanisms underlying the pathophysiology of compulsivity, a panel of chromosome substitution (CS) strains, derived from mice that suppress (C57BL/6J strain) or maintain (A/J strain) high levels of repetitive wheel running during 2 hr of daily limited food access, was screened for this compulsive behavior. Following the genetic screen, we found linkage between compulsive wheel running and mouse chromosomes 2, 6, and 7 that show overlap with recently identified human linkage regions for OCD on chromosomes 7p and 15q. In the overlapping (human/mouse) genomic region, the CRH receptor 2 (CRHR2) gene was tested in a human case-control study. An initial exploration in OCD cases versus controls failed to detect an association between four-candidate CRH2R SNP's within this homologous linkage region and OCD. Genetic fine mapping of compulsivity in mice provides new opportunities to reveal mechanisms underlying this significant psychiatric trait.
Conflicting results have been reported as to whether genetic variations (Val66Met and C270T) of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene (BDNF) confer susceptibility to Alzheimer's disease (AD). We genotyped these polymorphisms in a Japanese sample of 657 patients with AD and 525 controls, and obtained weak evidence of association for Val66Met (P = 0.063), but not for C270T. After stratification by sex, we found a significant allelic association between Val66Met and AD in women (P = 0.017), but not in men. To confirm these observations, we collected genotyping data for each sex from 16 research centers worldwide (4,711 patients and 4,537 controls in total). The meta-analysis revealed that there was a clear sex difference in the allelic association; the Met66 allele confers susceptibility to AD in women (odds ratio = 1.14, 95% CI 1.05-1.24, P = 0.002), but not in men. Our results provide evidence that the Met66 allele of BDNF has a sexually dimorphic effect on susceptibility to AD.
Understanding the mechanisms of fear extinction has become increasingly important for treating a number of disorders, particularly post-traumatic stress disorder. Conditioning of rabbit heart rate (HR) is an established model for studying fear, yet little is known about procedures for extinguishing it other than repeated presentations of cue(s) associated with the fear-inducing event. The following study examined the effects of conditioned stimulus (CS) alone, unconditioned stimulus (US) alone, unpaired CS/US presentations, continued CS-US pairings, or no further stimulation on rabbit HR following HR conditioning. We have previously shown the rabbit HR response to the US can change as a function of learning when measured in the absence of the CS, a phenomenon referred to as conditioning-specific reflex modification (CRM). More specifically, the HR exhibits a deceleration in response to the US reminiscent of the conditioned bradycardia that develops to the CS. Consequently, the following study also examined the effects of extinction treatments on HR CRM. For HR conditioned responses (CRs), CS-alone and unpaired CS/US presentations were the most successful extinction treatments. For HR CRM, all conditions led to a reduction in CRM except for a subset of rabbits that maintained high levels following unpaired extinction, indicating a dissociation between extinction of HR CRs and CRM. The findings highlight the parameters of HR extinction, the transient nature of HR CRM, vagal involvement in both acquisition and extinction of HR CRM, and suggest that HR CRM cannot be fully explained as a CR that has generalized from the CS to the US.
Body processing has been associated functionally to the so called extrastriate body area (EBA) which is located in the lateral occipital cortex. As body image disturbance is one of the main diagnostic criteria in anorexia nervosa (AN) this study aimed at looking for alterations in gray matter density in women with (AN) especially in the EBA. High resolution T1 images from 15 women with AN and 15 age matched healthy controls women were contrasted using voxel based morphometry (VBM). Additionally functional localizer scans were used to determine functionally the EBA of each participant. In general, total gray matter volumes did differ between groups. VBM results yielded evidence for a reduction of gray matter density in the left EBA. This reduction, which resulted from whole brain analysis, was localised within the activation cluster of the EBA localizer scan. The current results provide for the first time evidence for structural alterations in the EBA in patients with AN which might suggest that body image distortion is related at least in part to structural alteration in the EBA.
Hand shaping in terrestrial mammals is adapted to many functions including walking, climbing, exploration, and skilled manipulation. Nevertheless, hand shaping is not well described in the rat (Rattus norvegicus) although the species is used to study the evolution of movement, the neural control of movement, and to model impairments that can result from brain injury. In the present study, rat hand movements were examined in standardized tests of overground walking, horizontal or inclined ladder rung walking, exploring a vertical wall of a cylinder, and skilled reaching for food. Behavior was filmed with high-speed (250-1000 f/s) video camera from which frame-by-frame behavioral and kinematic analyses (Peak Motus) were made. There were three hand actions common to all tasks. In release, the hand pushed off or was lifted from a substrate; in collection, the digits were closed and flexed though the midpoint of limb transport; and, in manipulation, the hand and digits were shaped to contact or grasp a target. The movements of release and collection, although variable in character, speed and duration, were very similar in the different tests. The movement of manipulation featured greater specialized digit use and varied sensory control (olfaction, vibrissae, and tactile senses) in different tasks. Conserved release and collection vs. the variability of manipulation is discussed in relation to the evolution, neural control, and neural commitment underlying hand movements.
Over a decade ago it was proposed that the primate auditory cortex is organized in a serial and parallel manner in which there is a dorsal stream processing spatial information and a ventral stream processing non-spatial information. This organization is similar to the &quot;what&quot;/&quot;where&quot; processing of the primate visual cortex. This review will examine several key studies, primarily electrophysiological, that have tested this hypothesis. We also review several human-imaging studies that have attempted to define these processing streams in the human auditory cortex. While there is good evidence that spatial information is processed along a particular series of cortical areas, the support for a non-spatial processing stream is not as strong. Why this should be the case and how to better test this hypothesis is also discussed.

Once perceived as a region of limited immune activity, the CNS is now known to be an important site of immune interactions. Activated T cells can infiltrate the blood-brain barrier where they accumulate and proliferate in response to antigen restimulation. These leukocytes express proinflammatory cytokines that help in activating microglia and other immune cells. A profound inflammatory response ensues, which can lead to axonal injury and demyelination. In contrast, other T cells can be neuroprotective. CD4(+) Th2 cells secrete anti-inflammatory cytokines and can elicit the production of bioactive neurotrophins from CNS glia. In addition, neurons themselves can contribute to immune system regulation by being targets of neurotoxic T cells or by altering T-cell activity, including the generation of regulatory T cells. The interplay between components of the immune system and CNS contributes both to healthy brain function and to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis.

Mitochondrial Ca(2+) efflux is linked to numerous cellular activities and pathophysiological processes. Although it is established that an Na(+)-dependent mechanism mediates mitochondrial Ca(2+) efflux, the molecular identity of this transporter has remained elusive. Here we show that the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger NCLX is enriched in mitochondria, where it is localized to the cristae. Employing Ca(2+) and Na(+) fluorescent imaging, we demonstrate that mitochondrial Na(+)-dependent Ca(2+) efflux is enhanced upon overexpression of NCLX, is reduced by silencing of NCLX expression by siRNA, and is fully rescued by the concomitant expression of heterologous NCLX. NCLX-mediated mitochondrial Ca(2+) transport was inhibited, moreover, by CGP-37157 and exhibited Li(+) dependence, both hallmarks of mitochondrial Na(+)-dependent Ca(2+) efflux. Finally, NCLX-mediated mitochondrial Ca(2+) exchange is blocked in cells expressing a catalytically inactive NCLX mutant. Taken together, our results converge to the conclusion that NCLX is the long-sought mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger.
The &quot;One neuron-one neurotransmitter&quot; concept has been challenged frequently during the last three decades, and the coexistence of neurotransmitters in individual neurons is now regarded as a common phenomenon. The functional significance of neurotransmitter coexistence is, however, less well understood. Several studies have shown that a subpopulation of dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) expresses the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) and has been suggested to use glutamate as a cotransmitter. The VTA dopamine neurons project to limbic structures including the nucleus accumbens, and are involved in mediating the motivational and locomotor activating effects of psychostimulants. To determine the functional role of glutamate cotransmission by these neurons, we deleted VGLUT2 in DA neurons by using a conditional gene-targeting approach in mice. A DAT-Cre/Vglut2Lox mouse line (Vglut2(f/f;DAT-Cre) mice) was produced and analyzed by in vivo amperometry as well as by several behavioral paradigms. Although basal motor function was normal in the Vglut2(f/f;DAT-Cre) mice, their risk-taking behavior was altered. Interestingly, in both home-cage and novel environments, the gene targeted mice showed a greatly blunted locomotor response to the psychostimulant amphetamine, which acts via the midbrain DA system. Our results show that VGLUT2 expression in DA neurons is required for normal emotional reactivity as well as for psychostimulant-mediated behavioral activation.
Proteins containing PSD-95/Discs-large/ZO-1 homology (PDZ) domains play key roles in the assembly and regulation of cellular signaling pathways and represent putative targets for new pharmacotherapeutics. Here we describe the first small-molecule inhibitor (FSC231) of the PDZ domain in protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1) identified by a screening of approximately 44,000 compounds in a fluorescent polarization assay. The inhibitor bound the PICK1 PDZ domain with an affinity similar to that observed for endogenous peptide ligands (K(i) approximately 10.1 microM). Mutational analysis, together with computational docking of the compound in simulations starting from the PDZ domain structure, identified the binding mode of FSC231. The specificity of FSC231 for the PICK1 PDZ domain was supported by the lack of binding to PDZ domains of postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95) and glutamate receptor interacting protein 1 (GRIP1). Pretreatment of cultured hippocampal neurons with FSC231 inhibited coimmunopreciptation of the AMPA receptor GluR2 subunit with PICK1. In agreement with inhibiting the role of PICK1 in GluR2 trafficking, FSC231 accelerated recycling of pHluorin-tagged GluR2 in hippocampal neurons after internalization in response to NMDA receptor activation. FSC231 blocked the expression of both long-term depression and long-term potentiation in hippocampal CA1 neurons from acute slices, consistent with inhibition of the bidirectional function of PICK1 in synaptic plasticity. Given the proposed role of the PICK1/AMPA receptor interaction in neuropathic pain, excitotoxicity, and cocaine addiction, FSC231 might serve as a lead in the future development of new therapeutics against these conditions.
Very fast oscillations (VFOs, &gt;80 Hz) are important for physiological brain processes and, in excess, with certain epilepsies. Putative mechanisms for VFO include interneuron spiking and network activity in coupled pyramidal cell axons. It is not known whether either, or both, of these apply in pathophysiological conditions. Spontaneously occurring interictal discharges occur in human tissue in vitro, resected from neocortical epileptic foci. VFO associated with these discharges was manifest in both field potential and, with phase delay, in excitatory synaptic inputs to fast spiking interneurons. Recruitment of somatic pyramidal cell and interneuron spiking was low, with no correlation between VFO power and synaptic inputs to principal cells. Reducing synaptic inhibition failed to affect VFO occurrence, but they were abolished by reduced gap junction conductance. These data suggest a lack of a causal role for interneurons, and favor a nonsynaptic pyramidal cell network origin for VFO in epileptic human neocortex.
Gene expression in eukaryotes depends on epigenetic changes that occur on both histones and DNA. Class I histone deacetylases (HDACs) are enzymes that remove acetyl groups from histones and other nuclear proteins, thereby inducing chromatin condensation and transcriptional repression. HDACs belong to a large family of enzymes that undergo posttranslational modifications after the activation of several intracellular pathways. However, the environmental stimuli that change nuclear HDAC functions remain largely unknown. New evidence has demonstrated that the lipid sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) inhibits the activity of HDAC1 and HDAC2. Both S1P and sphingosine kinase 2 (SphK2), the enzyme that synthesizes S1P, are assembled in corepressor complexes containing HDAC1 and HDAC2. S1P is among the few endogenous HDAC inhibitors that is synthesized in the nucleus in response to extracellular stimulation, and the first nuclear lipid associated with an epigenetic modification. The discovery of endogenous molecules that regulate HDAC activity in vivo has implications for the development of new therapeutic approaches for a host of human diseases, including cancer and neurodegenerative disorders.
Nominations for this year's signaling breakthroughs spanned physiology, therapeutics and drug development, neuroscience, and plant signaling. Among the most exciting advances in mammalian biology were therapeutic applications of research that are overturning the conventional boundaries of signaling pathways,unexpected mechanisms to prolong life and prevent aging, new insights into schizophrenia and memory, development of a transgenic primate model, and the discovery that the cells in the lungs can &quot;taste&quot; noxious substances. In plant signaling,the nominations converged on the identification of the elusive receptor for the plant stress hormone abscisic acid. Finally, methodological advances were also noted with new techniques in synthetic biology enabling the precise spatiotemporal control of signaling events and increasingly facile methods for creation and analysis of proteomic data yielding tremendous increases in raw data and insights into cellular regulation.

The processing of a stimulus can be facilitated (positive priming) or impeded (negative priming), depending on whether a repeated stimulus has recently been attended or ignored. The current experiment presented consecutive dichotic syllable pairs with instructions to report any syllable from each pair. The results showed that trials which repeated a syllable from the previous trial had increased response times, and the repeated syllable had a decreased likelihood of being selected. This indicates that inhibition is involved when selecting between stimuli, and that the inhibition associated with stimuli has a residual effect on subsequent selection. Closer examination showed that a repeated syllable was more likely to be ignored if the syllable had been ignored rather than attended on the previous presentation, and trials showing this response pattern had faster response times than trials that did not, thus representing an effect similar to negative priming. We suggest that a biased competition network model, in which pathways are made stronger or weaker as a residual effect of selection, can be applied to account for the observed effect. The model has support from other experimental tasks, and in contrast to prominent accounts of negative priming, it focuses on the processing performed by the network rather than on pre-onset selection criteria for processing.

The development of insights into the role of cytokine modulation of pain has been the prototypical story of translational research from mouse to man. Pain has been understood in the context of inflammation associated with tissue injury: nociception in a milieu of an inflammatory soup bathing small nerve fibers following tissue injury. Translational research with mice during the past decade has now revealed that the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain, the devastating pain condition associated with direct injury or disease to the somatosensory nervous system, is also a consequence of inflammation of a type described as cytokine-mediated neuroinflammation regulated by glia and neurons. In this chapter we will review the current understanding of cytokines in the pathogenesis of pain, and especially neuropathic pain, based on basic science research with rodent models of peripheral nerve injury. This knowledge has expanded understanding of the role of cytokines in neural dysfunction and provided an additional rationale for therapeutic use of anti-cytokine agents in human painful degenerative diseases. Herein, we review recent data to support the concept that the proinflammatory cytokine-driven processes of degeneration are at the basis of the neuropathic pain condition, and that anti-cytokine therapy represents a promising approach to treating human neuropathic pain states. Additionally, we suggest that the relationship between cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases can be therapeutically exploited.
The traditional, textbook view of the pain pathway illustrates an unmyelinated primary afferent C-fiber, the nociceptor, contacting a second-order dorsal horn neuron at the origin of the spinothalamic and spinoreticular pathways. Although the ultimate cortical target of these different pathways is unclear, there is no question that a better understanding of the mechanisms through which noxious stimuli produce pain requires a better understanding of these circuits. The limitations of our knowledge, of course, go beyond the need to identify cortical targets. We recognize now that there are neurochemically and physiologically distinct populations of afferents, projection neurons, and diverse central nervous system (CNS) targets. In fact, even the classification of nociceptors into peptidergic and nonpeptidergic categories is oversimplified (Snider and McMahon 1998). Thus, an array of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels, which respond to different temperatures, natural products, or environmental irritants, establishes subcategories of nociceptors, as do the various Na+ channel subtypes (Caterina and Julius 1999; McCleskey and Gold 1999; Cummins et al. 2007). Even the rather broad categorization of myelinated versus unmyelinated nociceptor is but a first approximation to the diversity of afferent fibers that transmit pain messages (Talavera et al. 2008). Furthermore, the spinal cord is also far more complicated and contains various classes of projection neurons (Todd 2002; Morris et al. 2004; Klop et al. 2005), which not only are differentially distributed in the gray matter (e.g., laminae I, V, VII, and X) but also differ in the selectivity of their responses to non-noxious and noxious stimuli, in their receptive field sizes, and in their central targets. What is still not clear, however, is the extent to which there are unique functional correlates of these neurochemically distinct populations of neurons along the pain pathway. For example, it is still not clear to what extent distinct classes of afferents differ in the types of pain provoked by their activation. Of particular interest is the differential contribution of neurons of laminae I and V to nociceptive processing. Some groups argue that only the lamina I neurons are essential for the highly selective discriminative aspect of the pain experience, and that the wide-dynamic-range neurons of lamina V are primarily contributors to sensorimotor integration (Craig 2004). Others argue for an essential contribution of the lamina V neurons (Price et al. 2003; Martin et al. 2004; Mazario and Basbaum 2007). Also unknown is the extent to which subpopulations of dorsal root and trigeminal ganglion (DRG and TG) neurons feed into these sensory-discriminative and limbic/emotional processing regions of the brain, especially in light of the relatively recent discovery of major spinohypothalamic (Burstein et al. 1987; Giesler et al. 1994) and spinoparabrachial-amygdala pathways (Bernard et al. 1989; Bernard and Besson 1990; Jasmin et al. 1997) in addition to the more traditional spinothalamic and spinoreticulothalamic systems. That neurochemically distinct populations of nociceptors indeed access different central circuits is illustrated by the demonstration that the major classes of nociceptors differ in their patterns of axon termination in the spinal cord dorsal horn. The peptide population terminates almost exclusively in the outer laminae of the superficial dorsal horn (laminae I and outer II), targeting projection neurons that transmit nociceptive messages to brainstem and/or thalamus; by contrast, the IB4 population primarily targets interneurons of the inner part of lamina II, a region just dorsal to a distinct subset of interneurons that synthesize the gamma isoform of protein kinase C (PKC) (Malmberg et al. 1997). Finally, myelinated neurons project primarily to deeper laminae (III-VII) of the spinal cord (and to a smaller extent to lamina I). These observations support the view that different classes of nociceptors indeed wire to different CNS circuits. Based on the remarkable electrophysiological specificity of afferents and their neurochemical distinctiveness, there is now a general consensus for specificity (i.e., labeled line) features to the afferent, at least with respect to response properties. But whether these afferents converge upon functionally distinct but related populations of projection neuron, resulting in functionally segregated ascending circuits, or whether there is convergence upon populations of projection neurons with common functional properties remains to be determined. Unfortunately, the information about these circuits is extremely limited. Not only is the identity of the neuron immediately postsynaptic to the different nociceptors inadequately specified, but the neurons and circuits that lie downstream of the first synapse in the dorsal horn are also largely uncharacterized. In some cases, the identity of postsynaptic neurons has been determined by electrophysiological analyses, and synapses have been characterized at the electron microscopic level (Westlund et al. 1992; Alvarez et al. 2004; Hwang et al. 2004; Shields et al. 2007; Neumann et al. 2008), but the sample from which the information is derived is extremely small. Studies that monitor Fos expression provide a much more extensive picture of populations of neurons activated by noxious stimuli (Mentrey et al. 1989; Abbadie et al. 1997; Neumann et al. 2008), but there is no information about the circuits that underlie Fos activation. Also unclear are the third-order neurons to which the laminae I and V neurons project. With some exceptions, the map of the intervening circuits is, in fact, largely unknown.
The humane use of preclinical animal models plays a critical role both in understanding the basic biology of pain as well as in the development of therapeutic treatments to alleviate pain. Clinically relevant pain is the result of complex processes involving peripheral transduction and transmission as well as central modulation and processing that leads to the final conscious sensation of pain. Much has been learned about the mechanisms underlying the transduction and transmission of the pain signal within the nervous system through the use of cellular, biochemical, and molecular techniques (Millan 1999; Scholz and Woolf 2007; Zeilhofer 2005). However, understanding the actual experience of pain will always require an intact organism that can integrate the full range of external stimuli and internal cognitive and emotional states that drive and modulate pain. Rodent models of pain have historically played a dominant role in the study of pain mechanisms (Negus et al. 2006; Walker et al. 1999). There are many good reasons for this, including the practicalities of low cost, simplified ethical concerns, and the scientific value of having a large database of prior research to provide context for new findings. A large historical database is particularly important in the field of drug discovery and development since the sensitivity and predictive validity of animal models can only be established through extensive testing in many contexts. For these reasons, the rat and mouse models will continue to be the workhorses driving basic research as well as drug discovery. Unfortunately, there are many ways that the biology of rodents may fail to accurately predict the biology and pharmacology of clinical pain conditions in humans (Blackburn -Munro 2004; Le Bars et al. 2001). Given the high cost of developing new therapeutics (Adams and Brantner 2006), there is a growing need to validate biological and pharmacological findings in non-rodent species that, while perhaps less tractable than rodents, address known or ill-defined differences between mice and men. It is hoped that through the humane study and evaluation of pain states in higher order preclinical species, we can better predict whether biological mechanisms and specific compounds have relevance for clinical pain. Ultimately, well-validated pain models in non-rodent species could enhance the speed, reduce the costs, and increase the probability of the successful development of new analgesic therapeutics offering enhanced efficacy and reduced adverse effects. This chapter will review the gaps in current pain research using rodent models that may potentially be addressed using preclinical animal models of pain in higher species. Additionally, we will review the pain models and assessments that have been developed to date in higher and larger species and highlight areas where there is a need for the development of new models and methods of pain assessment.
A system is a group of independent but interrelated elements comprising a unified whole. A collection of elements comprises a complex system if open and dynamic connections and interactions exist between its components and contribute to the behavior of the collective. An open system is one that exists far from energetic equilibrium; that is, it takes in energy and expels waste. Formally, a complex system is any open system that involves a number of elements arranged in a structure and that requires many scales for adequate measurement. Such systems go through processes of change that defy description by a single rule or by reduction to a single level of explanation. Complexity is a scientific approach for studying how the interacting parts of a system produce collective behaviors more complex than the sum of the contributing parts, and how the system responds to, and interacts with, its environment. Complexity theory provides a framework and language for describing and modeling such processes. Complexity as a science studies the behavior of complex systems as a class using mathematical tools such as differential equations, graph theory, neural networks, time series analyses, and genetic algorithms as well as descriptive, predictive, and simulation modeling. Complexity theorists differ from conventional scientists in that they address unpredictable, nondeterministic processes within systems that do not decompose into simpler elements. This allows them to engage natural phenomena in natural settings more readily than their conventional science counterparts. Broadly, the complexity approach employs multi-scale descriptors to characterize dynamic systems and their phenomena. Applications include the study of economies, ecologies, weather, traffic flow, social organizations, and cultures, in addition to such physiological processes as gene and immune networks. When living organisms engaged in adaptation and survival are the systems of interest, then complexity analysis falls under the heading of complex adaptive systems (CAS) (Gell-Mann 1994; Kelso 1998; Kaneko 2006). Such systems are purposeful, pro-creative and pro-active in relationship to their environments rather than simply reactive. An insect hive exemplifies a CAS, as does the immune system. When elements of a system are of interest, for example worker ants within an ant colony or antigen-presenting cells within the immune system, then modelers may designate the CAS as individual based or agent based. CASs manifest ever-changing, self-organizing behavior in response to a variable environment, and they move toward, but never sustain, equilibrium. In a classic paper, Prigogne and Stengers (1984) termed this behavior order through fluctuations.
The somatosensory system is the part of the nervous system that has evolved to integrate sensory input signals from the body including touch, heat and pain sensations. The primary afferent neurons, located on the dorsal side of the spinal cord, dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons are pseudomonopolar neurons that conduct sensory information encoded by the frequency of action potentials along their processes from the peripheral sites (e.g. skin) to the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Broadly speaking, there are two different types of pain: acute and chronic. Acute pain, also called nociceptive pain, is a sensation experienced in response to injury or tissue damage (Millan 1999). The relatively short duration of such pain acts as a signal to warn the subject about an imminent danger (e.g. stepping on a sharp object like a pin). This type of pain is conducted through nociceptor myelinated A-delta and unmyelinated C-fiber neurons classified depending on their myelination status (Snider and McMahon 1998). In contrast, chronic pain has no warning function for the subject and is usually the manifestation of an underlying injury, disorder or disease this type of pain can last for several years. Chronic pain is subclassified into neuropathic pain and inflammatory pain. Neuropathic pain is due to damaged or misfiring peripheral nerves, whereas inflammatory pain is derived from a non-specific immune response that alters nerve function. Understanding the cellular and molecular basis of pain has been a stated goal of biological research for several decades accounting for increased recent interest in extracellular ATP signaling. Adenosine, 5-triphosphate (ATP) is a ubiquitous molecule found in every cell in the millimolar concentration range and released into the extracellular milieu after tissue injury or visceral distension once released activates ATP receptor molecules on nearby sensory nerves. Extracellular ATP is an endogenous agonist at P2 purinoceptors, which comprise metabotropic G proteincoupled P2Y receptors and ionotropic cation-permeable P2X receptors (Ralevic and Burnstock 1998). To date, seven P2X subunits have been cloned. They share a common topology displaying two transmembrane domains linked by a large extracellular loop and intracellular N- and C-terminal tails (North 2002). Their activation by ATP induces the opening of a pore permeable to Na(+), K(+) and Ca(2+), inducing an overall depolarization of the cell (Khakh and North 2006). From the perspective of human medicine, a role for ATP signaling in pain has its roots in pioneering studies carried out several decades ago. In 1966, Collier and colleagues, followed 10 years later by Bleehen and Keele, showed that local application of ATP onto human skin blisters induced a persistent sensation of pain (Bleehen and Keele 1977; Collier et al. 1966). These papers instigated subsequent studies where a role for ATP as an extracellular chemical messenger that transmits sensory information has been investigated in humans and animals. A boost to the field has derived from the use of genetic methods such as knockout mice and antisense oligonucleotides, as well as the availability of P2X receptor specific antagonists. Using such approaches, the involvement of ATP-activated receptors has been related to different types of pain (Table 10.1). The latest data suggest that whereas acute pain seems to be linked to the activation of P2X3 receptors expressed in sensory neurons, neuropathic pain more likely involves P2X4 receptors on the surfaces of glial cells, and inflammatory pain involves P2X7 receptors on immune cells.
Cancer-associated pain can be present at any time during the course of the disease, but the frequency and intensity of cancer pain tends to increase with advancing stages of cancer. In patients with advanced cancer, 62%86% experience significant pain, which is described as moderate to severe in approximately 40%50% and as very severe in 25%30% (van den Beuken-van Everdingen et al. 2007). Bone cancer pain is the most common pain in patients with advanced cancer; two-thirds of patients with metastatic bone disease experience severe pain (Coleman 2006; Mercadante and Fulfaro 2007). Although bone is not a vital organ, many of the most common tumors (breast, prostate, thyroid, kidney, and lung) have a strong predilection for bone metastasis (Figure 4.1). Tumor metastases to the skeleton are major contributors to morbidity and mortality in metastatic cancer. Tumor growth in bone results in pain, hypercalcemia, anemia, increased susceptibility to infection, skeletal fractures, compression of the spinal cord, spinal instability, and decreased mobilityall of which compromise the patients survival and quality of life (Coleman 2006, 2008). Once tumor cells have metastasized to the skeleton, tumor-induced bone pain is usually described as dull in character, constant in presentation, and gradually increasing in intensity with time (Dy et al. 2008). As tumor-induced bone remodeling progresses, severe incident pain frequently occurs (Mercadante 1997), and given that the onset of this pain is both acute and unpredictable, this component of bone cancer pain can be highly debilitating to the patients functional status and quality of life (Coleman 1997; Mercadante 1997). Incident or breakthrough pain, which is defined as an intermittent episode of extreme pain, can occur spontaneously, or more commonly is induced by either movement of or weight-bearing on the tumor-bearing bone(s) (Mercadante et al. 2004). Currently, the treatment of pain from bone metastases involves the use of multiple complementary approaches, including radiotherapy applied to the painful area, surgery, chemotherapy, bisphosphonates, calcitonin, and analgesics (Mercadante 1997; Mercadante and Fulfaro 2007). However, bone cancer pain is one of the most difficult of all persistent pains to fully control (Mercadante 1997) because the metastases are generally not limited to a single site and the analgesics that are most commonly used to treat bone cancer painnonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (Mercadante 1997) and opioids (Mercadante 1997; Cherny 2000; Lussier et al. 2004; Reid et al. 2008)are limited by significant adverse side effects (Weber and Huber 1999; Harris 2008). Over the last decade a major focus of our lab has been to investigate the mechanisms that drive cancer pain (mostly due to bone cancer) and to develop mechanism-based therapies to attenuate the pain and reduce disease progression (Honore et al. 2000; Halvorson et al. 2005; Sevcik et al. 2006). These efforts have provided a new understanding of the factors that drive bone cancer pain and disease progression and have provided the preclinical data that has resulted in several clinical trials of these mechanism-based therapies.
One of the Most Rapidly Advancing Fields in Modern Neuroscience The success of molecular biology and the new tools derived from molecular genetics have revolutionized pain research and its translation to therapeutic effectiveness. Bringing together recent advances in modern neuroscience regarding genetic and genomic studies in mice and humans and the practicality of clinical trials, Translational Pain Research: From Mouse to Man effectively bridges the gap between basic research and patient care by humanely examining rodent models for pain associated with bone cancer, osteoarthritis, and cardiac episodes. Distinguished Team of International Contributors In addition to addressing the groundbreaking technical advances in tract tracing, endocannabinoids, cannabis, gene therapy, siRNA gene studies, and the role of glia, cytokines, P2X receptors, and ATP, this book also presents cutting-edge information on Nociceptor sensitization. Visceral afferents in disease. Innovative rodent model for bone cancer pain. Highly specific receptor cloning. Modular molecular mechanisms relevant to painful neuropathies. This sharply focused work also discusses unexpected discoveries derived from brain imaging studies related to thalamic pain. Translational Pain Research covers the progress made toward bringing laboratory science (much of it at the molecular level) to our understanding of pain phenomena in humans, with the ultimate goal of reducing the suffering that often accompanies pain and its indirect consequences.
Exercise is well known to increase mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and ventilation, effects caused, in part, by a reflex arising from contracting skeletal muscles. This phenomenon has been named the exercise pressor reflex (Mitchell, Kaufman, and Iwamoto 1983) and is thought to relay information to the central nervous system regarding the metabolic state and the mechanical activity of the exercising muscles (Hayes and Kaufman 2001; Kaufman and Forster 1996). The afferent arm of the exercise pressor reflex arc is composed of thinly myelinated group III and non-myelinated group IV muscle afferents. Group III afferents primarily transmit information about mechanical stimuli arising in the exercising muscles, whereas the group IV afferents primarily transmit information about metabolic stimuli (Hayes and Kaufman 2001; Kaufman and Forster 1996). Group III and IV muscle afferents are also thought to be activated by nociceptive stimuli and are likely the sole source of pain from skeletal and cardiac muscle. The aim of this account is to correlate what is known about the afferent arm of the exercise pressor reflex and to what extent it is evoked by nociceptive versus non-nociceptive stimulation of skeletal muscle.
In this chapter we seek to describe the stages of drug discovery, focusing on the utility of animal pain models and of pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationships (PK/PD) at each stage. In simple terms, the study of PK and PD in drug discovery is often paired and described in reciprocal terms, where PK is the analysis of how the body affects a drug, while PD is the analysis of how a drug affects the body. PK is defined by how a compound is absorbed, distributed, metabolized, and excreted; and PD is the measure of a compounds ability to interact with its intended target leading to a biologic effect. In this chapter, we briefly describe the stages of drug discovery and the process of defining structure-activity relationship (SAR) both in vitro, through optimization of several key characteristics collectively referred to as pharmaceutical profiling, and in vivo, through the combined use of PK assessment and animal pain models to assess compound efficacy, noting the types and endpoints employed, and why it is important to pair these efficacy models with models of side effects. We follow this with data investigating penetration of compounds into the brain versus that in spinal cord and also correlate efficacy in rodent pain models with clinical efficacy. We hope to convey the importance of PK and of PK/PD relationships in the process of developing pain drugs [aspects of the PK/PD relationships described in this chapter have been published elsewhere (Whiteside et al. 2008)].
Visceral pain is the number one reason for patient visits in the United States. In many cases, visceral pain is not associated with obvious pathology. For example, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), which can occur following inflammation (Gwee et al. 1996; Collins et al. 1999; Bercik et al. 2005), is a diagnosis of exclusion because its hallmarks include abdominal pain accompanied by diarrhea or constipation in the absence of any obvious pathophysiology. It has been proposed that one of the contributing factors to these persistent pain states is chronic hypersensitivity of visceral sensory neurons (Wood 2002; Cenac et al. 2007). Afferents innervating somatic tissue, such as skin, muscle, or bone, can be categorized based on their response properties to stimulation. Large, myelinated afferents generally mediate information related to proprioception and light touch or vibration, whereas small, thinly myelinated or unmyelinated afferents, commonly termed nociceptors, detect noxious or potentially damaging stimuli, including thermal, high-threshold mechanical and chemical stimuli. This is in contrast to the sensory innervation of the viscera, which is mostly made up of small, thinly myelinated or unmyelinated afferents that display low mechanical thresholds, enabling them to code normal physiological stimuli (i.e., non-noxious), as well as an ability to code stimuli in the noxious range (Sengupta and Gebhart 1994a, 1994b; Wood 2002; Cenac et al. 2007). Thus, if one uses a functional definition for nociceptors (i.e., the ability to code noxious stimuli), most visceral afferents would be classified as nociceptors. To further separate themselves from somatic afferents, which receive sensory innervation only from neurons located in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG), visceral structures from the esophagus to the transverse colon are innervated not only by DRG located in the cervical, thoracic, and upper lumbar regions, but also by sensory neurons arising from the superior and inferior vagal ganglia (jugular and nodose ganglia, respectively; Figure 3.1) (Ricco et al. 1996; Undem et al. 2004; Yu et al. 2005; Zhong et al. 2008). Visceral structures located distal to the transverse colon, particularly the distal colon, rectum and bladder are also innervated by two populations of afferents; however, these are both of spinal origin arising from two different levels of the spinal cord (thoracolumbar and lumbosacral; Figure 3.1) (de Groat 1987; Keast and de Groat 1992; Wang et al. 1998; Traub et al. 1999; Christianson et al. 2006a, 2007). Sensory neurons arising from these two spinal locations appear to convey different aspects of the complex sensation that humans identify as visceral pain. The functional difference between these populations is not as obvious as that between vagal and spinal afferents, but evidence suggests that they may differentially respond to injury and disease (Traub 2000; Traub and Murphy 2002; Lin and Al-Chaer 2003). In this chapter, we will discuss recent findings regarding the anatomy and physiology of visceral afferents and how these discoveries may lead to new treatments for visceral pain. In addition, we will discuss exciting new studies that suggest hyperactive visceral nociceptors might not only mediate persistent visceral pain, but that they may actually drive the initial visceral disease processes.
NGF is the most commonly studied growth factor in relation to nociceptor sensitization and serves to promote the survival of DRG neurons during development that express its receptor, trkA (Averill et al. 1995; Huang et al. 2001; Patapoutian and Reichardt 2001). These neurons are generally part of the small and medium diameter DRG population, but some larger cells also express trkA (Wright and Snider 1995; Patapoutian and Reichardt 2001). In addition to its role in development and neuronal survival, it promotes sprouting and regulates innervation density of NGF-responsive neurons in peripheral targets in early post-natal and adult life. For example, it has been shown that ligation of a peripheral nerve induces NGF expression in its target area and these elevated levels are associated with sprouting of adjacent, non-injured afferents into the denervated region (Pertens et al. 1999). Other studies analyzing constitutive overexpression of NGF in the skin (NGF-OEs) report enhanced innervation of the epidermis by both sensory and sympathetic neurons (Albers et al. 1994; Davis et al. 1994, 1996; Goodness et al. 1997). Although NGF appears to be necessary and beneficial for development and maintenance of the peripheral sensory neuron system (Diamond et al. 1992), it has also been shown to participate in the development of thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia (i.e., increased pain in response to normally painful stimuli; Malin et al. 2006; Pertens et al. 1999; Andreev et al. 1995; Lewin et al. 1993) and pain in disorders such as bone cancer and interstitial cystitis (Lowe et al. 1997; Sevcik et al. 2005). Rats chronically treated with NGF are hypersensitive to both mechanical and radiant heat stimulation (Lewin et al. 1993; Andreev et al. 1995; Pertens et al. 1999) in a dose-dependent fashion, and injection of NGF directly into the paw of mice induces a decrease in the paw withdrawal latency to radiant heat (Malin et al. 2006). This NGF sensitization is partially dependent on sympathetic neurons, as sympathectomy partly reduces the effect of NGF in causing hyperalgesia (Andreev et al. 1995). NGF also acts indirectly by activating mast cells and neutrophils, which in turn release additional inflammatory mediators causing hypersensitivity (Lewin et al. 1994; Andreev et al. 1995; Amann et al. 1996; Woolf et al. 1996; Bennett et al. 1998; Bennett 2001). Regardless, it is clear that NGF levels in the target tissue participate in sensitization of nociceptors. For example, NGF-OEs display increases in afferent responses to thermal and mechanical stimulation in a skin-nerve preparation. Stucky and Lewin (1999) found that large diameter A non-nociceptive afferents (typically trkA negative) were unaffected by NGF overexpression, but thermal responsiveness was significantly increased in nociceptive afferents as a result of enhanced cutaneous NGF levels. NGF-sensitive, trkA positive neurons co-label with a variety of other molecules thought to be involved in pain processing. trkA overlaps with neurons containing peptides CGRP and SP (Averill et al. 1995; Molliver and Snider 1997), known mediators of pain behaviors (Koltzenburg et al. 1999; Reeh and Kress 2001; Li et al. 2008) shown to induce hyperalgesia (Oku et al. 1987; Nakamura-Craig and Gill 1991; McMahon, 1996; Sann and Pierau 1998). This population also co-labels with TRPV1, crucial for the development of heat hyperalgesia (Caterina et al. 2000). NGF-induced hyperalgesia may also be mediated by sodium channel, Nav1.8. In mice lacking this channel, NGF does not induce heat hyperalgesia (Kerr et al. 2001), although Nav1.8 knockout mice display indistinguishable thermal thresholds under normal conditions compared to wildtypes (WTs). Since many NGF-responsive neurons contain TRPV1, this channel is suspected of a role in NGF-mediated hypersensitivity (Caterina et al. 1997; Tominaga et al. 1998; Michael and Priestley 1999). Cultured DRG neurons treated with NGF display enhanced inward current in response to application of the TRPV1 agonist capsaicin (Shu and Mendell 1999; Caterina et al. 2000; Zhu et al. 2004). NGF can increase TRPV1 expression (Donnerer et al. 2005; Xue et al. 2007) and promote TRPV1 insertion into the plasma membrane (Zhang et al. 2005). Furthermore, anti-NGF antibodies injected into the hindpaw after peripheral inflammation decrease levels of TRPV1 in DRGs and reduce inflammation-induced hyperalgesia (Ji et al. 2002; Cheng and Ji 2008). Given a clear role for NGF in sensory neuron sensitization and hyperalgesia, anti-NGF treatments may constitute an effective means of treating pain in humans (Anand et al. 1997; Lowe et al. 1997; Saldanha et al. 1999; Sena et al. 2006; Jimenez-Andrade et al. 2007). These hypotheses, however, have not been extensively studied (Abdiche et al. 2008) or verified. Perhaps NGF may only affect a small proportion of nociceptors in the DRG, and other molecules and neurotrophic factors most certainly are involved in hyperalgesia and overall sensory neuron sensitization.
Pain is one of the primitive behaviors that is highly conserved among species and is critical for survival when facing environmental stresses. In an extremely rare occurrence, families in a remote village of Pakistan were discovered to completely lack the capability for nociception (Cox et al. 2006). The resulting lack of pain appeared to manifest with frequent injuries ranging from bone fractures and extensive burns to accidental death. Whole genome linkage analysis revealed candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the SCN9A allele, which encodes the tetrodotoxin-sensitive voltage-gated sodium channel NaV1.7. SNPs in these families (Cox et al. 2006), as well as in other families from Canada exhibiting a similar phenotype (Goldberg et al. 2007; Ahmad et al. 2007), result in truncation of the NaV1.7 molecule that leads to loss of function. Furthermore, SNPs causing protein substitutions in the SCN9A allele have been found to lead to gain of function mutations in patients with primary erythermalgia (Drenth et al. 2005; Han et al. 2006; Yang et al. 2004) and paroxysmal extreme pain disorder (Fertleman et al. 2006; Yiangou et al. 2007), both of which manifest with localized severe pain episodes. The information gained from patients has been particularly valuable for understanding the role of NaV1.7 in inheritable disorders with inflammation-mediated pain. Neuropathic pain, on the other hand, is a chronic disability commonly caused by an initial primary lesion to or dysfunction of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) (Chen et al. 2004). Even after the initial causes are eliminated, neuropathic pain continues; although the precise pathophysiological mechanisms have yet to be elucidated, a change in constitutive characteristics of the PNS has been postulated to play an important role. A large amount of literature has described alterations in the expression or local distribution of various proteins in the affected PNS (Zimmermann 2001; Niederberger and Geisslinger 2008; Hains and Waxman 2007; Wood et al. 2004). For example, altered expression of sodium channels might explain the observed decreases in nociceptive thresholds to mechanical stimuli. Mouse models with null mutations of the NaV1.3, NaV1.6, NaV1.7, NaV1.8, or NaV1.9 sodium channels have been generated; however, these animal models have failed to express the anticipated neuropathic pain behavioral modifications (Nassar et al. 2006; Cummins et al. 2005; Nassar et al. 2004; Stirling et al. 2005; Laird et al. 2002; Roza et al. 2003; Hillsley et al. 2006), leaving challenges for researchers to understand disease etiology and define molecular targets. Investigation on the molecular pathophysiological mechanisms of neuropathic pain has been limited in part due to the lack of available experimental tools that allow the modulation of target molecules in vitro and in vivo. The scope of this chapter is to provide information regarding the available molecular tools and to discuss potential challenges. Our recent attempts in devising new gene transfer vectors for the PNS are also summarized.
Two decades ago, systemic drugs indicated for pain belonged roughly to three mechanistic classes: the opioids, the nonselective NSAIDs, and the anticonvulsants, the latter class represented by a single member, carbamazepine. As of this writing, there are approximately 10 classes of drugs approved for use in the management of pain in the United States and Canada. Recent additions to the pharmacopoeia for pain exemplify two significantly differing pathways for bringing new pain therapies to market. On the one hand, there are drugs that have been in clinical use for some time for other indications, which have been shown to have analgesic efficacy and subsequently have obtained additional label indications for the treatment of pain. Examples in this category include the alpha-2 adrenoreceptor agonist clonidine (launched as an antihypertensive in 1966; gained approval for epidural use in the treatment of cancer pain 1996), and the anticonvulsant gabapentin (launched as an anticonvulsant 1994; gained approval for neuropathic pain in 2002). A number of additional marketed drugs have repeatedly demonstrated therapeutic efficacy in pain states in controlled studies but lack specific label approval for this indication. For example, randomized, controlled studies have demonstrated the utility of older tricyclic antidepressants including amitriptyline, nortriptyline, and desipramine in chronic pain states; due to the preponderance of supportive evidence these drugs are considered useful pain therapeutics. Ongoing advances in the understanding of pain mechanisms continue to reveal opportunities for the creative use of drugs of known pharmacology. In addition, many older, marketed drugs reveal a surprising richness of pharmacology when studied using new methods. Due to their potential for benefit, and also due in no small part to the lengthy and complex process required for the development and regulatory approval of novel drugs, there are many obvious advantages to the study of approved medications for the treatment of pain. The ability to conduct clinical trials with a substance that is already approved for use in humans provides for immediate testing of a hypothesis. Furthermore, since approved drugs have by definition already amassed the requisite preclinical and clinical safety data, positive results from such trials lead to a much shorter path to new regulatory approval, and thus the considerable costs of years of study involved in novel compound discovery and development are avoided. There are, however, limitations to this approach. Existing drugs may not have the ideal pharmacological or pharmacokinetic properties required. In addition, while the cost outlay of repurposing approved drugs is far less than that of inventing new ones, the retur on investment may be poor. Market protection for drugs with older patents may be limited, and from a purely business standpoint, cost analyses of investing in new research for such older drugs may be unfavorable. In addition, as safety regulation becomes more stringent, pharmaceutical companies may be reluctant to assume safety liabilities of drugs that were originally approved under less rigorous requirements. On the other hand, recent advances in research have resulted in the development of entirely novel classes of drugs, specifically developed as analgesics and brought forward with pain as an initial indication. These include COX2-selective inhibitors (celecoxib launched 1999 for pain and inflammation), the N-type calcium channel inhibitor ziconotide (launched 2005), the triptan class of serotonin receptor subtype 1B/D agonists (sumatriptan launched early 1990s), and newer cannabinoids such as Sativex, launched in Canada 2005 for the treatment of pain and spasticity due to multiple sclerosis. Because of the lengthy and complex evaluation required to bring a compound to market, the failure rate of new compounds is extremely high, as are the costs of development. The current estimate of the expenditure required to bring a new compound to market hovers near US $1 billion.(1,2) Hundreds of thousands of compounds may be screened in order to identify one or two compounds that are considered suitable clinical candidates. Industry estimates are that these clinical candidates have about a 90% chance of failure during the most costly stage of evaluation, clinical trials. In general, across therapeutic areas, reasons for failure include disappointing pharmacokinetic properties in humans,(3) unacceptable clinical safety profiles,(4) and lack of clinical efficacy.(5) Compounds may also fail to reach the marketplace due to other advances in the therapeutic field (for example, the development of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors supplanting the tricyclic antidepressants) or commercial reasons, such as the inability of a company to support an orphan drug program. Nevertheless, drug discovery for pain is an exciting, fast-paced, and rewarding field. Both the investigation of the analgesic effects of marketed drugs and the pioneering of novel drug classes are active areas of research and development: a survey of industry pipeline databases reveals more than 25 different mechanistic classes of compounds in various stages of evaluation.
Synthetic and naturally occurring cannabinoids are a focus of strong social, legal, and medical controversy concerning their therapeutic utility, yet studies show that cannabinoids reduce the hyperalgesia and allodynia associated with persistent pain of inflammatory and neuropathic origin in humans and animals. Furthermore, cannabinoids are effective in alleviating chronic pain symptoms after prolonged repeated treatment, unlike opioids, which have only limited effectiveness. A major impediment to the widespread use of cannabinoid analgesics has been their centrally mediated psychotropic side effects. In addition, there are various other conditions where selective activation (or blockade) of peripheral cannabinoid receptors could prove to be of clinical benefit. This chapter will contrast between the peripheral and central actions of cannabinoids to build a case for selective targeting of the peripheral cannabinoid receptors for therapeutic gain.
Opioids are among the most potent analgesic agents available for acute and post-surgical analgesia. Despite a lack of efficacy in many pain syndromes, their use in the treatment of chronic pain has increased dramatically. Long-term analgesia for those patients for whom opioids are initially effective is limited by side effects. Short-term side effects include respiratory depression, constipation, nausea and vomiting, urinary retention, pruritus, and myoclonus. These side effects range from mild, as with constipation, which can lead to poor patient compliance but can be mitigated pharmacologically, to severe, as with respiratory depression, which is the leading cause of death in opioid toxicity. Long-term side effects include analgesic tolerance, hyperalgesia (enhanced pain perception), hormonal imbalance, and immune modulation (Ballantyne and Mao 2003). It is now the standard of care to prescribe testosterone replacement for male patients and monitor all patients for immune suppression throughout long-term opioid therapy. Currently there are no effective strategies to reduce tolerance and opioid-induced hyperalgesia, which are thought to be the cause of failed long-term analgesia (Ballantyne 2007). The clinical use of opioids has increased dramatically over the past 20 years with increased recognition of the under-treatment of chronic pain and better marketing by pharmaceutical companies (Cicero, Inciardi, and Munoz 2005; Joranson et al. 2000). A salient example of this trend was the increase in the off-label use of the non-opioid gabapentin (Neurontin) for chronic pain treatment, which was driven by misinformation and false claims (Landefeld and Steinman 2009). Portenoy and Foley (1986) were the first to report on the efficacy of opioid therapy for chronic, non-malignant pain. Their retrospective case study of 38 patients found that low-dose (&lt;20 mg per day for most patients) opioids provided adequate analgesia in a majority of cases. However, opioid treatment did not improve employment or social function. Based largely upon this landmark study, the medical use of prescription opioids increased dramatically. From 1990 to 1996, the medical use of opioids including morphine, fentanyl, and oxycodone rose by an astounding 59%, 1168%, and 23%, respectively (Joranson et al. 2000). It was not until 1997, however, that national guidelines for the expanded use of opioid analgesics to treat chronic pain were published by the American Society of Anesthesiologists and the American Pain Society (Anesthesiology 1997; Pain 1997). Following the publication of these guidelines, from 1997 to 2001 the therapeutic use of morphine, fentanyl, and oxycodone increased still further by 48.8%, 151.2%, and 347.9%, respectively. The diversion, misuse, and abuse of opioids have mirrored the increase in opioid prescriptions. From 1997 to 2001 there was an increase in the abuse of morphine-containing compounds by 161.8%, fentanyl-containing compounds by 249.8%, and oxycodone-containing compounds by 267.3% (Novak, Nemeth, and Lawson 2004). Much of this increase in the abuse of opioids is thought to be due to the increased availability of prescription opioids and the popular misconception that prescription drugs are less dangerous than non-regulated, illegal street drugs. The diversion and misuse of opioids has become a critical issue in their therapeutic use (Ballantyne and LaForge 2007). The alarming increase in the amount of opioids being prescribed and the ever-increasing misuse and abuse of opioids has led to the generation of new guidelines for their use (Pergolizzi et al. 2008; Trescot et al. 2008). These updated guidelines highlight many recent studies that have shown that opioids prescribed for chronic pain may be effective for short-term analgesia (Portenoy and Foley 1986) but are of indeterminate or highly variable effectiveness for long-term (&gt;6 months) treatment. Much of this variability is due to the differences in the pain populations studied, the wide dosage ranges of opioids currently being prescribed for chronic pain (from 20 to &gt;100 mg morphine equivalents per day), and non-uniformity in the outcomes measured (Ballantyne and Shin 2008). Limited opioid efficacy, increasing diversion and misuse, and side effects are key problems in the treatment of chronic pain. These clinical realities and insights from preclinical investigation highlight the need for the development of new analgesic agents that target non-opioid based mechanisms that include other cell types and interactions beyond neuronal actions.
Central pain (CP) is defined by the International Association for the Study of Pain as pain initiated or caused by a primary lesion or dysfunction of the CNS [central nervous system] (Merskey and Bogduk 1994). A more recently proposed definition is pain arising as a direct consequence of a lesion or disease affecting the central somatosensory system (Treede et al. 2008). This newer refinement recognizes that an essential feature associated with CP is disturbance of part of the central somatosensory system. This may be the only universal feature that applies to CP conditions, which exhibit varied qualities across patients. Similar to CP are two conditions that share almost all of the same features of CP, but the pathological sensation is described as something other than pain. Central dysesthesia involves the expression of unpleasant sensations (both spontaneous and evoked) that are described in terms other than pain. One may question whether this is simply a matter of semantics. However, experimental pain testing of such a patient did not reveal any abnormal responses to noxious thermal stimuli applied to unaffected body regions (Kim et al. 2007). Central neurogenic pruritis can also arise from CNS lesions, in which an itch sensation substitutes for the pathological pain sensation. Due to the scarcity of reports on these latter two phenomena, this chapter will focus on central pain. The interested reader on the topic of central pain is referred to two recent books, Canavero and Bonicalzi (2007) and Henry, Panju, and Yashpal (2007). Prior to the 1990s, our knowledge of CP was derived from examinations of lesion type and location that produced CP and interpretation of the sensory abnormalities of CP patients. With the advent of functional neuroimaging, we have new tools to investigate CP. This chapter will focus on studies that have used functional neuroimaging to address mechanistic questions regarding central pain.
The intrinsic electrical properties of neurons are presently considered as a salient parameter in brain function (Llinas 1988; Getting 1989; Connors and Gutnick 1990; Turrigiano et al. 1994; Margolis and Detwiler 2007). This is in contrast to the classical purely reflexological view, where neurons are considered to be passive agents that are activated or inhibited synaptically. This intrinsic functional view has been addressed in recent years in relation to thalamic neuron function and to its recurrent interaction with the cortex. Such a view is based upon single-cell neuronal electrophysiology (c.f. Llinas 1988; Steriade and Llinas 1988), and thalamocortical anatomy (Jones 2007). The neurological consequences of such a perspective (Llinas et al. 1999) have been corroborated by magnetoencephalography (MEG), single-cell intraoperative recordings, and encouraging surgical outcomes (Jeanmonod et al. 1996, 2001b, 2003). Moreover, as in the case of tinnitus, where a sound stimulus can suppress the centrally generated sensation (Coles and Hallam 1987), central pain can be modulated by peripheral stimulus (Somers and Somers 1999; Inui et al. 2006). From a functional imaging perspective, electroencephalogram (EEG) (Jeanmonod et al. 1993) and MEG data have shown the presence of a distinct increase in low-frequency activation in central pain (Schulman et al. 2005). In all patients with central, but not peripheral, pain, there was a second site of low-frequency oscillations that was localized to the mesial/orbito frontal and anterior cingulated cortices, as well as the temporal (insular) cortex. Central pain patients with these MEG characteristics did not respond to spinal cord stimulation. By contrast, patients without the frontal low-frequency component responded well to such stimulation. In addition to clinical studies, direct experimental evidence for the functional organization of the thalamo-cortico-thalamo loop has been obtained in in vitro studies of rodent thalamocortical slices (Llinas et al. 2002) that have been extended to in vivo animal studies concerning neuropathic pain (Gerke et al. 2003; Kim et al. 2003) and thalamic deafferentation (Wang and Thompson 2008). These latter results have established a direct relationship between abnormal thalamic rhythmicity and the occurrence of central pain. The relevance of an essential thalamic structure (i.e., a central generator) for neuropathic pain was first suggested by Head (Head and Holmes 1911). The findings summarized here extend this original proposal by addressing brain activity obtained from MEG, EEG, and preoperative unit recordings from patients with chronic neuropathic pain. We also briefly touch upon the contribution of animal studies to understanding the cellular and molecular components of neuropathic pain generation in the context of increased T-type calcium channel activty.
Depression is ranked as one of the strongest predictors for low back pain. This association is observed by multiple studies, with odds ratios increasing with intensity of back pain and severity of depression 55;60. In order to investigate the predictive power of baseline depression on the transition from acute to chronic pain (3 months post-acute back pain), a recent prospective study evaluated the direct and indirect effects of multiple parameters on chronic pain severity and disability 81. The model only accounted for 26% of the variance in chronic pain. Acute pain intensity did not directly predict pain three months later, and baseline pain beliefs failed to predict chronic pain magnitude. Despite these relatively weak relationships to chronic pain, the authors argued that their findings support the growing literature contending that progression to chronic pain is more dependent on psychosocial and occupational factors than on medical characteristics of the spinal condition. In general, a long series of studies now describe psychosocial and psychological factors in predicting functional and social disability, where the interrelationship between ratings of catastrophizing, pain-related fear of (re-) injury, depression, disability, and pain severity are studied and modeled in combination with demographics in various chronic pain conditions. Although these factors may be associated with pain in certain individuals, attempts to create models of CBP based upon them have been unproductive 38;47;74;79; for further details see 2. It is now being recognized that psychosocial factors constitute non-negligible risks for the development of low back pain 17 and cannot account for how or why a patient transitions into the chronic pain state. We have examined cognitive and sensory properties of chronic pain patients, with the simple notion that living with chronic pain may impart a cost in such processing. A long list of cognitive abnormalities has been described in chronic pain patients. The most noteworthy are attentional and memory deficits 18;68. However, little effort has been placed in differentiating such deficits based on chronic pain type. We reported that, in contrast to matched healthy controls, CBP and complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) patients are significantly impaired on an emotional decisionmaking task 5. Moreover, the performance of CBP patients was highly correlated with their verbal report of pain at the time of performing the task. In contrast to CBP, CRPS patients performance was not modified when their pain was manipulated using a sympathetic block. The latter implies that the brain mechanisms underlying the two types of chronic pain, or the impact of each condition on the brain, may be distinct and thus also distinctly modulate emotional states. It should be noted that the CRPS patients were tested on a long battery of other cognitive tasks as well, and their performance on these was not different from healthy control subjects. Two important conclusions are drawn from these observations. Firstly, cognitive disruption in chronic pain is specific to the type of test administered, implying impact on unique brain circuitry. Secondly, there are important differences between chronic pain conditions, even on the same cognitive task, suggesting that each condition may underlie unique brain activity/reorganization, which complicates our understanding of these conditions as it demands that we study each and every chronic pain regarding its cognitive and brain signature. More importantly, the implication that distinct chronic pain conditions have unique brain signatures open the possibility that each one of them may be understood in its own right, enabling the development of novel, specific therapies for each. This theme will be repeated several times below, emphasizing that brain-derived parameters repeatedly indicate the specific properties of distinct chronic pain conditions. It should be emphasized that the impact of chronic pain does not only result in deficits. When CBP patients were contrasted to healthy subjects as to gustatory abilities, we were able to show decreased threshold to gustatory detection and increased sensitivity to supra-threshold tastants for all modalities examined 69. Thus, these CBP patients are generally more sensitive in taste perception. It is possible that this ability is a predisposing factor. In fact, all the brain and cognitive changes we describe here are cross-sectional studies, and thus in all cases the distinction between predisposition and a consequence to chronic pain remains unsettled. More likely, increased taste sensitivity is a result of brain representation/reorganization as a consequence of living with CBP. We ascribe the deficit in emotional decision-making in CBP and CRPS as a consequence of the representation/reorganization of brain activity between the lateral and medial prefrontal cortex. In fact, our observation of activity in medial prefrontal cortex in CRPS 7 was the initial impetus for testing chronic pain patients with the gambling test. We also think that the increased taste sensitivity is a direct result of changes in activity/connectivity of the insular cortex in CBP Our earlier observation that insular cortex activity increases in CBP patients in proportion to the number of years they are in chronic pain 10, and given that parts of the insular cortex are considered primary gustatory cortex, led us to the hypothesis that gestation may be different in CBP Therefore, the cognitive and sensory changes we have observed in chronic pain patients are derived from observations regarding cortical representation and reorganization, and thus these domains are complementary to each other, reinforcing the idea that the brain abnormalities do result in very specific changes in information processing.
Muscle fatigue and pain are among the most common complaints at emergency rooms and clinics across the country. Fatigue and pain are often acute, remitting spontaneously or appearing to be attenuated by a variety of drugs and treatment modalities. In spite of these remissions, popular magazines (e.g., Time) estimate that each year Americans spend over $30 billion on herbal remedies and $50 billion on alternative therapies to treat symptoms that include muscle pain and fatigue. These statistics indicate that even acute muscle pain and fatigue are serious health problems that are not adequately addressed by current medical practice. Occasionally, muscle pain and fatigue take on a chronic nature, leading to syndromes including chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS)devastating conditions characterized by continuing, debilitating fatigue, which is made worse by even mild exercise in the case of CFS and by chronic widespread pain (CWP) with a particular emphasis in the muscles, which can prevent most or all activities in the case of FMS. Both of these conditions are frequently associated with each other and with a variety of other illnesses, such as temporomandibular disorder (TMD), irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), and multiple chemical sensitivity. These syndromes destroy lives, respond poorly to current treatment strategies, and can lead to exhaustion of the financial resources of afflicted patients. Together, these disorders affect 7 to 20 million people in the United States each year, as reported by various authorities (Reeves et al. 2007). Clearly, patients with these syndromes deserve a concerted research effort to understand, treat, and eventually cure these illnesses. In contrast to cutaneous pain, which has been thoroughly studied and is comparatively well understood, the molecular mechanisms for muscle pain are still unknown. Even more enigmatic is the symptom of debilitating fatigue. Mosso, in his compendious volume on the subject a century ago, remarked that all cultures seem to have just one word for fatigue (Mosso 1904). Yet fatigue describes many conditions, including failure of muscle fibers to shorten normally, deficient motor command signals, feelings of tiredness, heaviness, pressure, and weakness from muscles, and a feeling of mental fatigue that impedes concentration and performance of conceptual tasks. The subject of most physiological investigations of fatigue has been voluntary muscle contraction. Decreased function causing failure of voluntary muscle contraction can occur at all levels of the neuromuscular system, including the motor cortex, signaling to motoneurons, motoneuron signals to the muscle, excitation-contraction coupling in the muscle, and actin-myosin filament interactions. However, the most common failure is a decrease in the motor command signal from the motor cortex (see recent reports and reviews by Bellinger et al. 2008; Gibson et al. 2003; Noakes et al. 2005; St Clair and Noakes 2004). A recent review suggests that failures in voluntary muscle contraction are most often caused by a central comparator that integrates homeostatic inputs from many physiological systems and shuts down motor commands when energy resources are threatened (Noakes 2007). One of the homeostatic inputs is suggested to originate from a difference between subconscious representations of baseline physiological homeostatic state and the state of physiological activity induced by physical activity, which creates a second order representation which is perceived by consciousnessproducing structures as the sensation of fatigue (Gibson et al. 2003, page 174). We suggest that there is a simpler sensation of fatigue that is triggered by inputs from specific receptors that are sensitive to metabolites produced by muscle contraction. We further propose that this elementary sensation is transduced, conducted, and perceived within a unique sensory system with properties analogous to other sensory modalities such as pain. We call it the sensation of muscle fatigue.
Protein interactions are an important layer of connectivity between cell components and cell processes. They allow the formation of protein complexes and mediate post-translational protein modifications. Disruption of protein-protein interactions may result in disruption of the cell component or process to which they contribute, compromising the cell viability or even leading to cell death. The study of protein interactions and their function has recently jumped to an organism scale, following the development of high-throughput yeast-two-hybrid screens mapping protein-protein interactions (17) and affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry (MS) detecting protein complexes (8,9) (see Chapters 5, 6, and 7 for a thorough discussion of mass spectrometry and MS-based tissue imaging). At the cellular level, protein interactions are represented by the protein interaction network, which is the union of all proteins and the interactions among them. The protein interaction network involves asking questions similar to those asked for specific protein interactions: how to map these interactions, which properties characterize them, how are these proteins connected to cell processes and functions, and what is the evolution of the protein network? These questions are now investigated at different levels, from specific protein-protein interactions, passing through protein complexes, signaling cascades, and other protein interaction network motifs, ending in the whole protein interaction network. The role of the protein interaction network is beyond the network itself and it materializes through its interaction with other cellular networks. For example, the cell response to a change in environmental conditions requires the coordination between the signaling (a subnet of the protein interaction network), and the gene regulatory and metabolic networks. Consequently the study of protein interaction networks should be put in the context of the cell function. It is only in this way that the protein interaction network description can be transformed into better understanding and prediction of novel features and behavior. In this review I cover these different aspects of protein interaction networks. It is not intended to be an exhaustive review but is complemented by cited literature, including reviews of more specific topics.
This chapter describes the basic technology and application of matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) imaging mass spectrometry (MS) in the field of neurobiology. Examples of applications that search for biomarkers of diseases of the central nervous system for both diagnostic and prognostic purposes are discussed. Newly developed strategies and analytical methods are discussed for the study of drug pharmacokinetics, neuropeptide metabolism, and treatment-induced or disease-specific effects on the proteome.
For the past several years, a large group of collaborators has been working together toward understanding key biological problems related to brain function, brain structure, and the complexity of the nervous system. Problems such as the structure and the function of pre- and post-synaptic densities, the sets of proteins that are regulated by mental processes such as learning and memory formation, the protein networks affected by apoE genotypes in Alzheimers disease patients, and the structure of synaptic protein complexes in animal models of epilepsy, just to mention a few, have been under scrutiny in these studies. To tackle biological problems using neuroproteomics, we have learned that multiple experimental approaches need to be implemented. Techniques such as 2D-DIGE, mass spectrometry (MS), MS-based tissue imaging, protein arrays, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), protein interaction network analysis, multidimensional liquid chromatography, and many others are now in daily use. This book is intended to provide the reader with an introduction to some of the techniques that are most commonly used in neuroproteomics, and includes some examples of how such techniques are used to understand biological processes. A general overview of these techniques and their scope is discussed in this chapter. Modern biotechnology is enjoying an explosion of new systematic approaches for the study of biomolecules and their interactions. The advent of genomics, proteomics, metabolomics, peptidomics, lipidomics, glycomics, and all the other omics is providing a vast amount of information that is enriching our knowledge of biological systems. In this book, a group of experts in neuroproteomics and its applications present the concept that understanding the dynamics of the proteome of a complex biological system requires the integration of many different experimental approaches.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is generally referred to as the transitional zone between normal cognitive aging and early dementia or clinically probable Alzheimers disease (AD) (1), although not all AD patients pass through an MCI stage. The term was first coined by Petersen (2). Most individuals with MCI eventually develop AD, which suggests MCI may be the earliest phase of the AD (36). MCI can be divided into two broad subtypes: amnestic (memory-affecting) MCI or non-amnestic MCI (2,7). Other functions, such as language, attention, and visuospatial skills, may be impaired in either type. Amnestic mild MCI patients characteristically have subtle but measurable memory disorder not associated with dementia. Individuals with MCI are at an increased risk of developing AD, or another form of dementia with a rate of progression between 10% and 15% per year (8,9), although there have been cases where patients have reverted to normal (1,10,11). Criteria for MCI include (a) a memory complaint corroborated by an informant; (b) objective memory test impairment (age and education adjusted); (c) general normal global intellectual function; (d) activities of daily living not disturbed; (e) clinical dementia rating (CDR) score of 0.0 to 0.5; (f) no dementia; and (g) a clinical evaluation that revealed no other cause for memory decline (12). Moreover, neuroim-aging studies by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrate the atrophy of the hippocampus or entorhinal cortex in MCI patients, indicating the relationships with transition of normal aging to MCI, then later to clinical AD (13). Pathologically, MCI brain shows mild degradation of the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, sulci, and gyri using MRI (14,15). These aforementioned areas undergo considerable degradation in AD (1620). Since the hippocampus is the region of the brain primarily responsible for processing memory, it is clearly understandable why those persons with AD and MCI have memory loss.
The brain is of highest interest in biomedical research and in the pharmaceutical industry due to the appearance of widespread neurological diseases such as Alzheimers disease, Parkinsons disease, Huntingtons disease, multiple sclerosis, and stroke. Research into protein function in the brain and its role in health and disease is advancing swiftly. In the past, research technology allowed the examination of only a few proteins at a time; however, it is rapidly becoming more common to examine simultaneously the expression of hundreds or even thousands of proteins (1). This enables a more holistic view for the comprehension of cellular processes. The importance of harnessing quantitative methodologies for the assessment of differences in protein expression is paramount. Thus, a growing body of work in neuroproteomics using two-dimensional fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) is rapidly emerging, and a timely review of these data is warranted. Why is it important for neuroscience research to examine thousands of proteins simultaneously? Although certain RNA molecules can act as effector molecules, proteins perform the majority of biological actions in the cell. Identifying the thousands of different proteins in a cell, the modifications to these proteins, along with their expressional level changes under different conditions, and all the protein-protein interactions is revolutionizing biology and medicine. There are many potential applications for proteomics in neuroscience (2). Comparative protein expression profiling and post-translational protein modification profiling are tasks that are best performed with DIGE.
In this, the Post-Genomic Age, our knowledge of biological systems continues to expand and progress. As the research becomes more focused, so too does the data. Genomic research progresses to proteomics and brings us to a deeper understanding of the behavior and function of protein clusters. And now proteomics gives way to neuroproteomics as we begin to unravel the complex mysteries of neurological diseases that less than a generation ago seemed opaque to our inquiries, if not altogether intractable. Edited by Dr. Oscar Alzate, Neuroproteomics is the newest volume in the CRC Press Frontiers of Neuroscience series. With an extensive background in mathematics and physics, Dr. Alzate exemplifies the newest generation of biological systems researchers. He organizes research and data contributed from all across the world to present an overview of neuroproteomics that is practical and progressive. Bolstered by each new discovery, researchers employing multiple methods of inquiry gain a deeper understanding of the key biological problems related to brain function, brain structure, and the complexity of the nervous system. This in turn is leading to new understanding about diseases of neurological deficit such as Parkinsons and Alzheimers. Approaches discussed in the book include mass spectrometry, electrophoresis, chromatography, surface plasmon resonance, protein arrays, immunoblotting, computational proteomics, and molecular imaging. Writing about their own work, leading researchers detail the principles, approaches, and difficulties of the various techniques, demonstrating the questions that neuroproteomics can answer and those it raises. New challenges await, not the least of which is the identification of potential methods to regulate the structures and functions of key protein interaction networks. Ultimately, those building on the foundation presented here will advance our understanding of the brain and show us ways to abate the suffering caused by neurological and mental diseases.
A comprehensive understanding of how sensorimotor experience shapes brain development in early life necessitates a synthesis of evidence across a broad spectrum of scientific discovery. Phenomenological and mechanistic studies conducted at the level of cellular and systems neuroscience must be integrated with proteomic investigations aimed at understanding the organization and function of the protein networks that instantiate the impact of experience. Recent progress in characterizing the contributions of early visual experience to the development of functional circuits in the visual cortex has laid the foundation for the identification of proteins that are expressed differentially in brain development and modulated by visual experience. Ongoing studies are now uniting the power of proteomics with novel neurophysiological approaches to probe the molecular, cellular, and circuit mechanisms by which experience interacts with endogenous programs of brain development.
Proteomic analysis of brain tissue is becoming an integral component of neuroscience research. A proteomic analysis typically involves protein separation, protein identification, and protein characterization. Global characterization of proteins is providing new insights into biological structures such as synapses, axons, and dendrites. Additionally, proteomics has been applied in the investigation of various neurological disorders and has resulted in the detection and identification of a large number of disease-related proteins. The field of neuroproteomics faces special challenges given the complex cellular and subcellular architecture of the brain including sample preparation and limited sample amounts. This chapter presents an overview of current separation-based proteomic technologies, and the advantages and disadvantages of these technologies, and reviews the recent use of these approaches in neuroscience research.
Human brain banking has become an essential part of the research landscape in neurodegenerative disorders and neurobiology. The demand for high quality banked tissue has been on a steady rise for quite some time. Advanced research studies, including proteomics, metabolomics, m-RNA micro arrays, and genomics, are fast becoming the standard in neuroscience investigations. Since many investigators study human diseases or biological processes, it is therefore not a surprise that human tissue is in high demand to verify findings from animal models of disease. Many leading neuroscientists are focusing a large component of their research on techniques that require the collection of the highest quality of human brain tissue. The Kathleen Price Bryan Brain Bank (KPBBB; http://adrc. mc.duke.edu/BB.htm) at Duke University Medical Center (DUMC) in Durham, North Carolina, has over 20 years of experience with this process (1). Successful human brain banking requires not only attention to the users' needs for the highest quality of tissue, but it is also imperative for brain bankers to ensure that the donors wishes are honored. There have been great strides on a national level to facilitate the availability and distribution of these resources to the ever-growing demand in the neuroscience community. The National Institute on Aging (NIA) through the National Alzheimers Coordinating Center (NACC) has created an infrastructure and informatics network to support collaboration among the individual NIA-funded Alzheimers Disease Centers (ADCs) and to serve as a resource for the neuroscience research community. The banked tissue thus obtained is an invaluable resource available to qualified researchers. This chapter describes general concepts concerning proper acquisition, storage, and distribution of brain tissue for neurodegenerative research.
Post-translational modification of proteins is important for the regulation of cellular processes, including the cellular localization of protein, the regulation of protein function, and protein complex formation. Post-translational modification of proteins is part of what makes proteomics so much more challenging than genomics. Not only does the proteomic alphabet contain more letters than the genome (21 common amino acids as opposed to four nucleotides), but these amino acids can also be modified by literally hundreds of modifications that change their molecular weights, the fundamental physical property measured by mass spectrometry. Of these modifications, the most common and naturally occurring are cleavage, acetylation, formylation, methionine oxidation, phosphorylation, ubiquitination, and glycosylation (which is a whole set of modifications rather than a single modification). A more comprehensive list of protein modifications can be found elsewhere (1). In addition, other non-post-translational modifications, such as crosslinking, fluorescent labels, and spin labels, can be used to probe protein structure and function.
&quot;Proteomics&quot; is a word coined in 1994 by Marc Wilkins as an alternative to the protein complement of the genome (1). Proteomics is still defined in various ways (2), from the large-scale analysis of the proteome to the simultaneous study of all proteins in the cell. In this chapter, we define it as the study of proteins and their interactions. Proteomics is a new fieldonly 10 years oldand the rapid evolution of this field is due in large part to many improvements in mass spectrometry (MS) that have occurred during the past several years. Mass spectrometers do one thingthey measure mass. In proteomics, the mass gives information on the protein identity, its chemical modifications, and its structure. Every mass spectrometer has three main components: a source, an analyzer, and a detector. Mass spectrometers measure masses of charged species, so the source must be able to produce ions, the analyzer must be able to separate these ions based on their mass (or, more accurately, mass-to-charge ratio), and the detector must be able to detect charged particles and then amplify the response to give a measurable signal. In 2002, the award for the Nobel Prize in chemistry was given to two scientists (John Fenn and Koichi Tanaka) responsible for the development of two ionization techniques that have revolutionized biomedical mass spectrometry in general, and proteomics in particular. These two techniques, electrospray (3) and MALDI (matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization) (4) mass spectrometry, were groundbreaking in that they allow the vaporization and ionization (and thus the analysis) of relatively large, non-volatile biomolecules such as proteins and peptides. In addition, simultaneous improvements to and development of mass analyzers and detectors have greatly increased the use of mass spectrometry for biological studies.
The large-scale datasets generated by gene sequencing, proteomics, and other high-throughput experimental technologies are the bases for understanding life as a molecular system and for developing medical, industrial, and other practical applications. In order to facilitate bioinformatics analysis of such large-scale datasets, it is essential to organize our knowledge on higher levels of systemic functions in a computable form, so that it can be used as a reference for inferring molecular systems from the information contained in the building blocks. Thus, we have been developing the KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) database (http://www.genome.jp/kegg/), an integrated resource of about 20 databases (1). The main component is the KEGG PATHWAY database, consisting of manually drawn graphical diagrams of molecular networks, called pathway maps, and representing various cellular processes and organism behaviors. KEGG PATHWAY is a reference database for pathway mapping, which is the process to match, for example, a genomic or transcriptomic content of genes against KEGG reference pathway maps to infer systemic functions of the cell or the organism. As part of the KEGG PATHWAY database, we organize disease pathway maps representing our knowledge of causative genes and molecular networks related to them for human diseases, including cancers, immune disorders, neurodegenerative diseases, metabolic disorders, and infectious diseases. Here we focus on neurodegenerative diseases, which were among the first to be made available on the KEGG PATHWAY database. A diverse range of neurodegenerative diseases is commonly characterized by the accumulation of abnormal protein aggregates. Causative genes, including those that produce abnormal proteins, have been identified in various neurodegenerative diseases. The current information is not sufficient to find common molecular mechanisms of the diseases. In this chapter we first present an overview of KEGG, including the KEGG DISEASE and KEGG DRUG databases, and describe the KEGG PATHWAY maps for six neurodegenerative diseases: Alzheimers disease (AD), Parkinsons disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Huntingtons disease (HD), dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA), and prion diseases (PRION). We then present bioinformatics analysis to combine and expand these pathway maps toward identification of common proteins and common interactions, which may lead to a better understanding of common molecular pathogenic mechanisms (2).
The brain processing of complex auditory information and the formation of auditory memories are critical to the biology of a number of social organisms that use vocal communication, as in the case of humans and songbirds [for reviews, see (1,2)]. In mammals, the auditory cortex is considered to play a central role in the processing of complex acoustic stimuli, including those that involve communication signals, such as vocalizations in animals and speech in humans (3,4). Songbirds have emerged as a powerful model to study the brain processing of complex, behaviorally relevant auditory communication signals, due to their complex communication relative to many other animal groups. For instance, songbirds are capable of vocal learningthe ability to modify their vocalizations based on auditory input a rare behavior that is necessary for the acquisition of spoken language in humans, and found only in few animal groups (humans, cetaceans, elephants, some species of bats, parrots, and hummingbirds, in addition to songbirds) (58). It is thought that all other animal groups, including non-human primates, do not exhibit vocal learning behavior and, therefore, only display innate species-specific vocalizations (6). Songbirds also rely in the perceptual processing of songs for other important behaviors including those that involve individual identification, territorial defense, and mate selection (914).
Most biological processes are the result of the regulated expression of genes into their protein products in a defined temporal and spatial manner. The study of these dynamic protein changes in the brain is called neuroproteomics. A class of proteins expressed in the brain that have generated significant interests are those regulated by neural activity, called activity-dependent genes. The activity of neurons in the brain is important for normal brain function and expression of behavior. One system where the study of these features has been brought together is that of the songbird vocal learning system. Songbirds, and a limited number of animals (i.e., parrots, hummingbirds, bats, cetaceans, seals, elephants, and humans) are capable of vocal learning, the ability to produced imitative and improvisational sounds. Most animals do not have vocal learning but produce species-specific innate sounds used for alarm (e.g., predator) or other communication functions (e.g., alert for food or attracting a mate). The production of learned vocalizations requires the animal to process what it hears in the auditory pathway of the brain and then to produce the sounds heard, as song in songbirds or speech in humans, through specialized motor learning pathways. In songbirds and other vocal learning birds, this song learning motor pathway is organized into anatomically discrete nuclei that are not found in vocal non-learning birds. In this regard, songbirds represent a relatively unique animal model suited to the study of molecular mechanisms of a learned behavior with parallels to human speech. In recent years, a number of genes and their protein products have been identified that are regulated by neural activity during hearing and singing in the auditory and vocal brain pathways of songbirds. This chapter focuses on proteins regulated in the vocal pathway of songbirds performing learned vocalization. A discussion of proteins regulated in the auditory pathway by hearing is presented by Pinaud et al. in Chapter 14.
Peripheral nerve injury is a major clinical and public health challenge. Although a common and increasingly prevalent wartime condition (1), injury to peripheral nerves, plexuses, and roots is present in 5% of patients seen in civilian trauma centers (2). In one study, almost half of peripheral nerve injuries at trauma centers were due to motor vehicle accidents and about half required surgery (3). Peripheral nerve injuries can substantially impact quality of life through loss of function and increased risk of secondary disabilities from falls, fractures, and other injuries (2). Neurons are connected in intricate communication networks established during development to convey sensory information from peripheral receptors of sensory neurons to the central nervous system (the brain and spinal cord), and to convey commands from the central nervous system to effector organs such as skeletal muscle innervated by motor neurons. The peripheral nerve environment is quite complex, consisting of axonal projections from neurons, supporting cells such as Schwann cells and fibroblasts, and the blood supply to the nerve. Connective tissue known as endoneurium surrounds peripheral nerve axons. Within peripheral nerves, axons are grouped into fascicles surrounded by connective tissue known as perineurium. Between and surrounding groups of fascicles is the epineurium. Microvessel plexuses course longitudinally through the epineurium and send branches through the perineurium to form a vascular network of capillaries in the endoneurium (4). The primary supporting cell for peripheral nerves is the Schwann cell. Schwann cells wrap around axons in a spiral fashion multiple times and their plasma membranes form a lipid-rich tubular cover around the axon known as the myelin sheath or the neurilemma. Schwann cells and the myelin sheath support and maintain axons and help to guide axons during axonal regeneration following nerve injury (5). It has been known for quite some time that regenerating axons exhibit a strong preference for growing along the inside portion of remaining basal lamina tubes in the distal nerve stump, the well-characterized bands of Bungner (610). Schwann cells originally associated with myelinated axons form such bands all the way from the transection site to the distal end organ target. The critical concept here is that the eventual distal destination of regenerating axons is largely determined by the Schwann cell tubes as they enter at the nerve transection site (9,11,12). Recent elegant work with transgenic mice expressing fluorescent proteins in their axons has verified that most (but not all) regenerating axons distal to either a crush or a transection injury remain within a single Schwann cell band as they grow within the distal nerve stump (13,14). Within the motor system it has even been shown that the same axon predominantly reinnervates the same neuromuscular junctions, and that Schwann cell bands act as mechanical barriers to direct axon outgrowth (13). The neuronal cell body is the site of synthesis of virtually all proteins and organelles in the cell. A complex process known as anterograde transport continuously moves materials from the neuronal cell body via the axon to its terminal synapse. These transported substances include neurotransmitters that facilitate communications between the neuron and end organ tissue across a narrow extracellular space known as the synaptic cleft (5) or, as in the case of the motor neuron innervation of muscle, the neuromuscular junction (15). Conversely, end organs such as muscle produce substances that act as nerve growth factors. These make their way across the neuromuscular junction to the innervating motor neuron axon (16). Some of these substances, or chemical messengers induced by them, are packaged and conveyed by retrograde transport from the synapse via the axon to the neuronal cell body. In this manner, the neuron and its end organ are continuously informed about the status of the connection between them. It has been suggested that information from end organs takes the form of factors that sustain existing nerve cell connections and promote the regeneration of damaged nerve cells. For instance, it has long been known that muscle exerts a strong influence on developing and regenerating motor neurons, and we have recently shown that even within an individual muscle there are factors that can influence the accuracy of reinnervation (17). Recent work has elegantly shown that if a single muscle fiber is selectively lesioned, the motor neuron axon terminal making up the proximal side of the neuromuscular junction rapidly atrophies and withdraws from the muscle postsynaptic sites within a matter of hours (18). The clinical significance, prognosis, and treatment of peripheral nerve injury depend on the site and extent of the injury. Despite regeneration, extensive peripheral nerve injuries can result in the effective paralysis of the entire limb or distal portions of the limb. Two peripheral nerve injury classification schemes, the Seddon (19) and the Sunderland (20), are in common use. These classify nerve injury according to whether the injury was confined to demyelination only or a more severe disruption of axons and supporting connective tissue. According to Seddon, the most severe injuries are classified as axonotmesis and neurotmesis. Axonotmesis is a nerve injury characterized by axon disruption rather than destruction of the connective tissue framework. The connective tissue and Schwann tubes are relatively intact. This is typical of stretch injuries common in falls and motor vehicle accidents. In contrast, neurotmesis involves the disruption of the nerve trunk and the connective tissue structure. This would occur in injuries where the nerve has been completely severed or badly crushed. Prognosis is good in peripheral nerve injuries where endoneurial Schwann cell tubes remain intact. Disruption of the Schwann cell tubes results in the loss of established pathways that regenerating axons follow. For extensive injuries, surgery is usually necessary to remove damaged nerve tissue and join viable nerve ends by direct anastomosis or by a nerve tissue graft (1). Refinement of microsurgical techniques involving the introduction of the surgical microscope and microsutures has increased the accuracy of this mechanical process, yet only 10% of adults will recover normal nerve function using state-of-the-art current techniques (2123). The limits of microsurgical techniques have been reached; this is not surprising given that the finest suture material and needles (1822 and 5075 microns, respectively) are still quite a bit larger than the smallest axons that need to be repaired. The major key to recovery of function following peripheral nerve lesions is the accurate regeneration of axons to their original target end organs. A recognized leader of clinical nerve repair once stated, The core of the problem is not promoting axon regeneration, but in getting them back to where they belong (Sunderland, 1991) (23). At the level of a mixed peripheral nerve where motor and sensory axons are intermixed, correct discriminatory choices for appropriate terminal nerve branches at the lesion site are necessary prerequisites for the subsequent successful reinnervation of appropriate end-organ targets. Motor axons previously innervating muscle may be misdirected to sensory organs, and sensory axons typically innervating skin can be misdirected to muscle. Misdirected regeneration is a major barrier to functional recovery. In order to understand axonal regeneration and the mechanisms that axons use to navigate to target tissues, our laboratory has conducted a series of studies that are now culminating in proteomic investigations to identify specific biochemical mediators that may be the underlying mechanisms that direct accurate axon regeneration. We describe our work and that of others in the development of a model of axonal regeneration in the rodent femoral nerve and what we have learned from it. Then we will lay out our current research direction illustrating how approaches in proteomics such as two-dimensional differential gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) and mass spectrometry can be used to identify the underlying mediators that may lead to new therapies for peripheral nerve injury.
With the accumulation of vast amounts of DNA sequences in databases, researchers are realizing more and more that having complete sequences of genomes is not sufficient to elucidate biological function, not even if complemented with detailed information on the dynamics of the transcriptome. A cell or tissue is dependent on a huge number of metabolic and regulatory pathways for its normal functioning and there is no strict linear relationship between gene expressions and the protein complements or proteome. Proteomics is therefore complementary to genomics and transcriptomics because it focuses on the gene products, the true active agents in a cell or tissue at any given time during a given physiological state. The advent of proteomics techniques has been enthusiastically accepted in most areas of biology and medicine. In neuroscience a host of applications was proposed ranging from neurotoxicology, neurometabolism, and determination of the proteomes of individual brain regions in health and disease, to name a few. We have implemented functional proteomics to help unravel the molecular pathways of brain plasticity that drive the response of the mammalian sensory neocortex to stimulus deprivation during development and adulthood, with a special emphasis on the visual system of the cat.
The initial steps of olfaction occur in primary sensory neurons located in the olfactory epithelium of the nasal cavity of vertebrates. These neurons are responsible for the detection of odorant molecules present in the surrounding environment and the generation of the neural signal that is transmitted to the brain. The morphology of the primary sensory neurons was described by Max Schultze in the second half of the nineteenth century (for review, see Zippel 1993), but only about 100 years later the first reviews describing some functional properties of these neurons were published (Getchell 1986; Lancet 1986). Primary sensory neurons of the olfactory epithelium, often indicated by various names: olfactory receptor cells (ORCs), olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs), or olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs), are bipolar neurons with a single dendrite that terminates with a knob, from which several tiny cilia protrude, where the transduction of the olfactory signal takes place. Odorant molecules bind to odorant receptors, and this interaction triggers an increase in the intraciliary concentration of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) through the activation of the receptor-coupled G-protein and adenylyl cyclase (AC). Cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels located in the ciliary membrane are directly activated by cytoplasmic cAMP, causing a depolarizing influx of Na(+) and Ca(+) ions. The odorant-induced inward transduction current has been shown to be composed not only of a cation influx through CNG channels, but also of a C() efflux through C() channels activated by Ca(2+) (Cl(Ca) channels). This chapter will review the molecular mechanisms underlying the functional role of vertebrate olfactory cilia.
The receptors responsible for odorant discrimination were first cloned in 1991 by Linda Buck and Richard Axel (Buck and Axel 1991). A series of physiological and biochemical experiments performed during the mid-1980s indicated that odorant activation of olfactory sensory neurons was mediated by a G-protein-dependent pathway, which led to activation of adenylyl cyclase, increases in intracellular concentrations of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), activation of cyclic nucleotide-gated channels, and neuron depolarization (Firestein et al. 1991; Lowe et al. 1989; Nakamura and Gold 1987; Pace et al. 1985; Sklar et al. 1986; see also Chapter 8). The subsequent cloning of olfactory-specific genes coding for a G protein (Golf) (Jones and Reed 1989) and for a cAMP-gated channel (Dhallan et al. 1990) further strengthened the involvement of cAMP in odorant signal transduction. These experiments strongly indicated that the odorant receptors (ORs) should be G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). About the same time, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique was developed (Saiki et al. 1988), and the first GPCRs had been identified. Comparison between the sequences of rhodopsin and (-adrenergic receptors indicated that receptors that couple to G-proteins showed related structures, with seven membrane-spanning regions (Dixon et al. 1986). Comparison of the sequences of a higher number of GPCRs (around 20 G-protein-compled receptor (GPCR) sequences were known by 1989) revealed that they all shared a related seven-transmembrane structure and they also shared limited sequence motifs. In 1989, it was shown for the first time that degenerate primers could be used in PCR reactions to identify new members of the GPCR family (Libert et al. 1989). The approach used by Buck and Axel to isolate the Odorant receptor (OR) genes was based on the assumptions that the receptors should belong to a large family of GPCRs and their expression should be restricted to the olfactory epithelium (Buck and Axel 1991). Eleven degenerate primers that would allow amplification of all known GPCRs at the time were designed and all possible combinations were used in PCR reactions with rat olfactory epithelium cDNA. As a result, 64 bands of appropriate sizes were obtained in agarose gels. The next step was to screen these bands for the ones containing the OR genes. It was reasoned that if one of the bands contained cDNAs corresponding to multiple OR genes, four-cutter restriction enzymes would cleave the DNA into smaller fragments showing sizes that, when summed up, would produce a size greater than that of the original band. The 64 PCR bands were treated with the HinfI or HaeIII restriction enzymes, and for most of the bands, restriction digestion generated fragments with sizes that summed up to the original band size. Therefore, these PCR products contained a single DNA species. However, restriction digestion of one of the bands produced fragments with sizes that summed to a value far greater than that of the original PCR product. This PCR band contained a mixture of different DNA species, each of which was amplified by the same pair of degenerate primers. The band was cloned into plasmid, and individual recombinant plasmids were sequenced. All sequences were different, but they all showed a GPCR-like structure. Using Northern blot analysis, it was also demonstrated that these receptors are expressed in the olfactory epithelium, but not in a further eight tissues analyzed, including the brain, retina, and liver (Buck and Axel 1991). In addition, in order to estimate the approximate size of the OR gene family, rat genomic libraries were screened for OR genes using a mixture of the OR cDNAs as probes. It was estimated then that the rat haploid genome should contain at least 5001000 OR genes (Buck and Axel 1991; Buck 1992). Comparison of different rat OR amino acid sequences revealed that, even though they are extremely diverse, they share conserved motifs that are characteristic of the OR family, such as GN in transmembrane domain I, PMYF/LFL in transmembrane domain II, MAYDRYVAIC in transmembrane domain III, KAFSTCA/GSHLSVV in transmembrane domain 6, and PMLNPFIYSLRN in transmembrane domain VII (Buck and Axel 1991) (Figure 7.1). Additional members of the OR family were identified by using degenerate primers matching these OR motifs in PCR reactions with olfactory epithelium cDNA or genomic DNA (since the OR coding region is contained in one single exon). Degenerate primers matching to the highly conserved motifs in transmembrane III and VI were very efficient in amplifying a large fraction of the mouse OR genes (Malnic et al. 1999; Michaloski et al. 2006; Ressler et al. 1993).
Over 30 years ago, Nobel laureate Sydney Brenner recognized that an intellectually straightforward strategy to delineate the basic principles in neurobiology is to utilize a model organism with a nervous system that is simple enough to lend itself to anatomical, cellular, genetic, and molecular analysis, yet be complex enough that lessons learned in that organism would give us insight into general principles of neural function. The humble organism he chose, the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, is now one of the most thoroughly characterized metazoans, particularly in terms of its nervous system. One of Brenners motivations in adapting C. elegans as a model organism was to understand the totality of the molecular and cellular basis for the control of animal behavior (Brener 1988). In this chapter, we review what is arguably the best-studied aspect of C. elegans behavior: response to chemical stimuli. The C. elegans neurobiology literature can be intimidating for the uninitiated; we attempt to limit the use of worm jargon in this review. For a more C. elegans-centric review, we refer you to other excellent sources (Bargmann 2006).
The mouse olfactory epithelium (OE) is an ideal model system for identifying and characterizing the factors that regulate proliferation and differentiation of neurons from their stem and progenitor cells. In part, this is because the OE undergoes neurogenesis throughout life, and does so exuberantly in response to injury (Graziadei and Monti Graziadei 1978; Mackay-Sim and Kittel 1991; Calof et al. 2002). However, another advantage of great significance is the fact that numerous studies have given us a good idea of the cell types that give rise to olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) (Cau et al. 1997; Calof et al. 2002; Kawauchi et al. 2004, 2005; Beites et al. 2005; see also Chapter 5). Thus, in the neuronal lineage of the OE, four cell stages have been identified, in vitro and in vivo: (1) Sox2-expressing stem cells, which reside in the basal compartment of the epithelium, are thought to commit to the ORN lineage via expression of the proneural gene, Mash1. (2) Mash1-expressing early progenitor cells, which divide and may act as transit-amplifying cells (Gordon et al. 1995), in turn give rise to (3) late-stage transit-amplifying cells, also known as immediate neuronal precursors (INPs), which express a second proneural gene, Ngn1 (Wu et al. 2003). INPs give rise to daughter cells that undergo terminal differentiation into (4) postmitotic Ncam-expressing ORNs. Figure 10.1A shows schematics of both the OE neuronal lineage and the spatial distribution of these cells within the OE in vivo. As is common to many epithelia, differentiation in the OE proceeds in a basal-to-apical direction: dividing stem and progenitor cells lie atop the basal lamina, and multiple layers of differentiated ORNs lie above the progenitor cells layers. Since the OE is able to sustain de novo neurogenesis throughout life and to regenerate in response to injury (Graziadei and Monti Graziadei 1978; Calof et al. 2002), it must contain stem cells. Indeed, several groups have been interested in harvesting OE stem cells for their therapeutic potential (e.g., Zhang et al. 2004; Othman et al. 2005). However, when OE is isolated and cultured in serum-free medium, although it avidly generates neurons for one to two days (Calof and Chikaraishi 1989), it rapidly loses the ability to undergo neurogenesis unless other factors or feeder cells are added (DeHamer et al. 1994; Holcomb et al. 1995; Mumm et al. 1996; Shou et al. 2000). In other words, OE neuronal stem and transit-amplifying cells in isolation are prone to undergoing differentiative divisions over self-replicative divisions, resulting in rapid expiration of these cell populations in tissue culture. This observation has prompted numerous studies to search for the environmental cues that are important for sustaining stem and progenitor cell self-renewal and maintaining the neurogenic potential of the OE.
The sensing of molecules in the environment is critical to the survival of every organism. It is, therefore, hardly surprising that most animals have developed highly sophisticated olfactory systems. In contrast to other sensory systems, large portions of the genome are devoted to encode the receptors of this sensory system. The past years have seen an explosion in studies aimed at understanding the functioning of the olfactory system. These studies cover all levels of analysisfrom genes to behavior. Considerable progress has been made in understanding the molecular organization of all stages of the olfactory pathway. Consequently, particular effort was spent on the question of how information contained in odorant molecules is encoded and processed at the various levels of the olfactory system, from the periphery to higher olfactory centers. As the vast majority of these studies focused on adult animals, the state of knowledge of the embryonic or larval development of olfactory systems is comparatively limited. Especially in mammals, studies focusing on the embryonic olfactory systems are inherently difficult and so far have not been carried out. In this respect, amphibians are particularly suited. Their fertilized eggs develop into free-swimming larvae before metamorphosing into juvenile animals. Ontogenetic stages of various amphibians are well characterized and easy to handle. This chapter aims to present a detailed overview of the current knowledge of the organization and function of the olfactory system of a premetamorphotic amphibian, the african clawed frog Xenopus laevis.
The common belief is that human smell perception is much reduced compare to other mammals, so that whatever abilities are uncovered and investigated in animal research would have little significance for humans. However, new evidence from a variety of sources indicates this traditional view is likely overly simplistic. The Neurobiology of Olfaction provides a thorough analysis of the state-of-the-science in olfactory knowledge and research, reflecting the growing interest in the field. Authors from some of the most respected laboratories in the world explore various aspects of olfaction, including genetics, behavior, olfactory systems, odorant receptors, odor coding, and cortical activity. Until recently, almost all animal research in olfaction was carried out on orthonasal olfaction (inhalation). It is only in recent years, especially in human flavor research, that evidence has begun to be obtained regarding the importance of retronasal olfaction (exhalation). These studies are beginning to demonstrate that retronasal smell plays a large role in human behavior. Highlighting common principles among various species-including humans, insects, Xenopus laevis (African frog), and Caenorhabditis elegans (nematodes)-this highly interdisciplinary book contains chapters about the most recent discoveries in odor coding from the olfactory epithelium to cortical centers. It also covers neurogenesis in the olfactory epithelium and olfactory bulb. Each subject-specific chapter is written by a top researcher in the field and provides an extensive list of reviews and original articles for students and scientists interested in further readings.
A fundamental feature of sensory systems is that the animal can actively control the interaction between a stimulus and the sensory neurons detecting it. This active control is important because it allows an animal to sample regions of interest in space, to regulate stimulus intensity in order to maintain optimal receptor function, to extract features of interest from a complex stimulus, and to protect sensory neurons from damage due to excess exposure to strong or (in the case of chemoreception) toxic stimuli. Active sensation is especially prominent in olfaction; in vertebrates, for example, odorants cannot be detected without the movement of air or water into the nasal cavity, and vertebrates and invertebrates alike have impressively complex behavioral repertoires built around the process of sampling odorants. This chapter will focus on the importance of active sensing to olfactory system function. A key point is that active sensing is important not only in shaping how sensory neurons respond to a stimulus, but also in determining how incoming sensory information is processed at higher levels, modulated by behavioral state, and, ultimately, perceived by the animal. For example, active odorant sampling constrains the temporal structure of sensory input to the nervous system, a feature that probably has important consequences for how the postsynaptic networks that process olfactory information are designed and function. At the same time, sampling behavior is tightly linked to behavioral state, so that top-down, state-dependent modulation of sensory processing probably goes hand-in-hand with bottom-up changes in the nature of sensory input. Finally, in order to correctly process incoming information, sensory processing must be coordinated with the motor systems involved in stimulus sampling. This chapter will review how active sensing shapes olfactory system function at each of these levels. Because of the wide-ranging nature of the subject, treatment of individual topics is not exhaustive; the reader is referred to a number of excellent, more focused reviews at the end of the chapter. In addition, relevant chapters in this volume are cited where possible to minimize overlap of content.
Our understanding of the neural basis of olfactory processing is in a strong growth phase, with active research at all levels of the system. This research will not only provide insights into each stage of processing, but also a framework for understanding how the system functions as a whole. Most of this research has been carried out in animals. Many of the principles in the vertebrate also apply in the invertebrate (cf. Wilson 2008). In this chapter, I will briefly review the state of our knowledge of these steps, and then ask to what extent this work in animals gives us new insights into human olfaction.
Insects are the most diverse and abundant animal group, representing more than 70% of all known animal species. They display a range of sophisticated and adaptive behaviors based on the perception of a multitude of stimuli. Within the incoming stream of multimodal sensory information, olfactory signals often serve as key stimuli or releasers for the initiation of behaviors such as orientation toward mating partners, localization of appropriate sites for oviposition, and foraging. The vitally important role of olfaction is a general phenomenon across the animal kingdom. Insects are valuable model systems in neuroscience due to the balance between the moderate complexity of their nervous systems, a rich behavioral repertoire, and the low cost of maintenance as experimental animals. Insect brains contain on the order of 10(5) to 10(6) neurons, thus they range slightly above Aplysia in this measure, but below Octopus (&gt;10(8)), which is comparable to small mammals (mouse: ca. 5  10(7)). For comparison, the human brain contains on the order of 10(11) neurons. The concept of individually identifiable neurons and small networks as functional units have been vital for understanding insect brains, whose main properties are processing speed, relative simplicity, and elegant design principles. Moreover, insects are well suited for multidisciplinary studies in brain research involving a combined approach at various levels, from molecules to single neurons to neural networks, behavior, and modeling. These preparations are amenable to a wide variety of methodological approaches, in particular genetic engineering, neuroanatomy, electrophysiology, and functional imaging. The similarity in the construction principles of central olfactory processing areas between insects and vertebrates and the common structural units of olfactory processing, called glomeruli, have made insects valuable model systems for investigating general mechanisms of olfactory information processing (Hildebrand and Shepherd 1997; Rssler et al. 2002). The striking similarity in the design of olfactory systems suggests that there are optimized solutions to deal with this kind of stimulus space, whose relevant metrics are still poorly understood. Odor-induced behaviors and their plasticity in insects have also led to important advances in the understanding of learning and memory (Menzel 2001). Even on shorter timescales of odor-induced orientation, flexibility and reliability are features that characterize insect behavior. In particular, moths have been a model system with a long-standing tradition being able to localize a female or pheromone source over long distances in natural environments despite (or because of?) the intermittent stimulus characteristics caused by turbulent flows. In the present context, we cover, without claiming an exhaustive review of the vast literature, the current state of knowledge concerning moth olfactory behaviors, their plasticity, and the underlying neural mechanisms. These encompass the structure and function of olfactory sensory organs, the molecular mechanisms of olfactory transduction, and the anatomical and physiological properties of olfactory neurons and circuits in the brain, which deliver outputs for the control of behavior. While there is also a large body of work on the development of the olfactory system in moths that is important for our understanding of the generation of the structural characteristics of olfactory systems, we refer the reader to available reviews covering this topic (Keil 1992; Oland and Tolbert 1996; Salecker and Malun 1999; Tolbert et al. 2004).
Most organisms rely on their olfactory system to detect and analyze olfactory cues in the environment, cues that are subsequently utilized in the context of behavior. Odorants are recognized by olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs), which are located in the olfactory epithelia of vertebrates or in the dendrites of olfactory sensory cells within the sensilla on the antennal surface of insects (Buck and Axel 1991; Carlson 2001; Chess et al. 1992; Vosshall et al. 2000). The OSNs express odorant receptors (ORs), which are related to seven transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) and transduce odorant binding to cellular excitation (see also Chapter 7). The olfactory system of the genetic model organism, the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, has been the focus of numerous investigations. Drosophila has two pairs of olfactory organs, the antennae and the maxillary palps. Each antenna contains about 1200 OSNs housed in a total of 410 olfactory sensilla covering the antenna, while the maxillary palp has about 120 OSNs and 60 olfactory sensilla (Laissue and Vosshall 2007). The sensilla are of three morphological types: basiconic sensilla, trichoid sensilla, and coeloconic sensilla (Venkatesh and Singh 1984). Across insects, there is a beautiful diversity of sensillar morphologies, including pore plate sensilla, campaniform sensilla, sensilla ampullacea, and more (Kleineidam and Tautz 1996; Steinbrecht 1996). In recent studies, the OR gene family of D. melanogaster has been identified and shown to comprise 62 defned members (Table 2.1) (Clyne et al. 1999; Gao and Chess 1999; Vosshall et al. 1999). Several studies have been dedicated to characterize the molecular receptive ranges of identified ORs (Dobritsa et al. 2003; Hallem and Carlson 2006; Pelz et al. 2006).
From the most gregarious to the most solitary, all animals have to coordinate their activity with other members of their species if they are to survive and reproduce. This requires some form of communication, which for the majority of animals involves the use of chemical signals, known as pheromones. Karlson and Luscher (1959) initially proposed the term pheromone. They defined pheromones as substances secreted to the outside of an individual and received by a second individual of the same species in which they release a specific reaction, for example, a definite behavior or developmental process. Although not part of the original definition, the term pheromone is usually reserved for chemical signals that are produced and received by members of the same species, in which both the sender and receiver of the signal gain benefit (Wyatt 2003). In this case, selective pressures usually lead to the coevolution specialized sending and receiving systems for pheromones. The identification of pheromones started in the 1950s with the purification of only 5.3 mg of the male silk moth attractant bombykol, from the scent glands of 313,000 female silk moths (Butenandt et al. 1959). Bombykol has since become a classic example of a sex attractant pheromone, attracting male silk moths over large distances. However, there has been considerable debate regarding whether the term pheromone, which was initially applied to insect chemosignals, can be usefully applied to vertebrates (Doty 2003). The issue comes down to what is meant by a definite response. Vertebrate, especially mammalian, behavior is generally more dependent on context and learning than insect behavior, and therefore, responses to chemical signals are more difficult to observe, and rarely consistently effective in all individuals all of the time. This chapter reviews the recent evidence that has accumulated in support of mammalian pheromones that exert significant influence over mammalian physiology and behavior. In doing so, it takes a relatively broad view in discussing all intraspecific, specialized semiochemical signals as potential pheromones, while acknowledging that they may not meet the narrower interpretations of some researchers in the field.
Several excellent reviews have detailed the conservation of principles between insect, amphibian, and mammalian olfactory systems, and many important contributions to the field have been made by cross-phyla comparisons. However, within the limitations of this reference, in this chapter we will emphasize embryonic development and axon targeting in the rodent olfactory system, focusing on the mouse. To aide comparisons between studies in other rodents, the developmental ages in studies in the rat will be adjusted and referred to as the equivalent developmental age in mice. We apologize for any papers we may have missed or not had the opportunity to discuss in detail due to space limitations. The olfactory system is one of the most precocious sensory systems to develop in the embryo. The primary olfactory pathway is comprised of two components, the olfactory epithelium (OE) and the olfactory bulb (OB). The secondary olfactory pathway includes multiple cortical regions, all of which are directly innervated by OB projection neurons, and are collectively referred to as the olfactory cortex. Major regions of the olfactory cortex include the anterior olfactory nucleus (AON), the olfactory tubercle, the piriform cortex, and the entorhinal cortex (reviewed in Wilson et al. 2006). These regions are innervated by mitral and/or tufted cell axons via the lateral olfactory tract (LOT). During the earliest stages of primary olfactory pathway formation, the OE and the OB undergo simultaneous, yet independent, developmental programs (Lopez-Mascaraque and De Castro 2002). However, as development progresses and axons from the OE innervate the nascent OB, their developmental programs become interrelated (Treloar et al. 1999; Matsutani and Yamamoto 2000; Lopez-Mascaraque et al. 2005). The early separation in developmental programs is perhaps not surprising given the spatial segregation of the regions that give rise to these two structures (see below). Despite a common ectodemal origin, the OE (the peripheral component of the olfactory system) is derived from the olfactory placode, while the OB emerges from the germinal zones of the neural tube, like other central nervous system (CNS) structures.
To detect a myriad of chemical cues signaling potential food, mates, and danger, most species (from worms, insects to mammals) develop sophisticated chemosensory systems. In mammals, the olfactory, gustatory, and trigeminal systems, which are primarily responsible for smell, taste, and somatosensation, respectively, are all involved in chemical senses. The nose, a seemingly unitary organ, consists of multiple olfactory apparatuses, among which the main olfactory epithelium (MOE) and the vomeronasal organ (VNO) have been extensively studied. Both systems comprise several subtypes of sensory cells with specialized morphological, molecular, and/or functional features. The MOE contains ciliated olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) and microvillar cells. Most ciliated OSNs express G-protein-coupled odorant receptors (GPCRs) (Chapter 7) and employ the canonical cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) cascade to transform chemical energy into electrical signals (Chapter 8). Some of the ciliated OSNs express distinct chemoreceptors or noncanonical signal transduction machineries and project to specific regions in the olfactory bulb (OB) (see below). Likewise, the VNO contains at least two subsystems (the apical and basal compartments), which express two classes of vomeronasal receptors (V1Rs and V2Rs, respectively) and project to different portions of the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) (Chapter 6). Additionally, some species (e.g., rodents) develop two spatially segregated clusters of sensory cells in the nasal cavity, forming the septal organ (SO) of Masera and the Grueneberg ganglion (GG) (Figure 9.1A). These chemosensory subsystems detect distinct but overlapping olfactory cues and some neurons may convey other sensory modalities transmitted by mechanical and thermal stimuli. This chapter covers several subsystems within the MOE as well as the SO and the GG. The key features of each subsystem will be discussed, including chemoreceptors, signal transduction cascades, central projections, and functional roles.
It has been hypothesized (Lynch 1986; Aboitiz et al. 2002; Montagnini and Treves 2003) that the mammalian cortex initially evolved as an associative structure, allowing features of the sensory world extracted by more peripheral circuits to be merged both within and between sensory modalities into objects capable of driving behavior. Associative cortical circuits generally have broadly distributed, overlapping inputs, allowing convergence of different pieces of information. This is in contrast to classic topographic, hierarchical cortical circuits, where information flow is more restricted to narrow, specialized channels, with much less cross-talk between disparate inputs. The early mammalian cortex, like the modern reptilian cortex, was dominated by olfaction (lateral cortex) and hippocampus (medial cortex), with a multimodal interface (dorsal cortex) between the two. The olfactory cortex and hippocampus are characterized by nontopographic, associative networks capable of merging distributed, diverse, collections of inputs into everything from rich memories of specific life events, to maps of the visuospatial world, to single olfactory percepts derived from complex molecular mixtures. Only with continued evolutionary expansion of the cortex through the emergence of the neocortex did regional specialization and topographic, unimodal sensory processing come to be expressed, as seen, for example, in the mammalian primary visual or auditory cortex (Lynch 1986; Montagnini and Treves 2003). Thus, the strongly associative nature of the primitive cortexi.e., trilaminar cortices like the piriform cortex or hippocampuspromotes synthetic object processing, as opposed to analytical processing of features from complex mixtures. The processing of complex stimulus patterns as objects by associative circuits leads to robust stimulus recognition in the face of degraded inputs and enhanced discrimination of overlapping patterns (Whitfield 1979). It also leads to several testable predictions about cortical activity evoked by odors and the resulting sensory perceptions. Although there is great evolutionary conservation of peripheral features of odor processing across phyla (Hildebrand and Shepherd 1997), mammals have invested a substantial metabolic commitment to paleo- and neocortical olfactory circuits. This chapter will review the structure and function of the olfactory cortex, and describe data on the associative, multimodal, state- and expectation-dependent nature of cortical odor processing. This chapter will also attempt to outline issues that need to be addressed before we can answer how the olfactory cortex contributes to odor perception (Figure 14.1).
Knowledge about the molecular organization principles of the sense of smell in different species has greatly improved in the last decade (Bargmann 2006; Mombaerts 2004a, 2004b; Rodriguez 2007). It is now well established that in many species, odorant molecules are detected by large families of G-protein-coupled receptors (Buck and Axel 1991), whose molecular sequence and structure may vary across species and phyla, but that essentially implement the same function (Bargmann 2006). Interestingly, the insect olfactory receptors display a unique and unconventional membrane topology in comparison to the mammalian receptors, questioning the existence of a coupling with G-proteins (Benton et al. 2006; Vosshall and Stocker 2007). Nevertheless, understanding how odorant information generated by these large arrays of receptors is interpreted by the brain to produce a great variety of behaviors will be the challenge of the next decade. A few questions, which may appear basic with regard to the complexity of the entire olfactory system, are still not answered. Among these, how olfactory information is encoded in brain networks downstream to receptors, remains poorly understood. In recent years, there have been strong debates on this question and it seems that the answer is not as simple as recording from the neurons of these networks. The ambition of this chapter is not to provide a definitive answer, but to present the most relevant results on this question and put them in perspective, helping the reader to appreciate where the field stands in terms of olfactory coding. Since a certain similarity in the olfactory system organization has been observed across species (Kay and Stopfer 2006), we will endeavor to compare between different animal models. Our focus will primarily be on temporal coding, as temporal dynamics, in our opinion, are currently the main aspect of neuronal activity in the olfactory system that is difficult to integrate in a convincing and unanimously recognized theory of olfactory coding.
One of the most characteristic features of odor memory in humans is the rather unique ability of odors to vividly trigger the evocation of emotional experiences. This property might be sustained by the direct connections established by the olfactory bulb and piriform/olfactory cortex on two structures involved in emotion and memory, namely the amygdala and hippocampus. In animals, memory for environmental odors plays a vital role because it regulates many behaviors that are crucial for survival. Highly emotional or at least particularly ethologically relevant olfactory learning occur during an animals major life events. Moreover, conditioning procedures can be used to induce emotional olfactory learning, thus allowing an experimental approach in a laboratory environment. The aim of the present chapter is to illustrate some aspects of the neurobiology of odor emotional memory in rats, both in infancy and adulthood. We focus on fear conditioning at both developmental points, since it constitutes one of the most adapted and classical paradigms to study emotional memory in animals and has been the focus of intense investigation. We begin by reviewing the available literature describing the neural circuits involved in odor fear conditioning in adult rats, and conclude the chapter by reviewing the ontogeny of odor fear conditioning. The same experimental paradigm can be supported by overlapping but distinct neural circuits, and lead to dramatically different behavioral outcome, depending on the age at learning. This approach highlights how the fear system changes to meet the ecological demands of different life stages.
For over a century, a central paradigm in the field of neuroscience has been that the capacity of germinal layers to generate neurons was restricted to the embryonic period, and that new neurons are not added to the adult mammalian brain (Ramon y Cajal 1913). Occasional early reports of neurogenesis in the adult central nervous system (CNS) (Allen 1912; Levi 1898) were ignored, probably because of the impossibility to determine with certainty the neuronal nature of the cells presenting mitotic figures. In more recent times, the pioneering work of Altman (1962), followed by the studies of Kaplan and Hinds (1977), have reproposed, this time with more compelling evidences, that new neurons are added in discrete regions of the adult brain, the olfactory bulb (OB) and the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus (for a historical review, see Kaplan 2001). These reports were initially ignored, then followed by negative reactions and critical publications that did not confirm the existence of newborn neurons in adults (for a review of the controversy, see Gross 2000). After the finding that in reptiles new neurons continue to be added to most of the telencephalon throughout life (for a review, see Garcia-Verdugo et al. 2002), the paradigm shift leading to the acceptance of the notion of adult neurogenesis in higher vertebrates has known an important acceleration thanks to the discovery of neurogenesis in birds, related to the appearance of seasonal song (for review, see Nottebohm 1989). Nevertheless, these initial discoveries confronted the persistent assumption that adult neurons did not undergo proliferation, the last trench being dug at the level of the mammalian brain (Rakic 1985). The turning point of the collective perception about neurogenesis occurred with the demonstration that adult mammalian brain neurons are also capable of mitosis, and that newborn neurons can migrate and integrate into existing circuitries (for review, see Gross 2000). Interestingly, this particular new form of structural brain plasticity is specific to discrete brain regions and most investigations concern the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampus (for a review, see Lledo et al. 2006). Although, in the past, occasional reports have appeared suggesting neurogenesis also at the cortical level (Gould et al. 1999), an elegant paper appeared a few years ago (Bhardwaj et al. 2006) providing almost definite proof that, contrary to other cell types in the brain parenchyma, no new cortical neurons are generated after the perinatal period. Taking advantage of the integration of C-14 generated by nuclear bomb tests and by analyzing neocortical tissue of patients who received bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), the study provides compelling evidence that there is no biologically significant neocortical neurogenesis in adult humans.
Developments in chemical monitoring have provided the neuroscientist with a powerful toolbox for investigating biological mechanisms of drug addiction. Indeed, by sampling time-dependent changes in neurotransmitters in situ, these techniques have contributed prominently to our understanding of the neural substrates of goal-directed behavior and how drugs of abuse alter the functioning of these neural systems and ultimately cause addiction. Historically, chemical monitoring in the central nervous system has been dominated by voltammetry and microdialysis. Fundamentally different in analytical strategy, voltammetry and microdialysis bring distinct strengths and weaknesses to neurotransmitter measurements.
To further the investigation of the neurobiology of drug addiction, researchers have integrated chronic extracellular recording and intravenous drug self-administration procedures. The technique allows researchers to characterize the discharge patterns of single neurons during drug-directed instrumental behavior. This method is the topic of the present chapter. The first sections of the chapter overview the method and discuss the rationale, advantages, and disadvantages of the technique. These sections also describe some of the experimental approaches that are required for certain applications of the recording procedure (see Sections 2.2-2.4). The remainder of the chapter will review three areas of research, as follows: (1) firing patterns of NAc neurons during drug-directed behavior (Sections 2.5-2.6); (2) acute effects of cocaine on NAc activity (Section 2.7); and (3) effects of repeated cocaine self-administration on NAc firing (Section 2.8). The research exemplifies some of the experimental methods discussed in earlier parts of the chapter, as well as some of the novel research opportunities that are afforded by the technique. The chapter also includes a discussion of future directions. A detailed description of technical aspects of the method is provided in an appendix.
Although still in the early stages, neuroeconomicsthe union of ethology, economics, and neuroscienceoffers a potentially powerful way to study the neural mechanisms underlying reward, punishment, and decision making, as well as the dysfunction of these systems in pathological conditions such as addiction. These neural processes interact in important ways with systems evaluating social context and uncertainty, and their study may lead to potent insights and testable predictions relevant to the neurobiology of addiction. Therefore, the neuroeconomic approach itself serves as a powerful new conceptual method that is likely to be critical for progress in understanding addictive behavior.
Drug addiction is a chronically relapsing disorder characterized by compulsive drug-seeking and use (Leshner 1997; McLellan et al. 2000; O'Brien et al. 1998; O'Brien and McLellan 1996). Long-lasting vulnerability to relapse has been recognized as a phenomenon pivotal for the understanding and treatment of drug addiction. Elucidation of the neurobiological mechanisms underlying the chronically relapsing nature of addiction and identification of pharmacological treatment targets for relapse prevention has therefore emerged as the central issue of importance in addiction research. The clinical as well as experimental literature implicates three major factors precipitating craving and relapse. One of these is learned responses evoked by environmental stimuli that have become associated with the subjective actions of drugs of abuse by means of classical conditioning. Exposure to such stimuli can evoke drug desire and drug seeking, effects that have been implicated both in maintaining ongoing drug use and eliciting drug-seeking during abstinence (Everitt et al. 2001; Littleton 2000; O'Brien et al. 1998; See 2002; Van De Laar et al. 2004). Drug-related stimuli can also elicit automatic responses that lead to drug-seeking and relapse without recruiting conscious desire or distinct feelings of craving (Ingjaldsson et al. 2003; Miller and Gold 1994; Stormark et al. 1995; Tiffany and Carter 1998; Tiffany and Conklin 2000). Studies in animals have confirmed that environmental stimuli that have become associated with the reinforcing actions of drugs of abuse reliably elicit drug-seeking in animal models of relapse drug-seeking behavior (for review, see See 2002; Shaham and Miczek 2003; Shaham et al. 2003; Shalev et al. 2002). In particular, contextual stimuli predictive of cocaine (Ciccocioppo et al. 2004b, 2001b; Weiss et al. 2000, 2001), ethanol (Ciccocioppo et al. 2001a, 2003, 2002; Katner et al. 1999; Katner and Weiss 1999; Liu and Weiss 2002b), or heroin (Gracy et al. 2000) availability reliably elicit strong recovery of extinguished drug-seeking behavior. Indeed, drug seeking induced by these stimuli shows remarkable resistance to extinction (Weiss et al. 2001; Ciccocioppo et al. 2001a) and, in the case of cocaine, can still be observed after several months of abstinence (Ciccocioppo et al. 2001b; Weiss et al. 2001). Moreover, cocaine seeking induced by drug-related stimuli can progressively increase in strength (incubate) during long-term abstinence (Grimm et al. 2001). Overall, the persistence of the behavioral effects of drug-associated environmental cues resembles the persistence of conditioned cue reactivity and cueinduced craving in humans (e.g., Childress et al. 1993).
Drug addiction is a serious mental illness involving severe motivational disturbances and a loss of behavioral control leading to personal devastation. The behavioral symptoms that accompany drug addiction can be modeled in rodents based on changes in their drug self-administration behavior. These symptoms include compulsive and escalating amounts of drug intake, along with a propensity for drug-seeking behavior in withdrawal, reflecting aberrations in the neural substrates that regulate these behaviors. Animal drug self-administration studies attempt to link neurobiological changes with the manifestation of specific behavioral symptoms. Since most changes in neuronal function stem from molecular neuroadaptations that occur in specific cell types in anatomically discrete brain regions, modern technological advances can be used to manipulate single gene targets with similar anatomical precision, and at postdevelopmental stages of adulthood, in order to mimic the neuroadaptations produced by chronic drug use. This approach is necessary to delineate important functional interactions that underlie the etiology of primary disease symptoms.
Understanding the phenomenon of long-lasting vulnerability to addiction is essential to developing successful treatments. Written by a distinguished international team of contributors who are authorities in their respective fields, Advances in the Neuroscience of Addiction provides an excellent overview of the available and emerging approaches used to investigate the biologic mechanisms of drug addiction. It also delineates the promising research discoveries being made in relapse prevention. The book begins with current animal models of addiction, which mimic the state of humans entering treatment: recently-abstinent animals that receive common triggers for relapse (classical conditioning, stress, and neuroadaptive dysregulation). Coverage then shifts to the use of electrophysiologic approaches, which enables researchers to characterize the discharge patterns of single neurons during drug self-administration. After exploring advances in voltammetry and enzyme-linked biosensors for measuring glutamate, the book discusses the theoretical background and results of neuroimaging studies related to neuronal networks that are activated by drug-specific cues. It then describes modern genetic approaches to manipulate target proteins that influence addictive behavior. The book rounds out its coverage by illustrating how a neuroeconomic approach can inform studies of reward processing in general and addiction in particular. It is a comprehensive introduction to the methodologies of the field for students and beginning researchers and an essential reference source for established investigators.
After detoxification, patients suffering from a drug addiction show high relapse risks. For example, among alcoholics up to 85% of all patients relapse, independent of whether they have been treated as inpatients until complete remission of physical withdrawal symptoms (Boothby and Doering 2005). Current brain-imaging studies have tried to identify the neuronal correlates of learning processes involved in relapse such as behavioral mechanisms including classical Pavlovian and instrumental conditioning. The goal of such studies is to provide insight into the neurobiology of drug addiction as well as to provide new options for specific behavioral intervention or pharmacological modification of alcohol craving and the risk of relapse. In this chapter, we will discuss the theoretical background and the results of neuroimaging studies that identified alterations and relevant neurotransmitter systems that are associated with cue-induced brain activation and alcohol craving, and their impact on neuronal networks that are activated by drug-specific cues.
Compared to other primates and mammals of our size, humans allocate a much larger share of their daily energy budget to feed their brains. The disproportionately large allocation of our energy budget to brain metabolism has important implications for our dietary needs. To accommodate the high energy demands of our large brains, humans consume diets that are of much higher quality (i.e., more dense in energy and fat) than those of our primate kin (Leonard and Robertson, 1992, 1994). On average, we consume higher levels of dietary fat than other primates (Popovich et al., 1997), and much higher levels of key long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFAs) that are critical to brain development (Crawford et al., 1999; Cordain et al., 2001). Moreover, humans also appear to be distinctive in their developmental changes in body composition. We have higher levels of body fatness than other primate species, and these differences are particularly evident early in life. The need for an energy-rich diet also appears to have shaped our ability to detect and metabolize high-fat foods. Humans show strong preferences for lipid-rich foods. Recent work in neuroscience has shown that these preferences are based on the smell, texture, and taste of fatty foods (Sclafani, 2001; Gaillard et al., 2008; Le Coutre and Schmitt, 2008), and that our brains have the ability to assess the energy content of foods with remarkable speed and accuracy (Toepel et al., 2009). Additionally, compared to large-bodied apes, humans have an enhanced capacity to digest and metabolize higher fat diets. Our gastrointestinal (GI) tract, with its expanded small intestine and reduced colon, is quite different from those of chimpanzees and gorillas and is consistent with the consumption of a high-quality diet with large amounts of animal food (Milton, 1987, ). Finch and Stanford (2004) have recently shown that the evolution of key meat-adaptive genes in hominid evolution were critical to promoting enhanced lipid metabolism necessary for subsisting on diets with greater levels of animal material. This chapter draws on both analyses of living primate species and the human fossil record to explore the evolutionary importance of fat in the nutritional biology of our species. We begin by examining comparative dietary data for modern human groups and other primate species to evaluate the influence that variation in relative brain size has on dietary patterns among modern primates. We then turn to an examination of the human fossil record to consider when and under what conditions in our evolutionary past key changes in brain size and diet likely took place. Finally, we explore how the evolution of large human brains was likely accommodated by distinctive aspects of human growth and development that promote increased levels of body fatness from early in life.
The prevalence of obesity has provided a strong incentive to understand the motivation to consume high-fat foods. Taste palatability of high-fat food is cited as the primary influence in the over consumption of dietary fat (Drewnowski, 1997; Drewnowski and Greenwood, 1983; McCrory et al., 1999, 2000; Warwick and Schiffman, 1990) and there is a strong positive correlation between obesity and daily high-level intake of dietary fat (McCrory et al., 1999; Miller et al., 1990, 1994). Traditionally, the sensory perception of dietary fat during ingestion has been characterized in terms of textural and postingestive effects. Certainly, dietary fat contributes to the mouthfeel of food-stuffs and can act as a positive reinforcer through fatty acid receptors found in the digestive tract that stimulate pathways leading to the natural reward centers of the brain. However, across the last decade, accumulating evidence from both molecular and behavioral research has begun to challenge the traditional perspectives on dietary fat perception by introducing the concept of chemoreception of dietary fat within the oral cavity, specifically through the gustatory system, as providing immediate and selective signals during dietary fat consumption. Like humans, rodents demonstrate a robust preference for high-fat foods (Greenberg and Smith, 1996; Smith et al., 2000; Warwick and Synowski, 1999; Warwick et al., 1990) and represent the most typical animal model in which the reception, transduction, and neural signaling of the peripheral gustatory system has been explored. This chapter reviews the behavioral evidence supporting a role of the gustatory system in the chemoreception of fatty acids, the principle chemical component of dietary fat.
The incidence of obesity continues to escalate, and with it, there has been a corresponding increase in as many as 30 diseases related to the obese state, including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and end-stage renal disease. Recent estimates place the number of overweight and obese individuals in the United States at roughly one third and two thirds of the population, respectively (CDC/DHHS, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention). While obesity is clearly a disease that has multiple etiologies, there are compelling data indicating a link between the recent surge in obesity and a corresponding increase in dietary fat intake (Bray and Popkin, 1998, 1999; Bray et al., 2004). Despite this link, there has been comparatively little attention paid to the sensory cues provided by dietary fats which might precipitate their intake over the short and long terms. Over the past decade, however, the idea that fats might provide salient cues to the gustatory system consistent with there being a taste of fat has gained credence. Research in this area holds great promise in understanding the role of the gustatory system in both the recognition of dietary fat and the eventual control of fat intake.
Dietary fat is our second most important energy-producing macronutrient. It also contains fatty acids and vitamins essential for growth, development, and maintenance of good health. Dietary fat quantity and quality have been subject to tremendous change over the past 10,000 years. This has, together with other man-made changes in our environment, caused a conflict with our slowly adapting genome that is implicated in typically Western diseases. Rather than reducing our life expectancy, these diseases notably diminish our number of years in health. Important changes in dietary fat quality are the increased intakes of certain saturated fatty acids (SAFA) and linoleic acid (LA), introduction of industrially produced trans fatty acids, and reduced intakes of 3 fatty acids, notably alpha-linolenic acid (ALA) from vegetable sources and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) from fish. The pathophysiological effects of these changes are diverse, but are increasingly ascribed to induction of a proinflammatory state that progresses easily to chronic low-grade inflammation. The latter might affect virtually all organs and systems, possibly beginning at conception, and possibly even prior to gametogenesis through epigenetic alterations. Low-grade inflammation might be a common denominator of the metabolic syndrome and its sequelae (e.g., coronary artery disease (CAD), diabetes mellitus type 2, some types of cancer, and pregnancy complications), some psychiatric diseases (e.g., major and postpartum depression, schizophrenia, and autism), and neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., Alzheimers disease, Parkinsons disease). The long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) arachidonic acid (AA), EPA, and DHA are intimately related to the initiation and resolution of inflammatory responses. The current balance between AA and EPA + DHA is however disturbed by the dominance of AA, which originates from the diet or synthesis from LA. LCPUFA are together with their highly potent metabolites (prostaglandins, thromboxanes, leukotrienes, resolvins, and (neuro)protectins) involved in the functioning of membrane-bound receptors, transporters, ion channels, and enzymes, and also in signal transduction and gene expression. Among their many targets are nuclear receptors which, upon ligation with LCPUFA and their metabolites, function as transcription factors of a variety of genes functioning in many pathways. For instance, the targeted peroxisome proliferators-activated receptors (PPARs) are strategic intermediates in the coordinated expression of proteins with functions in, for example, lipid and glucose homeostasis and inflammatory reactions. Many interventions have been conducted with LCPUFA, especially EPA and DHA, aiming at primary and secondary CAD preventions, improvement of fetal and newborn (brain) development by supplementation during pregnancy or early postnatal life, and in psychiatric diseases. Consensus has been reached that those in CAD and depression are positive, although more large-scale trials are needed. Many recommendations for the intakes of saturated fat, trans fat and EPA + DHA have been issued, notably for CAD prevention, and also for EPA + DHA intakes by pregnant women and for AA, EPA, and DHA intakes by newborns. The ultimate goal might, however, be to return to the fat quality of our ancient diet on which our genes have evolved during the past million years of evolution, while this actually applies for our entire dietary composition and lifestyle, as translated to the culture of the current society.
Studies that simultaneously quantify the lipid metabolitessubstrates and products of biochemical pathwaysin tissues and biofluids have proven to be extremely valuable in revealing dysregulation in biochemical pathways associated with other metabolic diseases such as atherosclerosis. This chapter describes the use of comprehensive analysis of lipids associated with various biochemical pathways combined with specific dietary challenges to reveal the dynamic nature of an individuals metabolic phenotype (German et al., 2007). Circulating lipids are derived from both diet and endogenous metabolism. These lipids are highly dynamic, interactive biological molecules that make up most cellular components and signaling molecules, and they dictate energy partitioning and control of food intake. Remarkably, although food intake is central to the problem of obesity, the vast majority of studies attempting to explain the variations in metabolism that could account for excess intake and for its metabolic consequences have examined individuals and their various physiological, metabolic, and endocrine characteristics in the fasted condition. Furthermore, studies to date have examined only a subset of the metabolites representing the various biochemical pathways that are both responsive to dietary intake and associated with energy metabolism. Both of these decisionsto largely avoid examining the fed state and to constrain metabolic interrogation to a small subset of metaboliteshave severely limited the ability of studies of energy metabolism to clarify precisely how diet as a variable impacts weight regulation. Clinically, lipids are measured in the fasted condition, yet this is the period when most indices of diet and its effects on lipid metabolism are minimal. In this chapter, the principles of metabolomics are extended into two directionsinput variables as food metabolite composition and output variables as the subsequent effects on post-prandial metabolism within individual humans. This approach is providing insights into the metabolic regulation associated with energy balance and obesity. The practical application of a challenge approach that measures the fluxes through specific biochemical pathways is the ability to personalize dietary recommendations based on an individuals metabolic phenotype. We propose that this approach would have a profound impact on the long-term success of diet and lifestyle-based interventions. Not only would metabolically appropriate diet and lifestyle modification be more effective in producing measurable improvements in health, perhaps even more importantly, it would increase patient acceptance and long-term adherence. Currently, people are wary of dietary recommendations because they seem to be changing every day. One day it is beneficial to consume eggs, the next day it is deleterious to consume eggs. The truth is that for some individuals eggs are beneficial while for others the cons outweigh the pros and for them egg consumption is a net negative. If we measure with accuracy and specificity the metabolic responses of individuals to specific meals and food items, and provide clear evidence that specific dietary components are causing harm whereas others are beneficial, the acceptance of recommendations will be much higher. Instead of rigidly imposed levels of acceptable intake of foods and food components that are deleterious to the health of the average person individuals would be free to choose foods that are palatable and enjoyable to them in doses that are metabolically appropriate for them. The success of long-term dietary and lifestyle approaches that prevent obesity and produce weight loss will ultimately depend on the acceptability of those regimens to individuals living their normal lives.
A fatty acid is a carboxylic acid often with a long unbranched aliphatic chain and is divided into two categories based on structural and chemical properties: (1) saturated and (2) unsaturated. Saturated fatty acids do not contain any double bonds or other functional groups along the chain. Unsaturated fatty acids contain at least one pair of carbon atoms linked by a double bond enabling the addition of other atoms to these carbons. Distinction between the two is simply that saturated fatty acids are usually solid at room temperature whereas unsaturated fatty acids are liquid. Unsaturated fatty acids can be further divided into monounsaturated (which contains only one double bond) or polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), which contain more than one double bond. PUFAs are further grouped based either on the location of the double bonds and/or according to the chain length. An omega ( ) notation indicates the number of carbon atoms from the methyl end to the first double bond. Omega-3 (  3 or n  3) and Omega-6 (  6 or n  6) are two well-known fatty acids that are termed essential fatty acids (EFA). Such EFA are obtained from diet since they cannot be manufactured by cells (double bonds can be introduced into all positions of the fatty acid chain except the n  3 and n  6 positions). -Linolenic acid (ALA) is an   3 fatty acid that is converted to eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and subsequently from EPA to docosapentaenoic acid (DPA) and then to docosahexanoic acid (DHA). Linoleic acid (LA) is the parent fatty acid for   6 class of fatty acids. LA is converted to -linoleic acid (GLA) which through subsequent conversions results in the formation of arachidonic acid (AA) and is a precursor for several classes of eicosanoids. In the nervous system, cell membranes contain relatively high concentration of PUFAs, such as docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) (Stillwell and Wassall, 2003). In this review we provide a synthesis of evidence concerning the neural and hormonal control on food intake with a special emphasis on long-chain fatty acids. Fatty acids act on the central nervous system (CNS) as important physiological regulators of energy metabolism and overall energy homeostasis. In addition, we will examine evidence on key neural structures and systems influenced by fatty acids that are involved in feeding behavior. Lastly, we will review evidence on the role of EFA in preventing cognitive decline as well in neurological disorders.
It is well known that obesity is a major health problem, with approximately 66% of adults in the United States considered overweight and more than 1 billion overweight adults worldwide (Ogden et al., 2006) (World Health Organization). In addition to the impact on the joints and bones caused by increased body mass, obesity can also lead to heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, and stroke (Wong and Marwick, 2007). Given the severity and consequences of these conditions, it is not surprising that there is a large body of research exploring factors that contribute to the development of obesity, including diet and, more specifically, the proportion of certain foods in the diet. Vilified in the media as Public Enemy Number One in the Battle of the Bulge, dietary fat, and in particular the over consumption of fat, is considered by many to be the greatest contributing factor to obesity. Yet, is fat the enemy? Clearly, high fat ingestion, along with lack of exercise, has the potential to negatively impact a healthy lifestyle. At the same time, however, fats are critical for many biological processes. As the lipid bilayer of cells, fat is a building block for life and, in the form of myelin, enables fast electrical communication between neurons. Fat provides insulation that helps conserve body heat in cold climates and also can protect organs, like those necessary for reproduction, from damage. Fats and the main component of fats, free fatty acids, are essential for the growth and development of vital organs, including the brain (Spector, 2001). Clearly, fat is crucial for life, yet the body cannot synthesize certain kinds of fats. Rather, these fats are obtained from ingested food. Thus, the ability to detect certain kinds of fat in food sources is necessary for survival. Fortunately, there is strong motivation to find and subsequently consume fat because fat is preferred by many animals, including humans. What is it about fat that is so alluring? In the past, the palatability of fat was thought to be the result of smell and/or texture. For example, impairment of the ability to smell (either by bilateral transection of the olfactory nerve or by destruction of the olfactory mucosa with ZnSO4) eliminates the preference for high-fat foods in mice (Mela, 1988; Kinney and Antill, 1996). Moreover, increasing the texture of low-fat dairy products also increases the perceived fat content. Interestingly, sensitivity to the texture of fat seems to be related to the number of functional taste buds on the tongue, as people with the greatest number of taste buds (i.e., so-called super tasters) are the best at discriminating between solutions with varying fat contents (Bartoshuk et al., 1994). Moreover, there are even cells in a specialized primate brain area called the orbitofrontal cortex that respond only to the texture of fats (Verhagen et al., 2003). Clearly, smell and texture are important for fat perception. However, rats can discriminate between different kinds of oils that, presumably, have a similar texture and continue to prefer fat solutions when texture and smell are minimized in behavioral tests (Larue, 1978; Fukuwatari et al., 2003). Furthermore, ingested fats are rapidly (within 15 s) broken down into free fatty acids in the oral cavity by lingual lipase (Kawai and Fushiki, 2003). In fact, rats have a robust preference for free fatty acids; however, prevention of the breakdown of fats into free fatty acids by the addition of a lingual lipase inhibitor greatly reduces rats preference for fat solutions. Thus, fat and in particular the building blocks of fatsfree fatty acidshave a taste component that plays a strong role in our fat preference.
Two views are being debated around fat-rich food and appetite regulation. One is that fat intake has a weak satiety-signaling property, with the consequence being a passive overconsumption of fat-rich food, in turn leading to obesity (Westerterp, 2006). The other view is that fat intake is tightly regulated through specific signals, which when overstimulated leads to aversion (Jebb et al., 2006). Fat intake depends not only on the quantity but more importantly on the quality of fat ingested, whether it is saturated, monounsaturated, or polyunsaturated fat (Casas-Agustench et al., 2008). Another important feature relates to whether the fat is eaten with sucrose or with something that has a sweet taste (Erlanson-Albertsson, 2005a). In general this will lead to a blunted response. Endocannabinoids released after palatable food ingestion, such as food containing fat and sucrose, will promote hunger and energy storage. The following hormones have been found to regulate the appetite for fat. Galanin (Gaysinskaya et al., 2007), agouti-related peptide (AgRP) (Tracy et al., 2007), and ghrelin (Shimbara et al., 2004) stimulate fat intake, while enterostatin (Berger et al., 2004), apolipoprotein A-IV (Apo A-IV) (Tso and Liu, 2004a), peptide YY (PYY) (Boey et al., 2008), cholecystokinin (CCK) (Beglinger and Degen, 2004), and neuropeptide Y (NPY) (Primeaux et al., 2005) inhibit fat intake. Both galanin (Schneider et al., 2007) and ghrelin (Jerlhag et al., 2007) also stimulate the intake of ethanol, via pathways involving a link to the reward system. The inhibition of fat intake occurs through reduced gastric emptying and serotonin release (Ritter, 2004). A proper satiety for fat is possible only with complete fat digestion, fatty acids being important to release satiety hormones (Feinle-Bisset et al., 2005). For proper control of fat intake, fat digestion needs to be retarded without being inhibited (Albertsson et al., 2007). Why we overeat fat? Energy dense. Gastrointestinal processing too rapid. Satiety signals too weak. Hunger signals too strong.
Dietary fat has frequently been blamed for the increase in prevalence of obesity (Bray et al., 2004). Epidemiological studies have demonstrated a positive relationship between high-fat diets and excess energy intake due to their high energy density and palatability (Prentice and Poppitt, 1996). However, this association is confounded by differences in physical activity, smoking, and food availability and variety (Willett, 1998; Bray et al., 2004). Furthermore, epidemiological studies investigating the association between high fat intake and obesity have been inconsistent (Seidell, 1998; Willett, 1998). Preload studies have shown that fat exerts the weakest effect on satiety compared to carbohydrate and protein, suggesting that fat may lead to passive overconsumption (Blundell et al., 1993). But when preloads were matched for energy density and palatability, differences in satiety were not obvious (Geliebter, 1979; Stubbs and Harbron, 1996; McCrory et al., 2000), pointing to energy density as the key driver of satiety under experimental conditions. Furthermore, lipids suppress later food intake when present in the small intestine of both humans and animals (Welch et al., 1988; Greenberg et al., 1990; Drewe et al., 1992; Woltman and Reidelberger, 1995; Castiglione et al., 1998; Van Wymwlbeke et al., 1998). Relatively few studies have investigated the responses of specific fats and fatty acids on food intake. Furthermore, studies have used different fats and fatty acids making it almost impossible to draw conclusions. However, it is clear that not all fats are equal in their effect on appetite and associated biological processes.
The aim of this chapter is to describe how fat in the mouth is represented in the brain. This is an important issue, for it is not yet clear how oral fat is sensed, and evidence from neuroscience is providing indications about this. Moreover, fat in the diet may be pleasant, yet its intake must be controlled, and understanding the rules by which the pleasantness of fat is regulated is important. In addition, the brains representation of oral fat is frequently in terms of particular combinations with other sensory aspects of food, including taste, texture, and olfactory inputs, and these combinations are important for understanding the full impact of fat in the mouth on the pleasantness of food. Because the representation of fat in the mouth is closely linked to taste processing in the brain, we start with an overview of taste pathways and processing in the brain, before we consider how oral fat is represented in the same brain areas, and frequently but not always in combination with taste. To make the results relevant to understanding the control of human food intake, complementary evidence is provided by neurophysiological studies in nonhuman primates in which the taste and related pathways are similar to those in humans, and by functional neuroimaging studies in humans. A broad perspective on brain processing involved in hedonic aspects of the control of food intake and in affective responses more generally is provided by Rolls (2005).
The sense of taste is primitive (i.e., of early evolutionary origin), limited in repertoire and considered by most to be one of the minor senses. Along with olfaction and chemesthesis (chemical irritancy), it is a member of the chemical senses, reflecting the nature of the stimuli it transduces. In contrast to olfaction, which is capable of detecting stimuli emanating from near or far, taste is strictly a contact sense requiring effective stimuli to be in close proximity to its receptor cells. Despite these humbling attributes, taste is a sense of particular importance to nutrition and health. This is increasingly apparent as evidence accumulates on the role of taste in the detection and metabolism of dietary fat, the topic of this chapter.
Much of our knowledge about the relationship between lipid, lipoprotein metabolism, and the development of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease is based on measurements in the fasting state. Although such measurements remain the foundation of clinical assessment and an important basis for decisions regarding hypolipidemic interventions, it should be acknowledged that we spend a considerable amount of time in a nonfasting, postprandial state. Based on typical Western eating patterns, most people consume three or more meals a day, with each containing 2070 g of fat (Cohn et al., 1988). Aside from breakfast, each of these meals is most likely consumed before plasma triacylglycerols (TGs) have returned to baseline levels from the lipemic conditions resulting from the previous intake. Thus, humans spend the majority of their day in a postprandial (fed) state, with a continual fluctuation in the degree of lipemia throughout the day. The postprandial state is a dynamic, nonsteady-state condition, with rapid remodeling of lipoproteins compared with the relatively stable fasting condition. Determination of the postprandial response is complex, and it is, therefore, more challenging to assess the cardiovascular risk associated with postprandial lipemia than during fasting conditions. In spite of this, it is becoming increasingly evident that future efforts to study and treat lipids related to atherogenesis should include postprandial parameters. The aim of this chapter is to consider the regulatory pathways of postprandial lipoproteins and the major factors including nutrition, life style, pathophysiology, and genetics which may contribute to interindividual variability in postprandial lipaemia, and thereby, susceptibility to atherosclerosis.
The phenomenon of animals preferring high-fat foods has been accepted as natural behavior. Animals are equipped with fat not only for energy storage, but also for regulation of body temperature and as a source of many hormones. It is reasonable that animals eat and store fat based on physiological demands. On the other hand, eating an excessive amount of fat causes many metabolic diseases such as type II diabetes, atherosclerosis, and cardiovascular disease. Reflecting the current health situation in industrialized nations, fat studies are focused on why we overeat high-fat foods and how we can cope with accumulating body fat. Ironically, many tasty and palatable foods such as snack foods, ice cream, donuts, and so on, contain large amounts of fat. The high palatability of fatty foods has been reported in many articles. Animals, including humans, show a hedonic preference for fat that increases with fat concentration (Drewnowski and Greenwood, 1983; Imaizumi et al., 2000a). When it comes to dietary fat, we cannot regulate proper calorie intake, and so we consume more calories than we physiologically need. In a long-term drinking test for corn oil in mice, the mice continued to prefer corn oil and ingested excess calories beyond their physiological needs (Takeda et al., 2001a). Why are fatty foods so tasty? Why do we lose our desire to balance calorie intake when ingesting fat? Researchers are increasingly interested in studying the palatable features of fat to address these simple questions. Accumulating data suggest that the high palatability of fat can be attributed to many factors, including its texture (Rolls et al., 2003; De Araujo and Rolls, 2004; Kadohisa et al., 2005), flavor (Ramirez, 1993; Kinney and Antill, 1996), taste (Gilbertson et al., 1997; Gilbertson, 1998; Abumrad, 2005; Laugerette et al., 2005; Matsumura et al., 2007), and postingestive effect (Sclafani and Vigorito, 1987; Suzuki et al., 2003). In this chapter, we discuss a wide range of physiological responses to fat, from fat recognition on the tongue to laboratory animal behavior in response to fat.
Reflecting 15 years of psychophysical, behavioral, electrophysiological, and molecular studies, this book makes a well-supported case for an oral fat detection system. Using carefully designed behavioral paradigms, it explains how gustatory, textural, and olfactory information contributes to fat detection. The book also provides a detailed account of the brain regions that process the signals elicited by a fat stimulus, including flavor, aroma, and texture. This readily accessible work also discusses: The importance of dietary fats for living organisms. Factors contributing to fat preference, including palatability. Brain mechanisms associated with appetitive and hedonic experiences connected with food consumption. Potential therapeutic targets for fat intake control. Genetic components of human fat preference. Neurological disorders and essential fatty acids.
Dietary fat is an important determinant of palatability and energy density in a wide variety of foods. The appetite for fat can be traced to both unlearned attraction to orosensory factors and learned appreciation of high-fat foods based on postoral factors. While these two factors normally operate together, they can be separated experimentally by various techniques. This chapter describes the appetite for dietary fat as a function of oral and postoral effects, and discusses the emerging information about the genetics of fat appetite. Much of the data comes from animal models (rats and mice), but studies of human fat appetite are also noted. Understanding the basis for fat appetite is important, as it is thought to contribute to the increasing levels of obesity in affluent nations. This stems in part from the higher metabolizable energy content of fat, which is more than twice that of carbohydrate and protein. Foods that are high in fat are thus more energy-dense than lower-fat foods (an exception might be high-fat foods that are also high in water or fiber content). Inexpensive, palatable high-fat foods are widely available. In addition, high-fat food is often found to be less satiating than an equal volume of high-carbohydrate food, which can exacerbate the overconsumption of high-fat foods. The measurement of appetite for fat can be done by comparing intake of fat to that of other foods presented at the same time (preference) or by absolute amounts consumed, as compared to other foods offered at other times (acceptance). A potential drawback of foods with a mixture of nutrients is that it is difficult to ascribe preference or acceptance to particular components of the food. Accordingly, much of the work that evaluates fat appetite uses isolated nutrients to simplify the analysis. However, foods can be constructed to vary in fat and carbohydrate content, while holding the other nutrients constant, which makes them reasonable alternatives to single-nutrient analysis.
For humans, eating is often a group rather than a solitary activity, and it is inevitable when eating with others that individual differences in food preferences become obvious. These food preferences form early in life (Mennella et al., 2001) and persist into adulthood (Nicklaus et al., 2004). People like to eat familiar foods that are safe and avoid foods associated, even indirectly, with illness. However, pleasant experiences and time also help to form food preferences. For instance, the ability to tolerate and even like bitterness increases as children grow to adulthood, and the liking for sweet and sour decreases (Desor and Beauchamp, 1987; Liem and Mennella, 2003). Over a lifetime, new foods are tried, rejected, or incorporated into the diet. Against this backdrop of development and environment, there are inborn differences in food likes and dislikes which may be due to genetic constitution. There is a genetic basis to bitter detection in humans (Bufe et al., 2005) and given that fat intake is moderately to highly heritable, it is likely that genotype contributes to food selection and, by extension, to fat preference. The focus here is on how individual differences in fat preference are formed and, in particular, the evidence that the liking for fat is influenced by genotype. The interest in dietary fat arises because its intake is tied to metabolic syndrome, a constellation of disorders that feature obesity, diabetes, and hypertension. An adage is that everything that tastes good is bad for you, and the liking for fat fits well into this viewpoint: fat is desirable and when people are given the opportunity to do so, many will adopt a high-fat diet. Two aspects of fat make it attractive, its sensory qualities (Reed et al., 1992b) and postingestive consequences (i.e., feelings of satiety). Fat is sensed in the mouth and although the texture is a key feature of its sensory properties, fat itself may be a legitimate taste stimulus. The evidence for this assertion is recent and reviewed below, but it is useful to know that fat has been considered a taste by some through the ages. For instance, Fernel wrote There are nine classes of flavors, and the sense of taste recognizes no others: acrid, tart, fatty; salty, sour, and sweet; bitter, pungent, and insipid (Fernelius, 1581). While controversies arise when applying the term taste to fat, and the issue is dealt with elsewhere in this book, umami as a taste was equally controversial but it was readily adopted as a fifth basic taste once the receptor(s) was identified (Chaudhari et al., 2000; Nelson et al., 2002). Likewise, when the oral receptors for fat are unequivocally identified, its place as a basic taste will probably become equally well accepted. What is known about fat as a taste is outlined below. Taste is both the gatekeeper and advance messenger of ingestion, keeping out bad food and warning the gastrointestinal system about the impending rush of nutrients. One of the effects of fat stimuli in the mouth is to prepare the body for calories, setting off a cephalic phase response. This cascade of events may be a general response to incoming dietary fat in mammals because it is found in rats (Ramirez, 1985) as well as people (Mattes, 2001; Crystal and Teff, 2006). Under normal circumstances, once fat is ingested, it is briefly held in the stomach and then absorbed in the intestines. From here it is either oxidized for energy or stored, primarily in adipose tissue. In some abnormal states, such as untreated diabetes, fat is more easily oxidized than carbohydrate and is thus preferred, at least in experiments using animal models (Tordoff et al., 1987). In addition to the other benefits of fat, it contains pharmacologically active substances, for instance, olive oil has an anti-inflammatory agent (Beauchamp et al., 2005). These compounds may also contribute to the human liking for fat.
Fat intake results from both orosensory and postingestive controls. During the past decade, more attention has been given to the study of the orosensory factors in the control of fat intake in rodent models (Gilbertson, 1999; Gilbertson et al., 2005; Sclafani et al., 2007a,b). Understanding the orosensory factors in the ingestion of sweet/fat mixtures is important because in the human diet, fat is most often consumed in conjunction with sweeteners (Elizalde and Sclafani, 1990; Lucas and Sclafani, 1990; Greenberg and Smith, 1997) and is very important in weight control. The goal of this chapter is to describe the data that have been collected in this laboratory over the past decade involving the taste perception and ingestion of fat by the laboratory rat. Although studies done in other laboratories will be mentioned from time to time, this chapter is not intended to be a comprehensive review of the literature in this area. The research conducted in my laboratory was inspired by Professors Gerry Smith and colleagues at the Bourne Laboratory (Greenberg and Smith, 1996, 1997), Tony Sclafani and colleagues at Brooklyn College (Ackroff et al., 1990; Elizalde and Sclafani, 1990; Lucas and Sclafani, 1990; Ackroff and Sclafani, 1996; Ackroff et al., 2004; Sclafani and Glendinning, 2005; Ackroff et al., 2005; Sclafani, 2007; Sclafani et al., 2007a,b), and Tim Gilbertsons electrophysiological studies (Gilbertson et al., 1997; Gilbertson, 1998; Gilbertson et al., 1998a,b; Gilbertson, 1999; Gilbertson et al., 2005).
Despite the undeniable influence of genetic and environmental factors, obesity is ultimately a resultant of, and perpetuated by, a disruption in energy homeostasis, whereby energy (food) intake exceeds energy expenditure. Normally, there is a series of concerted physiological and biochemical checks and balances initiated to handle acute, day-to-day fluctuations in energy balance: for example, an elevation in adiposity resulting from increased energy intake leads to counter-regulation via an increase in adipose-derived hormones, such as lesptin (Friedman, 2003), and an increase in energy expenditure (Lpez et al., 2007). Conversely, the fasting state shifts the energy balance such that energy stores are maintained while an increased propensity for food intake results (Lelliott and Vidal-Puig, 2004). As a result of these feedback signals that relay changes in energy status, the caloric storage/body weight is generally stable for most humans over long periods of time despite the wide variations in day-to-day food intake that occur. These above homeostatic responses are poised to handle subthreshold fluctuations in food intake, but clearly, chronic hyper-caloric excess combined with reduced energy mobilization (i.e., exercise) limits their effectiveness (Lpez et al., 2007), and leads to increased adiposity. In addition, this physiological cross-regulation also provides a reason for the inherent difficulty in losing large amounts of weight and sustaining that weight loss, as massive weight loss is capable of triggering rebound hunger (Friedman, 2003). Further impacting the effectiveness of the energy balance mechanism is the influence of the inherent sensory circuitry that mediates the pleasure and reward on feeding (Flier, 2004). Thus, identifying the nature of the satiety and hunger signals generated in the body that are involved in the regulation of feeding behavior has historically been a necessary preoccupation in obesity research. By the mid-twentieth century, the glucostatic (Mayer, 1953) and lipostatic (Kennedy, 1953) hypotheses, which proposed that circulating nutrients (glucose and lipids, respectively) generated in amounts proportional to peripheral storage depots serve as signals to the brain in order to mediate alterations in energy intake and expenditure, were in place. As a result, research then shifted to focus on the primary energy storage sites in the periphery, including the adipose tissue, skeletal muscle, and the liver, and their potential ability to sense energy and mediate the control of energy intake. The liver, given that it is exposed to the postabsorption nutrient flow (Langhans, 1996) and that hepatocytes are essentially able to metabolize all fuels (Seifter and Englard, 1988), was a natural target that in particular was quite convincingly demonstrated as a possible mediator of the hunger/satiety signal (Langhans, 1996). However, the hypothalamus in particular has long been championed as a key mediator of whole body energy homeostasis. Presently, it is generally accepted that it is involved in the day-to-day regulation of a number of factors including body temperature, blood pressure, thirst, and hunger, and is a vital structure for the integration of the nervous and endocrine systems. The first demonstrations of the hypothalamus serving as a satiety centre were conducted several decades ago, wherein hyperphagia and obesity resulted after the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus was subjected to bilateral lesions (Hetherington and Ranson, 1942). Furthermore, the observed hyperphagia following the administration of the classical 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) antime-tabolite into the third ventricle of the brain (Miselis and Epstein, 1975) demonstrated a central fuel-sensing component to the regulation of energy homeostasis. Numerous landmark studiesthe vast majority of which were conducted in the past decadehave demonstrated that the latter possibility holds much promise. The central nervous system (CNS) has been shown to sense hormones and nutrients in order to regulate not only food intake (Cota et al., 2006; Lam et al., 2008; Luheshi et al., 1999; Morton et al., 2006; Turton et al., 1996; Wolfgang and Lane, 2006) but also glucose homeostasis (Bence et al., 2006; Coppari et al., 2005; Gelling et al., 2006; Inoue et al., 2006; Kievit et al., 2006; Lam et al., 2005a,b,c; Obici et al., 2002a,b2003). Of particular interest and relevance, changes in hypothalamic fatty acid levels and metabolism have been shown to regulate both food intake (Loftus et al., 2000) and glucose homeostasis (Obici et al., 2002a, 2003). As obesity and diabetes are characterized by hyperphagia and hyperglycemia, the characterization of defects in the hormone- and nutrient-sensing pathways in the hypothalamus that regulate energy and glucose homeostasis will shed light on the central component that initiates and perpetuates these metabolic diseases.
How the human brain recognizes and differentiates objects from one another and likewise groups them into categories according to common features/actions has been a topic of neuropsychological and neuroscientific investigation for several decades. For example, ventral posterior temporal cortices have been found to play a major role not only in object processing in general (see Tanaka, 1997; Ungerleider and Haxby, 1994 for reviews), but also in category-selective processing (Moore and Price, 1999; Peissig and Tarr, 2007; Perani et al., 1995, 1999). One axis along which objects appear to be differentiated is whether their referent is something living or an artifact (i.e., manufactured). This distinction appears to hold true for visually presented stimuli (e.g., Caramazza and Shelton, 1998; Gerlach, 2007; Martin, 2007) as well as their auditory counterparts (Lewis et al., 2005; Murray et al., 2006). In addition to this categorical distinction, there is abundant evidence that the processing of faces (and places) may recruit highly specialized neural circuitry (e.g., Bentin et al., 2007; Kanwisher and Yovel, 2006). One perspective is that such specialized responsiveness follows from the social importance of faces in human interactions. More recently, investigations have revealed that objects and words can also be differentially processed according to their associated actions by regions of the ventral premotor cortex and posterior parietal areas (see Culham and Valyear, 2006; Johnson-Frey, 2004; Lewis et al., 2005; Pulvermuller, 2005 for reviews). Applying a similar line of reasoning, other socially or biologically important object categories would also be predicted to engage specialized neural circuitry. Foods and their proper discrimination, for example, are of utmost importance for an organisms survival. While this object category has been the subject of comparatively few functional neuroimaging studies, there is evidence to suggest that food images may activate brain regions distinct from those activated by other object categories (Killgore et al., 2003; LaBar et al., 2001; Rothemund et al., 2007; Santel et al., 2006; Simmons et al., 2005). In particular, viewing pictures of foods as opposed to nonfoods has been shown to activate frontal cortices as well as the frontal operculum and the insula (Killgore et al., 2003; LaBar et al., 2001; Simmons et al., 2005), the latter thought to be primary gustatory cortex regions (ODoherty et al., 2001). Viewing foods can also modulate the activity in secondary gustatory regions within the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC; Beaver et al., 2006; Simmons et al., 2005). In addition to this, wider network of brain regions, striate, and extrastriate visual areas also exhibit modulated activity during the categorization of foods from tools (Killgore et al., 2003; LaBar et al., 2001; Simmons et al., 2005). However, from this evidence alone the basis upon which foods are discriminated from other objects and categorized among each other cannot be determined. For example, it may be either the reward and/or sensory features of the stimuli that drive the observed differential responses. Also, from these data it cannot be discerned which area(s) among the network of regions exhibiting differential responses is first involved and in what sequence other regions contribute to the discrimination of foods. Rather, temporal information is essential for constructing accurate models of food discrimination and evaluation. Electrical neuroimaging based on electroencephalographic recordings has been proven to be a powerful tool to identify the spatiotemporal dynamics during the categorization of other object categories than food (e.g., tools, animals, vehicles, and faces). It has been shown that categorization and in some cases within-category discrimination occurs within the initial 100200 ms following stimulus presentation (Bentin et al., 2007; Eger et al., 2003; Fabre-Thorpe et al., 2001; Ji et al., 1998; Johnson and Olshausen, 2003; Kanwisher and Yovel, 2006; Michel et al., 2004a; Pizzagalli et al., 1999; Proverbio et al., 2007; Thorpe et al., 1996; VanRullen and Thorpe, 2001). Given this evidence, we hypothesized that the discrimination of food from nonfood images would occur within a similar time frame as that of other object categories. Moreover, although food is quintessential for survival, inherent differences exist with respect to nutritional and energetic value as well as hedonic attributes. As such, even though energetic value and palatability are critical factors influencing eating behavior, decisions regarding food intake are often guided by factors that can be detrimental for an individuals health. Often, high-fat foods are consumed with more pleasure, and in larger quantities, than low-fat foods. One possibility is that the drive for hedonic experiences may lead to inappropriate food consumption behavior. In turn, overeating of detrimental foods can ultimately result in obesity, diabetes, and hypertension, which are increasingly prevalent among industrialized societies. Understanding the decision processes leading to food selection and consumption, and in particular how the brain appraises the presentation of foods before they are ingested, is likely to prove essential for learning how to control and correct inappropriate eating behavior.
Cognitive impairment in the elderly, particularly in the form of Alzheimers disease (AD), has emerged in the past 20 years as a major challenge to the quality of life for the elderly and their caregivers, and to healthcare resources. AD is the most common form of dementia and the primary neurodegenerative disorder in the elderly. Once it is clinically diagnosed, there is little prospect of improving the prognosis of AD. Cognitive deficits can progress gradually over many decades before reaching the clinical threshold for the diagnosis of AD (Petersen et al., 2001; Jorm et al., 2007). As the population ages, the prevalence of cognitive impairment leading to dementia and AD is expected to increase. Most of the subjects with mild cognitive impairment will progress to AD at a rate of 10%15% per year compared with healthy control subjects who convert at a rate of 1%2% per year (Petersen et al., 2001; Solfrizzi et al., 2006). The cause of the progression of cognitive impairment to dementia and AD is not established. Genetic factors have been implicated and the apolipoprotein E 4 allele is the genetic risk factor most associated with AD (Mahley et al., 2006). It is plausible that genetic factors, especially genes involved in lipid metabolism and transport, interact with environmental factors for lowering or increasing the risk of AD. Since aging is unavoidable and there is not yet a cure for AD, strategies to identify environmental factors lowering risk of AD are essential. Therefore, research on potentially modifiable risk factors for cognitive impairment, such as diet, is of great relevance. Several studies showed that cognitive impairment in the elderly is associated with deficiencies of micronutrients and macronutrients (Rosenberg and Miller, 1992; Grant, 1999; Dye et al., 2000; Gonzalez-Gross et al., 2001; Gillette Guyonnet et al., 2007). Among macronutrients, there is increasing interest in the possible impact of dietary fatty acids on cognitive impairment and dementia. One class of dietary fatty acids closely associated with the function of the brain is the 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), particularly docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which is a major component of the membrane phospholipids in the brain. Fish and seafood (shellfish and crustacean) consumption is the main dietary source of preformed DHA. Most epidemiological studies, but not all, suggest that fish and seafood consumption might protect the elderly from developing cognitive impairment or dementia including AD (reviewed in Gillette Guyonnet et al., 2007). Whether 3 PUFA from fish and seafood, especially DHA, might be the principal contributors in preventing cognitive impairment and dementia in the elderly is presently debated. Previous reviews describing the relationship between 3 PUFA and cognitive decline reported an inconclusive association (Maclean et al., 2005; Gillette Guyonnet et al., 2007; Plourde et al., 2007). Therefore, this chapter examines the possible link between fish and seafood or DHA intakes and cognitive impairment and dementia including AD with emphasis on three types of human studiesevaluation of epidemiological studies on fish and seafood or DHA intake, analysis of DHA levels in blood or brain tissues, and clinical trials of supplementation with DHA-enriched oils in cognitively impaired nondemented (CIND) elderly and AD patients. In view of the literature as it stands presently, we sought to answer the following questions: (1) Does the intake of fish and seafood protect against cognitive impairment and its progression to dementia such as AD in the elderly?, (2) What is the biological evidence from tissue fatty acid analyses that DHA plays a significant role in the protective effect of fish and seafood consumption?, and (3) is DHA alone effective in the treatment of cognitive impairment and AD?
The term metabolic syndrome is used to describe a cluster of disease states including blood lipid disorders, hypertension, propensity for thrombus formation, low-grade chronic inflammation, abdominal obesity, and type-2 diabetes. Insulin resistance is the key to the metabolic syndrome, particularly the relative failure of insulin to exert its multiple biological effects on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. The current epidemic of obesity and type-2 diabetes in developed and developing countries has focused major attention on the metabolic derangements critical to their etiology. The Banting lecture of 20 years ago by Reaven sparked great interest in the clustering of diseases, which he termed Syndrome X and subsequently is more commonly referred to as the metabolic syndrome (Reaven, 1988). The basic symptomatology included dyslipidemias (high cholesterol and triglycerides), insulin resistance, obesity, and hypertension. With continuing research, subsequent iterations have added central (and in particular visceral) adiposity and chronic low-grade inflammation as key elements. Diet plays a powerful role in modulating expression of the metabolic syndrome and it is increasingly clear that both amount and type of both fats and carbohydrates, and the interaction between them, are important variables.
It is well established that opioid systems in the brain exert an important modulatory influence on food intake. Even before the discovery of the endogenous opioid peptides or the cloning of their receptors, it was known that opiate drugs such as morphine produce marked hyperphagia (Martin et al., 1963). As this phenomenon was studied further, it became apparent that pharmacological manipulations of opioid systems exhibit some degree of specificity for altering the intake of highly palatable foods. Accordingly, blockade of opiate receptors with drugs such as naloxone or naltrexone diminish the intake and perceived pleasantness of preferred foods in humans (Yeomans and Gray, 2002). Animal studies have confirmed these results; for example, doses of opiate receptor antagonists given either systemically or directly into the brain markedly reduce intake of palatable foods and tastants such as sweetened lard, sucrose, and palatable saccharin and salt solutions, without affecting intake of standard laboratory chow (Kelley et al., 2002). Based on these and other findings to be discussed below, an influential theory has been advanced that opioid systems within the central nervous system play an important role in modulating the orosensory reward and taste hedonics associated with the ingestion of preferred foods (Calcagnetti and Reid, 1983; Cooper and Kirkham, 1993; Gosnell and Levine, 1996; Pecina and Berridge, 2000; Kelley et al., 2002). The emphasis of the present chapter will be on three interrelated issues: (1) the anatomical localization of opioid-mediated effects on gustatory reward within subregions of the striatum, (2) the specific behavioral processes affected by intrastriatal opioid manipulations, particularly with regard to dissociations between weak effects on the appetitive/preparatory aspects of feeding vs. stronger, consistent effects on the reinforcing and hedonic aspects of consummatory behavior, and (3) emerging theories of striatal function that could account for the selective effects of striatal opioids on gustatory reward. Related to these themes, and germane to the subject of this book, we will discuss evidence that the fat content of a particular food is an important, albeit not obligatory, feature that predicts sensitivity to opioid-mediated changes in intake.
Energy-dense foods and diets have been associated with higher energy intakes (Andrieu et al., 2006) and with higher prevalence of obesity and the metabolic syndrome (Mendoza et al., 2007). By all reports, the energy density of the Western diet is on the rise, as is the consumption of dietary fats (Drewnowski and Popkin, 1997; Popkin et al., 2001; Drewnowski, 2005). In the United Kingdom, dietary fat accounted for an average of 36% of dietary energy for men and 35% for women (Henderson et al., 2003). In France, dietary fat accounted for 37%42% of dietary energy, with saturated fat providing 16% (Drewnowski et al., 1996; Perrin et al., 2002; Astorg et al., 2004). In the United States, dietary fat accounted for 33%36% of dietary energy (Allred, 1995; CDC, 2004). Despite public health efforts to lower fat consumption, global consumption of both animal and vegetable fats continues to rise (CDC, 2004; Amuna and Zotor, 2008). Innate preferences for dietary fats seem to be tempered only by incomes. As incomes rise, developing nations typically replace plant-based diets with more animal fats, vegetable oils, and caloric sweeteners, a phenomenon known as the nutrition transition (Drewnowski and Popkin, 1997). Paradoxically, developed nations recommend replacing fat-rich foods with water-laden grains, vegetables, and fruit in order to increase bulk and so reduce the energy density of the diet. Recommendations to reduce dietary energy density are one way to reduce energy intakes in an effort to address the global obesity epidemic (WHO Report, 2003). The problem is that the palatability and enjoyment of foods are often tied to their energy density and therefore fat content. Energy-dense foods that are rich in fat are more palatable than are many low-energy-density vegetables and fruit (Drewnowski, 1998). High-fat foods, many containing sugar or salt, have an undeniable sensory appeal and are difficult to resist (Folkenberg and Martens, 2003). Energy-dense high-fat diets are consumed in preference to plant-based diets of grains, pulses, and legumes. There are many explanations for why humans like fat (Drewnowski, 1997a,b). Several physiological mechanisms have been proposed, many of which are based on the strong links found between fat content, palatability, satiety, and energy density. The orosensory properties of fat or fat taste seem to be perceived through a combination of taste, texture, and olfaction (Drewnowski, 1997a; Schiffman et al., 1998). Fat is a concentrated source of energy with rewarding postingestive effects (Drewnowski, 1995). The learning of food preferences may be based on associating sensory attributes with the physiologic consequences of ingestion, such as satiety and well-being (Birch, 1999).
The Institute of Medicines Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders planned and held a public workshop June 16, 2009, that brought together experts from industry, academia, government, and advocacy groups to discuss issues directly related to a recent Food and Drug Administration (FDA) policy that all clinical protocols for products developed in the Division of Psychiatry Products (of the FDA) include a prospective assessment for suicidality.(2) Given the focus of the Forum, participants were charged with examining and discussing currently available data, data analysis, and the future of potential partnerships that will be or are being impacted by this announcement as it relates to clinical trials involving the nervous system. Discussions centered on the critical areas of further examination and analysis needed.
In August 2009 the Uganda National Academy of Sciences Forum on Health and Nutrition and the U.S. Institute of Medicines Forum on Neuroscience and Neurological Disorders jointly hosted a workshop in Kampala, Uganda, titled Quality of Care Issues for Mental Health and Neurological Disorders in Sub-Saharan Africa. More than 150 researchers, providers, patient advocates, and policy specialists came together to discuss the current state of care for mental, neurological, and substance use disorders in sub-Saharan Africa. The goal was to uncover strategies to improve the quality and consistency of care delivered in sub-Saharan Africa, taking into account resource constraints, infrastructure limitations, and other realities. Workshop speakers were charged to do the following: Discuss opportunities to ensure continuity of care and provide sustainable care within a countrys existing healthcare system. Identify resources that are either currently available, or that could be made available in cost-effective and efficient ways, to aid in the treatment and prevention of disease. Examine the need for national, evidence-based policies within national healthcare systems that address quality-of-care issues for mental, neurological, and substance use disorders. Explore opportunities to facilitate collaborations among a variety of stakeholders, including policy makers and healthcare professionals.



In the past three decades, there has been an explosion in research to understand the mechanisms of brain function. Recent advances in psychophysiology and neuroscience, while still limited, have sparked great interest in developing technologies that could peer into the brain and be used to identify or indicate certain behaviors. The polygraph (lie detector) represents an old technology used for discerning clues to the human brain; functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) represents one of the newest efforts. The use of these technologies in intelligence and counterintelligence in the field without validation represents a major concern about its usefulness. Both research on this new technology and subsequent use on public raise ethical challenges. This article will address the overall ethical issues associated with these new technologies. The report identifies the ethical and cultural challenges in conducting research on these new tools, explores the possibility of using current U.S. regulatory requirements regarding drugs and devices as a model for regulating these new technologies, and suggests approaches for the future.

Emotion regulation is essential for adaptive functioning and social integration. However, it is not clear to what extent the responsible brain mechanisms are similar to those invoked in cognitive control in a non-emotional context. The aim of this study was to compare the neural circuitry of cognitive and emotional interference resolution in healthy adolescents, employing variants of the counting Stroop task. Cognitive and emotional interference processing engaged predominantly brain regions belonging to the dorsal- and the ventral attentional systems, respectively, and commonly the inferior frontal gyrus, IFG (Broca's area, left BA 45, but also right BA 45). These results suggest that BA 45 is a bridge of interaction between the dorsal- and the ventral attentional systems implicated in top-down orienting of attention and, respectively, in bottom-up processing of salient stimuli. Reaction time data showed that some participants tend to respond faster, while others respond slower to negative emotional compared to neutral trials. The emotional interference maps revealed that fast responders recruit the right temporo-parietal junction and to a larger extent the right BA 45 and the bilateral cuneus, suggesting that they engage more efficient cognitive control mechanisms to override the attentional bias. No anterior cingulate (ACC) activation was observed in either cognitive, or emotional interference; this supports the view that ACC is not involved specifically in mediating Stroop selection.
The management of vestibular schwannomata is controversial. Surveillance remains an acceptable option for elderly patients or those with small lesions. Stereoradiosurgery is also an option, while surgery is often preferred in younger patients with larger lesions. In elderly patients with lesions causing brainstem compression, craniotomy is a major undertaking. We report two cases of cystic cerebellopontine angle tumours in patients with co-morbidity, who were managed successfully with image-guided insertion of a cystoperitoneal shunt.
Carbon nanotubes have electrical, mechanical and chemical properties that make them one of the most promising materials for applications in neuroscience. Single-walled and multi-walled carbon nanotubes have been increasingly used as scaffolds for neuronal growth and more recently for neural stem cell growth and differentiation. They are also used in interfaces with neurons, where they can detect neuronal electrical activity and also deliver electrical stimulation to these cells. The emerging picture is that carbon nanotubes do not have obvious adverse effects on mammalian health. Thus in the near future they could be used in brain-machine interfaces.
In this study, neoplastic perfusion abnormalities were investigated by computed tomography perfusion (CTP) scanning in 38 patients with solitary intra-axial brain tumors (19 with high grade gliomas, 7 with low grade gliomas and 12 with brain metastasis). Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), cerebral blood volume (rCBV), mean transit time (rMTT) and permeability surface flow (rPSF) levels were measured in two different regions of interest: (1) enhancing or non-enhancing tumor tissue and (2) a mirror area of apparently normal brain tissue located in the contralateral hemisphere. rCBF mean levels were greater in tumoral tissue than in the contralateral area for high-grade gliomas (p &lt; 0.02). rCBV and rPSF mean values were higher in tumoral tissue than in the contralateral area for high-grade gliomas (p &lt; 0.01 and p &lt; 0.05, respectively) and metastasis (p &lt; 0.05 and p &lt; 0.001, respectively). rCBV mean values of tumoral tissue were greater in high-grade than in low-grade gliomas (p &lt; 0.05). rPSF mean levels of tumoral tissue were higher in metastasis than in low-grade gliomas (p &lt; 0.02). These findings indicate that multi-parametric CTP mapping may contribute to differential diagnosis of solitary intra-axial brain tumors.
Brain edema in gliomas is an epiphenomenon related to blood-brain-barrier (BBB) breakdown in which endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) plays a key role. When induced by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), eNOS synthesizes nitric oxide that increases vascular permeability. We investigated the relationship between eNOS, VEGF and BBB dysfunction in experimental gliomas.Tumors were produced in Sprague-Dawley rats by transplacentary administration of Ethylnitrosourea (ENU). Immunoexpression of eNOS and VEGF(165) was studied to identify locations of vascular permeability. BBB permeability was evaluated using gadolinium and intravital dyes and BBB integrity by endothelial barrier antigen (EBA), glucose transporter-1 (GluT-1) and occludin immunostaining. Low grade gliomas displayed constitutive eNOS expression in endothelial cells and in VEGF-positive astrocytes surrounding vessels. Malignant gliomas overexpressed eNOS in aberrant vessels and displayed numerous adjacent reactive astrocytes positive for VEGF. Huge dilated vessels inside tumors and glomeruloid vessels on the periphery of the tumor showed strong immunopositivity for eNOS and a lack of occludin and EBA staining in several vascular sections. BBB dysfunction on these aberrant vessels caused increased permeability as shown by Gadolinium contrast enhancement and intravital dye extravasation.These findings support the central role of eNOS in intra- and peritumoral edema in ENU-induced gliomas.
Serum levels of sHLA-G (sHLA-G1/HLA-G5) antigens and their soluble isoforms, sHLA-G1 and HLA-G5, were measured by ELISA in 22 patients with spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (SICH) at 24 h, 48 h and 7 days after bleeding. The perihematomal edema volume was calculated on non-enhanced computed tomography scans using the formula AxBxC/2 at the same time points. The mean serum concentrations of sHLA-G1/HLA-G5 and sHLA-G1 as well as the perihematomal edema volume changed significantly over time (p &lt; 0.0001, p &lt; 0.001 and p &lt; 0.0001, respectively), whereas no statistical differences were found in serum HLA-G5 concentrations over the course of the experiment. In comparison to the values found at 24 h, sHLA-G1/HLA-G5 and sHLA-G1 increased at 48 h and then decreased at 7 days, whereas the perihematomal edema volume was more elevated at 48 h and, to a lesser extent, at 7 days. A positive correlation was detected between mean serum sHLA-G1/HLA-G5 and sHLA-G1 levels and perihematomal edema volume at 24 h (p &lt; 0.02) and at 48 h (p &lt; 0.01). Our results may indicate a role for sHLA-G in inflammatory mechanisms related to SICH, where these proteins probably act as anti-inflammatory molecules and are predominantly produced as the sHLA-G1 isoform.
We investigated the effects of exogenous Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor VEGF combined with an enriched environment on BBB integrity after a minimal trauma induced during the first days of the critical visual period in rats, when peak levels of endogenous VEGF secretion are reached. VEGF was administered using osmotic mini-pumps placed in middle cortical layers of P18 Long-Evansrats. Tissue changes were evaluated using conventional histology. BBB integrity was shown by immunohistochemistry techniques for EBA and GluT-1. Mini-pump implantation produced a wider cavity in anti-VEGF infused rats. In VEGF-infused rats there was a damaged region around the cannula that was smaller in rats raised in an enriched environment (EE). The administration of VEGF induced a high concentration of plasma proteins in the neuropil around the point of cannula placement and a high inflammatory reaction. VEGF-infused rats raised in an EE showed a lower degree of extravasation and better tissue preservation. Anti-VEGF administration produced a lower protein expression profile and more widespread deterioration of tissue. Double immunofluorescence for EBA and GluT-1 showed that the administration of VEGF preserves the tissue, which remains present but not fully functional. In contrast, a combination of VEGF administration and an EE partially protects the functionally damaged tissue with a higher preservation of BBB integrity.

The past 20 years have seen a gain in knowledge on microglia biology and microglia functions in disease that exceeds the expectations formulated when the microglia &quot;immune network&quot; was introduced. More than 10,000 articles have been published during this time. Important new research avenues of clinical importance have opened up such as the role of microglia in pain and in brain tumors. New controversies have also emerged such as the question of whether microglia are active or reactive players in neurodegenerative disease conditions, or whether they may be victims themselves. Premature commercial interests may be responsible for some of the confusion that currently surrounds microglia in both the Alzheimer and Parkinson's disease research fields. A critical review of the literature shows that the concept of &quot;(micro)glial inflammation&quot; is still open to interpretation, despite a prevailing slant towards a negative meaning. Perhaps the most exciting foreseeable development concerns research on the role of microglia in synaptic plasticity, which is expected to yield an answer to the question whether microglia are the brain's electricians. This review provides an analysis of the latest developments in the microglia field.
Autopsy findings of a patient, with sialidosis type I phenotype carrying V217M/G243R mutations in the lysosomal sialidase gene and biochemically defined isolated sialidase deficiency, who died of intractable lymphoma at the age of 32 years, are described. Perikaryal expansion of cytoplasm was evident, mostly in motor neurons (in the anterior horn and the brain stem), dorsal root ganglia, cerebellar dentate neurons and some neurons in the thalamus and nucleus basalis of Meynert. The stored material was lamellar in lysosomes and exhibited a specific affinity to wheat germ agglutinin at light and electron microscopy, which indicates the accumulation of terminal sialic acid at the non-reducing end of the sugar chain in this pathological structure. Neuronal loss in these nuclei, however, was not frequent in spite of frequent and massive cytoplasmic expansion. Neocortex exhibited a mild spongiosis with some swelling of neurons, which contained lipofuscin-like granules and small amount of lamellar structures in lysosomes. This contrast suggests a discrepancy between the storage process and vulnerability of neurons, both variable according to areas examined. In the cerebellar vermis, dysplastic features, such as abnormal layering of Purkinje cells, thinning and rarefaction of the granule cell layer, incomplete formation of synapse and disordered proliferation of Bergmann's glia, were focally accentuated, suggesting some developmental abnormality not secondary to the storage process. This is the first autopsy demonstration of sialic acid in the lamellar materials and of a developmental abnormality in isolated sialidase deficiency. Additional studies are needed to clarify how this molecular abnormality leads to these morphological and clinical manifestations.

The present study aimed at investigating to what extent sensorimotor synchronization is related to (i) musical specialization, (ii) perceptual discrimination, and (iii) the movement's trajectory. To this end, musicians with different musical expertise (drummers, professional pianists, amateur pianists, singers, and non-musicians) performed an auditory and visual synchronization and a cross-modal temporal discrimination task. During auditory synchronization drummers performed less variably than amateur pianists, singers and non-musicians. In the cross-modal discrimination task drummers showed superior discrimination abilities which were correlated with synchronization variability as well as with the trajectory. These data suggest that (i) the type of specialized musical instrument affects synchronization abilities and (ii) synchronization accuracy is related to perceptual discrimination abilities as well as to (iii) the movement's trajectory. Since particularly synchronization variability was affected by musical expertise, the present data imply that the type of instrument improves accuracy of timekeeping mechanisms.
Bipolar disorder is considered an important public health problem in the world. The depressive phase is the most important in terms of frequency, duration, and impairment of the quality of life. Common treatment of bipolar depression usually includes antidepressants, mood stabilizers and antipsychotics in different combinations, despite not having a specific indication for that. Quetiapine is the first drug in Europe that has obtained a specific indication for the treatment of bipolar depression, due to a pharmacologic profile that makes it to act on the three neurotransmitter systems involved in bipolar depression neurobiology. Regarding the dopaminergic pathway, quetiapine leads to an increasing of prefrontal dopamine release by antagonism of5-HT2A receptors, partial agonist of 5-HT1A and antagonism of a2 adrenoceptors. Quetiapine also enhances the serotoninergic transmission by increasing the density of receptors5-HT1A in the prefrontal cortex and by antagonism of 5-HT2A receptors and a2 adrenoceptors. On the other hand, norquetiapine, the main active metabolite of quetiapine, actsas a 5-HT2C antagonist and is a potent inhibitor of norepinephrine transporter (NET). NET inhibition leads to an increase of noerpinephrine in the synapse, and together with the increase of prefrontal dopamine and serotonin, could explain the antidepressive effect demonstrated by quetiapine in several clinical trials. Quetiapines action on glutamatergicand GABAergic receptors represents an interesting object of research, together with a potential neuroprotective effect that have already been observed in animal models.
A 3-year longitudinal prospective study was conducted to compare the incidence of substance use disorders (SUD) and non-substance use disorders (NSUD) among ecstasy users and two control groups: one of cannabis users and the other of non-drug users. The 5-HTTLPR polymorphism related to NSUD was also studied. A total of 94 subjects were included: 37 ecstasy users, 23 cannabis users and 34 non-drug users. SUD and NSUD disorders were diagnosed according to the fourth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Health Disorders criteria using the Psychiatric Research Interview for Substance and Mental Disorders. Incidence Rates (IR) are presented. The 5-HTTLPR polymorphism was analyzed. Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was studied. The results of the study showed that the highest IR of SUD was cannabis abuse/dependence in both the ecstasy (IR: 48.6/100 person-year) and cannabis (IR: 2.5/100 person-year) groups. There were no new cases of SUD in non-drug users at follow-up. The highest IR of NSUD was primary mood disorder in both the ecstasy (IR: 4.2/100 person-year) and in the non-drug (IR: 1.3/100 person-year) groups (P &lt; 0.282). There were no new cases of NSUD in the cannabis group at follow-up. 5-HTTLPR polymorphism was associated with lifetime of primary mood disorders in ecstasy group (P = 0.018). Ecstasy use was associated with a higher rate of cannabis abuse/dependence disorders and mood disorders than cannabis use. In the ecstasy users, 5-HTTLPR polymorphism may result in a high vulnerability to primary mood disorders.
Amphetamine derivatives have been shown to be a potential brain neurotoxin based on the production of free radicals that occurs after administration. The purpose of this study was to examine the lipid peroxidation and antioxidant enzymes in the blood of amphetamine users. The plasma lipid peroxidation was determined and reported as thiobarbituric acid reactive substance and was significantly increased (+21%), whereas the activities of the erythrocyte antioxidant enzymes glutathione peroxidase, catalase, and superoxide dismutase were significantly decreased (-32%, -14% and -31%, respectively) in amphetamine users. These results implicated the potential role of oxidative stress in amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity.








We have developed a collaborative web tool for computational biology by using open-source technologies. It allows the cooperative construction of computational models with NEURON. NEURON is a powerful local environment for modeling and simulating the nervous system. Our web tool facilitates researchers who are located far apart to build computational models of the brain, and share knowledge and opinions. The portal integrates all the necessary tools in just one. It allows the creation and participation in work sessions with NEURON, and synchronous and asynchronous file sharing. Moreover, it allows the analysis of the changes introduced in the models by the users, by means of a version control system, as well as real-time comments about each step in the development of each model. It only uses an Internet browser and minimum bandwidth consumption, thanks to the simplified data exchange process. In this paper, we present the tool NEURONSESSIONS, whose cooperative sessions also allow a virtual community to emerge for advancing in Neuroscience.
As with other neurotransmitter receptors and ion channels, characterisation ofnicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) has relied heavily on studies conducted with cloned receptors expressed in artificial expression systems. Although much has been achieved in recent years by such studies, considerable problems have been encountered in the heterologous expression of several nAChR subtypes; problems that have been particularly pronounced for insect nAChRs. Here we will review studies that have been conducted with nAChRs cloned from insects, with emphasis on experimental strategies that have been employed in an attempt to circumvent the problems associated with inefficient heterologous expression of insect nAChRs. These approaches include the expression of hybrid nAChRs (containing insect nAChR subunit co-expressed with vertebrate subunits), artificial subunit chimeras and the co-expression of molecular chaperones such as RIC-3.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder which results in the irreversible loss of cortical neurons, particularly in the associative neocortex and hippocampus. AD is the most common form of dementia in the elderly people. Apart from the neuronal loss, the pathological hallmarks are extracellular senile plaques containing the peptide beta-amyloid (AP) and neurofibrillary tangles. The Af cascade hypothesis remains the main pathogenetic model, as suggested by familiar AD, mainly associated to mutation in amyloid precursor protein and presenilin genes. The remaining 95% of AD patients are mostly sporadic late-onset cases, with a complex aetiology due to interactions between environmental conditions and genetic features of the individual. Mitochondria play a central role in the bioenergetics of the cell and apoptotic cell death. Morphological, biochemical and genetic abnormalities of the mitochondria in several AD tissues have been reported. Impaired mitochondrial respiration, particularly COX deficiency, has been observed in brain, platelets and fibroblasts of AD patients. Somatic mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) could cause energy failure and increased oxidative stress. No causative mutations in the mtDNA have been detected and studies on mtDNA polymorphisms are controversial, but the &quot;mitochondrial cascade hypothesis&quot; here revised, could explain many of the biochemical, genetic and pathological features of sporadic AD.
DNA single-strand breaks (SSBs) are non-overlapping discontinuities in strands ofa DNA duplex. Significant attention has been given on the DNA SSB repair (SSBR) system in neurons, because the impairment of the SSBR causes human neurodegenerative disorders, including early-onset ataxia with ocular motor apraxia and hypoalbuminemia (EAOH), also known as ataxia-oculomotor apraxia Type 1 (AOA1). EAOH/AOA1 is characterized by early-onset slowly progressive ataxia, ocular motor apraxia, peripheral neuropathy and hypoalbuminemia. Neuropathological examination reveals severe loss of Purkinje cells and moderate neuronal loss in the anterior horn and dorsal root ganglia. EAOH/AOA1 is caused by the mutation in the APTX gene encoding the aprataxin (APTX) protein. APTX interacts with X-ray repair cross-complementing group 1 protein, which is a scaffold protein in SSBR. In addition, APTX-defective cells show increased sensitivity to genotoxic agents, which result in SSBs. These results indicate an important role ofAPTX in SSBR. SSBs are usually accompanied by modified or damaged 5'- and 3'-ends at the break site. Because these modified or damaged ends are not suitable for DNA ligation, they need to be restored to conventional ends prior to subsequent repair processes. APTX restores the 5'-adenylate monophosphate, 3'-phosphates and 3'-phosphoglycolate ends. The loss of function of APTX results in the accumulation of SSBs, consequently leading to neuronal cell dysfunction and death.
Over 20 clinical syndromes have been described as amyloid diseases. Pathologically, these illnesses are characterized by the deposition in various tissues of amorphous, Congo red stainingdeposits, referred to as amyloid. Under polarizing light microscopy, these deposits exhibit characteristic green birefringence. X-ray diffraction reveals cross-beta structure of extended amyloid fibrils. Although there is always a major protein in amyloid deposits, the predominant protein differs in each ofthe clinical syndromes. All the proteins exhibit the characteristic nonnative beta-sheet state. These proteins aggregate spontaneously into extended fibrils and precipitate out of solution. At least a dozen of these peptides have been demonstrated to be capable of channel formation in lipid bilayers and it has been proposed that this represents a pathogenic mechanism. Remarkably, the channels formed by these various peptides exhibit a number of common properties including irreversible, spontaneous insertion into membranes, production oflarge, heterogeneous single-channel conductances, relatively poor ion selectivity, inhibition of channel formation by Congo red and related dyes and blockade of inserted channels by zinc. In vivo amyloid peptides have been shown to disrupt intracellular calcium regulation, plasma membrane potential, mitochondrial membrane potential and function and long-term potentiation in neurons. Amyloid peptides also cause cytotoxicity. Formation of the beta sheet conformation from native protein structures can be induced by high protein concentrations, metal binding, acidic pH, amino acid mutation and interaction with lipid membranes. Most amyloid peptides interact strongly with membranes and this interaction is enhanced by conditions which favor beta-sheet formation. Formation of pores in these illnesses appears to be a spontaneous process and available evidence suggests several steps are critical. First, destabilization of the native structure and formation of the beta-sheet conformation must occur. This may occur in solution or may be facilitated by contact with lipid membranes. Oligomerization of the amyloid protein is then mediated by the beta strands. Amyloid monomers and extended fibrils appear to have little potential for toxicity whereas there is much evidence implicating amyloid oligomers of intermediate size in the pathogenesis of amyloid disease. Insertion of the oligomer appears to take place spontaneously although there may be a contribution of acidic pH and/or membrane potential. Very little is known about the structure of amyloid pores, but given that the amyloid peptides must acquire beta-sheet conformation to aggregate and polymerize, it has been hypothesized that amyloid pores may in fact be beta-sheet barrels similar to the pores formed by alpha-latrotoxin, Staphylococcal alpha-hemolysin, anthrax toxin and clostridial perfringolysin.
Despite advances in the treatment of cancer, the prognosis of patient diagnosed with metastatis cancer to the brain remains poor. The role of neural stem cells as a viable tool in the treatment of metastatic cancer to the brain alone or in conjuction with current therapeutic modalities is promising. Both murine and human neural stem cells (NSCs) have been shown to migrate through the central nervous system (CNS) and infiltrate tumors and other pathological disease states of the brain. Genetic modification of NSCs to produce cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agents in the vicinity of a primary tumor and/or satellite lesion or has proven instrumental to the reduction of tumor bulk in murine models. Although the use of stem cells proves to be a volatile social topic, scientists have discovered that NSCs are present in the adult brain and continue to propagate and differentiate. These cells may be isolated and cultured to produce clonal NSC lines that are capable of self renewal and differentiation when introduced into the CNS. In this chapter, we describe protocols currently used in ourlab for the successful maintenance of NSCs in vitro advancing the role of neural stem cells in the treatment of brain tumors.

Members of IL-6 family cytokines, such as leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), activate the common signal-transducing receptor gp130. We and others have previously shown that application of exogenous gp130 ligands promotes photoreceptor survival in light-induced and inherited retinal degeneration in animal models. While there is strong evidence that gp130 plays an essential role in photoreceptor protection, it is not clear whether protection is cell-autonomous in photoreceptors or an effect of Mller cell activation. To investigate the role of Mller cells in gp130-mediated photoreceptor protection, we have generated conditional gp130 knockout (KO) mice in retinal Mller cells using the Cre/lox system. Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses show that in our conditional gp130 KO mice, approximately 50% Mller cells no longer respond to LIF with activation of known downstream signaling proteins, STAT3 and ERK1/2. Despite the loss of gp130 activity in many Mller cells, intravitreal injection of LIF still induced significant degree of photoreceptor protection that was comparable to normal littermates. These data suggest that Mller cell activation of gp130 is not essential for photoreceptor protection, and support the hypothesis that the protection is mediated by cell-autonomous mechanisms in photoreceptors.
11-cis Retinal is the light-sensitive component in rod and cone photoreceptors, and its isomerization to all-trans retinal in the presence of light initiates the visual response. For photoreceptors to function normally, all-trans retinal must be converted back into 11-cis retinal through the visual cycle. While rods are primarily responsible for dim light vision, the ability of cones to function in constant light is essential to human vision and may be facilitated by cone-specific visual cycle pathways. The interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) is a proposed retinoid transporter in the visual cycle, but rods in Irbp ( -/- ) mice have a normal visual cycle. However, there is evidence that IRBP has cone-specific functions. Cone electroretinogram (ERG) responses are reduced, despite having cone densities and opsin levels similar to C57Bl/6 (WT) mice. Treatment with 9-cis retinal rescues the cone response in Irbp ( -/- ) mice and shows that retinoid deficiency underlies cone dysfunction. These data indicate that IRBP is essential to normal cone function and demonstrate that differences exist in the visual cycle of rods and cones.
We examined whether acidic buffer sensitizes thin muscular afferents to mechanical stimulus using single-fiber recording. The EDL muscle with the common peroneal nerve attached was excised from 17-male SD rats under pentobarbital anesthesia. After identifying single thin afferent fibers, mechanical stimulus was applied to their receptive fields using a servo-controlled mechanical stimulator before and after pH 6.2-solution was applied to the receptive field. The effect of pH 7.4-solution was similarly examined as a control. Application of pH 7.4-solution did not induce any change in the mechanical threshold or increase in the number of discharges evoked during stimulation over the number of spontaneous discharges (response magnitude). However, pH 6.2-solution significantly lowered the mechanical threshold and increased the response magnitude, suggesting that the mechanical sensitivity of thin muscle afferents was augmented by exposure to acidic pH, which is seen during exercise. This change could be involved in respiratory control during exercise.
The synaptic organization between vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2)-immunoreactive (ir) axon terminals and phrenic motoneurons in the neonatal rat was examined using a combined retrograde tracing and immunohistochemistry for VGLUT2. The phrenic nucleus (PhN) contained large numbers of VGLUT2-ir axon terminals, some of which made axosomatic and axodendritic synapses with PhN motoneurons. These terminals were of asymmetrical type and contained spherical clear synaptic vesicles. The results suggest that in the neonatal rat glutamatergic synapses onto PhN motoneurons exist and mediate excitatory transmission to drive PhN motoneurons.
The Adhesion family is unique among the GPCR (G protein-coupled receptor) families because of several features including long N-termini with multiple domains. The gene repertoire has recently been mined in great detail in several species including mouse, rat, dog, chicken and the early vertebrate Branchiostoma (Branchiostoma floridae) and one of the most primitive animals, the cniderian Nematostella (Nematostella vectensis). There is a one-to-one relationship of the rodent (mouse and rat) and human orthologues with the exception the EMR2 and EMR3 that do not seem to have orthologues in either rat or mouse. All 33 human Adhesion GPCR genes are present in the dog genome but the dog genome also contains 5 additional full-length Adhesion genes. The dog and human Adhesion orthologues have higher average protein sequence identity than the rodent (rat and mouse) and the human sequences. The Adhesion family is well-represented in chicken with 21 one-to-one orthologous with humans, while 12 human Adhesion GPCRs lack a chicken ortholog. Branchiostoma has rich repertoire of Adhesion GPCRs with at least 37 genes. Moreover, the Adhesion GPCRs in Branchiostoma have several novel domains their N-termini, like Somatomedin B, Kringle, Lectin C-type, SRCR, LDLa, Immunoglobulin I-set, CUB and TNFR. Nematostella has also Adhesion GPCRs that are show domain structure and sequence similarities in the transmembrane regions with different classes of mammalian GPCRs. The Nematostella genome has a unique set of Adhesion-like sequences lacking GPS domains. There is considerable evidence showing that the Adhesion family is ancestral to the peptide hormone binding Secretin family of GPCRs.
Consciousness has been a subject of crescent interest among the neuroscience community. However, building machine models of it is quite challenging, as it involves many characteristics and properties of the human brain which are poorly defined or are very abstract. Here I propose to use information theory (IT) to give a mathematical framework to understand consciousness. For this reason, I used the term &quot;computational&quot;. This work is grounded on some recent results on the use of IT to understand how the cortex codes information, where redundancy reduction plays a fundamental role. Basically, I propose a system, here called &quot;organism&quot;, whose strategy is to extract the maximal amount of information from the environment in order to survive. To highlight the proposed framework, I show a simple organism composed of a single neuron which adapts itself to the outside dynamics by taking into account its internal state, whose perception is understood here to be related to &quot;feelings&quot;.
This paper is the continuation of a study about Consciousness as a resulting function between attention and luminosity, presented at the Neuroscience International Congress, which was held in the city of Natal, in Brazil, in 2006. There it was described how visual Consciousness is generated by the interaction of the cortical area activity through FFS (Feedforward Sweep Processes), RP (Recurrent Processes) and WSRP (Wide Spread Recurrent Processes), and its relationship with the luminosity that hits the eyes. We have applied the reciprocal interaction model, which says that the eye reacts to luminosity through the regulation of sleep-awake states through EEG wave synchronization; this, in turn, is regulated by the thalamic cortical neural activity from the brainstem monoaminergic and cholinergic nuclei.Such an understanding has led us to construct a consciousness model which can be represented by an orthogonal graph. Through this model, we can represent all states of human consciousness (emotional consciousness, unconsciousness states, dreaming states, awareness states, pre-consciousness states and others) making it possible, in theory, to construct a Consciousness parameter which yields to the understanding of consciousness state observation without a subjective approach to experience.We have also applied on this orthogonal graph the Quantum Orch OR Model. According to it, subjective, phenomenal conscious vision depends on quantum computation in microtubules where the quantum is the smallest quantity of radiant energy, in a scale in which matter and energy interact. This model helps us to build the vertical axe of the consciousness orthogonal graph, a cholinergic-aminergic scale, in which activation triggers the quantum mechanism relevant to the consciousness phenomenon.







We study the problem of segmenting specific white matter structures of interest from Diffusion Tensor (DT-MR) images of the human brain. This is an important requirement in many Neuroimaging studies: for instance, to evaluate whether a brain structure exhibits group level differences as a function of disease in a set of images. Typically, interactive expert guided segmentation has been the method of choice for such applications, but this is tedious for large datasets common today. To address this problem, we endow an image segmentation algorithm with &quot;advice&quot; encoding some global characteristics of the region(s) we want to extract. This is accomplished by constructing (using expert-segmented images) an epitome of a specific region - as a histogram over a bag of 'words' (e.g., suitable feature descriptors). Now, given such a representation, the problem reduces to segmenting a new brain image with additional constraints that enforce consistency between the segmented foreground and the pre-specified histogram over features. We present combinatorial approximation algorithms to incorporate such domain specific constraints for Markov Random Field (MRF) segmentation. Making use of recent results on image co-segmentation, we derive effective solution strategies for our problem. We provide an analysis of solution quality, and present promising experimental evidence showing that many structures of interest in Neuroscience can be extracted reliably from 3-D brain image volumes using our algorithm.
Drosophila melanogaster, the &quot;fruit fly,&quot; is being increasingly used as an experimental model in neurosciences, including neuropharmacology. The advantages of Drosophila over typical mammalian models in neuropharmacology include better access to genetic manipulation and the availability of almost unlimited numbers of experimental subjects at relatively low cost and with minimal regulatory restrictions. Nevertheless, one should remain cognizant of the substantial differences between insects and mammals. Insects, including Drosophila, utilize gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) as a neurotransmitter and express both ionotropic GABA receptors and metabotropic GABA-B receptors. Before cloning of the Drosophila GABA-B receptors (subunits 1-3), it had been assumed that flies did not express these receptors since baclofen, a typical agonist for mammalian GABA-B receptors, does not produce any effects in insects. Subsequently, it was confirmed that cloned Drosophila GABA-B receptors exhibit a unique pharmacology. Using Drosophila as a model, it has been shown that GABA-B receptors are involved in the behavioral actions of alcohol and gamma-hydroxybutyric acid, and possibly in pain. Furthermore, recent research suggests that in flies these receptors may play an important developmental role and that they participate in olfaction and in regulation of circadian rhythms.
Temporally-structured cortical activity in the form of synchronized network oscillations and persistent activity is fundamental for cognitive processes such as sensory processing, motor control, working memory, and consolidation of long-term memory. The roles of fast glutamatergic excitation via AMPA, kainate, and NMDA receptors, as well as fast GABAergic inhibition via GABA(A) receptors, in such network activity have been studied in great detail. In contrast, we have only recently begun to appreciate the roles of slow inhibition via GABA(B) receptors in the control of cortical network activity. Here, we provide a framework for understanding the contributions of GABA(B) receptors in helping mediate, modulate, and moderate different types of physiological and pathological cortical network activity. We demonstrate how the slow time course of GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibition is well suited to help mediate the slow oscillation, to modulate the power and spatial profile of gamma oscillations, and to moderate the relative spike timing of individual neurons during theta oscillations. We further suggest that GABA(B) receptors are interesting therapeutic targets in pathological conditions where cortical network activity is disturbed, such as epilepsy and schizophrenia.
The GABA transporter 1 (GAT1), the main plasma membrane GABA transporter in brain tissue, mediates translocation of GABA from the extracellular to the intracellular space. Whereas GAT1-mediated uptake could generally terminate the synaptic effects of GABA, recent studies suggest a more complex physiological role. This chapter reviews evidence suggesting that in hippocampal and neocortical circuits, GAT1-mediated GABA transport regulates the electrophysiological effects of GABA(B) receptor (GABA(B)R) activation by synaptically-released GABA. Contrasting with synaptic GABA(A) receptors, GABA(B)Rs display high GABA binding affinity, slow G protein-coupled mediated signaling, and a predominantly extrasynaptic localization. Such GABA(B)R properties determine production of slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) and slow presynaptic effects. Such effects possibly require diffusion of GABA far away from the release sites, and consequently both GABA(B)R-mediated IPSPs and presynaptic effects are strongly enhanced when GAT1-mediated uptake is blocked. Studies are reviewed here which indicate that GABA(B)R-mediated IPSPs seem to be produced by dendrite-targeting GABA neurons including specifically, although perhaps not exclusively, the neurogliaform cell class. In contrast, the GABA interneuron subtypes that synapse onto the perisomatic membrane of pyramidal cells mostly signal via synaptic GABA(A)Rs. This chapter reviews data suggesting that neurogliaform cells produce electrophysiological effects onto other neurons in the cortical cell network via GABA(B)R-mediated volume transmission that is highly regulated by GAT1 activity. Therefore, the role of GAT1 in controlling GABA(B)R-mediated signaling is markedly different from its regulation of GABA(A)R-mediated fast synaptic transmission.
GABA(B) receptors (GABA(B)R) are heterodimeric G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that mediate slow and prolonged inhibitory signals in the central nervous system. The signaling of GPCRs is under stringent control and is subject to regulation by multiple posttranslational mechanisms. The beta-adrenergic receptor is a prototypic GPCR. Like most GPCRs, prolonged exposure of this receptor to agonist induces phosphorylation of multiple intracellular residues that is largely dependent upon the activity of G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs). Phosphorylation terminates receptor-effector coupling and promotes both interaction with beta-arrestins and removal from the plasma membrane via clathrin-dependent endocytosis. Emerging evidence for GABA(B)Rs suggests that these GPCRs do not conform to this mode of regulation. Studies using both native and recombinant receptor preparations have demonstrated that GABA(B)Rs do not undergo agonist-induced internalization and are not GRK substrates. Moreover, whilst GABA(B)Rs undergo clathrin-dependent constitutive endocytosis, it is generally accepted that their rates of internalization are not modified by prolonged agonist exposure. Biochemical studies have revealed that GABA(B)Rs are phosphorylated on multiple residues within the cytoplasmic domains of both the R1 and R2 subunits by cAMP-dependent protein kinase and 5'AMP-dependent protein kinase (AMPK). Here we discuss the role that this phosphorylation plays in determining GABA(B)R effector coupling and their trafficking within the endocytic pathway and go on to evaluate the significance of GABA(B)R phosphorylation in controlling neuronal excitability under normal and pathological conditions.
Adult supratentorial low-grade gliomas (LGG) cover a spectrum of neuropathologies that invariably present with seizure disorders. Following neuroradiological diagnosis management strategy will be determined by prognostic indicators such as patient age, lesion size, lesion location, clinical performance status and radiological differential diagnosis. Conservative management, characterised by a &quot;watch and wait&quot; policy, with serial neuroimaging and clinical observation, may form an integral part of overall Multi-Disciplinary Team management strategy in many patients. Conservative management may include the periods following radiological diagnosis to primary surgery, and from the time of surgery to timing of radiotherapy or chemotherapy. Results from randomised controlled clinical trials in LGG, recent findings following microsurgical excision, findings from serial observations using volumetric MRI, and recent findings following chemotherapy and tumour genotyping have helped in defining the place of conservative management in individual cases. These recent findings have moved conservative management from a 'controversial' legacy of a bygone era to a more objectively based coherent management component that is understood by both medical and surgical neuro-oncologists. However there is still no evidence from randomised controlled trials to either support or indict the role of conservative management, prior to primary intervention, in LGG. Informing patients of the uncertainties in both interventional strategies and the place of conservative management in LGG is essential in optimising patient outcomes and satisfaction.
Imaging plays a key role in the management of low-grade gliomas. The traditional view of these tumours as non-enhancing areas of increased signal on T2-weighted imaging is now accepted as being incorrect. Using new MR and PET techniques that can probe the pathological changes with in these tumours by assessing vascularity (perfusion MR), cellularity and infiltration (diffusion weighted and diffusion tensor MR), metabolism (MR spectroscopy and FDG PET) and proliferation (MR spectroscopy, methionine PET and 18F-fluorothymidine FLT PET). These tools will allow improvements in tumour grading, biopsy/therapy guidance and earlier assessment of the response to therapy.

The most commonly studied laboratory rodents possess a specialized form of fat called brown adipose tissue (BAT) that generates heat to help maintain body temperature in cold environments. In humans, BAT is abundant during embryonic and early postnatal development, but is absent or present in relatively small amounts in adults where it is located in paracervical and supraclavicular regions. BAT cells can 'burn' fatty acid energy substrates to generate heat because they possess large numbers of mitochondria in which oxidative phosphorylation is uncoupled from ATP production as a result of a transmembrane proton leak mediated by uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1). Studies of rodents in which BAT levels are either increased or decreased have revealed a role for BAT in protection against diet-induced obesity. Data suggest that individuals with low levels of BAT are prone to obesity, insulin resistance and cardiovascular disease, whereas those with higher levels of BAT maintain lower body weights and exhibit superior health as they age. BAT levels decrease during aging, and dietary energy restriction increases BAT activity and protects multiple organ systems including the nervous system against age-related dysfunction and degeneration. Future studies in which the effects of specific manipulations of BAT levels and thermogenic activity on disease processes in animal models (diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancers, neurodegenerative diseases) are determined will establish if and how BAT affects the development and progression of age-related diseases. Data from animal studies suggest that BAT and mitochondrial uncoupling can be targeted for interventions to prevent and treat obesity and age-related diseases. Examples include: diet and lifestyle changes; specific regimens of mild intermittent stress; drugs that stimulate BAT formation and activity; induction of brown adipose cell progenitors in muscle and other tissues; and transplantation of brown adipose cells.
Healthy aged individuals are more likely to suffer profound memory impairments following a challenging life event such as a severe bacterial infection, surgery, or an intense psychological stressor, than are younger adults. These peripheral challenges are capable of producing a neuroinflammatory response, (e.g., increased pro-inflammatory cytokines), and in the healthy aged brain this response is exaggerated and prolonged. Normal aging primes or sensitizes microglia and this appears to be the source of this amplified response. Among the outcomes of this exaggerated neuroinflammatory response is an impairment in synaptic plasticity, and a reduction in key downstream mediators such as Arc and BDNF. Each of these mechanisms is important for long-term memory formation, and is compromised by elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines. Pharmacological, dietary and physical interventions are discussed as potential therapies to abrogate the challenge-induced neuroinflammatory response, thereby preventing or reducing memory deficits in aged subjects.
Stroke is the third leading cause of death in the USA, Canada, Europe, and Japan. According to the American Heart Association and the American Stroke Association, there are now 750,000 new strokes that occur each year, resulting in 200,000 deaths, or 1 of every 16 deaths, per year in the USA alone. Endovascular therapy for patients with acute ischemic stroke is an area of intense investigation. The American Stroke Association has given a qualified endorsement of intra-arterial thrombolysis in selected patients. Intra-arterial thrombolysis has been studied in two randomized trials and numerous case series. Although two devices have been granted FDA approval with an indication for mechanical stroke thrombectomy, none of these thrombectomy devices has demonstrated efficacy for the improvement of patient outcomes. The purpose of the present document is to define what constitutes adequate training to perform neuroendovascular procedures in patients with acute ischemic stroke and what performance standards should be adopted to assess outcomes. These guidelines have been written and approved by multiple neuroscience societies which historically have been directly involved in the medical, surgical and endovascular care of patients with acute stroke. The participating member organizations of the Neurovascular Coalition involved in the writing and endorsement of this document are the Society of NeuroInterventional Surgery, the American Academy of Neurology, the American Association of Neurological Surgeons/Congress of Neurological Surgeons Cerebrovascular Section, and the Society of Vascular &amp; Interventional Neurology.


Advances in neuroscience are changing how mental health issues such as addiction are understood and addressed as a brain disease. Although a brain disease model legitimizes addiction as a medical condition, it promotes neuro-essentialist thinking, categorical ideas of responsibility and free choice, and undermines the complexity involved in its emergence. We propose a 'biopsychosocial systems' model where psycho-social factors complement and interact with neurogenetics. A systems approach addresses the complexity of addiction and approaches free choice and moral responsibility within the biological, lived experience and socio-historical context of the individual. We examine heroin-assisted treatment as an applied case example within our framework. We conclude with a discussion of the model and its implications for drug policy, research, addiction health care systems and delivery, and treatment of substance use problems.



Both HIV infection and alcohol abuse have negative effects on the brain, with some unique to each condition and others shared by both conditions. Investigators have used magnetic resonance imaging to study the size and integrity of various brain structures in participants with alcoholism, HIV infection, or both conditions and in healthy control subjects. In these studies, alcoholics exhibited enlarged, cerebrospinal fluid-filled spaces (i.e., ventricles) as well as tissue shrinkage in various brain regions (e.g., the corpus callosum and frontal cortex), whereas study participants with asymptomatic HIV infection showed few abnormalities. Those with both HIV infection and alcoholism also had these volume abnormalities, particularly if they had experienced an AIDS-defining event. Diffusion tensor imaging, which measures the integrity of white matter fibers, has identified abnormalities of constituents of these fibers in both diseases. Again, people with HIV infection plus alcoholism show the greatest abnormalities, particularly those with a history of an AIDS-defining event. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy, which assesses the levels of brain metabolites and selective neurotransmitters, has revealed different patterns of deficits in biochemical markers of brain integrity in individuals singly affected and a compounding of effects in individuals with both HIV infection and alcoholism. Finally, neuropsychological studies have revealed impairment in selective functions involving working memory, visuospatial abilities, and movement speed that are especially likely to occur in people with comorbid HIV infection and alcoholism. Thus, alcoholism is a major risk factor for development of neuropathology and its functional sequelae in HIV-infected people.
In the 40 years since the founding of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA), researchers have gained a better understanding of the brain circuits and brain chemical (i.e., neurotransmitter) systems involved in the development and maintenance of alcoholism and other drug dependence. This understanding has led to the identification of numerous potential targets for pharmacotherapy of addiction. For example, insight into the roles of signaling molecules called endogenous opioids and the neurotransmitter glutamate were fundamental for developing two medications-naltrexone and acamprosate-now used in the treatment of alcoholism. However, the processes of dependence development (e.g., reinforcement, sensitization, and withdrawal) are highly complex and involve a plethora of contributing influences, which also may differ from patient to patient. Therefore, existing pharmacotherapies still are effective only for some but not all alcoholic patients. Accordingly, researchers are continuing to explore the processes involved in addiction development to identify new targets for treatment and develop new medications that can address different aspects of the dependence syndrome, thereby increasing the likelihood of successful treatment. NIAAA continues to play a pivotal role in funding and conducting this research in order to provide effective treatment options to millions of alcohol-dependent patients.


Down syndrome (DS) is the most common genetic disorder characterized by an extra copy of chromosome 21. DS subjects show signs of progressive cognitive decline, and most of them develop Alzheimer's type dementia at the age of 50 to 55 years. The aim of this study was to evaluate amyloid precursor protein (APP) metabolites and anti-Abeta 1-42 antibodies plasma levels in DS as possible biomarkers of Abeta accumulation potentially leading to neurodegeneration. We investigated plasma levels of sAPPalpha, Abeta 1-42, and anti-Abeta 1-42 antibodies by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 24 DS subjects, 10 non-DS mentally retarded subjects and 18 age-matched controls. We found that sAPPalpha levels were about 1.5-fold higher and Abeta 1-42 levels were about 6-fold higher in DS respect to mentally retarded patients and to controls. DS patients showed Abeta 1-42 antibodies levels 4-fold higher than non-DS mentally retarded group and 2-fold higher than controls. Moreover, anti-Abeta 1-42 antibodies levels were inversely correlated with age in DS subjects. Our results suggested sAPPalpha as a possible peripheral marker for the alteration in APP metabolism in DS and highlighted an alteration in anti-abeta antibodies, for the first time evaluated in plasma from DS subjects.

Patient satisfaction with botulinum toxin treatment is a key success factor in aesthetic procedures and is governed by the interaction of numerous variables. Duration of effect is important because it influences retreatment intervals as well as affecting cost and convenience to the patient. In order to review the evidence on the duration of benefit associated with various commercial formulations of botulinum toxin, MEDLINE was searched using the following terms: 'botulinum' and 'duration'/'retreatment' (limits: 'clinical trials,' 'meta-analyses,' 'English'). I also searched my existing reference files, reference lists of identified articles, and meeting/conference abstracts to ensure completeness. The focus was on clinical medicine and aesthetic trials. To be eligible for the analysis, studies had to include efficacy assessments at multiple timepoints. To estimate duration of benefit, the following outcomes were examined and summarized: responder rates, mean wrinkle severity scores at various timepoints (with or without changes from baseline), and relapse rates. Duration at both repose and maximum attempted muscle contraction was considered when provided. Where possible, duration was assessed by formulation and dose. The initial search yielded 164 articles. Of these, 35 included an adequate measure of duration in aesthetic indications. The majority of these (22) were on the glabellar area. Study designs and endpoints were highly heterogeneous, and duration of effect varied between studies. Several studies with the BOTOX Cosmetic (onabotulinumtoxinA; Allergan, Inc., Irvine, CA, USA) formulation of botulinum toxin type A (BoNTA) included relapse rates, defined conservatively as return to baseline levels of line severity for two consecutive visits approximately 30 days apart (at repose and maximum contraction). In these studies, duration of effect ranged from 3 to 5 months in female patients and from 4 to 6 months in male patients. Individual patients had longer durations of response. Across all studies providing relapse rates, most patients relapsed by 6 months. In studies assessing patient satisfaction, satisfaction remained high throughout the duration of the studies ( approximately 4 months). With the Dysport formulation (abobotulinumtoxinA, clostridium botulinum type A toxin-hemagglutinin complex; Ipsen Biopharm Ltd, Wrexham, England), retreatment intervals were estimated at a mean of 3.9 months (median = 3.3 months). These results were consistent with responder rates from another Dysport study in which the active treatment differed from placebo at 3 but not 4 months. A single comparative study demonstrated that the proportion of patients relapsing at week 16 was 23% (95% CI 11.5, 41.6) in the BOTOX Cosmetic group as compared with 40% (95% CI 25.2, 60.1) in the Dysport group. Myobloc (rimabotulinumtoxinB, botulinum toxin type B; Solstice Neurosciences, Inc., South San Francisco, CA, USA) was associated with shorter durations of action (2-3 months). Data from facial areas other than the glabella, although more limited, supported a duration of at least 3-4 months. The addition of BoNTA to dermal fillers or light/laser therapy appeared to increase the degree of effect. Repeated BoNTA treatments may prolong duration of effect or potentiate the effect. In conclusion, patients can expect treatments to last &gt; or =3 months but often as many as 4-5 months depending on the facial area, dose, and formulation. Additional research should help clarify the impact of age, baseline rhytid severity, patient sex, repeated treatments, and combination treatment on longevity of effect.



Skeletal muscle contraction is reputed not to depend on extracellular Ca2+. Indeed, stricto sensu, excitation-contraction coupling does not necessitate entry of Ca2+. However, we previously observed that, during sustained activity (repeated contractions), entry of Ca2+ is needed to maintain force production. In the present study, we evaluated the possible involvement of the canonical transient receptor potential (TRPC)1 ion channel in this entry of Ca2+ and investigated its possible role in muscle function. Patch-clamp experiments reveal the presence of a small-conductance channel (13 pS) that is completely lost in adult fibers from TRPC1(-/-) mice. The influx of Ca2+ through TRPC1 channels represents a minor part of the entry of Ca(2+) into muscle fibers at rest, and the activity of the channel is not store dependent. The lack of TRPC1 does not affect intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+](i)) transients reached during a single isometric contraction. However, the involvement of TRPC1-related Ca2+ entry is clearly emphasized in muscle fatigue. Indeed, muscles from TRPC1(-/-) mice stimulated repeatedly progressively display lower [Ca2+](i) transients than those observed in TRPC1(+/+) fibers, and they also present an accentuated progressive loss of force. Interestingly, muscles from TRPC1(-/-) mice display a smaller fiber cross-sectional area, generate less force per cross-sectional area, and contain less myofibrillar proteins than their controls. They do not present other signs of myopathy. In agreement with in vitro experiments, TRPC1(-/-) mice present an important decrease of endurance of physical activity. We conclude that TRPC1 ion channels modulate the entry of Ca(2+) during repeated contractions and help muscles to maintain their force during sustained repeated contractions.
In the executive model of deception, the telling of a lie necessitates the inhibition of a veridical prepotent response (the truth), and such inhibition incurs a temporal penalty, manifest as a longer response time. If memory processes are engaged in generating such truths, then memory function should affect truthful and deceptive response times. To investigate this we examined the relationship between performance on a semantic knowledge deception task and a test of verbal memory in 40 college students. We found that verbal memory performance differentially affects the temporal parameters of truth and deception.
Neuroergonomics provides a multidisciplinary translational approach that merges elements of neuroscience, human factors, cognitive psychology, and ergonomics to study brain structure and function in everyday environments. Driving safety, particularly that of older drivers with cognitive impairments, is a fruitful application domain for neuroergonomics. Driving makes demands on multiple cognitive processes that are often studied in isolation and so presents a useful challenge in generalizing findings from controlled laboratory tasks to predict safety outcomes. Neurology and the cognitive sciences help explain the mechanisms of cognitive breakdowns that undermine driving safety. Ergonomics complements this explanation with the tools for systematically exploring the various layers of complexity that define the activity of driving. A variety of tools, such as part task simulators, driving simulators, and instrumented vehicles, provide a window into cognition in the natural settings needed to assess the generalizability of laboratory findings and can provide an array of potential interventions to increase driving safety.
Patients can be harmed by treatment or by the decisions that are made about those treatments. Although dramatic examples of harmful effects of psychotherapy have been reported, the full scope of the problem remains unclear. The field currently lacks consensus about how to detect harm and what to do about it when it occurs. In this article, we define the ways in which treatment (or the inferences about treatment) can do harm and discuss factors that complicate efforts to detect harm. We also recommend methods to detect and understand harm when it occurs, drawing from and modifying many of the same strategies that are used to detect benefit. Specifically, we highlight the value of establishing independent systems for monitoring untoward events in clinical practice, reporting descriptive case studies and qualitative research, and making use of information from randomized clinical trials, including examining potential active ingredients, mechanisms, moderators, and a broad range of outcomes measured over time. We also highlight the value of promoting discussion in the field about standards for defining and identifying harm.
An episode of status epilepticus (SE), if left untreated, can lead to death, or brain damage with long-term neurological consequences, including the development of epilepsy. The most common first-line treatment of SE is administration of benzodiazepines (BZs). However, the efficacy of BZs in terminating seizures is reduced with time after the onset of SE; this is accompanied by a reduced efficacy in protecting the hippocampus against neuronal damage, and is associated with impaired function and internalization of hippocampal GABA(A) receptors. In the present study, using Fluoro-Jade C staining, we found that administration of diazepam to rats at 3 h after the onset of kainic acid-induced SE, at a dose sufficient to terminate SE, had no protective effect on the hippocampus, but produced a significant reduction in neuronal degeneration in the amygdala, piriform cortex, and endopiriform nucleus, examined on days 7-9 after SE. Thus, in contrast to the hippocampus, the amygdala and other limbic structures are responsive to neuroprotection by BZs after prolonged SE, suggesting that GABA(A) receptors are not significantly altered in these structures during SE.
Different forms of motor neuron disease occurring in association with HIV infection have been described. We present two patients with pseudobulbar syndrome and HIV infection, with no clinical or electromyographic signs of lower motor neuron loss. In patient 1, on follow-up, focal seizures led to additional investigations that identified unsuspected HIV infection and progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy (PML). In patient 2, all investigations excluded an active HIV infection or central nervous system involvement, and the disease progression made primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) with pseudobulbar onset the most likely diagnosis. ALS-like syndrome can occur in association with HIV infection; however, the causal relationship remains uncertain. Patient 1 shows that PML is a possible cause for pseudobulbar syndrome, and our second patient demonstrates that ALS may also occur by chance in patients with HIV infection.
Among the 140 Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) gene mutations associated with ALS, only D90A, the most prevalent mutation in Europe, has been clearly shown to cause recessive and dominant ALS. Here we first describe two, apparently sporadic, Italian ALS patients heterozygous for the D90A mutation. One patient experienced early sensory involvement, confirmed by nerve biopsy. We review sensory symptoms in SOD1 ALS and discuss its possible origin in D90A heterozygous patients.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the possible contribution of three common functional polymorphisms in the DNA repair protein X-ray repair cross-complementing group 1 (XRCC1), namely Arg194Trp (rs1799782), Arg280His (rs25489) and Arg399Gln (rs25487), to sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (SALS). We genotyped 206 Italian SALS patients and 203 matched controls for XRCC1 Arg194Trp, Arg280His and Arg399Gln polymorphisms by means of PCR/RFLP technique, searching for association between any of the studied polymorphisms and disease risk, age and site of onset. We observed a statistically significant difference in XRCC1 Gln399 allele frequencies between SALS cases and controls (0.39/0.28; p=0.001). The present study suggests that the XRCC1 Arg399Gln polymorphism might contribute to SALS risk.
In an animal model of ALS, intramuscular administration of MGF, the IGF-I Ec gene splice variant, improved muscle strength and increased both motor unit and motor neuron survival. Here we investigated whether there is a deficit in MGF production in the muscles of patients with ALS. We used complementary in vivo and in vitro techniques to study the IGF-I splice variant response of human muscle to exercise or mechanical stretch. We assessed the levels of MGF and IGF-IEa mRNA in muscle biopsy samples from healthy subjects and patients with ALS, before and after exercise. We used primary muscle cells to build three-dimensional collagen constructs and subjected them to a ramp stretch. Patients with ALS had similar baseline levels of MGF and IGF-IEa mRNA to healthy controls. No up-regulation was seen in either group within a short time of a single bout of low intensity exercise. Three-dimensional human muscle constructs also detected no response to a mechanical stretch from either control subjects or ALS. We conclude that the pathology of ALS does not include a deficit in baseline levels of MGF and IGF-IEa mRNA splice variants in muscle.
More than 140 different mutations have been reported in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) gene in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), some occurring as founder mutations. Occasionally, specific mutations are associated with a particular phenotype. We evaluated a possible genotype-phenotype correlation and looked for a founder effect in nine patients from six unrelated families with ALS, all carrying the G41S mutation, originating from north-west Tuscany in central Italy. Mutational analysis of the SOD1 gene was carried out by direct sequencing. A haplotype study was carried out using eight polymorphic markers flanking the SOD1 gene. The clinical pattern of the nine familial ALS (FALS) patients was characterized by spinal onset with early upper and lower motor neuron involvement, appearance of bulbar signs within one year, and death a few months later. Mean age at onset was 49.3 years and mean duration of disease was 0.9 years. Genotyping revealed a common haplotype for the G41S allele. We provide the first evidence that the G41S mutation in Italy originates from a common founder. In addition, our findings strengthen the data reported previously and indicate that the G41S mutation is consistently associated with a uniform and dramatic, fast-progressing phenotype.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), traditionally considered as a disorder limited to the motor system, is increasingly recognized to be a multisystem disease, involving associative areas in addition to the motor cortex and therefore affecting cognition. ALS patients may present with subtle behavioural and executive dysfunctions or, less frequently, with a manifest frontotemporal dementia. Event-related potentials (ERPs) are a high-temporal resolution technique, which can be used to explore the presence of cognitive dysfunction. All the primary studies reviewed here have shown ERP abnormalities in groups of non-demented patients affected by sporadic ALS compared to healthy controls. The ERP results support findings of neuropsychological and imaging studies. Prospective studies combining simultaneous neuropsychological and imaging investigations are needed to assess the possible role of ERPs in the early detection and follow-up of cognitive dysfunction in ALS patients.
Eye-specific projections to the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) serve as a model for exploring how precise patterns of circuitry form during development in the mammalian central nervous system. Using a combination of dual-label anterograde retinogeniculate tracing and Nissl-staining, we studied the patterns of eye-specific afferents and cellular laminae in the dLGN of the pigmented sable ferret at eight developmental timepoints between birth and adulthood. Each time point was investigated in the three standard orthogonal planes of section, allowing us to generate a complete anatomical map of eye-specific development in this species. We find that eye-specific retinal ganglion cell axon segregation varies according to location in the dLGN, with the principle contralateral (A) and ipsilateral layers (A1) maturing first, followed by the contralateral and ipsilateral C laminae. Cytoarchitectural lamination lags behind eye-specific segregation, except in the C laminae where underlying cellular layers never develop to accompany eye-specific afferent domains. The emergence of On/Off sublaminae occurs following eye-specific segregation in this species. On the basis of these findings, we constructed a three-dimensional map of eye-specific channels in the developing and mature ferret dLGN.


In this review, we address the question, central to cognition, of whether nonhuman animals such as rats are capable of extracting and extending information from a given learning situation to a new learning situation without generalizing through a physical dimension of the stimuli.This capacity underlies abstraction, which is a hallmark of human cognition and necessary for complex information processing such as language acquisition. We selectively review recent experiments with rats in which systematic changes in information processing of new stimuli are observed after training with different stimuli. These results strongly suggest that this capacity is present in rats. We also review two articles in which clear limitations to this capacity are detected. We conclude that, within specified limits, rats are capable of using prior experience when faced with a learning situation that involves new stimuli.We interpret this ability as a rudimentary form of abstraction. In the face of these provocative results, new theories of learning should be designed to account for these findings.
The pigeon is a standard animal in comparative psychology and is frequently used to investigate visuocognitive functions. Nonetheless, the strategies that pigeons use to discriminate complex visual stimuli remain a difficult area of study. In search of a reliable method to identify features that control the discrimination behaviour, pecking location was tracked using touch screen technology in a people-absent/people-present discrimination task. The correct stimuli contained human figures anywhere on the picture, but the birds were not required to peck on that part. However, the stimuli were designed in a way that only the human figures contained distinguishing information. All pigeons focused their pecks on a subarea of the distinctive human figures, namely the heads. Removal of the heads significantly impaired performance, while removal of other distinctive parts did not. Thus, peck tracking reveals the location within a complex visual stimulus that controls discrimination behaviour, and might be a valuable tool to reveal the strategies pigeons apply in visual discrimination tasks.
The elderly, often defined as those 65 years or older, are the most rapidly growing segment of the population, and onset of epilepsy is higher in this age group than in any other. This paper reviews recent developments, including a new proposed definition of epilepsy, a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease that exhibits complex partial seizures, evidence that the highest incidence of epilepsy may occur after admission to a nursing home, a challenge to the vitamin D hypothesis of osteoporosis associated with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), evidence that the genetic complement of hepatic isoenzymes is more predictive of metabolic rate than age, and data showing that there is considerable variability in serum levels of AEDs in many nursing home residents during constant dosing conditions.
Due to limitations posed by the restrictive blood-brain barrier, conventional drug delivery systems do not provide adequate cyto-architecture restoration and connection patterns that are essential for functional recovery in neurodegenerative disorders (NDs). Nanotechnology employs engineered materials or devices that interact with biological systems at a molecular level and could revolutionize the treatment of NDs by stimulating, responding to, and interacting with target sites to induce physiological responses while minimizing side effects. This review provides a concise discussion of the current applications of nano-enabled drug-delivery systems for the treatment of NDs, in particular Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, and explores the future applications of nanotechnology in clinical neuroscience to develop innovative therapeutic modalities for the treatment of NDs.
Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant disorder that results from mutations in the TSC1 or TSC2 genes and is associated with hamartoma formation in multiple organ systems. The neurological manifestations of TSC are particularly challenging and include infantile spasms, intractable epilepsy, cognitive disabilities, and autism. Progress over the past 15 years has demonstrated that the TSC1 or TSC2 encoded proteins modulate cell function via the mTOR signaling cascade and serve as keystones in regulating cell growth and proliferation. The mTOR pathway provides an intersection for an intricate network of protein cascades that respond to cellular nutrition, energy levels, and growth-factor stimulation. In the brain, TSC1 and TSC2 have been implicated in cell body size, dendritic arborization, axonal outgrowth and targeting, neuronal migration, cortical lamination, and spine formation. Antagonism of the mTOR pathway with rapamycin and related compounds may provide new therapeutic options for TSC patients.

For most of us, the foundations of our understanding of genetics were laid by considering Mendelian diseases in which familial recurrence risks are high, and mutant alleles are both necessary and sufficient. One consequence of this deterministic teaching is that our conceptualization of genetics tends to be dominated by the notion that the genetic aspects of disease are caused by rare alleles exerting large effects. Unfortunately, the preconceptions that flow from this training are frequently erroneous and misleading in the context of common traits, where familial recurrence risks are modest, and for the most part the relevant alleles are neither rare, necessary, nor sufficient. For these common traits, the genetic architecture is far more complex, with susceptibility rather than causality resulting from the combined effects of many alleles, each exerting only a modest effect on risk. None of these alleles is sufficient to cause disease on its own, and none is essential for the development of disease. Furthermore, most are carried by large sections of the population, the vast majority of which does not develop the disease. One consequence of our innate belief in the Mendelian paradigm is that we have an inherent expectation that knowledge about the genetic basis for a disease should allow genetic testing and thereby accurate risk prediction. There is an inevitable feeling that the same should be true in complex disease, but is it?
We report motor cortical function in the left occipital cortex of a subject who suffered a left middle cerebral artery stroke early in development. Transcranial magnetic stimulation of the left occipital cortex evoked contraction of right hand muscles. Electroencephalogram recorded over the left occipital cortex showed: 1) coherence with electromyogram from a right hand muscle; 2) a typical sensorimotor Mu rhythm at rest that was suppressed during contraction of right hand muscles. This is the first evidence that cortical plasticity extends beyond reshaping of primary sensory cortical fields to respecification of the cortical origin of subcortically projecting pathways.


This article reviews recent work involving the application of scanning electrochemical microscopy (SECM) to the study of individual cultured living cells, with an emphasis on topographical and functional imaging of neuronal and secretory cells of the nervous and endocrine system. The basic principles of biological SECM and associated negative amperometric-feedback and generator/collector-mode SECM imaging are discussed, and successful use of the methodology for screening soft and fragile membranous objects is outlined. The drawbacks of the constant-height mode of probe movement and the benefits of the constant-distance mode of SECM operation are described. Finally, representative examples of constant-height and constant-distance mode SECM on a variety of live cells are highlighted to demonstrate the current status of single-cell SECM in general and of SECM in neuroscience in particular.
A pressing need for interrater reliability in the diagnosis of mental disorders emerged during the mid-twentieth century, prompted in part by the development of diverse new treatments. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), third edition answered this need by introducing operationalized diagnostic criteria that were field-tested for interrater reliability. Unfortunately, the focus on reliability came at a time when the scientific understanding of mental disorders was embryonic and could not yield valid disease definitions. Based on accreting problems with the current DSM-fourth edition (DSM-IV) classification, it is apparent that validity will not be achieved simply by refining criteria for existing disorders or by the addition of new disorders. Yet DSM-IV diagnostic criteria dominate thinking about mental disorders in clinical practice, research, treatment development, and law. As a result, the modern DSM system, intended to create a shared language, also creates epistemic blinders that impede progress toward valid diagnoses. Insights that are beginning to emerge from psychology, neuroscience, and genetics suggest possible strategies for moving forward.
Neuropsychiatry is the subspecialty of psychiatry that deals with disorders at the intersection of neurology and psychiatry. Neuropsychiatric disorders are complex and incompletely understood. Neuroscience research is beginning to elucidate the biological underpinnings of many of these disorders. These advances have the potential to improve diagnosis, inform treatment selection, and facilitate development of new and better interventions.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a demyelinating disease of the white matter of the human brain caused by lytic infection of oligodendrocytes with the human polyomavirus JCV. Although the majority of PML cases occur in severely immune-suppressed individuals, with HIV-1 infection as the predominant factor, PML has been increasingly diagnosed in patients treated with biological therapies such as monoclonal antibodies that modulate immune system functions. Monoclonal antibodies that target the cell adhesion molecules VLA-4 (natalizumab; Tysabri for multiple sclerosis and Crohn's disease) or LFA-1 (efalizumab; Raptiva for severe forms of plaque psoriasis) to prevent extravasation of inflammatory T cells into tissues, or target the cell surface marker CD20 (rituximab; Rituxan for hematologic malignancies and rheumatoid arthritis) to deplete peripheral circulating B cells, have all been associated with PML. The link between the effects of these therapies on the immune system and the occurrence of PML has prompted investigations on JCV sites of latency in the bone marrow, the migration of bone marrow derived cells into the circulation, and intracellular virus entry into the brain.
The ability to group items and events into functional categories is a fundamental characteristic of sophisticated thought. It is subserved by plasticity in many neural systems, including neocortical regions (sensory, prefrontal, parietal, and motor cortex), the medial temporal lobe, the basal ganglia, and midbrain dopaminergic systems. These systems interact during category learning. Corticostriatal loops may mediate recursive, bootstrapping interactions between fast reward-gated plasticity in the basal ganglia and slow reward-shaded plasticity in the cortex. This can provide a balance between acquisition of details of experiences and generalization across them. Interactions between the corticostriatal loops can integrate perceptual, response, and feedback-related aspects of the task and mediate the shift from novice to skilled performance. The basal ganglia and medial temporal lobe interact competitively or cooperatively, depending on the demands of the learning task.
Although there is no clear concept of volition or the will, we do have intuitive ideas that characterize the will, agency, and voluntary behavior. Here I review results from a number of strands of neuroscientific research that bear upon our intuitive notions of the will. These neuroscientific results provide some insight into the neural circuits mediating behaviors that we identify as related to will and volition. Although some researchers contend that neuroscience will undermine our views about free will, to date no results have succeeded in fundamentally disrupting our common sense beliefs. Still, the picture emerging from neuroscience does raise new questions, and ultimately may put pressure on some intuitive notions about what is necessary for free will.
The vascular and nervous systems share a common necessity of circuit formation to coordinate nutrient and information transfer, respectively. Shared developmental principles have evolved to orchestrate the formation of both the vascular and the nervous systems. This evolution is highlighted by the identification of specific guidance cues that direct both systems to their target tissues. In addition to sharing cellular and molecular signaling events during development, the vascular and nervous systems also form an intricate interface within the central nervous system called the neurovascular unit. Understanding how the neurovascular unit develops and functions, and more specifically how the blood-brain barrier within this unit is established, is of utmost importance. We explore the history, recent discoveries, and unanswered questions surrounding the relationship between the vascular and nervous systems with a focus on developmental signaling cues that guide network formation and establish the interface between these two systems.
Results from functional magnetic resonance imaging and lesion studies indicate that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is essential for successful navigation through a complex social world inundated with intricate norms and moral values. This review examines regions of the PFC that are critical for implicit and explicit social cognitive and moral judgment processing. Considerable overlap between regions active when individuals engage in social cognition or assess moral appropriateness of behaviors is evident, underscoring the similarity between social cognitive and moral judgment processes in general. Findings are interpreted within the framework of structured event complex theory, providing a broad organizing perspective for how activity in PFC neural networks facilitates social cognition and moral judgment. We emphasize the dynamic flexibility in neural circuits involved in both implicit and explicit processing and discuss the likelihood that neural regions thought to uniquely underlie both processes heavily interact in response to different contextual primes.
Neuroscientists have often described cognition and emotion as separable processes implemented by different regions of the brain, such as the amygdala for emotion and the prefrontal cortex for cognition. In this framework, functional interactions between the amygdala and prefrontal cortex mediate emotional influences on cognitive processes such as decision-making, as well as the cognitive regulation of emotion. However, neurons in these structures often have entangled representations, whereby single neurons encode multiple cognitive and emotional variables. Here we review studies using anatomical, lesion, and neurophysiological approaches to investigate the representation and utilization of cognitive and emotional parameters. We propose that these mental state parameters are inextricably linked and represented in dynamic neural networks composed of interconnected prefrontal and limbic brain structures. Future theoretical and experimental work is required to understand how these mental state representations form and how shifts between mental states occur, a critical feature of adaptive cognitive and emotional behavior.

The hippocampus is a region of the mammalian brain that shows an impressive capacity for structural reorganization. Preexisting neural circuits undergo modifications in dendritic complexity and synapse number, and entirely novel neural connections are formed through the process of neurogenesis. These types of structural change were once thought to be restricted to development. However, it is now generally accepted that the hippocampus remains structurally plastic throughout life. This article reviews structural plasticity in the hippocampus over the lifespan, including how it is investigated experimentally. The modulation of structural plasticity by various experiential factors as well as the possible role it may have in hippocampal functions such as learning and memory, anxiety, and stress regulation are also considered. Although significant progress has been made in many of these areas, we highlight some of the outstanding issues that remain.
This review, focusing on work using animals, updates a theoretical approach whose aim is to translate neuropsychological ideas about the psychological and anatomical organization of memory into the neurobiological domain. It is suggested that episodic-like memory consists of both automatic and controlled components, with the medial temporal mediation of memory encoding including neurobiological mechanisms that are primarily automatic or incidental. These ideas, in the cognitive and behavioral domain, are linked to neurophysiological ideas about cellular consolidation concerning synaptic potentiation, particularly the relationship between protein synthesis-dependent long-term changes and shorter-lasting post-translational mechanisms. Ideas from psychology about mental schemas are considered in relation to the phenomenon of systems consolidation and, specifically, about how prior knowledge can alter the rate at which consolidation occurs. Finally, the hippocampal-neocortical interactions theory is updated in relation to reconsolidation, a process that enables updating of stored memory traces in response to novelty.
There are two research traditions on dynamic memory processes. In cognitive psychology, the malleable nature of long-term memory has been extensively documented. Distortions, such as the misinformation effect or hindsight bias, illustrate that memories can be easily changed, often without their owner taking notice. On the other hand, effects like hypermnesia demonstrate that memory might be more reliable than these distortions suggest. In the neuroscience field, similar observations were obtained mostly from animal studies. Research on memory consolidation suggested that memories become progressively resistant to amnesic treatments over time, but the reconsolidation phenomenon showed that this stability can be transiently lifted when these memories are reactivated, i.e., retrieved. Surprisingly, both research traditions have not taken much notice of each others' advances in understanding memory dynamics. We apply concepts developed in neuroscience to phenomena revealed in cognitive psychology to illustrate how these twins separated at birth may be reunited again.
In this article, literature from neuroscience, cognitive psychology, and social cognition is integrated to discuss the relation between goals, attention, and consciousness. Goals are the tools with which people engage in volitional behavior. Whereas goal pursuit was traditionally assumed to be strongly related to consciousness, recent research and theorizing suggest that goals guide behavior through attention, and this guidance can occur outside of a person's awareness. The crucial explanatory role of goals and attention in behavior, as well as the relative unimportance of consciousness, is examined in the context of social cognition research on goal priming. Furthermore, three research domains are discussed that are relevant for the understanding of the implementation of volitional behavior: implicit learning, evaluative conditioning, and unconscious thought. It is concluded that these processes are goal dependent and that they need attention, but that they can generally proceed without awareness. Finally, when people are consciously aware of their behavior or their goals, the effects can be beneficial as well as detrimental.
