The calcium binding protein, Calbindin-D28k, is known to be localized within spiny neurons of the matrix of the dorsal striatum, caudate-putamen nuclei. This compartment is also known to contain an abundance of GABAergic neurons and to receive extensive input from excitatory limbic and cortical afferents whose activation produces rapid influxes of calcium in neuronal targets. We used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to examine a potential role for calbindin in GABAergic neurons in the caudate-putamen nuclei. Sections of striatal tissue from acrolein-fixed adult rat brains were dual-labeled using immunoperoxidase for the localization of rabbit anti-calbindin and immunogold-silver for the localization of rat anti-GABA antibodies. Calbindin-D28k and GABA were mainly co-localized in somata and large dendrites. The peroxidase reaction product for calbindin was diffusely distributed throughout the neuronal cytoplasm, but appeared more densely localized along asymmetric, excitatory-type, postsynaptic junctions of dendritic spines, as well as saccules of smooth endoplasmic reticulum near dendritic appositions. In contrast, the immunogold-silver labeling for GABA was largely restricted to perikarya and large dendrites. Axon terminals forming symmetric junctions were also sometimes dual-labeled for calbindin and GABA. However, the majority of the calbindin-immunoreactive terminals did not contain GABA and many formed asymmetric excitatory-type synapses with either unlabeled or calbindin-labeled dendritic spines. These results suggest that, in the striatal matrix, Calbindin-D28k contributes to the immobilization of calcium (i) in selectively activated postsynaptic spines of GABAergic and possibly non-GABAergic neurons and (ii) in terminals containing GABA as well as other excitatory and inhibitory transmitters. The extent to which calbindin is able to restrict the cytosolic increases in calcium to selective sites of utilization in these neurons may have important consequences for normal synaptic function and for neuroprotection against excitoxicity.
We investigated the involvement of glutamatergic neurotransmission in the modulation of D1 receptor-mediated stimulation of acetylcholine outflow in dorsal striatum in freely moving rats, and the relative roles of the thalamostriatal and corticostriatal pathways in this regulation using in vivo microdialysis. The selective N-methyl-D-aspartate non-competitive antagonist dizocilpine maleate (0.1 mg/kg i.p.), but not the kainate/quisqualate receptor antagonist, 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (3 micrograms per side i.c.v.), completely prevented the rise in striatal extracellular acetylcholine elicited by maximal effective doses of the full D1 agonist SKF 82958 (3 mg/kg s.c.) and of the dopamine releaser d-amphetamine (2 mg/kg s.c.). Acute bilateral electrolytic lesions of the parafascicular nucleus of the thalamus prevented the stimulation of striatal acetylcholine output by SKF 82958 and d-amphetamine but only slightly reduced basal acetylcholine release. In contrast acute interruption of the corticostriatal pathway did not alter the effect of the two dopaminergic drugs although it markedly reduced basal striatal acetylcholine release. Lesions of the parafascicular thalamic nucleus, or a low dose of dizocilpine maleate (0.1 mg/kg i.p.), also prevented the acetylcholine-increasing effect of the neuroleptic remoxipride (10 mg/kg s.c.), an effect known to be D1 receptor dependent. The results suggest that striatal projections arising from the parafascicular thalamic nucleus and utilizing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors play a critical role in the D1-mediated stimulation of acetylcholine release in dorsal striata.
Excitotoxin lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus have been found to block the acquisition of a conditioned place preference induced by morphine or amphetamine, and it has been suggested that such lesions may attenuate the primary reinforcing effects of these drugs and, possibly, other reinforcers. The present study examined the effects of pedunculopontine lesions on the reinforcing effects of brain stimulation. N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced lesions of the pedunculopontine nucleus prevented spontaneous acquisition of lever pressing for brain stimulation reinforcement during five daily 1 h sessions of training. The effective lesions damaged the retrorubral fields in addition to the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. N-methyl-D-aspartate (25 or 50 nmol) lesions of the retrorubral fields did not block acquisition of self-stimulation, however, controls reached their maximum rate of responding in the first session, responding of rats with retrorubral field lesions gradually increased over five days. When excitotoxin-induced lesions of the pedunculopontine nucleus were made after acquisition of self-stimulation, lesioned rats continued to respond to brain stimulation, but at a lower rate than controls. The results show that pedunculopontine lesions interfere with the learning and expression of a response reinforced by brain stimulation just as they block learning motivated by drugs and natural rewards. They also suggest that collateral damage to the retrorubral fields may contribute to the effects of pedunculopontine lesions on reinforced behaviour. These data support the view that the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus is involved in the process by which reinforcers control purposive behaviour.
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings obtained from magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus in brain slice preparations of adult Sprague-Dawley rats have been utilized to examine three outward potassium conductances and the ionic mechanisms through which angiotensin II exerts its neurotransmitter actions within this region. Lucifer Yellow fills showed that neurons from which we recorded had large ovoid cell bodies 11-17 microns wide and 22-35 microns long, as well as 1-3 minimally branched processes, anatomical features in accordance with those previously described for magnocellular neuroendocrine neurons. These neurons had an average resting membrane potential of -58.3 +/- 0.9 (mean +/- S.E.M.) mV, spike amplitude of 92.8 +/- 1.4 mV, and input resistance of 788.9 +/- 50.4 M omega. Most of these cells displayed irregular or continuous spontaneous activity with a mean frequency of 2.44 +/- 0.33 Hz. Voltage-clamp recordings revealed three outward potassium currents; (1) a delayed outward current (IK), (2) a Ca(2+)-dependent outward current (IK(Ca)) and (3) a transient outward current (IA). These currents were classified according to their voltage dependence, inactivation, Ca2+ dependence and pharmacology. The IK was activated by depolarization beyond -40 mV and its amplitude consistently increased with depolarizing steps. The membrane conductance underlying this current was 27.3 +/- 3.8 nS for depolarization to +50 mV. In medium containing 2 mM Ca2+, depolarization to above -20 mV evoked a slowly-activating IK(Ca) which showed minimal inactivation. This current was suppressed in Ca(2+)-free/Co2+ medium and its membrane conductance was also smaller (19.4 +/- 3.5 nS at +50 mV) than that of IK. The IA demonstrated both fast activation and inactivation and was evoked only if depolarizing pulse steps were preceded by conditioning hyperpolarization. The activation threshold was approximately -65 mV and IA amplitude increased in non-linear fashion as test voltage steps became more positive. The 90% maximum of IA conductance was 15.7 +/- 1.1 nS, and was observed at membrane potentials around -15 mV. The reversal potentials of these currents were in accordance with the K+ equilibrium potential. Tetra-ethylammonium reversibly inhibited both the peak and steady-state currents of the IK, while 4-aminopyridine suppressed the IA. Replacement of 2 mM Ca2+ with 2 mM Co2+ in our bath solution or addition of Co2+ into Ca(2+)-free medium reduced the magnitude of IA, revealing the existence of a Co(2+)-sensitive IA. Bath administration of 10(-7) M angiotensin was without significant effect on IK, but resulted in a statistically significant reduction in IA (-31.0 +/- 4.1%) in 12 of 14 paraventricular nucleus cells tested, effects which were not observed following pretreatment with the AT1 receptor antagonist losartan. We conclude that in paraventricular nucleus magnocellular cells, like other CNS neurons, at least three sets of potassium channels contribute to the outward current evoked by depolarization. Our data also demonstrate ionic mechanisms through which angiotensin may act at AT1 receptors to influence the excitability of hypothalamic neuroendocrine cells.
Intracellular current-clamp recordings were performed using in vitro brainstem slice preparations to compare the actions of substance P, neurokinin A, neurokinin B and their agonists on rat dorsal vagal nucleus neurons with or without antagonists of neurokinin 1 and 2 receptors. The agonists used were either [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P or septide for neurokinin 1 and [Nle10]neurokinin A(4-10) for neurokinin 2 receptors. The antagonists were spantide, SR 140333 or RP 67580 for neurokinin 1 receptors and SR 48968 for neurokinin 2 receptors. Identification of vagal neurons was achieved electrophysiologically by testing antidromic responses and confirmed morphologically by an intracellular injection of biocytin. Of the 70 neurons tested, substance P led to depolarization in 36, hyperpolarization in six and no effect in 28. Depolarization was concentration dependent and generally associated with an increase of the membrane input resistance. Addition of tetrodotoxin (1 microM) to the medium had no effect on depolarization. RP 67580 (1 microM) blocked depolarization, but spantide and SR 140333 (microM to 50 microM) did not. Hyperpolarization was never observed using agonists. Neurokinin A and neurokinin 2 agonist induced concentration-dependent depolarization associated with an increase in membrane input resistance in eight of 14 neurons and in four of nine neurons, respectively. Depolarization was only partially abolished by the neurokinin 2 antagonist SR 48968. Neurokinin B had no effect in any of the eight neurons tested. These data prove that vagal neurons have neurokinin 1 and 2 receptors and that tachykinin could produce either depolarization or hyperpolarization. Since membrane potential variations were associated with an increase (during depolarization) or decrease (during hyperpolarization) in the membrane input resistance and since the reversal potential was close to the potassium equilibrium potential, we speculate that these effects are mediated by modulation of potassium conductance.
Miniature endplate potentials were recorded from single frog muscle fibers before, during and after treatment with hypertonic saline (200-500 mM NaCl or Na gluconate added to frog saline). Miniature endplate potential amplitude distributions were plotted from small muscle fibers so that the modes and ratios of the skew-miniature endplate potential to bell-miniature endplate potential classes could be defined. Muscle fibers were voltage clamped with two electrodes to determine the input resistance before, during and after treatment. Input resistance increased from two to 100 times during treatment and rapidly fell towards control values (no more than 30% greater) when preparations were returned to normal frog saline. Short duration treatments with 200-300 mM hypertonic salines immediately increased frequencies (100-fold) of both skew-miniature endplate potential and bell-miniature endplate potential classes. Preparations when returned to normal frog saline after a few minutes of treatment showed control miniature endplate potential distributions within minutes. One to two hour treatments left only the skew-miniature endplate potential class and with hour-long recovery periods bell-miniature endplate potentials reappeared and ratios of skew-miniature endplate potential to bell-miniature endplate potential classes returned to control values. Treatment with 500 mM NaCl added to frog saline immediately increased the percentage of skew-miniature endplate potentials (from 2 to 50%) with little or no increase in overall miniature endplate potential frequencies. The mode of the skew-miniature endplate potential class was unchanged after hypertonic treatment, whereas that of the bell-miniature end plate potential class either remained about the same size or decreased depending on the duration of treatment. The number and percentage of giant-miniature endplate potentials belonging to the skew-miniature endplate potential class increased as a function of the duration of 200-300 mM hypertonic saline treatments. Most giant-miniature endplate potentials had a slow rising phase with a foot and/or breaks demonstrating a composite structure. Sequentially recorded giant-miniature endplate potentials had similar initial slopes indicating either repetitive releases from single sites or releases from cooperative sites. After hypertonic treatment the bell-miniature endplate potential size was never more than that expected with the increase (under 30%) in input resistance. The results presented here are completely different from those of Yu and Van der Kloot [(1991) J. Physiol. 433, 677-704] who reported that the bell-miniature endplate potential amplitude was increased two- to four-fold after hypertonic treatment. The wide range of results in the ratio of skew-miniature endplate potential to bell-miniature endplate potential classes is discussed in regards to the quantal hypothesis which is based on a single class of immutable amounts of transmitter; and, a hypothesis based on a dynamical process that meters transmitter in subunit amounts to control miniature endplate potential size and class during release.
Expression of a sarcoma proto-oncogene, c-lyn, was mapped in the adult rat brain using immunohistochemistry. Lyn protein was prevalent in restricted cell populations of the olfactory bulb and the basal forebrain which included nuclei of accumbens, fundal striatum, bed stria, ventral pallidum and central amygdala as well as deep entorhinal and pyriform cortices. Tightly packed Lyn-positive cells formed discrete multiple stripes crossing perpendicular to the rostral limb of the anterior commissure, and intense masses surrounding the caudal limb. In the thalamus, the habenula, anterodorsal nucleus and medial geniculate body, together with the paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei, had prominent reactive neuronal somata and dendrites in the neuropil. The lateral septal nucleus also had intense Lyn-positive neurons with overlapping dendritic fields. In addition, scattered neurons were evenly distributed throughout the striatum. The red, interpeduncular, auditory and trigeminal tract nuclei were intensely reactive. The cerebellar molecular layer was uniformly labeled except for a few isolated fiber bundles in the lowest part of this layer. The granule cells adjacent to the Purkinje cell layer appeared in reactive patches. In the spinal cord, the posteromarginal nucleus had intense labeling. The significance of this highly localized distribution pattern of Lyn protein may be related to connections forming functional compartments serving signal transduction within specific central nervous system circuitry.
Corticosolitary axons and their terminals were labeled by the anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, after injections into the rat insular cortex. The ultrastructure of these cortical afferents was analysed in the medial and commissural subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarius. Cortical terminals had a mean area of 0.36 microns 2, and were among the smallest terminals in the nucleus. They made single, asymmetric synaptic contacts with thin dendritic stems or with spines. The average diameter of the dendrites postsynaptic to cortical axons was 0.59 microns, and significantly smaller (P &lt; 0.01, Kolmogorov-Smirnov test) than the mean (0.87 microns) of the population of dendrites in the same region of the nucleus tractus solitarius. Cortical boutons contained closely packed round and clear synaptic vesicles of diameter ca. 28 nm, a few mitochondria, and no dense core vesicles. Postembedding immunogold analysis showed that the anterogradely labeled cortical axon terminals were immunoreactive to glutamate, but not to GABA. Cortical afferents had on average four times the glutamate immunoreactivity (assessed by gold particle density) than local dendrites or terminals making symmetric synaptic contacts. Similarly, most of the unlabeled axon terminals participating in asymmetric synaptic contacts were highly enriched in glutamate immunoreactivity, suggesting that glutamate may be a most prevalent transmitter in the nucleus tractus solitarius. Terminals immunoreactive to GABA always made symmetric synapses, mostly with dendritic shafts and perikarya. We concluded that insular cortex axons made single, asymmetric synaptic contacts with thin, probably distal dendrites in the nucleus tractus solitarius. Cortical terminals are immunoreactive to glutamate, and morphologically different from primary afferents and from terminals immunoreactive to GABA.
The projections of different subfields of the medial and lateral prefrontal cortices to the amygdala were studied in the rat using the sensitive Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin anterograde tract tracing technique. Injections into the infralimbic cortex produced anterograde labeling in the lateral capsular subdivision of the central nucleus, superficial (corticomedial) amygdaloid nuclei, lateral and accessory basal nuclei, and the anterior amygdaloid area. Injections into the caudal portion of the infralimbic cortex produced additional labeling in the intermediate subdivision of the central nucleus. The prelimbic cortex had projections to the medial portion of the magnocellular basal nucleus and adjacent portions of the lateral nucleus and lateral capsular subdivision of the central nucleus. The medial precentral cortex had projections to the rostromedial part of the magnocellular basal nucleus and adjacent portions of the lateral capsular subdivision of the central nucleus. Injections into the lateral orbital and ventral agranular insular cortices produced labeled fibers in the rostral part of the superficial amygdala, lateral capsular subdivision of the central nucleus, and the lateral and accessory basal nuclei. The dorsal agranular insular area had projections to several different subdivisions of the central nucleus as well as to the rostrolateral magnocellular basal nucleus; the latter projections were complementary to those originating in the prelimbic area. The present study indicates that each portion of the prefrontal cortex has a distinctive projection to the amygdala. The ventral areas of the lateral and medial prefrontal cortices, which receive olfactory projections, are the only prefrontal cortical areas with projections to the olfactory-related superficial amygdaloid nuclei. The more dorsally situated prefrontal areas, the dorsal agranular insular area and prelimbic cortex, have complementary projections to the basal nucleus, suggesting that they modulate separate prefrontal cortico-striatal-pallid circuits. The specificity of prefrontal cortico-amygdaloid projections is indicative of their involvement in discrete functions.
The efferent projections of the occipital cortex of the rat were investigated using the Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin anterograde tract tracing technique. Particular attention was focused on projections to the amygdala and amygdalopetal cortical areas. The primary visual cortex had projections to the medial and lateral portions of occipital area 2 and other cortical regions, but no projections to the amygdala or amygdalopetal cortical areas. The only occipital area that had direct projections to the amygdala was the most ventral portion of lateral occipital area 2, located just dorsal to temporal area 2. This occipitotemporal junction region, which received projections from secondary visual cortical areas but not from the primary visual cortex, had projections to the lateral nucleus, magnocellular basal nucleus, and lateral capsular subdivision of the central nucleus of the amygdala. Occipital area 2 had projections to seven amygdalopetal cortical regions: temporal area 2, temporal area 3, frontal area 2, ventrolateral orbitofrontal area, occipitotemporal junction region, lateral entorhinal area, and the perirhinal cortex. Projections to the perirhinal cortex targeted regions located adjacent to the parietal cortex and caudal temporal cortex, but not regions adjacent to the rostral temporal cortex. Other cortical regions receiving projections from medial and lateral portions of occipital area 2 included the presubiculum, retrosplenial areas, and caudal portions of the parietal cortical areas 1 and 2. The results of the present investigation, in conjunction with previous anatomical and neurobehavioral studies, support the concept that rodent cortical visual pathways, like those of primates, consist of a dorsal system involved with visuospatial functions and a ventral system involved with object recognition. As in primates, the ventral pathway projects to the temporal-perirhinal region in a cascading manner; only highly processed information from tertiary visual cortical areas reaches the amygdala. Unlike primates, however, cortical areas in the rat brain that receive highly processed visual information appear to be regions of multisensory convergence.
Protection of CNS white matter tracts in brain and spinal cord is essential for maximizing clinical recovery from disorders such as stroke or spinal cord injury. Central myelinated axons are damaged by anoxia/ischemia in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. Leakage of Na+ into the axoplasm through Na+ channels causes Ca2+ overload mainly by reverse Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange. Na+ channel blockers have thus been shown to be protective in an in vitro anoxic rat optic nerve model. Mexiletine (10 microM-1 mM), an antiarrhythmic and use-dependent Na+ channel blocker, was also significantly protective, as measured by recovery of the compound action potential after a 60 min anoxic exposure in vitro. More importantly, mexiletine (80 mg/kg, i.p.) also significantly protected optic nerves from injury in a model of in situ ischemia. This in situ model is more clinically relevant as it addresses drug pharmacokinetics, toxicity and CNS penetration. Optic nerve recovery cycles (defined as shifts in latency of compound action potentials with paired stimulation) were used to measure the concentration of mexiletine in optic nerves after systemic administration, estimated at approximately 42 microM 1 h after a single dose of 80 mg/kg, i.p. These results indicate that mexiletine is able to penetrate into the CNS at concentrations sufficient to confer significant protection. Na+ channel blockers such as mexiletine may prove to be effective clinical therapeutic agents for protecting CNS white matter tracts against anoxic/ischemic injury.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether chronic administration of docosahexaenoic acid is able to reduce spatial cognitive deficit following transient ischemia in rats. In addition, we investigated whether the chronic treatment of docosahexaenoic acid is able to protect the hippocampal neuronal damage induced by either hypoxia in vitro or cerebral ischemia in vivo. A chronic administration of 200 mg/kg/day docosahexaenoic acid over 21 days did not affect the content of docosahexaenoic acid in the hippocampus, but did tend to increase it in the frontal cortex. On the other hand, this chronic administration decreased the content of arachidonic acid significantly both in the hippocampus and the frontal cortex. Under hypoxic conditions, the onset of the increase in the NADH fluorescence in the hippocampal slice was made significantly slower relative to the control by the chronic administration of docosahexaenoic acid. Rats were subjected to 10 min of transient forebrain ischemia by the method of four-vessel occlusion and were tested in a radial eight-arm maze task after cerebral reperfusion. Docosahexaenoic acid was administered either once 1 h before occlusion or daily for 21 days before occlusion. The single treatment of docosahexaenoic acid (1, 10, 100 or 200 mg/kg) did not significantly affect any aspect of the spatial learning deficit following occlusion. On the other hand, chronic treatment with docosahexaenoic acid (10, 100 or 200 mg/kg/day) significantly improved the spatial learning deficit following occlusion. A comparison of the neuronal densities in the hippocampal CA1 region of the chronically docosahexaenoic acid-treated (200 mg/kg/day) rats with those of the ischemic control revealed a significant neuronal preservation. From these results, it appears that chronic administration of docosahexaenoic acid may be valuable in ameliorating the spatial cognitive deficit induced by transient forebrain ischemia. In addition, docosahexaenoic acid might contribute to the protection of hippocampal neuronal damage caused by either hypoxia or ischemia.
Induction of tumor necrosis factor alpha was studied in the brain of rats after focal cerebral ischaemia by occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery. Using a specific antisense riboprobe for in situ hybridization histochemistry, cells positive for tumor necrosis factor alpha messenger RNA were detected within 30 min in the brain regions known to be necrotic within one to two days after onset of ischaemia. Their number increased over a time period of 1-8 h and then declined. Only a few tumor necrosis factor alpha messenger RNA positive cells could be detected four days after the onset of ischaemia. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction experiments showed that maximal increase of tumor necrosis factor alpha messenger RNA level in the ischaemic brain hemisphere occurred 3 h after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Immunocytochemical experiments using an anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha antibody showed the presence of tumor necrosis factor alpha immunopositive cells as early as 30 min after occlusion of the middle cerebral artery in the same brain regions where tumor necrosis factor alpha messenger RNA positive cells were detected. Tumor necrosis factor alpha positive cells were highly abundant in the infarcted brain 8-24 h, but only few of them were detectable four days after the onset of ischaemia. Specificity of the anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha antibody and of the induction of tumor necrosis factor alpha protein was confirmed by western blot analysis. Tumor necrosis factor alpha messenger RNA- and protein-positive cells were also detected in the watershed zone and in some structures of the contralateral brain hemisphere. According to their morphology, tumor necrosis factor alpha-positive cells could be identified as microglial cells and macrophages at different states of activation. This assumption was further confirmed by double-labeling studies using the isolectin B4 from Griffonia simplicifolia, a specific microglial/macrophage cell marker. These results demonstrate that expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha is part of an intrinsic inflammatory reaction of the brain after ischaemia.
We report the case of a patient with a pontomedullary epidermoid cyst extending into the prepontine cistern. The patient presented with a progressive VIth nerve palsy, ataxia, and headache. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a well-defined pontomedullary tumor with a high fat content. We excised the lesion using a microsurgical approach through the floor of the fourth ventricle. Postoperative magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the removal of both intra- and extra-axial components. We discuss the anatomic configuration, radiological appearances, and management of this unusual pathological finding.
The treatment of cerebral ischemia remains a formidable challenge in neuroscience today. Mild hypothermia has been shown to be an effective neuroprotective agent. Despite the great volume of published research, the therapeutic window of mild hypothermia has not been precisely elucidated. Using a model of reversible focal cerebral ischemia in the rat, this study was undertaken to define the optimal duration of hypothermic application and the maximal postischemic delay in hypothermic application before which optimal therapeutic effect is noted. Focal ischemia was induced by temporary occlusion of the middle cerebral artery and both carotid arteries in Sprague-Dawley rats for a period of 3 hours. In the first study, mild hypothermia (32-33 degrees C) was induced at the onset of ischemia in four groups of rats for varying lengths of time ranging from 1 to 4 hours. The animals were killed after 3 days, and their brains were sliced and stained. Infarcted volume was measured using a computerized image analyzer. The infarct volumes were 211 +/- 4.5, 214.2 +/- 8.0, 199.5 +/- 5.3, 171.3 +/- 9.1, and 169.8 +/- 6.5 mm3 (mean +/- standard error of the mean, n = 6 per group) for the control, 1-hour, 2-hour, 3-hour, and 4-hour groups, respectively. On the basis of the results from the above study, a 3-hour duration of hypothermia was then applied to animals at 0, 15, 30, or 45 minutes after the ischemic onset. The volumes of infarction for these four respective groups were: 171.3 +/- 9.1, 173 +/- 5.7, 179.3 +/- 5.2, and 206.2 +/- 8.4 mm3 (mean +/- standard error of the mean, n = 6 per group). These results demonstrated that optimal duration of mild hypothermia was at least 3 hours (P &lt; 0.001) when applied within the first 30 minutes after the onset of ischemia (P &lt; 0.001).
Recent investigations have revealed that an enhancement of Na+/H+ exchange activity is a frequently observed ion transport abnormality in hypertensive patients. To test the hypothesis that increased Na+/H+ exchange causes hypertension, we produced transgenic mice overexpressing Na+/H+ exchanger and analyzed their Na+ metabolism and blood pressure. Urinary excretion of water and Na+ was significantly decreased in transgenic mice and systolic blood pressure was elevated after salt loading. The impaired Na+ excretion suggested that the Na+/H+ exchanger overexpressed in the renal tubules increased Na+ reabsorption, which caused a blood pressure elevation by Na+ retention after excessive salt intake. Our results demonstrate that overexpression of Na+/H+ exchanger can be a genetic factor for salt-sensitive hypertension.
Angiogenesis, the formation of new capillaries, is critical for normal physiological processes such as embryonic development and wound repair. However, it also facilitates pathological processes including tumor growth, metastases, proliferative diabetic retinopathy and pannus formation in rheumatoid arthritis. It has been described that the angiogenesis occurs through a series of events that include endothelial cell protease production, migration and proliferation, tubule formation, and basement membrane incorporation. Within the last two decades, with in vivo assay systems, various kinds of growth factors were identified as angiogenic factors that promote endothelial cell proliferation and migration, while an in vitro model for angiogenesis indicated that extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins stimulated endothelial cells to organize into a capillary-like tubular network and suggested that the ECM proteins are involved in the tubule formation process of antiogenesis. Recent papers reported the identification of the specific receptors on endothelial cells involved in the ECM-induced capillary tube formation. This article will focus on papers describing the in vitro analyses of tube formation of endothelial cells.
Recent research revealed that dystrophin and dystrophin-associated proteins from together with the basal lamina a molecular architecture on the cell membrane. Their functions are not clearly known, but assumed from the structural relationship between the molecular architecture and other cell components. The defect of each of the most components of the architecture has been found to correspond with a muscular dystrophy. In this lecture, muscular dystrophies are classified on the basis of these defects. The first structure with merosin-dystroglycans-dystrophin-actin bridges between the muscle basal lamina and membrane cytoskeleton through sarcolemma, whose defect gives rise to muscular dystrophy, such as merosin negative congental muscular dystrophy. The second structure is called sarcoglycan complex composed of three proteins, and loss of any one of its components results in genetically heterogeneous severe childhood autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy (SCARMD). Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies are considered as having compound lesions of these two structures.

Discovery of the involvement of endogenous opiates in placebo analgesia represents an important step in understanding the mechanisms underlying placebo response. In the present study, we investigated the effects of the opiate antagonist naloxone and the cholecystokinin antagonist proglumide on placebo analgesia in a human model of experimentally induced ischemic pain. First, we found that part of the placebo response was reversed by naloxone, confirming previous studies on the role of opioids in the placebo phenomenon. Second, since it was demonstrated that the action of exogenous and endogenous opiates is potentiated by proglumide, we analysed the effects of this cholecystokinin antagonist on placebo response and found that it enhanced placebo analgesia. The placebo effect can thus be modulated in two opposite directions: it can be partially abolished by naloxone and potentiated by proglumide. The fact that placebo potentiation by proglumide occurred only in placebo responders, but not in non-responders, suggests that activation of an endogenous opiate system is a necessary condition for the action of proglumide. These results suggest an inhibitory role for cholecystokinin in placebo response, although the low affinity of proglumide for cholecystokinin receptors does not rule out the possibility of other mechanisms.
This experiment was designed to investigate the role of septal noradrenergic (NA) afferents in the control of anxiety and spatial working memory. To this end, C57Bl/6 mice were infused bilaterally into the lateral septal nuclei with 500 ng/0.2 microliter of BE 2254, a selective alpha 1 postsynaptic adrenoceptor antagonist. The consequences of this reversible treatment were evaluated 20 min later on the anxiety level measured in an elevated plus-maze and on spatial working memory, evaluated under four different conditions via the learning of a delayed nonmatching to place (DNMTP) rule achieved in an eight-arm radial maze. In these conditions, the BE 2254, as well as the saline-injected control group, showed an elevation of the anxiety level that may be the indirect expression of a nonspecific septal dysfunction induced by the vehicle injection rather than the normal behavioral response produced by the decrease of septal NA activity. This septal dysfunction also impaired spatial working memory but only when mnesic difficulty of the task is increased, suggesting that this impairment expresses a general memory deficit rather than a working memory deficit per se. A lack of spatial working memory deficits in BE 2254 or saline-injected animals was also observed in two other conditions of the behavioral protocol. However, when treatments were applied before the first exposure of animals to the radial maze (exploration session), only the group which received BE 2254 was impaired during the acquisition session for the rule performed 24 h later. This delayed perturbation seems to be linked, at this stage of the learning procedure, to the lack of NA-dependent processes taking place during the exploration session. Taken together, these data suggest that septal NA mechanisms are more essential at initial stage of this learning, when animals process new features of the situation, than during the expression of spatial working memory per se.

Recent research has shown that some patients with schizophrenia have a severe impairment in the suppression of reflexive saccadic eye movements in the ANTI-saccade task. This saccadic distractibility has previously been found in patients with lesions of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, implicating an abnormality of prefrontal cortex. The objective of the present study was to determine the contribution of these and other areas to the ANTI-saccadic abnormality in schizophrenia by functional neuroimaging. Using 99mtechnetium-HMPAO high resolution multidetector single-photon emission tomography, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during performance of the ANTI-saccade eye-movement task was compared, by statistical parametric mapping, in ten male schizophrenic patients on stable antipsychotic medication who had a high distractibility error rate on the task, and eight similar patients who had normal distractibility error rates. Compared with the normal error group, the patients with high error rates showed significantly decreased rCBF bilaterally, in the anterior cingulate, insula, and in left striatum. These same patients also had increased perseverative errors on the Wisconsin Card Sort Test.
This study aimed at describing the health-economic implications and organisational issues of rehabilitation at home in south-west Stockholm of 15 acute stroke patients, mean age 68.2, male:female ratio 9:6, independent in feeding and continent one week after their stroke. Average patient satisfaction with different dimensions of care was 92%. Perceived dysfunction, by means of the Sickness Impact Profile, 3 months after stroke was highest for Recreation-and-Pastime, Home Management and Ambulation. Between 3-12 months after stroke, functional improvement was particularly seen in Home Management, Recreation-and-Pastime and Emotional Behaviour. Three fourths of the patients received help with different ADL tasks from a family caregiver and 1/5 from home service assistants. According to the scores for subjective health of the spouses and time used to help the patient, the burden that the programme put on the patient's family was modest, temporary and in accordance with preferences reported by the elderly in Sweden. The mean duration of hospital stay for patients under rehabilitation at home was 14 days and for a selected comparison group with similar ADL-grade, 27 days. The mean number of therapy sessions at home was 11. Each home visit took 3.2 hours, 60% of which were direct patient time. In the selected comparison group, 1/3 was referred to other departments for rehabilitation and care, and 40% had contacts with day-care and paramedical professionals after discharge from the hospital. During the first year after stroke, the average, direct, per capita cost for rehabilitation at home amounted to SEK 127,730 divided between hospital care (50%), followed by contribution by family caregivers (18%), rehabilitation at home (10%), out-patient visits to physicians and nurses (8.8%), home-help service (7%), auxiliary equipment (2%), medication (1.5%), home adaptation (1%) and transportation service (0.3%). This organisational model of home-based rehabilitation of stroke patients constitutes a feasible, possibly less expensive alternative and complement to current rehabilitation in hospital and primary care, which could be further developed and evaluated.
Cerebral lesions causing aphasia are often found close to auditory areas. The aphasia may therefore sometimes be aggravated by hearing problems, which are concealed by communicative restrictions. Unilateral lesions of the cerebral auditory system influence the functional ear preference disclosed by dichotic tests. For that reason we have examined aphasic patients with recent, initial, unilateral brain infarctions for ear preference with regard to dichotically presented two syllable words. In a consecutive series of 114 patients who could cope with the test, 29 showed signs of an acquired left ear advantage (LEA). All were offered, and 22 accepted a full scale audiological examination including pure tone, speech and phase-audiometry. Nine of these patients showed retrocochlear or central hearing disturbances, which added to their communicative predicaments. The LEA of 11 patients lacked audiological rationales and a compensatory shift of cerebral speech-lateralization cannot be excluded.
A patient-centred study of the Comprehensive Epilepsy Service at The Queen Elizabeth Hospital in South Australia was conducted to establish patients' satisfaction with service delivery and the Service's effectiveness in epilepsy management. The aim of the study was to determine accurate information regarding the Service and the people who use it, their priorities and satisfaction with service provision. Self administered questionnaires of 200 patients with epilepsy were analysed with results showing that patients rated availability of doctor at time of need, diagnosis of epilepsy and prescription of antiepileptic drugs important in the management of epilepsy. Generally, patients were satisfied with the Service, but considered a separate clinic for epilepsy essential for effective service provision. The study assisted in the future provision of optimal patient care based on the needs and expectations of people with epilepsy.




In the adult vertebrate CNS, oligodendrocytes are ubiquitously distributed throughout white matter. By contrast, in the embryonic CNS, recent studies suggest that oligodendrocyte precursors arise in a discrete ventral location. Thus, local ventral environmental signals that contribute to the overall patterning of the CNS are likely to influence the initial appearance of oligodendrocyte precursors. Oligodendrocyte precursors subsequently disperse through the CNS by mechanisms that remain elusive. While the program to differentiate to oligodendrocytes appears to be cell autonomous, the local environment may regulate the precise temporal and spatial patterning of myelination.
The turtle's optokinetic response is described by a simple model that incorporates visual-response properties of neurons in the pretectum and accessory optic system. Using data from neuronal and eye-movement recordings that have been previously published, the model was realized using algebraic-block simulation software. It was found that the optokinetic response, modelled as a simple negative feedback system, was similar to that measured from a behaving animal. Because the responses of retinal-slip detecting neurons corresponded to the nonlinear, closed-loop optokinetic response, it was concluded that the visual signals encoded in these neurons could provide sufficient sensory information to drive the optokinetic reflex. Furthermore, it appears that the low gain of optokinetic eye movements in turtles, which have a negligible velocity storage time constant, may allow stable oculomotor output in spite of neuronal delays in the reflex pathway. This model illustrates how visual neurons in the pretectum and accessory optic system can contribute to visually guided eye movements.
Monocular deprivation in adult macaques produces a rapid down-regulation in GABA and GABAA receptor subunit immunoreactivity in deprived-eye columns of primary visual cortex (VI) but a significantly delayed GABA reduction in deprived layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). These findings, suggesting that normal inhibitory neurotransmission persists in LGN at a time when VI inhibitory mechanisms are greatly altered, are consistent with physiological studies that have demonstrated a greater degree of functional plasticity in VI than in LGN. Nonetheless, functional adaptation to partial loss of visual input has been detected in the LGN, indicating that synaptic plasticity takes place in this nucleus. In the present study, evidence for early changes in inhibitory neurotransmission were examined with immunocytochemical methods to determine if, in the absence of early GABA regulation, GABAA receptor subunits in macaque LGN are affected by adult deprivation. Immunoreactivity for alpha 1 and beta 2/3 subunits of the GABAA receptor was intense within the magnocellular layers and more modest in the parvocellular layers and intercalated layers. In all layers, immunoreactivity was present in the cytoplasm and along the surfaces of relatively large somata and in dense tangles of processes in the neuropil. Double-labeling experiments demonstrated that somata and processes immunoreactive for alpha 1 and beta 2/3 were surrounded by GABA terminals but no cell intensely immunoreactive for either subunit expressed immunoreactivity for GABA, itself. Following periods of monocular deprivation by tetrodotoxin (TTX) injection for 4 days or longer, layers deprived of visual activity displayed levels of alpha 1 and beta 2/3 immunoreactivity markedly lower than those displayed by the adjacent, normally active layers. Such changes were greater as the period of deprivation increased. The changes included a loss of immunostaining in and around somata and in many neuropil elements of deprived layers. These data indicate that GABA and GABAA receptor subunits alpha 1 and beta 2/3 are expressed by separate populations of neurons in macaque LGN that are differentially regulated by visual activity. The findings suggest that rapid, activity-dependent regulation of postsynaptic receptors represents one mechanism for altering synaptic strength in the adult macaque visual system.
We have previously shown that the perceived speed of a moving grating depends upon its contrast, with lower-contrast patterns appearing to move more slowly than otherwise identical higher-contrast patterns. To explain this finding while remaining consistent with the findings of McKee, Silverman and Nakayama [(1986) Vision Research, 26, 609-619], we proposed that this misperception might arise from a modified version of the contrast-normalization procedure, envisaged by Adelson and Bergen [(1986) The extraction of spatio-temporal energy in human and machine vision (pp. 135-139). Charleston, S.C.: IEEE Computer Society] as a necessary second stage of motion-energy models of human motion processing. Specifically, our previous results might be explained if the two gratings to be compared interfered with each other's normalization. To test this hypothesis we performed two experiments. Experiment 1 demonstrates that the contrast effects persist even when two grating patches to be compared are presented up to 5 sec apart so that they would not be expected to bias each other's normalization. Experiment 2 shows that the contrast effects are unchanged when the two grating patches are surrounded by a range of patterns whose contrast would be expected to interfere with any normalization process. These two results allow the rejection of the contrast-normalized motion-energy hypothesis as an explanation of human speed perception. We discuss the consequences of these results on models of speed processing in the human visual system.
The paper concerns the concept of gestalt in the framework of neuronal mechanisms. Two hypotheses are discussed: 1) hierarchy of neurons (gnostic units), 2) synchronization of neurons. It is concluded that gestalt is based on hierarchical vectorial organization of neurons. The high frequency oscillations in gamma range (40-200 Hz) are of intrinsic origin. They are operating as amplifiers of synaptic inputs of neurons involved in gestalt representation.
Regional cerebral blood flow was measured with positron emission tomography in seven normal volunteers while they performed various script event verification tasks. The left frontal lobe, left anterior cingulate and the anterior part of the left superior temporal gyrus were more activated in the script event membership and action categorization conditions, whereas the right frontal lobe, left superior temporal gyrus and the middle temporal gyrus bilaterally were more activated in the script event temporal order verification condition. These results indicate that the temporal ordering of script events and determining whether an event belongs to a particular script or action category are processed by distinctive distributed neuronal networks.
Long-term survival of fetal ventral mesencephalic grafts implanted into dopamine-depleted rats was studied. There was a reduction in apomorphine-induced rotations, which reached a maximum 3 months post-grafting. Striatal neuronal discharge rate was increased on the intact side of the aged grafted animals when compared with young adult striatum. Ipsilateral to the lesion, proximal to the graft, where the dopamine nerve terminal density was high but still much lower than that seen on the intact side, the firing rate was significantly lower than that measured in the intact side of the aged host. In conclusion, the increased firing rate seen in striatum after dopamine depletion is normalized by ventral mesencephalic grafts and does not show the age-related increase seen in 2-year-old rats.
Previously, we reported the isolation and molecular cloning of human inducible nitric oxide synthase gene (NOS2) sequences from human chromosome 17 cosmid libraries. Here we describe the further characterization and sequencing of the NOS2 gene. The genomic structure of the NOS2 gene was determined from two overlapping cosmid clones, namely, pcos4A and pcos20. the NOS2 open reading frame is encoded by 27 exons, with translation initiation and termination in exon 2 and exon 27, respectively. These results differ from the previously reported organization of the iNOS gene, where 26 exons were reported for the genomic structure of NOS2.
In vivo microdialysis was used to study the effects of systemic, as well as intracerebral administration of morphine and naloxone on dynorphin B release in neostriatum and substantia nigra of rats. The release of dopamine (DA), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate (Glu) and aspartate (Asp) was also investigated. Systemic injection of morphine (1 mg/kg s.c.) induced long-lasting increases in extracellular dynorphin B and GABA levels in the substantia nigra, whereas DA, Glu and Asp levels, measured in the same region, were not significantly affected. No effect on striatal neurotransmitter levels was observed following systemic morphine administration. Local perfusion of the substantia nigra with morphine (100 microM) through the microdialysis probe also increased nigral dynorphin B and GABA levels. Perfusion of the neostriatum with morphine (100 microM) significantly increased GABA and dynorphin B levels in the ipsilateral substantia nigra, but no effect was observed locally. Naloxone blocked the effect of systemic morphine administration on nigral dynorphin B and GABA release, already at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg s.c. Naloxone alone, given either systemically (0.2-4 mg/kg s.c.) or intracerebrally (1-100 microM), did not affect dynorphin B or amino acid levels, either in neostriatum or in substantia nigra. However, naloxone produced a concentration-dependent increase in DA levels. The present results indicate that systemic morphine administration stimulates the release of dynorphin B in the substantia nigra, probably by activating the mu-subtype of opioid receptor, since the effect of morphine on nigral dynorphin B and GABA was antagonized by a low dose of naloxone. The increase in extracellular DA levels produced by high concentrations of naloxone, both in neostriatum and substantia nigra, indicates a disinhibitory effect of this drug on DA release, probably via a non-mu subtype of opioid receptors located on nigro-striatal DA neurones.
The electrophysiological properties of thalamic neurons of the rat ventrobasal complex (VB) in vitro were studied during early postnatal development. Current clamp recordings using the whole cell patch clamp method revealed that immature thalamic neurons had less negative membrane potential and higher input resistance than mature neurons. One of the most remarkable differences was the absence of spike bursts riding on the low threshold calcium spike (LTS) in VB neurons before postnatal day 12 (P12). Action potentials recorded from immature neurons had longer duration than those of mature cells and were followed by a longer afterhyperpolarization (spike-ahp). The spike-ahp became shorter as maturation progressed, reaching mature characteristics around P12, coinciding with the appearance of spike bursting on the LTS. The calcium activated potassium conductance, IC, played a prominent role in the spike-ahp in immature neurons. In conclusion, the major differences in intrinsic membrane properties of VB neurons occur during the first 12 postnatal days. The appearance of spike bursting riding on the LTS at P12 is consistent with the emergence of synchronized thalamocortical oscillations in rats around that age.
It was previously reported that vaccination with synthetic peptides corresponding to the CDR2 or CDR3 region of T cell receptor (TCR) protected susceptible animals from the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). However, recent studies by several research groups have revealed that TCR peptide therapy often confers little or no protection from autoimmune disease. In the present study, we attempted to find more appropriate peptides that is capable of conferring effective protection against the development of EAE. Four peptides corresponding to parts of the V beta region (13-23, 24-36, 39-59, and 64-74) were selected by epitope scanning and hydrophilicity searching, and their protective abilities were tested. All these peptides were, however, ineffective in protecting rats from the disease. We also generated three different synthetic peptides corresponding to the TCR J region of encephalitogenic T cells. Vaccination with the J-region peptides did not protect animals from the development of EAE. Rather, one of the peptides (V beta-DSS-J beta 2.6) enhanced the clinical severity of EAE and induced fatal disease in some rats. Taken together, TCR peptide therapy appears to be generally ineffective and elucidation of the mechanism by which EAE is enhanced after TCR peptide vaccination should provide insight into the pathogenesis of this disease.
Clonidine, idazoxan, and related imidazoline adrenergic drugs bind to non-adrenergic sites in brain and several peripheral tissues. These sites, termed imidazoline receptors, appear to exist in two major subclasses, I1 sites labeled by clonidine and I2 sites labeled by idazoxan. In this study, we investigated whether rat prostate expresses imidazoline receptors and, if so, whether their expression can be regulated by circulating testosterone. Studies in rat ventral prostate membrane revealed that [3H]idazoxan, but not [3H]p-aminoclonidine, bound to non-adrenergic sites. The binding of [3H]idazoxan was saturable (Bmax: 941 +/- 105 fmol/mg protein) and high affinity (KD: 16.4 +/- 2.3 nM). The rank order of the inhibition of binding by imidazoline ligands was cirazoline &gt; clonidine &gt; UK 14,304 &gt; guanabenz, indicating an I2 subclass of imidazoline receptors. Bilateral orchiectomy increased the number of binding sites (Bmax) for [3H]idazoxan without changing the affinity (KD). Testosterone replacement, while completely restoring the plasma testosterone levels, only partially reversed the increase in Bmax. In contrast, the binding of [3H]idazoxan to prostate membranes of rats in different age groups (4, 7, and 16 months) revealed a progressive decrease in the Bmax without any change in KD. We conclude that the rat prostate expresses the I2 subclass of imidazoline receptors and that the expression is regulated by circulating testosterone.
Tropomyosins are highly conserved, coiled-coil actin binding proteins found in most eukaryotic cells. Striated and smooth muscle alpha-tropomyosins differ by the regions encoded by exons 2 and 9. Unacetylated smooth tropomyosin expressed in Escherichia coli binds actin with high affinity, whereas unacetylated striated tropomyosin requires troponin, found only in striated muscle, for strong actin binding. The residues encoded by exon 9 cause these differences (Cho, Y.-J., and Hitchcock-DeGregori, S. E. (1991) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 88, 10153-10157). We mapped the functional domains encoded by the alpha-tropomyosin exon 9a (striated muscle-specific) and 9d (constitutively expressed), by measuring actin binding and regulation of the actomyosin MgATPase by tropomyosin exon 9 chimeras and truncation mutants expressed in E. coli. We have shown that: 1) the carboxyl-terminal nine residues define the actin affinity of unacetylated tropomyosin; 2) in the presence of Ca2+, the entire exon 9a is required for troponin to promote fully high affinity actin binding; 3) the first 18 residues encoded by exon 9a are critical for the interaction of troponin with tropomyosin on the thin filament, even in the absence of Ca2+. The results give new insight into the structural requirements of tropomyosin for thin filament assembly and regulatory function.
The contribution of chemosensitive neurons to mechanical nociception and hyperalgesia was studied by evaluating mechanical nociceptive threshold and the effect of three directly-acting hyperalgesic agents (prostaglandin E2, prostaglandin E1 and the A2-adenosine agonist, CGS21680) in rats treated neonatally with capsaicin. Mechanical nociceptive threshold was quantified by the Randall-Selitto paw-withdrawal method. The baseline mechanical paw-withdrawal threshold of the capsaicin-treated rats was 40% higher than that of the untreated rats. In the capsaicin-treated rats mechanical hyperalgesia was not induced by prostaglandin E2, prostaglandin E1 or CGS21680. These results are consistent with the suggestion that mechanical nociception and hyperalgesia induced by inflammatory substances is mediated by action on capsaicin-sensitive nociceptors.
A soluble chimera protein consisting of the extracellular region of mouse myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and the Fc region of human immunoglobulin G1, MAG-IgG, was prepared by transfecting an expression vector, BCMGSneo, containing the corresponding fused gene into mouse myeloma P3U1 cells. It was found that this MAG derivative promoted neurite growth of mouse cerebellar neurons in culture. In the presence of MAG-IgG the rates of neurite-bearing cells were significantly increased, and the neurites were distinctly lengthened. It was also observed that the anti-MAG monoclonal antibody inhibited this stimulation of neurite extension, supporting the specificity of the effect of MAG-IgG. These results suggest that soluble MAG derivative might act as a neurotrophic factor in the developing brain.
Application of strychnine sulfate (10-50 mu M) to the anterior hindlimb enlargement of the turtle spinal cord increased the amplitude of the ipsilateral fictive flexion reflex and revealed a contralateral (crossed) fictive flexion reflex response to cutaneous stimulation of the foot. Strychnine abolished the crossed inhibition of fictive flexion reflex that was normally evoked by contralateral foot stimulation, unmasking the crossed excitation. Our observations are consistent with the hypothesis that intraspinal inhibition mediated by strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors regulates the amplitude of fictive flexion reflex motor output and confines the response to the appropriate neural pathways.
Single units were recorded in the marginal shell (38 units in 10 cats) and central core (62 units in 15 cats) of the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) in unanesthetized decerebrate cats. The recording sites of the shell units were verified in reconstructed electrode tracks, and those of the core units were verified for 18 units and based on the recording depth for 44 units. There was a substantial presence of strongly driven units in the AVCN shell exhibiting non-saturating rate-level functions to pure tone, noise or both with dynamic ranges as wide as 89 dB. This finding supports a hypothesis that the AVCN shell may play a role in encoding acoustic stimulus intensity. The AVCN shell and core populations were different as follows. The shell population had more units which had wide dynamic ranges, low spontaneous rates (SRs) or were acoustically weakly or not driven than the core population. These differences were statistically significant (P &lt; 0.001, Fisher's exact test).
The effects of local perfusion with the secretory trypsin inhibitor like-peptide, PEC-60 on dopamine and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release in the dorsolateral neostriatum and GABA release in the globus pallidus were studied using in vivo microdialysis in the awake freely moving rat. Local perfusion with PEC-60 (500 nM and 1 microM) increased dopamine release in the dorsolateral neostriatum while the highest (1 microM) concentration of PEC-60 decreased striatal but not pallidal GABA release. An inactive form of the peptide, S-carboxyamidomethylated PEC-60 (1 microM) failed to influence either striatal dopamine and GABA or pallidal GABA release. In addition, when PEC-60, at a dose which did not affect striatal and pallidal GABA release (100 nM), was co-perfused together with the dopamine D2 receptor agonist pergolide (500 nM), a potentiation in the ability of pergolide to reduce GABA release in the dorsolateral neostriatum was observed and this effect was counteracted by co-perfusion with the selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist raclopride (1 microM). In contrast, the pergolide induced inhibition of striatal dopamine release was unaffected by PEC-60 (100 nM). These data indicate that PEC-60 differentially regulates dopamine and GABA release in the dorsolateral neostriatum by a selective and facilitory interaction with the postsynaptic dopamine D2 receptor possibly involving high-affinity PEC-60 like-peptide binding sites located on local axon collaterals of a discrete subpopulation of efferent GABA neurons and/or on GABA interneurons.
Regulation of ion channel function by intracellular processes is fundamental for controlling synaptic signaling and integration in the nervous system. Currents mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors decline during whole-cell recordings and this may be prevented by ATP. We show here that phosphorylation is necessary to maintain NMDA currents and that the decline is not dependent upon Ca2+. A protein tyrosine phosphatase or a peptide inhibitor of protein tyrosine kinase applied intracellularly caused a decrease in NMDA currents even when ATP was included. On the other hand, pretreating the neurons with a membrane-permeant tyrosine kinase inhibitor occluded the decline in NMDA currents when ATP was omitted. In inside-out patches, applying a protein tyrosine phosphatase to the cytoplasmic face of the patch caused a decrease in probability of opening of NMDA channels. Conversely, open probability was increased by a protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor. These results indicate that NMDA channel activity is reduced by a protein tyrosine phosphatase associated with the channel complex.
Insulin and insulin-like growth factors (IGF-I, IGF-II) are closely related polypeptides which are found in the CNS and which promote neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth. They are each associated with specific cell surface receptors and several soluble binding proteins (IGFBPs) which are involved in regulating function and availability. Two analogues of IGF-I were produced by site directed mutagenesis: (Gln3, Ala4, Tyr15, (Leu16)IGF-1 (QAYL-IGF) and a B-chain mutant in which the first 16 amino acids of IGF-1 were replaced by the first 17 amino acids of insulin. These analogues have significantly reduced binding affinity for IGFBPs. Using glucose deprivation as a damaging stimulus and assaying lactate dehydrogenase released from cultures as a marker for cell death, we have investigated the effect of IGF analogues on cell death of cerebrocortical and cerebellar granule cell cultures. In the presence of IGF-I, QAYL-IGF or B-chain mutant, the amount of LDH released from cortical and cerebellar granule cell cultures was significantly reduced compared to control (no glucose), indicating that these molecules promote survival. Both QAYL and B-chain mutants, which have reduced affinity for IGFBPs, are as effective as IGF-I in promoting cell survival in conditions of glucose deprivation and their reduced affinity for IGFBPs has no apparent deleterious effect on their neuroprotective function. We also show that the neuroprotective effect of the IGF analogues is due to a direct effect on the neurones in these cultures and is independent of the presence of glia.
We are interested in establishing stably transformed insect cell lines efficiently expressing the insect gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor subunit gene Resistance to dieldrin or Rdl. In order to facilitate this we utilized a system based on stable transformation of Aedes albopictus mosquito cell lines using the dihydrofolate reductase (dhfr) gene as a selected marker. Here we report the production of stable mosquito cell lines carrying high copy numbers of Rdl genes from both Drosophila and Aedes aegypti mosquitoes and the subsequent high efficiency expression of functional GABA gated chlorine ion channels. We also used this system to compare the activity of a range of immediate early baculovirus promoters in mosquito cell culture and demonstrate that IE1 promoter constructs work efficiently across insect species. Results are discussed in relation to the potential use of these constructs in the generic transformation of non-Drosophilid insects.
The distribution and synaptology of the afferent fibers of the glossopharyngeal nerve (IXN) in the hamster were studied by using horseradish peroxidase (HRP) histochemistry visualized with light and electron microscopy. Crystals of HRP were applied to the trunk of IXN in the vicinity of the petrosal ganglion. The densest IXN afferent label was distributed within the nucleus of the solitary tract (nst), just caudal to but overlapping with the area of termination of the facial nerve. Labeled IXN fibers extended rostrally to the principal trigeminal nucleus and caudally to the cervical spinal cord. There was significant labeling within the spinal trigeminal complex; the area postrema and the medullary reticular formation contained some labeled fibers. Ultrastructurally, the synaptic arrangements of anterogradely labeled IXN fibers were examined in the nst. Quantitative measures were taken of the area, maximum diameter, perimeter, and vesicles of labeled endings and the length of their synaptic junctions with dendritic processes. These endings were compared to comparable endings in control material and to published descriptions of VIIth nerve afferent terminals in the hamster nst. The synaptic relations of IXN afferent endings were predominantly with dendritic spines and shafts. The majority (86.6%) of IXN afferent endings were with dendritic processes that were not in apparent contact with other, unlabeled processes. Only 13.4% of IXN synaptic relationships were with dendritic processes that were also contacted by unlabeled vesicle-containing processes. This is in contrast to 31.2% of facial nerve afferent endings in the nst which make synaptic contact with such processes. There were more direct synaptic contacts between facial endings and unlabeled vesicle-containing processes (26.1%) than between IXN endings and unlabeled vesicle-containing processes (1.3%). Thus, unlike the glomerular-like endings of the gustatory fibers of the VIIth nerve, less complex relations appeared to characterize IXN synapses in the nst. These differences were related to the differential physiology of gustatory fibers in the VIIth nerve and IXN.
In order to understand the molecular mechanisms that underlie the co-evolution of related yet functionally distinct peptide-receptor pairs, we study receptors for the vasopressin-related peptide Lys-conopressin in the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. In addition to a previously cloned Lys-conopressin receptor (LSCPR1), we have now identified a novel Lys-conopressin receptor subtype, named LSCPR2. The two receptors have a differential distribution in the reproductive organs and the brain, which suggests that they are involved in the control of distinct aspects of reproduction and mediate transmitter-like and/or modulatory effects of Lys-conopressin on different types of central neurons. In contrast to LSCPR1, LSCPR2 is maximally activated by both Lys-conopressin and Ile-conopressin, an oxytocin-like synthetic analog of Lys-conopressin. Together with a study of the phylogenetic relationships of Lys-conopressin receptors and their vertebrate counterparts, these data suggest that LSCPR2 represents an ancestral receptor to the vasopressin/oxytocin receptor family in the vertebrates. Based on our findings, we provide a theory of the molecular co-evolution of the functionally distinct ligand-receptor pairs of the vasopressin/oxytocin superfamily of bioactive peptides.
Tropomyosin is a coiled-coil protein that binds along the length of filamentous actin and contains sequence repeats that correspond to actin monomers in the filament. Analysis of striated muscle alpha-tropomyosin mutants in which internal sequence has been deleted or replaced with non-tropomyosin sequence showed that the following parameters are important for high affinity, cooperative binding of tropomyosin-troponin to actin. 1) Tropomyosin must be a coiled coil along its entire length. 2) An integral number of repeats corresponding to the actin monomers along its length is more important than the total number. 3) In comparison, the actin affinity is relatively insensitive to changes in the sequence of the internal regions of tropomyosin. The results suggest that the internal sequence repeats function as weakly interacting spacers to allow proper alignment of the ends on the regulated actin filament.
The design, synthesis, and biological activity of a novel series of CCK-B receptor antagonists (1) which incorporate a tetrazol-5-ylamino functionality attached to the phenyl ring of the arylurea moiety of L-365,260 are described. In these compounds, the acidity of the tetrazole was gradually modified by utilization of simple conformational constraints, and X-ray crystallographic data were obtained to support the conformational depenence of the pK(a) of the aminotetrazoles. Compounds to emerge from the present work such as 1f and 2c,d are among the highest affinity and, in the case of 1f, most selective (CCK-A/CCK-B, 37 000) antagonists so far reported for this receptor. The C(5)-cyclohexyl compound 2c (L-736,380) dose-dependently inhibited gastric acid secretion in anesthetized rats (ID(50), 0.064 mg/kg) and ex vivo binding of [(125)I]CCK-8S in BKTO mice brain membranes (ED(50), 1.7 mg/kg) and is one of the most potent acidic CCK-B receptor antagonists yet described.
To examine the potential extrinsic sources of substance P (SP)-containing terminals in the C1 area of the RVL, immunoperoxidase localization of SP was combined with retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). In all cases examined, several neurons containing SP and WGA-HRP were found in the nucleus raphe pallidus and a few dual labeled neurons were found in the nucleus of the solitary tract and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. In some cases, one or two double labeled neurons were detected in the lateral hypothalamic area and nucleus raphe obscurus. The results demonstrate that although several brain structures contribute SP afferents to the RVL, the nucleus raphe pallidus is the major extrinsic source.
We have found a novel adenosine binding protein in rat brain membranes. Based on the ligand binding specificities, this protein is not classified into any known P1 or P2 purinoceptors but is likely to be classified into the putative P3 purinoceptor which was recently proposed. This P3 purinoceptor-like protein was partially purified from rat brain membranes and characterized further by photoaffinity labeling with 8-azidoadenosine-5'-[gamma-32P]triphosphate. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the labeled preparations revealed that the probe is incorporated specifically into a single band with an approximate molecular size of 54 kDa.
The hormone melatonin is believed to play an important role in the regulation of both circadian and circannual rhythms. In mammalian vertebrates melatonin receptors are discretely localized, with broader distributions reported in avians and reptiles. To examine the sites at which melatonin may act in the turtle brain, 2-[125I]iodomelatonin binding sites were assessed using quantitative autoradiography. Specific binding sites were primarily restricted to forebrain structures with a wide distribution in visual recipient areas. The distribution of melatonin sensitive sites within the turtle visual system suggests that the ability to transduce received photoperiodic signals in the reptilian brain is broadly distributed within the central nervous system.
The effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) on intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in cultured prenatal rat cortical neurons was investigated using fluorescence imaging. GABA or muscimol, but not baclofen, increased [Ca2+]i in a dose-dependent manner. The GABAA receptor antagonists, bicuculline and picrotoxin, inhibited the GABA response. Furosemide, an inhibitor of the Na+/K+/2Cl- cotransporter, inhibited the GABA response in a noncompetitive manner. Ethacrynic acid, an inhibitor of an ATP-dependent Cl- pump, also inhibited the GABA-induced increased in [Ca2+]i. These results suggest a role for Cl- transport processes in the GABA response. The coapplication of GABA and high K+ led to a non-additive increase in the GABA response. The GABA response was also inhibited by nifedipine, a voltage-gated Ca2+ channel blocker, and abolished by the absence of extracellular Ca2+. Results indicate that the GABA response shares a common pathway of Ca2+ movement with the high K(+)-induced response. These observations suggest that the stimulation with GABA results in Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, and that these effects are dependent on Cl- transport systems.
Amyloid beta protein (beta A4), the major component of the core of amyloid plaques in Alzheimer disease, is derived from the transmembrane amyloid precursor proteins (APPs). Our recent studies showed that a murine member of the evolutionarily conserved APP family, amyloid precursor-like protein 1 (APLP1), is specifically localized to the cerebral cortex postsynaptic density and may thus participate in brain synaptic function. To investigate regulatory mechanisms of APLP1 synthesis at the genomic level, we isolated and characterized genomic clones containing the mouse APLP1 gene. Sequence analysis revealed a genomic structure consisting of 17 exons and a promoter region that is devoid of apparent TATA and CCAAT boxes. The 5' region contains putative binding sites for AP-1, heat-shock protein, and Sp1, suggesting that multiple elements are potentially involved in regulating transcription of the APLP1 gene.
Developmentally regulated delayed rectifier potassium currents determine the waveform of the action potential in all Xenopus embryonic primary spinal neurons. To examine this developmental program at the molecular level, we have isolated Xenopus Kv2 potassium channel genes Kv2.1 and Kv2.2. Both genes induce functional heterologous expression of delayed rectifier potassium currents. Transcripts from both Kv2 genes are present in developing embryos; however, only Kv2.2 mRNA is detectable in embryonic spinal neurons. Notably, Kv2.2 transcripts localize to ventral spinal neurons, whereas previously described Kv1.1 transcripts are found in dorsal spinal neurons. Thus, spinal neuron subtypes express distinct potassium channel genes, yet they temporally coordinate functional expression of delayed rectifier potassium currents.
This study examines how the family of neurotrophin receptor tyrosine kinases (Trks) participates in the regeneration and replacement of olfactory neurons within the adult rat olfactory neuroepithelium. mRNA and protein products representing the high-affinity nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor Trk A, its family members Trk B and Trk C, and the low-affinity NGF receptor (INGFR) are all detected within both mature and regenerating olfactory neuroepithelium and within primary cultures of olfactory neurons. Cellular immunoreactivity for Trks A, B, and C and INGFR changes dramatically during the lifetime of an olfactory neuron and is demonstrated by inducing the epithelium into a coordinate rapid cycle of degeneration and regeneration in vivo by removal of the target organ, the olfactory bulb. Trk A-positive neuronal precursor basal cells undergo mitosis to produce Trk B-positive immature neurons that mature under the local influence of the olfactory neuroepithelium and the target-derived influence of the olfactory bulb to become a Trk C-positive mature neuron. Primary cultures of immature olfactory neurons demonstrate neurotrophin-induced phosphorylation of Trks A, B, and C and subsequent activation of the immediate early gene c-Fos, and they change their expression of differentiation stage-specific markers after treatment with individual and combinations of neurotrophins. This is the first population of neurons of a single lineage in which Trks A, B, and C and the INGFR have been demonstrated to be expressed sequentially during neuronal division, commitment, and differentiation and to be fully capable of transducing cellular signals causing phenotypic changes in differentiation state.
Cerebellar granule neurons undergo apoptosis when deprived of chronic depolarization; serum deprivation has not been considered as a trigger of apoptosis in this culture. Here we report that serum removal triggers cell injury, which is characterized by signs of apoptosis. Actual cell death (trypan blue permeability) occurred 24 and 48 hr after serum removal. At earlier times (6 and 8 hr after serum removal) we found significant impairment of mitochondrial functioning [3-(4,5-dimethyl thiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide assay] and an increase in the percentage of neurons showing signs of DNA fragmentation (insitu terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase assay, fluorescent assay). Protection was obtained by inhibiting RNA synthesis with actinomycin D and by antioxidants [1mM: 1,4-diazobicyclo(2.2.2)octane, histidine, mannitol; 1% dimethyl sulfoxide; 0.01-1 microM ascorbic acid]. We also measured neuronal oxidation utilizing the oxidation-sensitive fluorescent dye 2', 7'-dichloro- fluorescin diacetate, and found a significant increase in the rate of neuronal oxidation as early as 15 min after serum deprivation. The blockade of glutamate receptors by (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydroxy-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801) and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione also provided neuroprotection. However, oxidative stress appears to precede glutamate receptor activation: within the 8 hr period of serum deprivation, mannitol was protective when present either during only the first or last 4 hr; MK-801 was protective only when present for the entire 8 hr period or in the last, but not first 4 hr of serum deprivation. Serum deprivation of mature cerebellar granule neurons can be used to study mechanisms of oxidative stress-induced apoptosis.
A morphogenic role of neurotransmitters during cellular differentiation in vitro has been demonstrated in recent years. Using in situ hybridization, we confirm the presence of the D1 receptor at E16 and show additionally that the transcript is relatively widespread and present in both proliferative and differentiating areas of the cerebral wall. Because DA receptor expression precedes the arrival of presynaptic terminals during forebrain development, we examined the role of DA in cerebral cortical neuron differentiation in vitro, using immunohistochemical markers of dendrites, microtubule-associated-membrane protein 2 (MAP2) and axons, neurofilament protein (NF-H). Neurite length, cell size, and cell viability in response to D1 and D2 receptor agonists SKF38393 and quinpirole, respectively, and to DA were analyzed in neurons obtained from embryonic (E) day 16 rats. We have shown that 1) paradoxically, DA at different concentrations can either stimulate or inhibit neurite outgrowth; 2) there is a bimodal pattern of DA-induced axonal outgrowth, i.e., at low and high doses; 3) D2 receptor activation induces neurite outgrowth while D1 receptor activation is inhibitory; 4) D2-mediated neurite elongation is preferentially axonal while D1 receptor activation reduces both axonal and dendritic outgrowth; 5) low doses of DA promote the expression of cytoskeletal components of axonal maturation; and 6) D1 receptor activation decreases neuronal size. We suggest that DA may influence cellular differentiation and circuitry formation early in development of the cerebral cortex through receptor-mediated effects on process outgrowth, which could lead to effects on circuit formation.
1. This study was undertaken to examine changes of excitatory drive to the triceps surae alpha-motoneuron pool during fatiguing submaximal isometric contractions in man. Eight healthy subjects maintained isometric plantar flexions at 30 percent of maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) until the limit of endurance (range, 6-9 min). 2. Excitability of the alpha-motoneuron pool to Ia afferent stimulation (H reflex), electromyograms (EMG) and maximum compound motor unit action potentials (Mmax) from the lateral (LG) and medial heads (MG) of the gastrocnemius as well as from the soleus muscle (Sol) were recorded throughout the contraction. Superimposed maximum twitch torques (twitch occlusion) and isometric torque fluctuations (tremor) were also recorded as indirect measures of excitatory drive. 3. H reflexes were studied at different levels of underlying voluntary contraction to assess the relationship between H reflex amplitude and excitatory drive. With increasing levels of underlying contraction up to MVC, superimposed H reflex amplitude increased for LG in six subjects, for MG in all eight and for Sol in five. In the remaining cases, H reflex amplitude first increased and then plateaued between 30-50% of MVC. 4. H/Mmax ratios increased during fatigue in those muscles that showed an H reflex amplitude increase with high levels of underlying contraction. In these cases, LG and MG H/Mmax increased significantly after about 50 and 20% of endurance time onward, respectively, whereas Sol H/Mmax demonstrated a significant increase up to 40% of endurance time. 5. EMG root mean square (r.m.s.) increased linearly throughout the contraction for all three muscles, while tremor r.m.s. increased in a non-linear way, with a steeper increase from 60% of endurance time onward. Superimposed twitch amplitude decreased significantly from 25% of endurance time onward. 6. It is concluded that during fatiguing isometric contractions at 30% of MVC, the excitatory drive to the triceps surae alpha-motoneuron pool increases. This is thought to be a compensatory mechanism to facilitate recruitment of new, unfatigued motor units (MUs), and/or to increase MU firing rates. The facts that the twitch is not abolished at endurance limit and that the EMG does not attain its unfatigued MVC level are strong indications that central fatigue occurred during the sustained submaximal contraction.
1. The effects of intracellular Mg2+ (Mgi2+) on the single N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-activated channel burst duration and frequency and on the mean NMDA-activated patch current were studied in outside-out patches from cultured rat cortical neurons. The inhibition by Mgi2+ of mean patch and whole-cell currents were compared, and some possible explanations for the observed differences were investigated. 2. The burst duration at +60 mV did not depend on Mgi2+ concentration, suggesting that the channel can close when blocked by Mgi2+. The number of bursts per second increased significantly in the presence of Mgi2+, suggesting that the rate of channel opening is higher when Mg2+ from the intracellular solution occupies its binding site. 3. Mgi2+ caused a voltage- and concentration-dependent inhibition of mean patch current. The inhibition is in quantitative agreement with the effects of Mgi2+ on the single-channel current and on burst parameters. 4. Based on the effects of Mgi2+ on burst parameters and on single-channel current, a four-state model in which the NMDA-activated channel can close while blocked by Mgi2+ is proposed. By fitting the model to the mean patch current data, we estimate that the rate of channel opening is increased by a factor of 1.4 when Mgi2+ occupies the channel. This estimation provides evidence that occupancy of the NMDA-activated channel by Mgi2+ destabilizes the closed state. 5. Mgi2+ reduced NMDA-activated whole-cell currents in a voltage- and concentration-dependent manner. However, normalized whole-cell and mean patch currents at positive voltages differed in two significant respects. First, when currents were recorded in a 0 Mg2+ pipette solution, whole-cell currents at positive voltages were smaller. Second, Mgi2+ appeared to inhibit whole-cell current less effectively than it inhibited mean patch current. 6. Inclusion of the Mg2+ chelators EDTA and ATP in 0 Mg2+ pipette solutions did not increase the whole-cell current measured at +60 mV. This observation suggests that the difference between normalized whole-cell and mean patch currents with 0 Mg2+ pipette solution was not due to block of whole-cell currents by residual Mgi2+. 7. When a pipette solution containing EGTA and Mg2+ was used to buffer Mgi2+, inhibition by Mgi2+ of the whole-cell current was enhanced, suggesting that the free Mg2+ concentration inside a neuron can remain below the pipette Mg2+ concentration. However, we cannot exclude other explanations for the differences between the inhibition by Mg2+ of mean patch and whole-cell currents.
1. Single-channel currents activated by the glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) were recorded from outside-out patches of cultured rat cortical neurons in the presence of intracellular Mg2+ (Mgi2+). The rate constants of the block by Mgi2+ were measured using amplitude distribution analysis. 2. At a membrane potential of 0 mV, the blocking rate constant (k+) of Mgi2+ was estimated to be 2.1 x 10(7) M-1 S-1 and the unblocking rate constant (k-) 1.7 x 15(5)s-1. The very fast rate constants of the block by Mgi2+ explain why channel flicker was not fully resolvable during block of the NMDA-activated single-channel current by Mgi2+. 3. The blocking rate constant of Mgi2+ increased with increasing concentrations of Mgi2+. The unblocking rate constant was Mgi2+ concentration independent. 4. The blocking rate constant increased e-fold per 64 mV depolarization, whereas the unblocking rate constant decreased e-fold per 133 mV depolarization. The dissociation constant (KD) calculated from the blocking rates (k-/k+) decreased e-fold per 43 mV depolarization, and had a value at 0 mV of 7.8 mM. These values are consistent with previous estimates obtained from the voltage-dependent inhibition of the single-channel current amplitude. Both results predict, based on the Woodhull model, that Mgi2+ traverses about one-third of the membrane field to reach its blocking site. 5. The unblocking rate constant of Mgi2+ is one to two orders of magnitude faster than the previously reported unblocking rate constant of extracellular Mg2+ (Mgo2+) in the physiological voltage range, and their voltage dependencies are of opposite signs. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that there are separate binding sites in the channel for Mgi2+ and Mgo2+. 6. Based on the blocking kinetics of Mgi2+ and Mgo2+, an energy profile of three barriers and two binding sites for Mg2+ is proposed.

We used quantitative autoradiography to determine whether the development of glutamate receptors correlates with the sensitive period for monocular deprivation in the visual cortex. To study glutamate receptors, we incubated sections of cat visual cortex with tritiated (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10imin e-maleate (MK-801), tritiated kainate, and tritiated amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA). [3H]MK-801 is a noncompetitive ligand for the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. [3H]kainate and [3H]AMPA are competitive ligands for non-NMDA receptors. We used [3H]muscimol, which binds to GABAA receptors, so that we would have one control ligand that binds to a nonglutamate receptor. When all layers were combined, the results confirmed our previous studies with homogenate binding. [3H]MK-801 and [3H]kainate binding were significantly greater at 42 days than at earlier or later times. [3H]AMPA and [3H]muscimol binding did not show such a peak. This suggests that MK-801 and kainate binding sites are more likely to be involved in plasticity than are AMPA and muscimol binding sites. In layers 2/3, MK-801 had the greatest age-dependent changes; in layers 5 and 6, kainate binding changed most with age. This suggests that the mechanisms of plasticity may vary with cortical layer.
The distribution of glycine- and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-like immunoreactivity (LI) in nerve terminals on the cell soma of motoneurons in the aldehyde-fixed cat L7 spinal cord was examined using postembedding immunogold histochemistry in serial ultrathin sections. Quantitative examination of 405 terminals on eight neurons of alpha-motoneuron size in the L7 motor nuclei from one animal was performed. A majority of the terminals (69%) were immunoreactive to glycine and/or GABA. These terminals contained flat or oval synaptic vesicles, thus classifying them as F type or as C type in one case. In no case was a type-F terminal unlabeled for both glycine and GABA. Most of the immunolabeled terminals were immunoreactive to glycine only (62.5%), whereas 35.4% contained both glycine- and GABA-LI. A very small number of immunolabeled terminals (2%) were immunoreactive to GABA only. In those terminals, where glycine- and GABA-LI coexisted, the gold particle density for each amino acid was only half of that seen in boutons containing only one of the two amino acids. The involvement of glycine and GABA in postsynaptic inhibition of spinal alpha-motoneurons is discussed, with particular reference to the possibility that these two inhibitory amino acids may be coreleased from a significant proportion of the nerve terminals impinging on the cell bodies.
The basolateral amygdala has projections to several structures that take part in the limbic cortico-striato-pallido-thalamic circuit, including the prefrontal cortex, ventral striatum, and mediodorsal thalamic nucleus. The present investigation used a technique that combines retrograde tract tracing with immunohistochemistry for glutamate and aspartate to determine if amygdaloid neurons projecting to different targets in the limbic circuit can be distinguished on the basis of their content of excitatory amino acids. Cell counts revealed that at least 85-95% of the neurons in the basolateral nucleus projecting to the prefrontal cortex or ventral striatum were pyramidal cells that exhibited glutamate or aspartate immunoreactivity. Colocalization studies indicated that 94-100% of aspartate-immunoreactive neurons in the basolateral nucleus were also glutamate positive and that 92-94% of glutamate-immunoreactive neurons were also aspartate positive. A small number of glutamate-positive pyramidal neurons in the anterior subdivision of the cortical nucleus were found to project to the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus. However, the great majority of amygdaloid neurons with projections to the mediodorsal nucleus did not exhibit glutamate or aspartate immunoreactivity. The absence of glutamate and aspartate immunoreactivity in these cells suggests that these neurons do not use excitatory amino acids as neurotransmitters. The finding of high levels of glutamate and aspartate in basolateral amygdaloid neurons projecting to the prefrontal cortex and ventral striatum is consistent with previous reports indicating that these neurons may use excitatory amino acids as neurotransmitters, but is not a definitive criterion for this determination.
The present study investigated the ability of a recombinant herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV) vector to deliver genes into disseminated brain tumor foci through intrathecal injection of the vector. The animal model was designed to simulate brain tumors with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) metastases, which are found especially in the pediatric population. 9L gliosarcoma cells were injected both into the right frontal lobe and in through the cisterna magna of adult rats. The HSV vector, hrR3, was inoculated intrathecally 5 days later. This vector is defective in the gene for ribonucleotide reductase, and, therefore, replicates preferentially in dividing cells; it retains an intact HSV-thymidine kinase gene (HSV-tk). Two days after injection of the vector, immunohistochemical staining for HSV thymidine kinase (HSV-TK) revealed expression in frontal tumors, as well as in leptomeningeal tumor foci along the entire neuroaxis. HSV-TK-immunopositive cells were most frequent in small tumors contacting the CSF pathways. Frontal lobe tumors showed the highest density of HSV-TK-immunopositive cells around their periphery with little expression in central parts. Some paraventricular neurons temporarily showed HSV-TK-immunolabeling at this early time point. The number of HSV-TK-immunopositive tumor cells markedly decreased 5 days after injection of the HSV vector. In all animals, some toxicity was observed in the first 2-4 days after virus injection with extensive leptomeningeal inflammation. In conclusion, intrathecal application of HSV vectors can mediate widespread transfer of the therapeutic HSV-tk gene into disseminated tumors throughout the brain and CSF pathways. Although there was marked toxicity associated with intrathecal injection of this vector, this mode of gene delivery offers a promising approach for treatment of CSF-metastases in conjunction with development of less toxic vectors.
The beta subunit of the voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel is a cytoplasmic protein that interacts directly with an alpha1 subunit, thereby modulating the biophysical properties of the channel. Herein, we demonstrate that the alpha1B subunit of the N-type Ca2+ channel associates with several different beta subunits. Polyclonal antibodies specific for three different beta subunits immunoprecipitated 125I-omega-conotoxin GVIA binding from solubilized rabbit brain membranes. Enrichment of the N-type Ca2+ channels with an alpha1B subunit-specific monoclonal antibody showed the association of beta1b, beta3, and beta4 subunits. Protein sequencing of tryptic peptides of the 57-kDa component of the purified N-type Ca2+ channel confirmed the presence of the beta3 and beta4 subunits. Each of the beta subunits bound to the alpha1B subunit interaction domain with similar high affinity. Thus, our data demonstrate important heterogeneity in the beta subunit composition of the N-type Ca2+ channels, which may be responsible for some of the diverse kinetic properties recorded from neurons.
A potential role of the intracellular Ca2+ stores in modulating catecholamine release has been investigated in bovine chromaffin cells maintained in tissue culture. Pharmacological depletion of the stores with a combination of caffeine, histamine and thapsigargin in Ca2+-free media resulted in a significantly greater release of catecholamines on re-exposure to Ca2+-containing media compared with that from non-store depleted cells. The increase in catecholamine release was prevented by intracellular BAPTA indicating that the increase was caused by a rise in Ca2+. Measurement of intracellular free Ca2+ concentration with the fluorescent indicator, fura-2, over the same time-course as the catecholamine release experiments showed that upon restoration of external Ca2+ there was an immediate, substantial and maintained increase in cytosolic Ca2+. It is most probable that the increase in catecholamine release was a consequence of an increase in Ca2+ influx triggered by prior depletion of the internal Ca2+ stores. However, the data suggest that capacitative Ca2+ entry is poorly linked to catecholamine release; although Ca2+ entry on restoration of external Ca2+ was immediate and substantial, the increase in catecholamine release, although quantitatively significant, was slowly realised.
When the two eyes view dissimilar images, we experience binocular rivalry, in which one eye's view dominates for several seconds and is then replaced by that of the other eye. What causes these perceptual changes in the absence of any change in the stimulus? We showed previously that some neurons in monkey cortical area MT show changes in activity during motion rivalry that reflect the perceived direction of motion. To determine whether perception-related modulation of activity occurs in other visual cortical areas, we recorded from individual neurons in V1, V2 and V4 while monkeys reported the perceived orientation of rival gratings of two orthogonal orientations. Many cells, particularly in V4, showed patterns of activity that correlated with the perceptual dominance and suppression of one stimulus. The majority were orientation-selective and could be driven equally well from either eye. It has been previously suggested that binocular rivalry involves reciprocal inhibition between monocular neurons within V1 (for example, see ref. 4), but our results do not support this view; rather, we propose that binocular rivalry arises through interactions between binocular neurons at several levels in the visual pathways, and that similar mechanisms may underlie other multistable perceptual states that occur when viewing ambiguous images.
The sigma receptor ligand reduced haloperidol (50 and 100 microM), potently inhibited cell proliferation, and induced apoptosis in WIDr colon and MCF-7 adenocarcinoma cell lines. Apoptosis was confirmed after drug treatment of the cells by the presence of nuclear fragmentation after staining of the cells with Hoechst 33258 and cellular DNA fragmentation ELISA and by condensation of the heterochromatin using transmission electron microscopy. However, internucleosomal DNA cleavage was not detected using gel electrophoresis. Reduced haloperidol (100 microM) increased the intracellular free calcium levels [Ca2+]i in both cell lines, which was independent of extracellular calcium, suggesting that the rise in [Ca2+]i was from intracellular stores and that an increase in [Ca2+]i may act as a &quot;trigger&quot; for apoptosis in these cell lines.
Repetitive stimuli reliably induce long-term potentiation (LTP) of synapses in the upper layers of the granular somatosensory cortex but not the agranular motor cortex of rats. Herein we examine, in these same cortical areas, short-term changes in synaptic strength that occur during the LTP induction period. theta-Burst stimulation produced a strong short-term enhancement of synapses in the granular area but only weak enhancement in the agranular area. The magnitude of enhancement during stimulation was strongly correlated with the magnitude of LTP subsequently expressed. Short-term enhancement was abolished by an antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors but remained in the presence of a non-NMDA receptor antagonist. Inhibitory postsynaptic potentials of the granular and agranular areas displayed similar frequency sensitivity, but the frequency sensitivity of NMDA receptor-dependent excitatory postsynaptic potentials differed significantly between areas. We propose that pathway-specific differences in short-term enhancement are due to variations in the frequency dependence of NMDA currents; different capacities for short-term enhancement may explain why repetitive stimulation more readily induces LTP in the somatosensory cortex than in the motor cortex.
The extracellular factors that determine a cell's responsiveness to neurotransmitters are of particular relevance for pharmacologically diverse cell types such as neurons and smooth muscle. We previously demonstrated that matrix-associated factors are capable of dramatically and specifically suppressing the responsiveness of smooth muscle to the neuropeptide, substance P. We now demonstrate that this influence of extracellular matrix on the pharmacological phenotype of smooth muscle cells can be blocked specifically by an Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD)-containing antagonist of integrins. Of a battery of integrin ligands tested, only thrombospondin mimicked the effect of the extracellular matrix on substance P responsiveness. This effect of thrombospondin was dose dependent, RGD sensitive, and blocked by an antibody directed against the RGD-containing region of thrombospondin. Because the mRNA for thrombospondin is present in the cells of the chicken amnion, this extracellular factor may normally suppress substance P responsiveness in amniotic smooth muscle. The results suggest a role for matrix-associated integrin ligands in the regulation of cellular responses to specific neurotransmitters and hormones and in the development and maintenance of tissue-specific pharmacological properties.
Ten-month-old rats were subjected to permanent bilateral occlusion of both common carotid arteries (2-VO) to chronically but moderately reduce brain blood flow. 2-VO impaired Morris water maze acquisition as soon as 7 days post-surgery. 2-VO also caused a later-appearing impairment on the radial arm maze which did not reach significance until 63 days post-surgery. At 14 dats post-surgery there were no effects of 2-VO on hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell number or density of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Hippocampal choline acetyltransferase activity at 70 days was also unaffected by 2-VO. At 190 days post-surgery, however, the 2-VO rats showed loss of cells and increased GFAP density in CA1. The increased density of hippocampal GFAP correlated with radial arm maze but not Morris water maze impairment. It is suggested that 2-VO causes neuronal dysfunction which can be exacerbated by stress and thereby manifested on aversively motivated tasks such as the water maze. As well, CA1 neurons begin to degenerate after several weeks of the reduced energy availability caused by 2-VO and this impairs memory. Since reduced neuronal energy metabolism is associated with the progressive neurodegeneration that underlies disorders such as Alzheimer's, research should further explore the possibility that the effects of 2-VO may model age-related dementia.
Reduced nerve blood flow is thought to play an important role in the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy. This disturbance in nerve blood flow might be the consequence of either microangiopathy or an impaired autonomic innervation of the vasa nervorum. In order to differentiate between a vascular or an adrenergic-autonomic defect as the underlying cause of the disturbed nerve blood flow, we investigated the effects of the adrenocorticotropic hormone [ACTH]-(4-9) analogue Org 2766 on sciatic nerve blood flow under basal and adrenergic-stimulated conditions. Org 2766 has neuroprotective effects without cardiovascular effects. Treatment with Org 2766 was started 6 weeks after the induction of experimental diabetes mellitus. At week 12 the sciatic nerve blood flow, measured by laser-Doppler flowmetry, was reduced to 60% of the non-diabetic level; blood pressure was unchanged in diabetic rats compared to non-diabetic rats. Basal haemodynamic values were not affected by Org 2766 treatment. Vasa nervorum adrenergic responsiveness to tyramine (presynaptic) and phenylephrine (postsynaptic) was investigated. Diabetic rats showed adrenergic hyporesponsiveness. Treatment with Org 2766 restored the reduced presynaptic response to tyramine without affecting the reduced postsynaptic response to phenylephrine. It is concluded that a presynaptic-sympathetic deficit of nervi vasorum causes a disturbed flow responsiveness in diabetic rat sciatic nerve and that adrenergic autonomic disturbances in the vasa nervorum have only a small role in the reduced basal nerve blood flow of diabetic rats.
In the present study, immunocytochemistry and radioimmunoassay were used to investigate the presence of sauvagine in both hypothalamic and extrahypothalamic areas of the central nervous system (CNS) of the bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) using a specific antiserum raised against synthetic non-conjugated sauvagine (SVG), a frog (Phyllomedusa sauvagei) skin peptide of the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) family. Sauvagine-immunoreactive (SVG-ir) bipolar neurons were found in the nucleus of the fasciculus longitudinalis medialis located in the rostral mesencephalic tegmentum. In the tectal mesencephalon, beaded SVG-ir fibres were present in the optic tectum, and in the torus semicircularis. Abundant SVG-ir varicose fibres were seen in the granulosa layer of the cerebellum, the nucleus isthmi, and the obex of the spinal cord. SVG-ir fibres were also seen by the alar plate of the rombencephalon. In the diencephalon, the antiserum stained parvocellular neurons of the preoptic nucleus (PON) which extended their dendrites into the cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF) of the third ventricle and projected their ependymofugal fibres to the zona externa (ZE) of the median eminence. Immunopositive fibres were also present in the medial forebrain bundle at the chiasmatic field, the posterior thalamus, the pretectal gray, and the ventrocaudal hypothalamus. In the telencephalon (forebrain), SVG-ir fibres were seen in the medial septum, the lateral septum, and the amygdala. The SVG immunoreactivity could not be detected after using the SVG antiserum previously immunoabsorbed with synthetic SVG (0.1 microM), but immunoblock of the antiserum with sucker (Catostomus commersoni) urotensin I (sUI), sole (Hippoglossoides elassodon) urotensin I, sucker CRF, rat/human CRF, or ovine CRF (0.1-10 microM) did not eliminate visualization of the immunoreactivity. In radioimmunoassay, the SVG antiserum did not crossreact with sUI, or the SVG fragments SVG1-16, SVG16-27, and SVG26-34, but it recognized the C-terminal fragment SVG35-40. Crossreaction with mammalian ovine CRF and rat/human CRF was negligible. Both hypothalamic and mesencephalic extracts gave parallel displacement curves to SVG. The results suggest the presence in the bullfrog brain of a SVG-like neuropeptide, i.e., a peptide of the CRF family, that either is SVG or shares high homology with the C-terminus of that peptide. The function of this neuropeptide in amphibians is not known at this time, but based on its anatomical distribution to the ZE it could affect the release of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) or other substances from the amphibian pars distalis. Involvement of the SVG-like peptide in behavioural (forebrain), visual (thalamus-tegmentum mesencephali-pretectal gray-optic tectum), motor coordination (cerebellum), and autonomic (spinal) functions, as well as an undefined interaction with the CSF in the bullfrog, seems likely.
Although the optic nerve fibers of the cone-dominant ground squirrel retina have been well studied physiologically, the morphological details of the retinal neurons have not. To that end, retinal neurons of the California ground squirrel have been studied in Golgi-impregnated wholemounts. Two types of horizontal cell have been identified: H1 has an axon and axon terminal, whereas H2 is axonless. The dendritic field of H1 cells enlarges in a nonuniform manner with increasing displacement from the central retina. The smallest examples lie centrally in the visual streak, and the largest occur in the superior periphery. Eight types of bipolar cell are distinguished by morphological differences in dendritic branching pattern and field size in the outer plexiform layer, cell body size, and layering within the inner nuclear layer and by the morphology and stratification of axon terminals in the inner plexiform layer. A large bistratified bipolar cell (B8) is introduced here; the other 7 types closely resemble those in the retinas of other sciurid species described by R.W. West (1976, J. Comp. Neurol. 168:355-378; 1978, Vision Res. 18:129-136). The B1 type is proposed as a blue cone bipolar cell. Amacrine cells are classified into 27 cell types. Six of these occur as mirror-image pairs across the inner plexiform layer, the soma of one of each pair being &quot;displaced&quot; to the ganglion cell layer. The best described of these pairs is the very elaborate starburst amacrine cell, A5, which stains regularly in these wholemounted retinas. Changes in dendritic field size of both A5 subtypes with retinal location are quantified. The morphology of three amacrine cell types identified in Spermophilus beecheyi suggests that their possible counterparts in S. mexicanus (West, 1976) were, as displaced amacrine cells, misidentified as ganglion cells. Amacrine cell types that may play roles in the rod pathway, the blue cone pathway, and ganglion cell directional selectivity are discussed. No type of interplexiform cell was observed. Ganglion cells are classified into 19 cell types, 9 of which probably correspond to the ganglion cells described by West (1976) in the Mexican ground squirrel. The bistratified G11 cell is proposed as an ON-OFF directionally selective type.
The syntrophins are a biochemically heterogeneous group of 58-kDa intracellular membrane-associated dystrophin-binding proteins. We have cloned and characterized human acidic (alpha 1-) syntrophin and a second isoform of human basic (beta 2-) syntrophin. Comparison of the deduced amino acid structure of the three human isoforms of syntrophin (together with the previously reported human beta 1-syntrophin) demonstrates their overall similarity. The deduced amino acid sequences of human alpha 1- and beta 2-syntrophin are nearly identical to their homologues in mouse, suggesting a strong functional conservation among the individual isoforms, Much like beta 1-syntrophin, human beta 2-syntrophin has multiple transcript classes and is expressed widely, although in a distinct pattern of relative abundance. In contrast, human alpha 1-syntrophin is most abundant in heart and skeletal muscle, and less so in other tissues. Somatic cell hybrids and fluorescent in situ hybridization were both used to determine their chromosomal locations: beta 2-syntrophin to chromosome 16q22-23 and alpha 1-syntrophin to chromosome 20q11.2. Finally, we used in vitro translated proteins in an immunoprecipitation assay to show that, like beta 1-syntrophin, both beta 2- and alpha 1-syntrophin interact with peptides encoding the syntrophin-binding region of dystrophin, utrophin/dystrophin related protein, and the Torpedo 87K protein.
By reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction method, we isolated a novel murine LIM-homeodomain gene, L3. In situ hybridization analyses revealed that L3 mRNA was localized to the ventral telencephalon and the mesenchyme surrounding the oral cavity of mouse embryo, suggesting that L3 may be involved in the region-specific differentiation of these areas.
Phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis, stimulated by 1S,3R-1-amino-cyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD), an agonist of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), was measured in hippocampal and prefrontal cortical slices obtained from rats which had been trained for 8 days in a Morris water maze and had learned an allocentric spatial task. Brain slices were pre-labeled with myo-3H-inositol and 1S,3R-ACPD (100 microM) stimulation was assessed by measuring the accumulation of [3H]inositol phosphates ([3H]IPs) in the presence of Li+. Measurements conducted 24 h following the last training session revealed no differences in 1S,3R-ACPD-stimulated formation of [3H]IPs, either in the hippocampus or in the prefrontal cortex. However, a diminished response to mGluRs stimulation was detected in the hippocampus of animals re-trained after an 11-day interval. The decrease was not evident in the prefrontal cortex. These data indicate a differential involvement of the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex in the processing of spatial information and correspond to the functional differences attributed to these areas.
The possibility that neurons cultured in basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) are heterogeneous raises concerns about their subsequent use in gene transfection and transplantation studies. We have examined the fate of embryonic hippocampal neurons in bFGF culture, and now conclude that these cells are not only heterogeneous, but possess neurons of various stages of development. Morphological and immunocytochemical analysis reveal three distinct developmental classes of neurons are present in extended bFGF culture. This tripartite classification is supported by electrophysiological analysis, which reveals that upon depolarization, neurons with precursor and juvenile neuron morphologies are unable to fire action potentials. The third class of neurons, which resemble age-matched polarized neurons in standard serum culture, fired multiple action potentials indicative of a mature phenotype. These data show neurons at multiple developmental stages co-exist in bFGF culture, and provide an experimental basis for their classification.

Neuropsychological studies on Alzheimer's disease (AD) have rarely mentioned about unilateral spatial neglect in spite of widespread use of visuospatial tasks. We reported a 62-year-old woman with probable AD who showed moderate dementia with left unilateral spatial neglect and relatively preserved language function. An extensive line bisection study with either hand confirmed her having left unilateral spatial neglect. Single photon emission computed tomography revealed relative hypoperfusion in the right temporal and parietal regions. AD patients with disproportionate right hemisphere dysfunction may exhibit left unilateral spatial neglect if tested adequately in the stage of mild to moderate dementia. We consider that application of the line bisection test to AD patients contributes to estimation of their right hemisphere function.
A patient who developed an acute brainstem syndrome following Mycoplasma pneumoniae respiratory infection is reported. MRI showed changes consistent with brainstem demyelination. Clinical features and laboratory investigations support an immune mediated mechanism with no evidence of direction CNS invasion. On the basis of this case and a review of the literature, we postulate two mechanisms for the development of M. pneumoniae associated CNS disease: direct CNS invasion causing meningitis and an immune-mediated acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM). This has obvious therapeutic implications.
White matter lesions on computed tomography of the head were studied in relation to neuropsychological functioning in subjects from a representative sample of non-demented (n = 134) and demented (n = 98) 85-year-olds. Non-demented subjects with white matter lesions (n = 46) scored significantly lower in tests of verbal ability (Synonyms), spatial ability (Block Design, Clock Test), perceptual speed (Identical forms), secondary memory (Thurstone Picture Memory), basic arithmetic (Coin Test) and the global cognitive screening test Mini-Mental State Examination than non-demented subjects without white matter lesions (n = 88). Demented subjects with white matter lesions (n = 67) scored significantly lower in tests of spatial ability (Block Design and Clock Test) and secondary memory (free recall in the MIR memory test, Ten-word memory test I and II) and in the Mini-Mental State Examination than demented subjects without white matter lesions (n = 31). It is concluded that white matter lesions contribute to cognitive decline in both non-demented and demented elderly subjects.
This research investigated whether different memory functions are differentially affected by the adult aging process. Four groups of normal adults (18-35, 60-68, 69-78, and 79-91 years of age) were presented with a set of pictures of faces with first names and surnames. Subjects were instructed to memorize the faces and the surnames for subsequent memory tests. Memory performance was assessed in four ways: stem completion of surnames; recognition of faces; recognition of surnames and recognition of first names. These memory tests varied in terms of intentionality at encoding and retrieval. The stem completion task involved intention at encoding, but not at retrieval, and thus served as a measure of implicit memory. With respect to the three explicit memory tasks, recognition of faces and surnames involved intention at both encoding and retrieval, whereas recognition of first names involved intention at retrieval, but not at encoding. Results indicated no age-related differences in implicit memory, as assessed by the stem completion test. In addition, there was an age-related deficit in recognition of faces and surnames, although there were no age-related differences in recognition of first names. The overall pattern of results suggests that age-related deficits in memory may be most likely to occur when there are demands of conscious mental activity at encoding and retrieval.
To determine whether endogenous lateral hypothalamic (LH) glutamate and its N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors might participate in the stimulation of natural eating, LH injection of the NMDA antagonist D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5) was tested in adult male rats for suppressive actions on feeding elicited by 1) NMDA, kainic acid or D, L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole (AMPA) injected into the LH; 2) food deprivation; and 3) the onset of the nocturnal period. D-AP5 (10-100 nmol) reduced by 72-90% the approximately 10-g eating response elicited by NMDA (10 nmol) without affecting the quantitatively similar eating responses elicited by kainic acid (1.0 nmol) or AMPA (1.0 nmol). This treatment also suppressed deprivation-induced eating by as much as 61% and nocturnal eating by as much as 40%. To determine its long-term effects, D-AP5 (50 nmol) was injected bilaterally into the LH twice a day for 8 consecutive days. This treatment caused up to 65% reductions in daily food intake and body weight loss of up to 13 g/day. These findings, showing behaviorally selective suppressions of eating and body weight by D-AP5, argue that endogenous LH glutamate acts to regulate natural eating and body weight and that NMDA receptors participate in these functions.
In pentobarbital sodium-anesthetized, paralyzed, and ventilated rats, systemic hypoxia, produced by intratracheal N2 administration for 20 s, rapidly increased activities of reticulospinal vasomotor neurons in the rostroventolateral reticular nucleus (RVL) of the medulla oblongata (by 23.9 +/- 4.7 spikes/s) and sympathetic nerves (by 30.9 +/- 4.7 microV) and arterial pressure (by 35.6 +/- 6.4 mmHg). The sympathoexcitatory and pressor responses were abolished by bilateral microinjections of muscimol, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A-receptor agonist, (250 pmol per 50 nl/site) into the RVL. Chemical inhibition of RVL also reduced arterial pressure to 48.1 +/- 3.7 mmHg and eliminated sympathetic nerve activity. Intravenous infusion of L-phenylephrine and intrathecal administration of kainic acid restored arterial pressure to control level but not the rapid sympathoexcitatory responses to acute hypoxia. We conclude that, in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats, the sympathetic vasomotor tone and pressor responses to acute hypoxia depend on activity and excitation of RVL-spinal vasomotor neurons. The neural mechanisms responsible for the sympathetic tone and rapid pressor responses to hypoxia in these animals qualitatively differ neither from those anesthetized with urethan nor from the decerebrate unanesthetized animals.
We applied auto- and cross-spectral analysis of systemic arterial pressure (SAP) and heart rate (HR) signals to quantify the effects of pentobarbital sodium on short-term cardiovascular fluctuations in adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats. Intravenous administration of pentobarbital, delivered as a bolus injection (5, 10, or 20 mg/kg) or continuous infusion (10, 20, or 40 mg.kg-1.h-1), elicited only mild hypotension and tachycardia. This was accompanied by a dose-related depression of the very low (0-0.25 Hz) and low (0.25-0.8 Hz)-frequency components of both SAP and HR signals and high (0.8-2.4 Hz)-frequency component of HR signals. Cross-spectral analysis of SAP and HR signals during intravenous infusion of pentobarbital revealed a maintained coherence in the high-frequency range, together with a gradual and dose-related decrease in magnitude of transfer function and baro-receptor reflex sensitivity. Stable plasma concentration and all hemodynamic parameters were observed during 120 min of infusion at 20 mg.kg-1.h-1. Under this dosing condition, autonomic blockade by phentolamine, propranolol, or atropine still evoked discernible but differential reductions in the SAP and HR spectral components. Our data suggest that continuous intravenous administration of pentobarbital at 20 mg.kg-1.h-1 offers maintained anesthesia while preserving the capacity of cardiovascular regulation.


The toxic properties of cocaine are related to both the central and peripheral effects. To identify possible lethal mechanisms and the accumulation of cocaine in various organs, the effects of cocaine on [11C]norepinephrine and cocaine congener [11C] beta-CIT uptake in Cynomolgus monkeys were measured by positron emission tomography (PET). Cocaine (5 mg/kg) noticeably inhibited [11C]norepinephrine uptake in the heart. The uptake of [11C] beta-CIT in the heart and lung was reduced by pretreatment with cocaine. There was a significant uptake in the liver which was increased following cocaine pretreatment. The results of this study confirm that cocaine blocks the neuronal uptake of norepinephrine in sympathetic nerve terminals in the myocardium. The effect of cocaine on [11C] beta-CIT uptake indicates that the binding sites in the heart and lung are saturable, while the uptake mechanism in the liver is different from those of the heart and lung.
The brain relies heavily on aerobic metabolism which requires functional mitochondria. Mitochondria are subcellular organelles with their own genome which codes for 13 essential protein subunits. By employing PCR assays to examine brain tissue from 43 age-comparable individuals (between ages 34 and 73), we found a correlation between mitochondrial DNA deletion mutations, mtDNA4977 deletions, and conditions associated with chronic hypoxia. In prior studies, utilizing only 6 to 12 clinical samples, mtDNA4977 deletions were reported to increase in specific regions of the brain with aging. However, we found 12-fold and 5-fold higher levels of mtDNA4977 deletions in the putamen and the superior frontal gyrus of the cortex, respectively, from individuals who had conditions associated with chronic hypoxia when compared with individuals without evidence of such conditions. These findings suggest that chronic hypoxia should be more closely examined in the pathophysiology of central nervous system diseases.

Complete feeding sequences (bite to terminal swallow) were recorded in 11 individuals (Class I occlusions) feeding on apple, banana and biscuit (hard cookie) to establish whether jaw movements characteristic of the stage I transport, chewing, stage II transport and swallowing processes found in non-human mammals could be identified in man. All participants took large natural bites (known weight) of each food, but seven were supplied standard 6-g pieces of apple. Jaw movements (three axes) were recorded using a locally calibrated Sirognathograph. Discrete stage I transport movements (bite moved from incisors to postcanines), were found in most records, but least frequently for banana. The number of chewing cycles before the first in-sequence swallow increased in the order: banana, ( = ) apple without peel, apple with peel, biscuit. Chewing cycles showed subtle changes in gape profile but significant variation in mediolateral movement cycle to cycle. Morphologically distinct stage II transport cycles could not be identified. Swallows occurred intermittently during chewing (79% of all sequences, n = 146) with cycle durations in excess of 1 s in contrast to the range for chewing (0.6-0.7 s). Almost all sequences ended with a period, clearance, of highly irregular jaw movements often including swallows. Clearance has not been described in other mammals. Food consistency affected feeding behaviour. The &quot;chew/swallow' ratio (total number of chews/total number of swallows) increased with food hardness. The number of chewing cycles before the first in-sequence swallow also increased. Food type significantly affected sequence duration. The duration of clearance was also affected by bite weight and food hardness. It is concluded that initial food consistency determines the number of chewing cycles before the first swallow and overall sequence duration. The change in the pattern of jaw movement in both the vertical and mediolateral directions cycle to cycle suggests continuous sensory modulation of the motor output to the mandibular musculature.
We report here investigations on the functional involvement of hippocampal protein kinase C (PKC) in learning and long-term retention of spatial discrimination in a radial maze. A pharmacological approach was employed to test the behavioural effects of intrahippocampal injections of drugs that either activate or inhibit PKC activity. Mice with intrahippocampal guide cannula were trained in a mixed spatial reference-working memory task during 7 daily sessions. Sixteen days later, the animals were submitted to a retention session. In the first experiment, the animals were treated before each learning session with polymyxin B (PMB, a PKC inhibitor) and their scores were compared to those of an appropriate control group. In the second experiment, a group received the injection of 1-oleoyl-2-acetyl glycerol (OAG, a PKC activator) before and after the 7th learning session in order to test the effect of activation of PKC on long-term retention. The results showed that: (1) PMB administration delayed the acquisition of the reference memory component of the task, whereas long-term retention appeared to be improved; and (2) administration of OAG at the end of the acquisition phase improved long-term retention. Neither PMB nor OAG appeared to affect working memory. Taken together, the results point to an involvement of hippocampal PKC in the acquisition of information destined for long-term storage.
The rapid acquisition and subsequent retention of lithium-induced conditioned changes in taste reactivity responses to sucrose were examined in rats with the area postrema (AP) either ablated or intact. On 2 conditioning days, a series of brief intraoral sucrose infusions was paired with the effects of LiCl or NaCl injections. Repeated associations of the sucrose taste with the effects of lithium significantly reduced ingestive responses and increased aversive responses only in the AP-intact group. AP-ablated rats treated with LiCl and rats injected with NaCl displayed an ingestive pattern of responses. Only the AP-intact rats, previously injected with LiCl, subsequently displayed evidence of a conditioned taste aversion. We conclude that toxin activation of the AP is required to produce the conditioned shift in taste reactivity responses and subsequent expression of a taste aversion in rats treated with lithium.
Processing of human beta-galactosidase (beta-GAL) was studied in permanently transfected Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells and compared with that in normal cells and in cells from subjects with GM1-gangliosidosis, galactosialidosis and I-cell disease. Biosynthesis of beta-GAL in CHO cells results in the synthesis of an 88 kDa glycosylated and phosphorylated monomer precursor which is enzymically active and is secreted into the medium. Post-translational processing begins at the C-terminal end of the protein and gives rise to structurally related 67 and 64 kDa mature forms. These are subsequently degraded to give several inactive products of which a 50 kDa and a 18 kDa species are prominent. In normal fibroblasts only the 84 kDa precursor is readily detected inside cells, while the 88 kDa precursor is the only form secreted from cells in the presence of ammonium chloride. Processing of the precursor in normal fibroblasts results in the appearance of both the 67 and 64 kDa mature forms, which are also degraded to give 50 and 18 kDa products, as in transfected CHO cells. As affected controls, GM1-gangliosidosis cells showed a general loss of all forms of the enzyme, while in I-cell fibroblasts only the 84 kDa precursor and an 18 kDa degradation form were prominent. In galactosialidosis fibroblasts, taken from two different subjects, processing of beta-GAL was characterized by the respective appearance of intermediate 80 and 72 kDa enzymically inactive polypeptides, at levels lower than the normal amounts of the 67 and 64 kDa mature forms and higher than the normal amounts of degradation products, one of which is of 45 kDa and arises by endoproteolytic cleavage of the 80 kDa polypeptide. Incubation for up to 72 h in medium containing leupeptin, a potent inhibitor of thiol-dependent proteases, resulted in a significantly increased level of beta-GAL activity to near normal levels in fibroblasts from one galactosialidosis subject. Concordant with this, the abundance of the 84 kDa precursor was increased and the levels of the 80 kDa, 45 kDa and 18 kDa digestion products were diminished. However, in fibroblasts from the second galactosialidosis subject, the amount of the abnormal 72 kDa polypeptide was not influenced by leupeptin treatment. Leupeptin treatment did not increase enzymic activity levels in normal, GM1-gangliosidosis or I-cell disease fibroblasts, despite the fact that the production of the 50 kDa and 18 kDa degradation products was blocked in the presence of leupeptin. We concluded that in galactosialidosis the leupeptin-inhibitable proteolytic cleavage of a small fragment causes a conformational change of the precursor that precludes its further normal processing and results in its enzymic deficiency. This early abnormal trimming of beta-GAL is ascribable to a deficiency in the functional protective protein, the function of which is absolutely essential to render beta-GAL cryptic from at least two distinct and separate proteolytic attacks that together remove at least 12 kDa from the C-terminal end of the enzyme.
A new species of shrimp (Rimicaris sp.) was recently collected from the Snake Pit hydrothermal vent field on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. Until the discovery in 1989 that the deep-sea, hydrothermal vent species, Rimicaris exoculata, possessed a hypertrophied dorsal eye, everyone believed that animals recovered from vent environments were blind. Like R. exoculata, Rimicaris sp., a small orange bresiliid shrimp, has an enlarged dorsal eye specialized for detecting light in a very dim environment instead of the expected compound eye. The individual lenses characteristic of a compound eye adapted for imaging have been replaced in Rimicaris sp. by a smooth cornea underlain by a massive array of photosensitive membrane. The number of ommatidia in this species is about the same as in shrimp species that live at the surface; however, the photoreceptors are larger in the deep-sea species and the shape of the photoreceptors is markedly different. The light-sensitive region of the photoreceptor is much larger than those of other shrimp and the rest of the receptor is much smaller than normal. All screening pigment has moved out of the path of incident light to a position below the retina, and the reflecting pigment cells have adapted to form a bright white diffusing screen between and behind the photoreceptors. The ultrastructure of the microvillar array comprising the rhabdom is typical for decapod crustaceans; however, there is a much greater volume density of rhabdom (80% to 85%) than normal. There is no ultrastructural evidence for cyclic rhabdom shedding or renewal. Rimicaris sp. has apparently adapted its visual system to detect the very dim light emitted from the throats of the black smoker chimneys around which it lives.
1. Human GABAA receptors containing different alpha and beta subunits with a gamma 2s subunit were expressed in Xenopus oocytes and the effects of pentobarbitone on these subunit combinations were examined by electrophysiological recording of GABA currents with the two-electrode voltage-clamp method. 2. Pentobarbitone has previously been shown to have three actions on GABAA receptors: a potentiation of GABA responses, a direct activation of GABAA receptors and, at high concentrations, a block of the GABA chloride channel. In this study pentobarbitone activity consisted of the above mentioned three components on all the subunit combinations tested. However, the affinities and efficacies varied with receptor subtype. 3. Potentiation of GABA by pentobarbitone occurred over the same concentration-range for all the subunits with affinities in the range of 20-35 microM. The degree of potentiation obtained, however, varied from 236% of GABA EC20 on alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2s to 536% on alpha 6 beta 2 gamma 2s. 4. Examination of the direct effect of pentobarbitone revealed that the type of alpha subunit present determines both the degree of affinity and efficacy obtained. Receptors containing an alpha 6 subunit produced maximum direct responses to pentobarbitone larger than that obtainable with maximum GABA (150% to 170% of maximum GABA). The maximum direct pentobarbitone response obtainable with other alpha subunits ranged between 45% of maximum GABA for alpha 5 beta 2 gamma 2s to 82% for alpha 2 beta 2 gamma 2s. The affinity of the direct action of pentobarbitone on alpha 6 beta 2 gamma 2s was 58 microM compared to affinities for the other alpha subunits ranging from 139 microM on alpha 2 beta 2 gamma 2s to 528 microM on alpha 5 beta 2 gamma 2s. 5. The type of beta subunit present did not influence the direct action of pentobarbitone to the same extent as the alpha subunit. There were no significant differences between affinity or efficacy on oocytes expressing alpha 6 and gamma 2s with beta 1, beta 2 or beta 3. Affinities and efficacies on oocytes expressing alpha 1 and gamma 2s with beta 1, beta 2 or beta 3 were significantly different with pentobarbitone having a higher affinity and efficacy on alpha 1 beta 3 gamma 2s followed by alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2s and then alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 2s. 6. The direct effect of pentobarbitone was blocked by picrotoxin but not by competitive antagonists, such as bicuculline or SR95531, indicating that the direct agonist activity of pentobarbitone was not mediated via the GABA binding site. 7. For the first time the influence of the various alpha and beta subunits on the effects of pentobarbitone were demonstrated. The results indicate that GABAA receptors containing alpha 6 subunits have both a higher affinity and efficacy for direct activation by pentobarbitone, and reveal that pentobarbitone binds to more than one site on the GABAA receptor, and these are dependent on receptor subunit composition.
Findings from many areas of psychology and neuroscience indicate that inhibitory mechanisms may contribute to relationships between numerous causal variables and an equally diverse set of outcome variables. Outcome variables that implicate inhibition include measures from physiology, perception, attention, action, learning and episodic memory, semantic memory, emotion, and psychopathology. Inhibition-related causal variables include childhood development and aging, hypoxia and other brain insults, and socialization. If confirmed by further research, a theoretical framework with inhibition as one of its core mediating constructs has several strengths, including unified explanations for diverse relationships, mechanistic models for phenomena, insight into the principles that underlie observed relationships, and mechanistic translations of existing abstract, theoretical constructs.
Subsequent to the setting up of an outpatient psychological service for head-injured patients, 50 patients were interviewed a year from the time of their discharge from our neurorehabilitation unit. The problems which persisted at this stage are presented and discussed. Some of the difficulties encountered in the evaluation of rehabilitation effects are identified. We conclude that: (1) there is a desperate need in the UK for more long-term support and rehabilitation services for this group of patients and (2) it is essential that such services are carefully monitored and evaluated despite the difficulties involved.
Melanocortins (MC), neuropeptides derived from pro-opiomelanocortin, have been implicated in enhancing neurite outgrowth via an as yet unknown mechanism. Recently, five MC receptors have been identified, three of which, the MC3-R, the MC4-R and the MC5-R, are expressed in the nervous system. In this study, alpha-MSH and the melanocortin analog [D-Phe7]ACTH (4-10) were able to stimulate neurite outgrowth in the neuroblastoma cell line Neuro 2A. ACTH (4-10), gamma2-MSH and ORG2766 were inactive. In addition, the MC4-R antagonist [D-Arg8]ACTH (4-10), inhibited the alpha-MSH effect, indicating that the MC4-R mediated stimulation of neurite outgrowth by alpha-MSH. Indeed, the presence of MC4-R mRNA in Neuro 2A cells was demonstrated by a RNase protection assay. Heterologous expression of the MC5-R in Neuro 2A cells lead to the recruitment of a responsiveness to gamma2-MSH, but did not increase the effect of alpha-MSH on neurite outgrowth. This finding indicated that the function of MC4-R can also be exerted by another MC receptor, suggesting that the coupling to Gs, which they have in common, plays an essential role in the neurite outgrowth promoting effect. This was further substantiated by the fact that forskolin treatment per se induced neurite outgrowth in a similar fashion. These data imply that the neurotrophic properties of alpha-MSH are likely to result from Gs-coupled MC receptor activity in neuronal cells.
We have in earlier studies shown that brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA expression is increased in the hippocampus following stimulation of excitatory cortical afferents and spatial learning. Furthermore, we have observed that excitatory influence in the hippocampus seems to increase in vivo release of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), indicated by microdialysis perfusion of the CA1 region. In this study we have investigated whether the receptor for BDNF, TrkB, may be expressed in GABA containing neurons in the CA1, thereby suggesting a possible role for BDNF in the trophic regulation of these neurons. We provide evidence of a neuronal coexistence of the mRNA encoding TrkB and glutamic acid decarboxylase, the key enzyme in the synthesis of GABA. This finding indicates that TrkB can be synthesized in GABA producing neurons in the hippocampus.

In 1994, neuroscience nurses and neurosurgeons at St. Boniface General Hospital and the Health Sciences Centre in Winnipeg completed a study on tracheostomy weaning. This collaborative effort was initiated in response to a perceived clinical need--weaning difficulties in our neurological and neurosurgical patients--and was the first step along the road to implementing a standardized weaning procedure.
We report here the case of a patient with the Shy-Drager syndrome and multiple myeloma who had evidence consistent with a central neural autoimmune basis for sympathetic autonomic failure. Autonomic function testing showed no recordable peroneal skeletal muscle sympathoneural traffic, normal arterial norepinephrine (NE) spillover during supine rest and no increment in NE spillover during exposure to lower body negative pressure. The patient's cerebrospinal fluid and serum contained an immunoglobulin G that bound to rat locus ceruleus (LC) in an in vitro test system. The myeloma protein was of the lambda subtype and bound in the rat LC, without binding in the substantia nigra, as demonstrated with anti-lambda antiserum. Since in this case the monoclonal antibody produced by the myeloma bound specifically to LC cells, the results are consistent with the hypothesis that in this patient the Shy-Drager syndrome may have had an immune-mediated basis.
Previous studies suggest the presence of increased concentrations of cerebral myo-inositol in Alzheimer disease (AD). To characterize this abnormality further, we quantified myo-inositol and several other polyols in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma from 10 AD subjects and 10 healthy age-matched controls by using a gas chromatographic-mass spectrometric technique. The mean CSF concentration and CSF/plasma concentration ratio of myo-inositol in AD were not significantly different from those determined in control subjects. Also, concentration profiles of other polyols were not significantly altered in AD. CSF and plasma myo-inositol concentrations were correlated in control subjects but not in AD subjects. However, a significant correlation between CSF and plasma 1,5-anhydrosorbitol (a polyol internal control) concentrations observed in control subjects was retained in AD subjects.
1. The forebrain is a major organizer of the complex behavioural, physiological and neuroendocrine responses to environmental challenges of a stressful nature. 2. Combined physiological and neuroanatomical studies suggest that a specific forebrain-brain stem network, composed of connections between the central nucleus of the amygdala, the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the mesencephalic cuneiform nucleus, the parabrachial nucleus and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve, may be important for integrating behavioural and physiological responses. 3. Based on studies using bilateral electrolytic lesions of the central nucleus of the amygdala, it has become clear that the central nucleus of the amygdala is one of the key structures involved in unconditioned responses to inescapable footshock. These responses include freezing behaviour, tachycardia and the release of adrenaline, noradrenaline, prolactin and corticosterone. However, this nucleus is involved only in the freezing behaviour and bradycardiac responses to conditioned emotional stress or to social defeat. 4. Both peptidergic (corticotropin releasing hormone and vasopressin/oxytocin) and aminergic (noradrenaline and dopamine) mechanisms in the central amygdala are involved in the regulation of integrated behavioural, physiological and neuroendocrine stress responses. This is indicated by studies with an infusion of an agonist and/or antagonist of the peptides or neurotransmitters into the central amygdala of freely moving rats. Sympathetic cardiac control is intensified by corticotropin releasing hormone and oxytocin, probably by inhibiting vagal output. In contrast, vagal activity is facilitated by vasopressin, noradrenaline and dopamine.
1. The release of vasopressin from the neurohypophysial terminals of hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory neurons is subject to regulation by peripheral baroreceptors, cardiopulmonary volume receptors and circulating angiotensin II. Information from these sources is transmitted through different pathways to achieve different influences on the excitability of the vasopressin-secreting cells. 2. A brief increase in arterial pressure, sufficient to activate baroreceptors, is associated with a transient and selective GABAergic inhibition of these neurosecretory neurons, achieved through a multisynaptic pathway that involves ascending catecholaminergic fibres and neurons in the diagonal band of Broca. A decrease in arterial pressure activates peripheral low volume receptors and initiating neural inputs that result in an increase in the excitability of vasopressin-secreting neurons, achieved via pathways that include direct projections from caudal ventrolateral medulla A1 neurons. 3. Hypotension also releases renal renin and leads to the formation of angiotensin II; binding of this hormone to AT1 receptors on subfornical organ neurons promotes activation of a central angiotensinergic input that evokes a predominantly excitatory effect on vasopressin neurons.
The authors report 19 cases of solitary cerebral metastases from malignant melanoma. In 15 patients, the primary lesion was known at the time the metastasis was diagnosed; deltoid-scapular in 4 cases, thoracic in 5, inguinal in 4 and neck in 2. The primary location was unknown in 4 patients. Presenting symptoms were: epileptic seizures in 9 cases, headache in 8, strength deficit of the limbs in 2. In 3 patients (16%) neurological symptoms were the first clinical sign of the systemic tumor; in 16 cases (84%) there was a long interval between treatment of the primary and appearance of the cerebral metastasis (average 3.8 years; median 3.4 years). All patients were submitted to surgery and radiotherapy (whole-brain in 14 and radiosurgery in 5). In 10 cases the lesion was removed 'en bloc' (no internal touch technique). Average survival was 9 months (median 8 months) and was influenced by 'en bloc' resection and whole-brain irradiation. None of the patients operated by the 'no touch technique' presented a recurrence.
Recent observations suggest that neurotrophins are involved in activity-dependent plasticity of the developing cerebral cortex. What molecular mechanisms underlie activity-dependent competition between axons for trophic factors?
Several advances have been made recently in characterizing neural progenitor cells. In vertebrates, multipotential stem cells have been demonstrated in the developing forebrain both in vitro and in vivo, and a class of stem cells has been identified in the adult CNS. Factors that regulate the proliferation and differentiation of subtypes of neural progenitor cells have also been described. In invertebrates, progress has been made in identifying genes involved in neural progenitor cell specification, cell-fate choices and regulation.
Rapid advances, in respect of the visual and auditory systems, have occurred in neuroimaging over the past year in the area of so-called 'functional imaging', and in particular of functional magnetic resonance imaging. This has been accelerated by the introduction of echo-planar imaging, which allows for the very fast acquisition (&lt; 100 ms/image) of multislice images. Radiology is no longer just a question of interpreting anatomy, for, with the ability to combine structure with function, we are now able to extract physiological information. This opens up exciting possibilities for advances in the field of neuroscience, and functional imaging will therefore form the main thrust of this review.
Recent reports have substantiated claims that the clinical spectrum of falciparum malaria is different in African children as compared with nonimmune adults. The SPf66 vaccine has been tried in African children with varying success, but only insecticide-treated bed nets have reduced the mortality. Developments in ancillary treatment may reduce the morbidity and mortality of severe falciparum malaria.
To investigate the inductive activities of the vertebrate organizer, we transplanted the chicken organizer (Hensen's node) into zebrafish gastrula and analyzed resulting secondary axes. Grafted Hensen's node did not differentiate or participate in the secondary axis. It also did not induce a secondary notochord or expression of the genes normally expressed by the fish organizer including no tail, axial, goosecoid. Nevertheless, it recruited fish cells to organize a variety of tissues: the dorsal portion of the central nervous system including Rohon-Beard sensory neurons, otic vesicles, dorsal pigment stripe, dorsal fin, somites, heart, and pronephric ducts. Enlarged neural plate induced by the organizer was shown by the expression pattern of dlx3 and msxB genes, which demarcates the early presumptive neural tissue. In addition, Hensen's node of an earlier stage chicken embryo displayed differential movement in zebrafish from that of a later stage. This might reflect unknown differences in properties between the organizer at two different developmental stages related to its normal organizer activity. To create a model system to study the molecular mechanisms of the organizer, we next transplanted genetically modified mouse cells into zebrafish embryos. We found that Wnt3A-transfected NIH3T3 cells are much more potent in inducing a secondary axis than NIH3T3 cells alone. These results suggest that formation of a variety of tissues are controlled by signalling from the organizer itself with no requirement of participation of the organizer-derived tissues. Additionally, the activities of the organizer may involve a function of Wnt-family genes.
The development of neural circuits is regulated by a large number of factors that are localized at distinct neural sites. We report here the localization of one of these factors, hikaru genki (hig) protein, at synaptic clefts in the pupal and adult nervous systems of Drosophila. In hig mutants, unusually frequent bursting activity of the muscles and abnormal motor behavior during the adult stage suggest the misfunction of neuromuscular circuitry. Our immunohistochemical analyses revealed that hig protein, produced by neurons, is secreted from the presynaptic terminals into the spaces between the presynaptic and postsynaptic terminals. In addition, we have found that the localization of this protein in the synaptic spaces temporally correlates with its functional requirement during a critical period that occurs in the middle stage of pupal formation, a period when a number of dendrite and axon growth cones meet to form synapses. These findings indicate that hig protein functions in the formation of functional neural circuits from the early stages of synapse formation.
Zebrafish trunk neural crest cells that migrate at different times have different fates: early-migrating crest cells produce dorsal root ganglion neurons as well as glia and pigment cells, while late-migrating crest cells produce only non-neuronal derivatives. When presumptive early-migrating crest cells were individually transplanted into hosts such that they migrated late, they retained the ability to generate neurons. In contrast, late-migrating crest cells transplanted under the same conditions never generated neurons. These results suggest that, prior to migration, neural crest cells have intrinsic biases in the types of derivatives they will produce. Transplantation of presumptive early-migrating crest cells does not result in production of dorsal root ganglion neurons under all conditions suggesting that these cells require appropriate environmental factors to express these intrinsic biases. When early-migrating crest cells are ablated, late-migrating crest cells gain the ability to produce neurons, even when they migrate on their normal schedule. Interactions among neural crest cells may thus regulate the types of derivatives neural crest cells produce, by establishing or maintaining intrinsic differences between individual cells.
Generaliszed spike-and-wave (SW) spindles (5-7 Hz) associated with myoclonic jerks precede the occurrence of regular spikes (2-3 Hz) associated with convulsive seizure induced by picrotoxin. SW spindles occur spontaneously in rodent and cat under some experimental conditions and are considered to be models of human generalised epilepsy. These spindles have been proposed as being led by a thalamic pacemaker. To examine this possibility in picrotoxin-induced SW spindles and seizure spikes, we recorded EEG using chronically implant unipolar electrodes during intravenous picrotoxin infusion in freely behaving rat. The 6 EEG signals were digitally sampled at 1000 Hz. Linear correlation, spectral, coherence and phase analyses were undertaken to determine time differences (TDs) between EEG channels and the brain structure leading seizure activity. One frontal cortex led all other structures during SW spindles. TD between SW spindles in the leading frontal cortex (Fr1) and the contralateral Fr1 was 3.6 + / - 0.5 msec. All ipsilateral structures (hippocampus, thalamus, amygdala, caudate nucleus and occipital cortex) were delayed by more than 3 msec from Fr1 (intralaminar thalamic nuclei - by 6.3 + / - 0.9 msec). TDs of SW spindles between subcortical regions were less than 1.5 msec. Similar relationships with slightly smaller TDs were found with spikes during convulsive seizure except TDs between frontal cortices did not significantly differ from zero. We suggest that seizure activity induced by picrotoxin is led by one Fr1 during SW spindles and by both frontal cortices working as one system during convulsive seizure.
Systemically administered nicotine elicits ACTH release indirectly by acting on neurons in brainstem catecholaminergic regions known to send afferent projections to the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), the site of CRH neurons involved in initiating ACTH secretion. The present study in rats examined 1) the relationship between dose-dependent expression of cFos in the PVN and that in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS)-A2, NTS-C2 and locus coeruleus (LC), after iv nicotine (0.045-0.18 mg/kg, administered at 0.09 mg/kg per min); 2) the dependence of PVN cFos expression on the effects of nicotine in brainstem, using the nicotinic cholinergic antagonist, mecamylamine, administered into the fourth ventricle; and 3) the extent of catecholaminergic involvement in the effect of nicotine on the PVN, measured by immunocytochemical double-labeling for cFos and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis. The results showed that the magnitude of cFos expression was dependent on the dose of nicotine in all regions studied (P &lt; 0.0006); however, at the two lowest doses, only the NTS and CRH-containing region of the PVN expressed cFos, whereas the LC and the rest of the PVN were activated only by higher doses. Nicotine also elicited a dose-dependent increase in cFos expression in the TH+ neurons of the NTS, with C2 more sensitive than A2. Interestingly, the majority of NTS neurons expressing cFos were noncatecholaminergic, implicating other transmitter systems. Fourth ventricular mecamylamine completely blocked nicotine-induced cFos expression throughout the NTS, as well as the PVN. The results provide further support for the idea that catecholaminergic afferents from the NTS, but not the LC, play a significant, albeit not an exclusive, role in the activation of the PVN in response to nicotine.
To study possible mechanisms controlling diurnal changes in corticosterone (CORT) levels, we tested the CORT responses to ACTH in the morning (AM) and evening (PM) in male Wistar and Sprague-Dawley rats. Rat ACTH-(1-39) or human ACTH-(1-24) (3.75-15 ng/rat) was given as an iv bolus or an intraarterial infusion to (un)anesthetized rats treated with dexamethasone (0.1-0.5 mg/kg, 2-6 h before ACTH). In all conditions studied, no AM/PM differences in CORT responses were found when ACTH was given in vehicle (pH 4.3-7). This contrasts with earlier studies in which ACTH was given in a strongly acid vehicle (pH 1-1.9). Administration of ACTH in such acid vehicle confirmed the reported AM/PM differences in CORT responses (P &lt; 0.05). Because alterations in splanchnic nerve activity can modulate ACTH-induced CORT secretion, we studied the effect of splanchnic nerve transection (SPLNX) on the diurnal change in resting CORT levels in unilaterally adrenalectomized rats. SPLNX reduced resting CORT concentrations in the PM (approximately 50%; P &lt; 0.05), but not in the AM. SPLNX did not abolish the acid vehicle-associated AM/PM differences in CORT responses to ACTH. We conclude that 1) diurnal variation in adrenal responsiveness to ACTH per se does not exist in this rat model; 2) the strongly acid vehicle interacts with ACTH-induced CORT secretion; 3) the PM rise in plasma CORT depends on the integrity of the sympathetic neural input to the adrenal gland.
We examined auto-correlation and interval distribution characteristics of neuronal discharge from patients with complex partial seizures. The objective was to compare the interictal firing patterns of neurons in mesial temporal structures ipsilateral to the site of seizure onset with firing patterns of neurons in homologous contralateral structures. Spontaneous interictal recordings of 258 single neurons were acquired from 23 patients. A &quot;burst area&quot; measure was derived from the neuronal auto-correlation to assess the likelihood of grouped action potential discharge (burst discharge). Large burst area measures indicate a tendency for single neuronal burst discharge, but do not disclose information about interspike intervals within bursts. Although several measures based on single neuronal interspike interval distributions showed no overall difference between hemispheres, burst area was significantly reduced in mesial temporal structures ipsilateral to the site of seizure onset. Possible mechanisms of decreased burst discharge in epileptogenic regions include selective loss of burst-discharging neurons and increased recurrent inhibition.

To evaluate the usefulness of standard neurological tests in predictin g the neurological outcome after photochemically induced spinal cord lesions in rats, we inflicted injuries of different severity to adult female rats. The behavior of the rats was followed for 6 weeks and the results of the behavioral tests were correlated with morphological indicators of tissue destruction at the end of this period. We found many behavioral tests to be highly correlated with the loss of tissue, whereas some tests were inaccurate in correlating with degree of tissue destruction. Motor score, beam walk, and righting reflect were all highly correlated with the volume of the lesion as well as the depth of the lesion cavity at its epicenter. We propose a protocol for neurological evaluation of this type of spinal cord injury consisting of six individual tests, hierarchally organized such that injured rats can be divided into 11 groups ofn eurological deficit, scored from 10 to 0. This so-called motor performance score is fast and easy to perform and shows high correlation with the lesion volume, and is thus suitable for neurological evaluation of photochemically induced spnial cord injury.
Inflammation following an infection induces a range of nonspecific symptoms of sickness in animals and humans. The cytokine interleukin-1 (IL-1) mediates many of the brain-mediated symptoms of sickness. Binding sites for IL-1 have been found in mouse brain, but not in the brains of rats. This raises questions as to the involvement of these neuronally localized IL-1 binding sites in the induction of sickness symptoms. Based on observations of IL-1 receptor mRNA in close vicinity to the vasculature in the mouse and rat brain, we studied the possibility that endothelial cells in the rat brain exhibit IL-1 receptors to transduce information to the brain. Ligand binding studies reveal that cultured endothelial cells of adult rat brain exhibit specific binding sites for rat IL-1beta. Polymerase chain reaction experiments demonstrated that mRNA of the type I but not that of the type II IL-1 receptor is present in rat brain endothelial cells. Incubation of these endothelial cells with recombinant rat IL-1beta showed a dose-dependent increase in interleukin-6, prostaglandin E(2), and prostacyclin secretion. Intravenous administration of rat IL-1beta to adult rats enhanced prostaglandin E(2) immunoreactivity in endothelial cells of the brain microvasculature. These results indicate that functional type I IL-1 receptors are present on endothelial cells of adult rat brain. We postulate that circulating IL-1 can be translated by brain endothelial cells into other signals such as interleukin-6 or prostaglandins that have access to the brain and induce sickness symptoms.
Mice infected with the replication-defective virus (BM5def) in the LP-BM5 murine leukemia virus (MuLV) mixture develop an immune deficiency syndrome and encephalopathy characterized by impaired spatial learning and memory as demonstrated in the Morris water maze. However, the molecular mechanism (or mechanisms) underlying this cognitive deficit remains unknown. Here we report that brain fyn kinase, which has been proposed to be involved in spatial learning and memory, was unresponsive to glutamatergic stimulation in mice with MAIDS. Thus, whereas application of glutamate to hippocampal slices from control mice increased fyn protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) activity more than 2.5-fold, these changes were significantly impaired in LP-BM5 MuLV-infected mice. Moreover, mice with MAIDS exhibited an abnormal histological distribution of fyn PTK in the hippocampus. These findings suggest that virus-associated disruption of fyn kinase-mediated signaling contributes to the cognitive deficits observed in mice with MAIDS and other retrovirus-induced encephalopathies.

The psychosocial functioning of 113 schoolchildren (8 to 15 years old) reporting headaches at least once a month was compared to a group of headache-free control subjects matched for sex and age. Thirteen percent of the headache sufferers had migraine headaches, 28% had episodic tension-type headaches, 30% had chronic tension-type headaches, and 29% had migraine coexisting with tension-type headaches. Overall, the headache sufferers experienced more somatic complaints, stress, and psychological symptoms, in addition to being absent from school (due to illness), more often and reported fewer caring persons as compared to headache-free controls. Although few differences between the four headache groups emerged in the children's psychosocial functioning levels, children with migraine coexisting with tension-type headaches had significantly more frequent somatic complaints than those having episodic tension-type headaches. In addition, children with migraine or migraine coexisting with tension-type headaches were more often absent from school than those having tension-type headaches only. A significant but weak relationship between children's headache severity and their somatic complaints was noted.
We identified HLA-DRB1*0901-binding peptides by affinity-based selection of a phage random peptide library using the biotinylated DR9 complex. Analogue peptides with single amino acid residue substitutions of a DR9 binder revealed that two major anchors (WxxS, where x is any amino acid) play an essential role in binding to DR9. Determination of the binding affinity of synthetic wild-type-based analogue peptides showed that substituting W to F or L, and S to A, V, or F allow high affinity binding with DR9. Collectively, DR9-binding peptide motifs identified in this study are characteristic in that (a) only two anchors of the NH2-terminal half of binding peptides play important roles in binding, and (b) small neutral hydrophilic Ser is allowed as the second anchor for high-affinity binding, unlike the other DR-binding motifs heretofore reported. The implications of our results are discussed in light of the HLA-DR9-associated susceptibility to juvenile-onset myasthenia gravis and systemic lupus erythematosus with antiphospholipid syndrome, in particular, T-cell responses to autoantigens.
Monoclonal antibody (ML-30) directed against 65 kDa stress protein of mycobacteria, is shown to identify human cellular protein homologous with the groEL heat shock protein in many prokaryotes. Immunohistochemical survey of nervous tissue, both central and peripheral, from patients dying of various inflammatory, degenerative and neoplastic conditions and from experimental animals, using this antibody showed punctate granular staining of the cells to a variable degree. The astrocytes showed strong immunolabelling. The normal neurons and oligodendroglia stained variably, while abnormal neurons were darkly labelled. Ependymal cells showed apical granular positivity. The ubiquitinated inclusion bodies in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease were not recognised by the ML-30 antibody. In diseased and stressed nervous tissue from experimental animals, the expression of the ML-30 recognisable stress protein was variable. The epitope recognised by ML-30 was found stable in postmortem tissues collected up to 36 h after death and processed for paraffin sectioning, after fixation in formalin for many years. Enhanced expression of the human groEL stress protein homologue in mammalian nervous tissue following various forms of stress may play a role in modulating the extent of tissue damage by autoimmune mechanism because of its high immunogenic nature and constitutive presence in the cells.
Progress in quantifying states of cerebral function and in the further development of automated EEG processing demands the application of suitable methods for the reduction of neurophysiological multi-channel data as well as their automatic classification. The method used here for reducing multi-channel data was to gain distributions of parametric descriptors from EEG data from computer-aided topographic electroencephalometry (CATEEM), for example the relative and absolute band power in the frequency bands delta, theta, alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 1, beta 2, total power, median and mode frequency, and other parameters. These values were subjected to cluster analysis. The classification of EEG parameters was carried out by means of discrimination analysis and neural networks. The practicability of both procedures was demonstrated in the reduction and classification of EEG data in the context of a normed study involving 104 healthy adults. These data have been used as the basis for a new evaluation study of 60 additional intraoperative EEG recordings obtained with CATEEM. In that newly started study, the effects of sedative and anaesthetic drugs on EEG behavior and psychophysiologic behavior remain to be investigated.

The authors examined a community-based sample of 303 clinically nondepressed individuals aged 75 through 96 years on 4 recall tasks: free recall of rapidly presented random words, free recall of slowly presented random words, free recall of organizable words, and cued recall of organizable words. Using a classification taxonomy that identified mood- and motivation-related symptoms of depression, it was found that motivation-related symptoms had a negative effect on performance across all tasks, whereas mood-related symptoms had no effects. In addition, motivation-related symptoms negatively influenced the ability to benefit from more study time but had no effect on the ability to make use of item organization or category cues. An analysis of the specific motivation-related symptoms suggested that symptoms that may affect the ability to focus and sustain attention (e.g., concentration difficulties, lack of interest) were most strongly associated with performance deficits.


Mutations in the gene encoding the voltage-gated sodium channel of skeletal muscle (SkMl) have been identified in a group of autosomal dominant diseases, characterized by abnormalities of the sarcolemmal excitability, that include paramyotonia congenita (PC) and hyperkalemic periodic paralysis (HYPP). We previously reported that PC mutations cause in common a slowing of inactivation in the human SkMl sodium channel. In this investigation, we examined the molecular mechanisms responsible for the effects of L1433R, located in D4/S3, on channel gating by creating a series of additional mutations at the 1433 site. Unlike the R1448C mutation, found in D4/S4, which produces its effects largely due to the loss of the positive charge, change of the hydropathy of the side chain rather than charge is the primary factor mediating the effects of L1433R. These two mutations also differ in their effects on recovery from inactivation, conditioned inactivation, and steady state inactivation of the hSkMl channels. We constructed a double mutation containing both L1433R and R1448C. The double mutation closely resembled R1448C with respect to alterations in the kinetics of inactivation during depolarization and voltage dependence, but was indistinguishable from L1433R in the kinetics of recovery from inactivation and steady state inactivation. No additive effects were seen, suggesting that these two segments interact during gating. In addition, we found that these mutations have different effects on the delay of recovery from inactivation and the kinetics of the tail currents, raising a question whether this delay is a reflection of the deactivation process. These results suggest that the S3 and S4 segments play distinct roles in different processes of hSkM1 channel gating: D4/S4 is critical for the deactivation and inactivation of the open channel while D4/S3 has a dominant role in the recovery of inactivated channels. However, these two segments interact during the entry to, and exit from, inactivation states.
Bed rest, both with and without head-down tilt, has been extensively used as an earth-bound analog to study physiologic effects mimicking those occurring in weightlessness during spaceflight. We have been able to show in six subjects that 4 weeks of head-down tilt bed rest induces a significant decrease in interleukin-2 secretion by PHA-stimulated T lymphocytes. Another study, lasting 113 days, with two subjects showed a decreased interleukin-2 receptor expression in PHA-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells but a decreased interleukin-2 production in one subject only. Under the same conditions, interleukin-1 production was largely increased in both subjects. Several other immune parameters were also analyzed. Increased interleukin-1 production could contribute to bone mineral loss encountered during bed rest and decreased interleukin-2 secretion could play a role in the appearance of infectious diseases often observed during bed red.

The goal of our studies was to learn about the mechanism of fibronectin degradation in chronic ulcers. We found that the appearance of fibronectin fragments in chronic ulcer wound fluid correlated with elevated levels of elastase and cleavage of the proteinase inhibitors alpha2-macroglobulin (alpha2-M) and alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor (alpha1-P1). Some wound fluid samples retained the capacity to degrade fibronectin in vitro. Degradation of fibronectin by these samples was blocked by specific inhibitors of neutrophil elastase but not by inhibitors of metalloproteinases. Addition of human neutrophil elastase to mastectomy fluid, an acute wound fluid, resulted in formation of alpha1-PI and alpha2-M complexes and cleavage products resembling those observed in chronic wound fluid. Moreover, degradation of fibronectin and processing of matrix metalloproteinase MMP-9 occurred under these conditions. Taken together, our findings suggest that elevated levels of neutrophil elastase are responsible for fibronectin degradation in the chronic wound environment.
The morphology of the neuroendocrine caudodorsal cells (CDCs), which are involved in the regulation of female reproduction in the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis, was studied in young (200 to 234 days of age) and old (400 to 500 days) animals. Lucifer Yellow fills of ventral CDCs showed that in young animals ventral CDCs branch ipsilaterally as well as contralaterally in the cerebral commissure. In old animals these branches were reduced at different degrees and in some cases even lacking completely, leaving only an axon crossing the commissure. Immunocytochemical stainings with antibodies against CDC peptides (CDCH-I and alpha CDCP) corroborated the finding that ventral CDCs degenerate. Among the other types of CDCs (dorsal, lateral), degeneration was found as well. The immunocytochemical findings showed that in old animals the axon terminals of the CDCs were strongly stained, indicating that they are packed with secretory vesicles containing peptides. It was also found that these darkly stained, peptide-containing axon terminals protruded into the perineurium. These findings suggest that accumulation of peptides in the terminals of the CDCs of old animals may be due to the impaired release. The relationship between atrophy and degeneration of CDCs and cessation of egg-laying activity in Lymnaea is discussed.
The subunit composition of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor affects both its channel activity and its sensitivity to modulation by a wide variety of substances. Expression studies in oocytes and physiological studies in neurons indicate that endogenous postsynaptic NMDA receptors are heterooligomeric complexes of NR1 and NR2 subunits. To deduce the subunit composition of the presynaptic NMDA receptor on noradrenergic nerve terminals, we examined the modulation of NMDA-evoked norepinephrine (NE) release from hippocampal synaptosomes. At high glycine concentrations, the NMDA-evoked release was not potentiated by reducing reagents, low micromolar Zn2+ or Ni2+, polyamines, or 100 microM histamine. It was also not inhibited by oxidizing agents or physiological concentrations of protons but was inhibited by high micromolar Co2+, Zn2+, and Ni2+, but not Fe3+, by high micromolar ifenprodil, and by 1 mM histamine. At low glycine concentrations, it was potentiated by spermine. These characteristics are similar to those displayed by homooligomeric complexes of NR1 subunits that contain in the N-terminal domain the 21-amino-acid insert encoded by exon 5. These data provide physiological evidence that some endogenous NMDA receptor complexes may contain only the NR1 (+ exon 5) subunits.
We examined the regulation of neostriatal tyrosine hydroxylation during acute stress, testing the hypothesis that excitatory amino acids (EAAs) contribute to the stress-evoked increase in dopamine (DA) synthesis. Dialysis probes implanted into neostriatum permitted delivery of drugs and sampling of extracellular fluid. Rats were exposed to 30 min of intermittent tail shock during infusion of an inhibitor of aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AAAD), NSD-1015 (100 microM), and DOPA was measured in the dialysate. Tail shock was applied beginning either 15 min after the onset of NSD-1015 treatment (the initial rate of DOPA accumulation) or 75 min after the onset of treatment (when DOPA had approached steady state). Tail shock increased the steady-state levels of extracellular DOPA in neostriatum (+40%). However, there was no change in the initial rate of DOPA accumulation unless animals also received the D2 receptor antagonist eticlopride (50 nM), in which case an increase was observed (+228%). The impact of tail shock on the steady-state level of DOPA was attenuated by the D2 agonist quinpirole (100 microM), or by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV) (100 microM) or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) (100 microM), EAA antagonists acting at NMDA or D,L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors, respectively. These data suggest that acute stress normally has little effect on tyrosine hydroxylation in neostriatum due to the inhibitory influence of DA in the extracellular fluid. However, when that influence is absent (e.g., during extended inhibition of DOPA decarboxylation or blockade of DA receptors), stress increases tyrosine hydroxylation via EAAs acting on NMDA and AMPA receptors. Thus, EAAs released from corticostriatal projections may stimulate DA synthesis and thereby restore dopaminergic activity under conditions in which the availability of DA for release has been compromised.
The catalytic subunit of protein kinase A increases brain tryptophan hydroxylase activity. The activation is manifested as an increase in Vmax without alterations in the Km for either tetrahydrobiopterin or tryptophan. The activation of tryptophan hydroxylase by protein kinase A is dependent on ATP and an intact kinase and is inhibited specifically by protein kinase A inhibitors. Protein kinase A also catalyzes the phosphorylation of tryptophan hydroxylase. The extent to which tryptophan hydroxylase is phosphorylated by protein kinase A is dependent on the amount of kinase used and is closely related to the degree to which the hydroxylase is activated. These results suggest that a direct relationship exists between phosphorylation and activation of tryptophan hydroxylase by protein kinase A.
Phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase is activated by a variety of agents, including various growth factors, and has been proposed to play a role in initiation of cell growth, proliferation, and differentiation. We here investigate the effect of various membrane lipids on PI 3-kinase immunopurified from human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. CDP-diacylglycerol (CDP-DAG) inhibited PI 3-kinase activity with an IC50 of 6 microM. Phosphatidate (PA) was also inhibitory (IC50 - 38 microM) as was lysophosphatidate. Neither DAG nor any of the other phospholipids examined affected PI 3-kinase activity. The results offer the possibility that CDP-DAG or PA at critical membrane sites may exert functionally significant metabolic regulation at the point of convergence of the PI 3-kinase-directed and the PI 4-kinase-directed phosphoinositide signal transduction pathways.
L1 is an axonal cell adhesion molecule found primarily on projection axons of both the CNS and PNS. It is a phosphorylated membrane-spanning glycoprotein that can be immunoprecipitated from rat brain membranes in association with protein kinase activities. Western blot analysis demonstrates that casein kinase II (CKII), a ubiquitous serine/threonine kinase enriched in brain, is present in these immunoprecipitates. CKII preparations partially purified from PC12 cells are able to phosphorylate recombinant L1 cytoplasmic domain (L1CD), which consists of residues 1,144-1,257. Using these as well as more highly purified kinase preparations, phosphorylation assays of small peptides derived from the L1CD were performed. CKII was able to phosphorylate a peptide encompassing amino acids (aa) 1,173-1,185, as well as a related peptide representing an alternatively spliced nonneuronal L1 isoform that lacks aa 1,177-1,180. Both peptides were phosphorylated with similar kinetic profiles. Serine to alanine substitutions in these peptides indicate that the CKII phosphorylation site is at Ser1,181. This is consistent with experiments in which L1CD was phosphorylated by these kinase preparations, digested, and the radiolabeled fragments sequenced. Furthermore, when L1 immunoprecipitates were used to phosphorylate L1CD, one of the residues phosphorylated is the same residue phosphorylated by CKII. Finally, in vivo radiolabeling indicates that Ser1,181 is phosphorylated in newborn rat brain. These data show that CKII is associated with and able to phosphorylate L1. This phosphorylation may be important in regulating certain aspects of L1 function, such as adhesivity or signal transduction.
The kinetics and pharmacology of NG-nitro-L-[2,3,4,5-3H]arginine (L-[3H]NOARG) binding to rat cerebellum were investigated using in vitro radioligand binding. Specific L-[3H]NOARG binding in cerebellum was of nanomolar affinity, reversible, saturable, and best fit to a single-site model. Specific binding was Ca2+ dependent and sensitive to pH (with an optimum of 5.5-7.0). Added calmodulin (1.5-40 micrograms/ml) had no influence on specific L-[3H]NOARG binding. However, the calmodulin antagonists W-5, W-13, and calmidazolium inhibited L-[3H]-NOARG binding with IC50 values in the micromolar range, and calmodulin (10 micrograms/ml) competitively reversed this inhibition. Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitors (NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine acetate) and L-arginine displaced L-[3H]NOARG binding with IC50 values in the nanomolar range, whereas D-arginine and basic amino acids (L-lysine and L-histidine) displaced L-[3H]NOARG binding with IC50 values in the millimolar range. A comparison of the NOS functional assay with L-[3H]NOARG binding in rat cerebellum showed similar profiles of Ca2+ dependency and inhibitory kinetics. Quantitative autoradiographic distribution of L-[3H]NOARG binding sites was significantly higher in the molecular layer than in the granular layer of cerebellum. These studies confirm the potential use of L-[3H]NOARG binding to study the regional distribution and functional properties of NOS.
We have identified the regional distributions and developmental expression of NMDA-receptor proteins NR2A and NR2B in rat CNS, using two subunit-specific affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies that recognize NR2A and NR2B. In western blots of cells transfected with NR2A or NR2B cDNAs, and of brain homogenates, each antibody detects a single predominant 172-kDa protein corresponding to its homologous subunit. Both subunits are glycoproteins that are enriched in synaptic membranes. In adult rat CNS, NR2A and NR2B are enriched in cortex and hippocampus but are present in other forebrain regions. In hindbrain, NR2A is present at low levels but NR2B is barely detectable. These subunits are differentially expressed in postnatal CNS development. In cortex and striatum, NR2A is absent at birth but expression increases thereafter, whereas NR2B is expressed at nearly adult levels during forebrain development. In hindbrain, low levels of NR2A are present throughout development, whereas NR2B is expressed only transiently in the first postnatal weeks. These results suggest that native NMDA receptors are modulated by NR2A and NR2B in adult forebrain but not appreciably in hindbrain. In contrast, during early postnatal development, NR2B may have a more dominant role than NR2A in modulating NMDA receptors throughout the CNS. Thus, transient changes in NMDA-receptor function may occur during maturation of certain neuronal and/or glial populations via differential expression of NR2A and NR2B subunits.
The catecholamine precursor L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) is used to augment striatal dopamine (DA), although its mechanism of altering neurotransmission is not well understood. We observed the effects of L-DOPA on catecholamine release in ventral midbrain neuron and PC12 pheochromocytoma cell line cultures. In ventral midbrain neuron cultures exposed to 40 mM potassium-containing media, L-DOPA (100 microM for 1 h) increased DA release by &gt; 10-fold. The elevated extracellular DA levels were not significantly blocked by the DA/norepinephrine transport inhibitor nomifensine, demonstrating that reverse transport through catecholamine-uptake carriers plays little role in this release. In PC12 cells, where DA release from individual secretory vesicles can be observed, L-DOPA (50 microM for 1 h) elevated DA release in high-potassium media by 370%. Amperometric measurements demonstrated that L-DOPA (50 microM for 40-70 min) did not raise the frequency of vesicular exocytosis but increased the average size of quantal release to at least 250% of control levels. Together, these findings suggest that L-DOPA can increase stimulation-dependent transmitter release from DA cells by augmenting cytosolic neurotransmitter, leading to increased quantal size.
Conantokin-G (con-G) is a 17-amino-acid polypeptide that acts as an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist. This action has been attributed to a specific but noncompetitive inhibition of the positive modulatory effects of polyamines at NMDA receptors. Con-G possesses several unusual structural features, including five gamma-carboxyglutamate (Gla) residues and a high degree of helicity in aqueous media. Previous structure-activity studies indicated that one or more Gla residues are necessary for NMDA antagonist activity. Con-G analogues were synthesized with alanine (Ala), serine (Ser), and phosphoserine substituted for Gla to assess the contribution of individual Gla residues to biological activity and secondary structure. Replacement of Gla in positions 3 and 4 resulted in polypeptides with markedly reduced and no NMDA antagonist actions, respectively. In contrast, Gla residues in positions 7, 10, and 14 are not required for NMDA antagonist actions because the potencies of con-G analogues containing Ser7, Ser10, Ala14, and Ser14 to inhibit spermine-stimulated [3H]MK-801 binding are similar to the parent peptide. Moreover, the Ala7 derivative of con-G was about fourfold more potent than the parent peptide both as an inhibitor of spermine-stimulated increases in [3H]MK-801 binding (IC50 of approximately 45 nM) and in reducing NMDA-stimulated increases in cyclic GMP levels (IC50 of approximately 77 nM) in cerebellar granule cell cultures. Although con-G and its analogues assumed mixtures of 3(10) and alpha-helices, no clearcut relationship was evinced between the NMDA antagonist properties of these peptides and the degree of helicity they assumed in aqueous solutions. Together with the inability of con-G to affect 5,7-dichloro[3H]kynurenic acid, [3H]CGP-39653, and [3H]ifenprodil binding, these data are consistent with the hypothesis that this polypeptide acts at a unique, polyamine-associated site on NMDA receptors.
The expression of neuropeptides, and the enzymes nitric oxide synthase and tyrosine hydroxylase were examined in intramural ganglia of human urinary bladder using single label immunocytochemistry. Scattered ganglia composed of between 1-36 neurons (median 4) were observed in all layers of the lateral wall of the bladder. These contained immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal peptide, nitric oxide synthase, neuropeptide Y, and galanin. Neurons within the bladder were heterogeneous with regard to their content of these antigens, with the proportion of immunopositive cells ranging from 58-84%. Occasional neurons with immunoreactivity to the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase, were also observed. No cell somata, however, were immunoreactive for enkephalin, substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide or somatostatin. Varicose terminals entering the ganglia were seen to form pericellular baskets surrounding some of the principal ganglion cells. The most prominent pericellular varicosities were those containing calcitonin gene-related peptide- or vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactivity, followed by those with immunoreactivity for enkephalin, neuropeptide Y, or galanin. Less common were pericellular varicosities with substance P-immunoreactivity, which may represent collateral processes of unmyelinated primary sensory fibres, and presumptive noradrenergic processes containing tyrosine hydroxylase. Some calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive varicosities constituted a distinct type, terminating as large pericellular boutons 2-4 microns in diameter. Fibres containing nitric oxide synthase- or somatostatin-immunoreactivity were not associated with the intramural neurons. The results demonstrate that intrinsic neurons within the human urinary bladder express a number of neuroactive chemicals, and could in principle form circuits with the potential to support integrative activity.
RN33B, a conditionally-immortalized neuronal cell line, survives and differentiates following grafting into the neocortex and hippocampus of adult and neonatal rat hosts. We have previously shown that these cells assume shapes characteristic of endogenous neurons at the integration site and persist up to 24 weeks post-grafting. In the present study we use electron microscopy and immunohistochemistry to characterize such cells. Differentiated RN33B cells were identical in size to endogenous neurons and their sizes depended on the specific location of integration. RN33B cells in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus and CA3 and CA1 pyramidal layers were 9.0, 15.3, and 12.6 microns in diameter, respectively. Grafted RN33B cells received synapses from fibres of host origin. Differentiated cells expressed neuronal markers, but not glial markers. Some differentiated cells expressed glutamate both in vitro and in vivo whereas undifferentiated cells did not. Grafted RN33B cells that differentiated with morphologies similar to CA3 pyramidal neurons and pyramidal cortical neurons expressed Py antigen, a neuronal marker that is differentially expressed in endogenous large pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex and large pyramids of hippocampal field CA3. This Py immunoreactivity was region-specific and corresponded to the endogenous pattern of Py immunostaining. Collectively, these data indicate that RN33B cells are capable of region-specific differentiation and have the potential to integrate functionally into the host CNS.
The acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is the main target antigen in myasthenia gravis (MG), but about 15% of patients with typical immunologically mediated MG do not have detectable anti-AChR antibodies. Previous studies showed that plasma from these 'seronegative' patients (SNMG) reduced AChR function in the human AChR-expressing TE671 cell line, and it was proposed that SNMG plasmas may act indirectly via phosphorylation of AChR. We show here that substances such as the beta 2-adrenergic agonist, salbutamol, calcitonin-gene-related-peptide (CGRP), and cholera toxin, that increase intracellular cAMP via binding to specific cell-surface receptors, reduced AChR function in TE671 cells. Moreover, non-specific activation of cell surface proteins by lectins achieved similar results. These observations lead us to hypothesise that SNMG immunoglobulins act in TE671 cells by cross-linking of specific cell surface antigen(s) resulting in generation of intracellular cAMP and/or other second messengers. The role of such antibodies at the neuromuscular junction in vivo could be reduction in AChR function by desensitization and/or damage to the postsynaptic membrane following complement activation.
A consecutive series of 47 hospitalized cases of Guillain-Barre syndrome seen over a 10-year period was analysed with respect to: (1) age and sex; (2) antecedent events and seasonal distribution; (3) patterns of clinical presentation; (4) CSF and neurophysiological findings; (5) results of treatment with plasma exchange; and (6) outcome. Twenty-two were children, 20 middle-aged and 5 aged; 37 were male and 10 were female. The most frequent antecedent event was upper respiratory tract infections; a seasonal peak incidence was found in winter. Clinical, CSF and neurophysiological findings concurred with those in the Western literature; 79% of the cases were severe. Plasma exchange performed within the first 2 weeks of onset benefitted in the short-term outcome, i.e. improvement by 1 grade at 4 weeks, but the long-term benefit, i.e. the ability to regain independent locomotion, was questionable. Plasma exchange helped in curtailing the time to walking unaided but had no benefit on the duration of artificial ventilation. Factors associated with an adverse outcome were: age over 15 years, severity of motor electrodiagnostic findings (especially a decreased distal CMAP amplitude and EMG signs of acute denervation), requirement for ventilation and slow progression (&gt;3 weeks) to maximum deficit. After a mean follow-up of 11 months, 55% of the patients regained independent locomotion, which is a comparatively low proportion.

Huntington's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease in which the molecular abnormality has recently been described. Before the availability of this molecular marker diagnosis depended on clinical findings, supported in some instances by neuroimaging using CT or MRI. The imaging modalities may show atrophy of the heads of caudate nuclei in affected people. An attempt was made to validate these imaging findings using the molecular test as &quot;gold standard.&quot; Retrospective analysis of cranial CT in 16 patients with Huntington's disease and 16 age and sex matched controls was performed. There was a highly significant difference in caudate head size (P &lt; 0.00001) between patients with Huntington's disease and control subjects. However, the sensitivity of diagnosis based on radiological examination alone was only 87.5% in this study. Thus the sensitivity of CT is insufficient to justify its routine use in the investigation of suspected Huntington's disease, unless genetic tests are negative and other diagnoses need to be excluded.


Meningiomas arise from the arachnoidal cells surrounding the brain and are one of the most common tumors of the central nervous system. These tumors are known to be hormonally modulated and may occur in association with breast carcinoma. Overexpression of the erbB-2 oncogene product and mutation of the tumor suppressor p53 gene are considered causal driving forces in the pathogenesis of adenocarcinomas of the breast. To determine whether abnormal expression of these genes also plays a role in the pathogenesis of meningiomas, we analyzed the expression of the erbB-2 and p53 proteins in 17 atypical and 35 typical meningioma tissue specimens by immunohistochemistry. The staining intensity was assigned a relative value of 0 to 5+, where 5+ denoted confluent immunoreactivity, 4+ to 1+ denoted varying degrees of focal positivity, and 0 denoted no evidence of staining. Levels of p53 and erbB-2 immunohistochemical staining were then correlated with tumor histology. For p53 immunoreactivity, typical meningiomas had a median staining score of 1.0, compared to 4.0 for atypical meningiomas (P &lt; 0.0001, Mann-Whitney U test). For erbB-2 immunoreactivity, typical meningiomas had a median staining score of 5.0 compared to 1.0 for atypical meningiomas (P &lt; 0.0001, Mann-Whitney U test). The inverse relationship between levels of erbB-2 and p53 immunoreactivity was found to be statistically significant (P &lt; 0.0001, ANOVA). Expression of the erbB-2 protein was not associated with gene amplification or the presence of activating mutation in the transmembrane region of the protein. These findings may improve our understanding of the molecular events that occur in the neoplastic transformation of meningothelial cells. The patterns of erB-2 and p53 immunoreactivity may prove to be useful markers with which to identify potentially more malignant meningiomas.
1. Two distinct forms of spontaneous synchronous oscillations were investigated with field potential recordings in slices of rat somatosensory cortex in vitro. 2. The first type of synchronous oscillation was activated by low extracellular [Mg2+] and had dominant frequencies of 8-12 Hz. It was abolished reversibly by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and was relatively unaffected by the non-NMDA receptor antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX). The duration of oscillatory events was increased by blocking gamma-aminobuturic acid-A receptors with bicuculline or by activating metabotropic glutamate receptors with trans-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid. 3. A second form of synchronous oscillation was activated by acute application of kainic acid (10 microM), had dominant frequencies of 1-5 Hz, and was abolished reversibly by DNQX. Low concentrations of domoic acid mimicked the effects of kainate, but alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid or quisqualic acid did not, suggesting a role for the GluR5-7 and KA1-2 glutamate receptor subunits. 4. Surgical isolation of cortical layers showed that spontaneous NMDA receptor-dependent oscillations originated within layer 5 exclusively, but kainate receptor-dependent oscillations were uniquely generated by neurons in layers 2/3. 5. Our results suggest that neocortical neurons in layers 2/3 and layer 5 can independently generate two distinct forms of rhythmic population activity, each dependent upon activation of a different subtype of glutamate receptor.
The efficient delivery of foreign genes into postmitotic cells is becoming very important for studies of nervous system functions. Cultured sympathetic neurons synthesize neuropeptide Y (NPY) in addition to catecholamines, providing an experimental model for studying neuronal peptide biosynthesis. In this work, we have studied the biosynthetic processing of NPY in primary cultures of rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons. NPY activation is complex, requiring sequential actions of a prohormone convertase (PC), carboxypeptidase H, and peptidylglycine alpha-amidating mono-oxygenase. Northern analyses established that SCG neurons in the animal contain mRNAs for both PC1 and PC2, and simultaneous immunocytochemistry for NPY and PC1 or PC2 established a 1:1 correspondence between NPY and PC2 expression in two thirds of the neurons that express NPY, both in the animal and in tissue culture. Biosynthetic studies on proneuropeptide Y (pro-NPY) processing to mature NPY established a close similarity to the rates seen in endocrine cells expressing PC2 and established clear differences between the patterns in SCG neurons and in endocrine cells expressing PC1. Recombinant adenoviruses were used to increase the level of PC1 in the cultured neurons from negligible to a level comparable with the level of PC1 in the anterior pituitary, and pro-NPY processing was markedly accelerated. When the viruses were used to lower the endogenous PC2 levels, using an antisense construct, pro-NPY processing was retarded. Taken together, these results support a major role for PC2 as the pro-NPY converting enzyme, and they establish the cultured SCG neurons as a model to study neuronal peptide biosynthesis.
It is well established that axons regulate Schwann cell phenotype. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether axons influence the arrangement of Schwann cell microtubules (MTs). Using double-labeling immunocytochemistry and confocal microscopy, we show that MTs in undifferentiated Schwann cells are nucleated from and attached to a single MT organizing center (MTOC) that is associated with the centrosome. Physical contact with appropriate axons initiates a myelin-forming phenotype that disperses MT minus ends and induces multiple MT-nucleating sites in Schwann cell perinuclear cytoplasm. The axonal signal that initiates myelin breakdown during Wallerian degeneration induces multiple MTOCs and MT bundles in Schwann cell perinuclear cytoplasm and in cytoplasm between degenerating myelin ovoids. These results establish that axons influence Schwann cell MT distribution by regulating the location and number of MT-nucleation sites.
The giant fiber system (GFS) is a simple network of neurons that mediates visually elicited escape behavior in Drosophila. The giant fiber (GF), the major component of the system, is a large, descending interneuron that relays visual stimuli to the motoneurons that innervate the tergotrochanteral jump muscle (TTM) and dorsal longitudinal flight muscles (DLMs). Mutations in the neural transcript from the shaking-B locus abolish the behavioral response by disrupting transmission at some electrical synapses in the GFS. This study focuses on the role of the gene in the development of the synaptic connections. Using an enhancer-trap line that expresses lacZ in the GFs, we show that the neurons develop during the first 30 hr of metamorphosis. Within the next 15 hr, they begin to form electrical synapses, as indicated by the transfer of intracellularly injected Lucifer yellow. The GFs dye-couple to the TTM motoneuron between 30 and 45 hr of metamorphosis, to the peripherally synapsing interneuron that drives the DLM motoneurons at approximately 48 hr, and to giant commissural interneurons in the brain at approximately 55 hr. Immunocytochemistry with shaking-B peptide antisera demonstrates that the expression of shaking-B protein in the region of GFS synapses coincides temporally with the onset of synaptogenesis; expression persists thereafter. The mutation shak-B2, which eliminates protein expression, prevents the establishment of dye coupling shaking-B, therefore, is essential for the assembly and/or maintenance of functional gap junctions at electrical synapses in the GFS.
We present an accurate, yet relatively inexpensive, system for measuring the direction of pointing responses. This system utilizes off-the-shelf business presentation components in a novel way to help detect and quantify the pointing measurements. The system configuration, measurement features, and procedures to enhance measurement accuracy are described.
Unlike certain other brain areas, notably the hippocampal formation, synaptic transmission in the cerebellum, a 3-dimensional anatomical structure, is no ideally studied in a 2-dimensional slice preparation. We describe a method for cutting a cerebellar slice that incorporates two planes of section: one sagittal (in the plane of the Purkinje cell dendrites and of afferent and efferent fibres running in the white matter), and the other in the plane of the parallel fibres (granule cell axons). Details are given of how neurotransmission in the parallel fibre-to-Purkinje cell pathway and in the mossy fibre-to-granule cell pathway can be studied by applying a specially designed grease-gap recording technique to the biplanar slice. We further demonstrate the utility of the slice for intracellular recording.
The assessment and treatment of hypertension in the patient with acute ischemic stroke is a controversial issue in the overall management of such patients. The primary physiologic and pathologic concepts at the core of the issue are autoregulatory failure and shift, cytotoxic and vasogenic edema, vascular pathology and hemorrhage. Clues about the interrelationships of these factors to hypertension in the acute stroke patient are available to the nurse. By integrating pathophysiologic concepts with knowledge gained during assessment of stroke onset, patient history and clinical presentation, the nurse is better prepared to monitor and provide care for the acute stroke patient.
Nursing care of the hemiplegic stroke patient is based on a traditional approach, using compensatory rehabilitative principles. However, during recent years, the neurodevelopmental treatment (NDT) approach, based on the noncompensatory rehabilitative principles and focused on activating the affected side of the hemiplegic stroke patient, is increasingly begin applied to neuroscience nursing. Until recently, little evidence existed to support the superiority of the NDT approach. The NDT approach requires considerable investment in education and training. Therefore, benefit of the NDT approach in comparison to the traditional approach must be assessed and interventions applied accordingly.
Illicit drugs have rapidly become one of the most frequent causes of stroke in the under 45 years of age group. Stroke and death can occur for either the first time or long-term user due to the pharmacologic actions of the drugs. The neuroscience nurse needs to be aware of the potential for stroke that can occur with illicit drugs and be prepared to intervene appropriately.
The purpose of this pilot project was to compare the outcome of stroke survivors cared for on an Acute Stroke Unit (ASU) to those who received care on a routine medical-surgical unit. The sample included a total of 88 patients, 68 admitted to an acute stroke unit and 20 admitted to a medical-surgical unit. The Functional Index Measure was used to assess in-hospital functional gains in the two groups. There appeared to be a trend toward increased functional gains in the group of stroke patients cared for on the Acute Strike Unit as compared to the group of patients cared for on medical-surgical units. These findings provide a foundation for neuroscience nurses and other health care professionals to study functional gains after stroke.
Tremor was suppressed by test stimulation of the thalamic ventralis intermedius (VIM) nucleus at high frequency (130 Hz) during stereotaxy in nonanesthetized patients suffering from Parkinson's disease or essential tremor. Ventralis intermedius stimulation has since been used by the authors over the last 8 years as a treatment in 117 patients with movement disorders (80 cases of Parkinson's disease, 20 cases of essential tremor, and 17 cases of various dyskinesias and dystonias including four multiple sclerosis). Chronic electrodes were stereotactically implanted in the VIM and connected to a programmable stimulator. Results depend on the indication. In Parkinson's disease patients, tremor, but not bradykinesia and rigidity, was selectively suppressed for as long as 8 years. Administration of L-Dopa was decreased by more than 30% in 40 Parkinson's disease patients. In essential tremor patients, results were satisfactory but deteriorated with time in 18.5% of cases, mainly for patients who presented an action component of their but deteriorated with time in 18.5% of cases, mainly for patients who presented an action component of their tremor. In other types of dyskinesias (except multiple sclerosis), results were much less favorable. Fifty-nine patients underwent bilateral implantation and 14 other patients received implantation contralateral to a previous thalamotomy. Thirty-seven patients (31.6%) experienced minor side effects, which were always well tolerated and immediately reversible. Three secondary scalp infections led to temporary removal of the implanted material. There was no permanent morbidity. This tremor suppression effect could be due to the inhibition or jamming of a retroactive loop. Chronic VIM stimulation, which is reversible, adaptable, and well tolerated even by patients undergoing bilateral surgery (74 of 117 patients) and by elderly patients, should replace thalamotomy in the regular surgical treatment of parkinsonian and essential tremors.

In this study, the effect of intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of (5R)-(5 alpha, 7 alpha, 8 beta)-N-methyl-N-[7-(1-pyrrolindinyl)-1- oxaspiro[4,5]dec-8-yl]-4-benzofurnacetamide monohydrochloride (Cl-977) on pain behaviors and on spinal cord fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI) evoked by unilateral formalin injection into the hindpaw of rats was examined. Intracerebroventricular administration of Cl-977 (0.13-13.00 nmol) produced a dose-dependent inhibition of formalin-evoked pain behaviors, with significant inhibition after 1.30, 4.40 and 13.00 nmol. The estimated ED50 for icv Cl-977 inhibition of formalin-evoked behaviors was 0.95 nmol and the Emax was 53%. The inhibitory effect of 4.40 nmol of icv Cl-977 on formalin-evoked behaviors was prevented by either pretreatment with the kappa selective antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (10 or 100 nmol) or coadministration of the opiate receptor antagonist, naloxone (30 nmol). The lowest dose of icv Cl-977 tested (0.13 nmol) produced a 50% reduction in FLI in the superficial laminae but did not inhibit the expression of FLI in any other regions of the spinal cord. The fos-inhibitory effect of low-dose icv Cl-977 in the superficial cord was reversed by coadministration of naloxone (30 nmol). Higher doses of icv Cl-977 that suppressed formalin-evoked behaviors did not inhibit the expression of FLI in any region of the spinal cord. Finally, neither the inhibitory effect of 4.40 nmol Cl-977 on formalin-evoked behaviors nor the formalin-evoked pattern of FLI expression in the spinal cord of rats treated with this dose of Cl-977 was affected by lesions of the dorsolateral funiculus. These results provide the first evidence that supraspinal kappa receptor-mediated antinociception is not dependent on the integrity of the dorsolateral funiculus and may be mediated exclusively at the supraspinal level, suggesting that there are multiple mechanisms through which opioids can evoke antinociceptive effects.
The antinociceptive and pharmacological properties of the H2 receptor antagonist cimetidine and a novel cimetidine analog, SKF92374, were characterized. On both the hot-plate and tail-flick nociceptive tests, cimetidine and SKF92374 induced complete, dose-related analgesic responses when injected into the lateral ventricle of rats. SKF92374 showed strong similarities to cimetidine in analgesic efficacy, slope of dose-response curves and chemical structure, suggesting that these compounds share a common analgesic mechanism. In contrast, histamine induced submaximal antinociceptive effects, and the H3 antagonist thioperamide, a known HA-releasing drug, had little or no analgesic effects. Compared with cimetidine, SKF92374 showed very weak activity (400-fold lower affinity) on H2 receptors in vitro (isolated guinea pig atrium) and in vivo (rat gastric secretion). In addition, SKF92374 (100 microM) had neither agonist nor antagonist action on guinea pig ileum H1 receptors. SKF92374 was also a weak competitive antagonist of N alpha-methylhistamine-induced inhibition of electrically induced contractions of the guinea pig ileum (Kd = 5.2 microM), an H3 receptor-mediated response. Autoradiographic binding assays in guinea pig brain confirmed a weak antagonism of H3 receptors by SKF92374. The compound (up to 10 microM) also had no effect on unpurified rat brain histamine N-methyltransferase activity. These results support the hypothesis that cimetidine induces analgesia by a novel brain mechanism unrelated to H1, H2 or H3 receptors.
Cricothyrotomy is an important surgical technique. We studied the anatomy of the cricothyroid membrane in 13 adult fresh cadavers preserved at 45 degrees F and examined at 70 degrees F. The working dimensions of the cricothyroid membrane were measured for emergency cricothyrotomy and placement of an airway tube. The vertical measurement ranged from 8-19 mm (mean 13.69 +/- SE 0.96 mm) and the maximal width between the cricothyroid muscles ranged between 9 and 19 mm (mean 12.38 +/- SE 0.91 mm). The distance from the upper limit of the cricothyroid membrane to the vocal cord was 9.78 +/- SE 0.52 mm. Eight subjects (62%) had an artery delineated transversely across the cricothyroid membrane. Two subjects (15%) had sclerosis of the cricothyroid joint. To promote the safe use of cricothyrotomy, the anatomy of the cricothyroid membrane is defined and clinically relevant data are presented.

Eight Swedish national class weightlifters performed &quot;high-bar&quot; squats and six national class powerlifters performed &quot;low-bar&quot; squats, with a barbell weight of 65% of their 1 RM, and to parallel- and a deep-squatting depth. Ground reaction forces were measured with a Kistler piezo-electric force platform and motion was analyzed from a video record of the squats. A computer program based on free-body mechanics was designed to calculate moments of force about the hip and knee joints. EMG from vastus lateralis, rectus femoris, and biceps femoris was recorded and normalized. The peak moments of force were flexing both for the hip and the knee. The mean peak moments of force at the hip were for the weightlifters 230 Nm (deep) and 216 Nm (parallel), and for the powerlifters 324 Nm (deep), and 309 Nm (parallel). At the knee the mean peak moments for the weightlifters were 191 Nm (deep) and 131 Nm (parallel), and for the powerlifters 139 Nm (deep) and 92 Nm (parallel). The weightlifters had the load more equally distributed between hip and knee, whereas the powerlifters put relatively more load on the hip joint. The thigh muscular activity was slightly higher for the powerlifters.
The kinesin superfamily of molecular motors comprises proteins that participate in a wide variety of motile events within the cell. Members of this family share a highly homologous head domain responsible for force generation attached to a divergent tail domain thought to couple the motor domain to its target cargo. Many kinesin-related proteins (KRPs) participate in spindle morphogenesis and chromosome movement in cell division. Genetic analysis of mitotic KRPs in yeast and Drosophila, as well as biochemical experiments in other species, have suggested models for the function of KRPs in cell division, including both mitosis and meiosis. Although many mitotic KRPs have been identified, the relationship between mitotic motors and meiotic function is not clearly understood. We have used sequence similarity between mitotic KRPs to identify candidates for meiotic and/or mitotic motors in a vertebrate. We have identified a group of kinesin-related proteins from rat testes (termed here testes KRP1 through KRP6) that includes new members of the bimC and KIF2 subfamilies as well as proteins that may define new kinesin subfamilies. Five of the six testes KRPs identified are expressed primarily in testes. Three of these are expressed in a region of the seminiferous epithelia (SE) rich in meiotically active cells. Further characterization of one of these KRPs, KRP2, showed it to be a promising candidate for a motor in meiosis: it is localized to a meiotically active region of the SE and is homologous to motor proteins associated with the mitotic apparatus. Testes-specific genes provide the necessary probes to investigate whether the motor proteins that function in mammalian meiosis overlap with those of mitosis and whether motor proteins exist with functions unique to meiosis. Our search for meiotic motors in a vertebrate testes has successfully identified proteins with properties consistent with those of meiotic motors in addition to uncovering proteins that may function in other unique motile events of the SE.
Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) plays an important role in regulating neuropeptide expression in sympathetic and sensory neurons after axonal transection. By 2 h after axotomy, LIF mRNA increased in nonneuronal cells in sympathetic ganglia and peripheral nerve. In addition, within 1 h of explanting sympathetic ganglia or segments of sympathetic nerve trunks, a protein factor(s) that was able to induce LIF mRNA both in sympathetic cultures and in intact ganglia in vivo was released. This factor(s) appeared to be present in sympathetic ganglia and their nerve trunks under normal conditions and to be activated and/or released after axonal injury. Since the factor(s) has a molecular weight(s) greater than 66 kDa, and no other proteins of such high molecular weight have been previously identified with LIF-inducing activity, it appears to be a novel inducer of LIF.
Using a novel approach, including affinity chromatography, reversed-phase chromatography, and chemiluminescence immunoblotting, we have for the first time been able to demonstrate one of the small synaptic vesicle proteins, synaptotagmin I, in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Two other small synaptic vesicle proteins, rab3a and synaptophysin, were not detectable. The approximate molecular weight of CSF-synaptotagmin was 65 kDa, as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). Further characterization of CSF synaptotagmin by high-performance capillary electrophoresis (HPCE) showed a single peak. These findings support that the whole synaptotagmin molecule is present in CSF, without significant proteolytic degradation. After high-speed centrifugation of CSF, synaptotagmin was exclusively found in the supernatant, suggesting that synaptotagmin is present in CSF as a free protein, and not as a constituent of synaptic vesicles. In a preliminary study, we found a marked reduction of CSF synaptotagmin in patients with early onset Alzheimer disease (EAD) as compared with age-matched healthy individuals. To elucidate the biological relevance of this finding, we also quantified synaptotagmin in brain tissue. A marked reduction in synaptotagmin was found both in the hippocampus and frontal cortex of EAD, suggesting that a decrease in synaptotagmin in the brain is followed by a concomitant decrease in the CSF. Analysis of CSF synaptotagmin might provide a tool to study synaptic function and pathology in the human brain.

In this study we attempted to elucidate the neural network involved in maintaining spatial information over short delays by means of the PET 15O-labeled water method for measuring regional cerebral blood flow. To isolate the mnemonic component of delayed response processing we designed a control task isomorphic to the experimental task (in which the subject remembered the location of four targets in an array over a 7 s delay) and controlled for spatial encoding. Fourteen normal subjects participated in the study. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) data were analyzed using statistical parametric mapping, a data-driven approach which canvasses the whole brain for significantly activated pixels in the experimental vis--vis the control task, and a hypothesis driven region of interest approach involving comparisons of control and experimental conditions using normalized rCBF data. We found convergent evidence for a spatially distinct but functionally related network in which dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and extrastriate occipital cortex were activated by the experimental task vis--vis the control task, as well as evidence for superior parietal and supplementary motor area cortical activation. These findings suggest that anterior components of the network may be involved in mnemonic rehearsal functions, while posterior components may store critical perceptual attributes of the memoranda.
We describe a patient with acute multifocal motor neuropathy with conduction block (MMNCB) and high titers of immunoglobulin G anti-GM1 antibodies after Campylobacter jejuni enteritis. Treatment with intravenous immune globulin led to rapid improvement with return of normal function by 6 weeks. This is the first report of C. jejuni enteritis preceding MMNCB.
A ballistic movement of one arm may be accompanied by contractions of contralateral postural muscles known as &quot;associated postural adjustments.&quot; Ballistic movements are considered to involve the motor cortex, but it is not known where associated postural adjustments are generated. We recorded the EMG activity in the deltoid and latissimus dorsi muscles during ballistic abduction of the arm in 10 normal subjects and five subjects with lesions of the motor cortex. When subjects with cortical lesions abducted the unaffected arm, the associated postural adjustment in the contralateral latissimus dorsi was significantly smaller than normal. We argue that postural adjustments, like ballistic movements, require the participation of the motor cortex.
Gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) is a naturally occurring GABA-like drug used illicitly by bodybuilders. Although there are reports of several cases of GHB abuse, with a variety of nervous system complications, we present the first case associated with a Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome.
The prevalence of MS in India is low, and it is unclear whether the manifestations of the disease in India are similar to the United States. We carried out a case-control study to compare the disease in the two populations and used clinical, evoked potential, and MRI criteria to assess similarities and differences. Our results indicate that the rate of disease progression and frequency of involvement of the cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, spinal cord, and brainstem were similar in the two populations. The visual system was more frequently involved in Indian patients. No Indian patient had a family history of MS; this suggests an environmental disease-triggering agent.
Many activity-dependent changes in synaptic efficacy occur through elevations in postsynaptic calcium triggered by glutamate receptor activation. Here, the postsynaptic, neuron-specific microtubule-associated protein MAP2 is identified as a target of bidirectional calcium-dependent signaling pathways activated by glutamate. Glutamate produced a biphasic change in MAP2: a rapid, transient increase in phosphorylation mediated by metabotropic receptors and attenuated by inhibitors of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases and protein kinase C, followed by a persistent dephosphorylation of MAP2 mediated by NMDA receptors and activation of the calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase 2B (calcineurin). Thus, a single transmembrane signal, glutamate, and the increased intracellular calcium it evokes can have opposing actions on a postsynaptic target phosphoprotein. The phosphorylation state of MAP2 determines its interaction with microtubules and actin filaments, suggesting that glutamatergic regulation of MAP2 phosphorylation may transduce neural activity into modifications in dendritic structure.
Adhalin and alpha-dystroglycan are two components of a complex of proteins that, in conjunction with dystrophin, provide a link between the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton and the basal lamina of the extracellular matrix of skeletal muscle. In the absence of dystrophin, in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and the mdx mouse, levels of adhalin, alpha-dystroglycan and other components of the complex, are severely reduced, and it has been speculated that this might be an important factor in precipitating myofibre necrosis. However, there is, as yet, little information on how these proteins interact structurally or functionally. From biochemical data it might be predicted that adhalin and alpha-dystroglycan are positioned more peripherally in the muscle cell than dystrophin and more proximal than merosin. Using single and double immunogold labelling we here show that adhalin is localized to the plasma membrane with the majority of the gold probe particles situated on the membrane's outer face, while alpha-dystroglycan labelling is seen on material which projects from the outer face and which, in places, forms strands that stretch to the basal lamina. When double labelling of laminin and alpha-dystroglycan is carried out, laminin is localized to the proximal face of the basal lamina, facing the alpha-dystroglycan. In DMD the labelling of adhalin and alpha-dystroglycan is severely reduced quantitatively (although the vestige that remains is positioned normally) but merosin is expressed normally, showing that its incorporation is independent of that of dystrophin and its associated proteins.
Quantitative autoradiographic studies, with [3H]5-HT, were used to investigate the distribution of 5-CT-insensitive 5-HT1-like (5-HT1E/1F) recognition sites in rat and guinea pig brain. For comparison and control purposes the distribution of the closely related 5-HT1D binding site, which is abundant in the guinea pig but not the rat, was also investigated, as well as total specific [3H]5-HT binding. Results from this study confirm the previously described regional distribution of the 5-HT1D binding site and also revealed a predominance of 5-CT-insensitive 5-HT1-like 5-HT1E/1F) recognition sites in the olfactory tubercle, caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens and substantia nigra of both species. Interestingly 5-CT-insensitive 5-HT1-like (5-HT1E/1F) recognition sites were particularly dense in the claustrum of the guinea pig, but not the rat.
The cellular mechanisms underlying the effect of high pressure on synaptic transmission at two types of synapses were studied in the opener muscle of the lobster walking leg. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were recorded using a loose macropatch clamp technique at normal pressure and 3.5, 6.9 MPa helium pressure. Responses of the single excitatory axon could be grouped into two types: low yield (L) synapse exhibiting a small mean EPSC with a considerable number of failures, and high yield (H) synapse having a larger mean EPSC with very few failures. The change in several synaptic transmission parameters indicated that high pressure similarly reduced presynaptic evoked release in both L and H synapses. However, some differences in the kinetics and probability of release could be detected. A major difference was the spontaneous miniature EPSCs (mEPSCs) activity. Many of the mEPSC, observed only in L synapses, were 'giant' (size of 2-5 q). High pressure selectively increased the frequency of the giant mEPSCs in the L synapse but had little effect on their amplitude histogram. High pressure depressed evoked synaptic transmission in both synapses by modulating the presynaptic quantal release parameters, but concomitantly enhanced spontaneous quantal release in L synapses by an unknown mechanism.
Dichotic listening, manual functions, and IQ were measured in a large group of hemiplegic children with unilateral hemispheric damage. In the children without a history of seizure disorder, only manual functions were impaired, but in those with such a history (and hence a regime of anticonvulsant medication), all measures were affected. Some children with congenital left hemisphere lesions (with and without siezure disorder) showed a left ear advantage for dichotic digits as well as greater impairment in right hand function than those who showed the usual right ear advantage. The latter result suggests that the hemipheric damage in the subgroup with altered ear asymmetry was greater than in the others and extensive enough to encroach on language areas, shifting language representation to the right.
The protein, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT; EC 2.3.1.6), was analyzed in wild-type and two different temperature-sensitive ChAT mutants of Drosophila (Cha(ts1) and Cha(ts2)) using newly generated monoclonal antibodies. In all of the three genotypes, Western blots of crude fly head extracts showed a band stained at approximately the 80-kDa position, supporting the hypothesis that these temperature-sensitive mutants were generated by point mutation in the structural gene. The staining intensity of the bands indicated that these mutants have a lesser amount of ChAT protein than wild-type, even when they are reared at the permissive temperature (18 degrees C).
In rats, cannabinoids inhibit behavioral responses to noxious stimulation with a potency and efficacy similar to that of morphine. However, because cannabinoids depress motor function, it has not been possible to state beyond any doubt that these effects were related to a dampening of noxious sensory input. Therefore, c-fos immunocytochemistry was used to explore the possibility that cannabinoids reduce behavioral responses to noxious stimuli by decreasing spinal processing of nociceptive inputs. Rats received systemic injections of the potent and selective cannabinoid agonist WIN 55,212-2, the receptor-inactive enantiomer WIN 55,212-3 or vehicle prior to observations in a model of tonic pain, the formalin test. As demonstrated previously, plantar injections of formalin led to lifting and licking of the injected paw, with two peaks of activity occurring at 5 and 30 min after injection. The cannabinoid agonist suppressed these pain responses and produced a reduction in mobility. Immunocytochemical processing of sections with an antibody to the Fos protein revealed that the cannabinoid markedly suppressed pain-evoked c-fos expression in the superficial and neck regions of the spinal dorsal horn, but not in the nucleus proprius. Decreased expression of c-fos also occurred in the ventral horn. The specificity of this effect and its probable mediation by cannabinoid receptors are suggested by three findings: (i) the suppression by the drug of both behavioral and immunocytochemical responses to pain was dose-dependent; (ii) neither the behavioral nor the immunocytochemical response to the noxious stimulus was significantly affected by the receptor-inactive enantiomer of the agonist; (iii) animals rendered tolerant to cannabinoids by repeated injections of the agonist showed reduced responses to the drug. These findings suggest that cannabinoids inhibit the spinal processing of nociceptive stimuli and support the notion that endogenous cannabinoids may act naturally to modify pain trnasmission within the central nervous system.
The amphibian Xenopus laevis adapts the colour of its skin to the colour of its background, by the release of the pro-opiomelanocortin-derived peptide alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone from the pars intermedia of the pituitary gland. Suprachiasmatic neurons play an important role in adaptation to a light background as they produce the neurotransmitters GABA, dopamine and neuropeptide Y, which inhibit the release of alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone. These factors are transported to axon varicosities contacting the melanotrope cells. In these varicosities GABA resides in electron-lucent vesicles and neuropeptide Y and dopamine coexist in electron-dense vesicles. In this study the effects of background adaptation on the morphology of the varicosities in the pars intermedia were studied, using immunoelectron microscopy and morphometry with freeze-substitution-fixed material. Varicosities were found singly and in clusters throughout the pars intermedia. Varicosities were identified by the presence of electron-dense and electron-lucent secretory vesicles, the latter being immunopositive for anti-GABA. Both varicosity types revealed active zones with exclusively GABA-containing vesicles in contact with the presynaptic membrane. When white- and black-adapted animals were compared, significant background effects were found with respect to the organization of the varicosities: the density of varicosity profiles was twice as high in white-adapted animals as in black-adapted ones, due to an increase in density of the clustered varicosities. Furthermore, in white-adapted animals varicosities were about twice as large as in black-adapted animals. With respect to vesicle types, single and clustered varicosities showed a differential effect. For both the population of electron-lucent and electron-dense vesicles, single varicosities showed equal numbers in white- and black-adapted animals, but clustered varicosities showed higher numbers of electron-lucent and electron-dense vesicles in black-adapted animals, indicating storage of neurotransmitters. Finally, in varicosities of white-adapted animals the number and size of the active zones and the number of electron-lucent vesicles attached to the active zones, were about twice as high as in black-adapted animals, indicating a stronger GABA release. It is concluded that the profound effects of environmental light conditions on synaptic structure and substructure in the Xenopus pars intermedia are related to a changed release activity of neurotransmitters inhibiting the activity of the melanotrope cells.
Calretinin immunoreactivity was present in a subset of preganglionic neurons retrogradely labelled from the cat adrenal gland. Overall, one-third of adrenal preganglionic neurons showed calretinin immunoreactivity, and their proportion increased in the more caudal spinal cord segments. Calretinin-immunoreactive nerve terminals were prominent within the adrenal gland, but were found only in areas of noradrenergic chromaffin cells (approximately one-third of the area of the adrenal medulla). Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was used to label terminals with and without calretinin immunoreactivity. Nerve terminals lacking calretinin immunoreactivity were present among the adrenergic chromaffin-cells and also comprised 20% of the nerve terminals innervating noradrenergic chromaffin cells. Calretinin immunoreactivity thus labels a subpopulation of cat adrenal preganglionic neurons that innervate the noradrenergic chromaffin cells.
Intracellular recording techniques were used to study neurotransmitter release in the guinea-pig isolated vas deferens. Low concentrations of the irreversible and selective N-type calcium channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA have previously been shown to block excitatory junction potentials evoked by low frequencies (&lt; or = 1 Hz) of nerve stimulation. Here we report a component of action potential-evoked release which is insensitive to high concentrations of omega-conotoxin GVIA. We have termed this component &quot;residual release&quot; and show (i) it is positively frequency-dependent, (ii) its magnitude is dependent on both the train length and interval between trains, (iii) &quot;residual release&quot; can be modulated through prejunctional alpha 2-adrenoceptors and (iv) &quot;residual release&quot; is insensitive to many calcium entry blockers but abolished by omega-grammotoxin SIA and cadmium ions. Although noradrenaline is released by nerve action potentials, residual excitatory junction potentials were abolished by alpha,beta-methylene-ATP and therefore resulted entirely from the actions of neuronally released ATP acting through postjunctional P2x-purinoceptors. The results suggest that calcium entry through a novel, pharmacologically uncharacterized voltage-dependent calcium channel is responsible for &quot;residual release&quot; in sympathetic nerve terminals. It seems that in response to single or short trains of nerve action potentials, N-type calcium channels dominate the release process. However, at higher frequencies other voltage-dependent calcium channels are recruited and these may have an important role to play in triggering the mechanisms underlying frequency-dependent facilitation.
Lack of dystrophin in mdx mice leads to muscle fibre degeneration followed by the formation of new myofibres. This degeneration-regeneration event occurs in clusters. It is accompanied by inflammation and remodelling of the intramuscular terminal nerve fibres. Since the growth-associated protein B-50/GAP-43 has been shown to be involved in axonal outgrowth and synaptic remodelling following neuronal injury, we have investigated the presence of B-50 in gastrocnemius and quadriceps muscles of mdx mice. Using immunocytochemistry we demonstrate increased presence of B-50 in terminal nerve branches at motor endplates of mdx mice, particularly in the clusters of de- and regenerating myofibres. In comparison, the control mice displayed no B-50 immunoreactivity in nerve fibres contacting motor endplates. Our findings indicate that during axonal remodelling and collateral sprouting the B-50 level in the terminal axon arbours is increased although there is no direct injury to the motoneurons. We suggest that the degenerating target and/or the inflammatory reaction induces the increased B-50 level in the motoaxons. The increased B-50 may be important for sprouting of the nerve fibres and re-establishment of synaptic contacts, and in addition, for maturation and survival of the newly formed myofibres.
Following sciatic nerve crush at birth the rat soleus muscle is rendered permanently weak. This reduction in muscle force is caused by the loss of a proportion of its motoneurons. Furthermore, motoneurons that survive and reach the muscle fail to reoccupy a sufficient number of denervated muscle fibres to compensate for the loss of neurons. Both the loss of motoneurons and poor reinnervation may be due to the inability of the regenerating axons to establish and maintain neuromuscular contacts. Application of leupeptin, an inhibitor of a calcium-activated neutral protease and some serine proteases, is known to help in the maintenance of neuromuscular contacts during development and axonal sprouting. Here we examined whether protecting new neuromuscular contacts formed between regenerating axons and denervated muscle fibres after nerve injury, would influence the survival of motoneurons and improve muscle recovery. This study shows that in muscles treated with leupeptin the reduction in weight and force output after nerve crush at birth was significantly less than in those that were untreated. Moreover, the number of motor units in the leupeptin-treated muscles was significantly higher than in untreated muscles. Thus, treating regenerating nerve terminals with leupeptin during early stages of reinnervation rescues motoneurons and improves muscle recovery.
Xenografts of neural tissue are usually rapidly rejected when transplanted into the central nervous system of adult recipient animals. This study has examined the cell mediated immune response to both concordant (between closely related species) and discordant (between distantly related species) neural xenografts in the mouse, and has investigated the role of the CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocyte subsets in this process using monoclonal antibodies specific for the CD4 and CD8 cell surface glycoproteins. We have established that: (1) in this model system concordant neural xenograft rejection occurs within 15-30 days; however, xenograft survival can be dramatically prolonged with CD4+, but not CD8+, T lymphocyte depletion; (2) the administration of two successive courses of a high dose of anti-CD4 monoclonal antibody treatment results in indefinite concordant neural xenograft survival; (3) the mechanism by which the high dose anti-CD4 monoclonal antibody therapy appears to function involves the depletion of intrathymic CD4+ cells; (4) anti-CD4 monoclonal antibody treatment enhances discordant neural xenograft survival, to beyond 60 days in many cases. These results demonstrate that CD4+ T lymphocytes are of central importance in the immune response to both concordant and discordant neural xenoantigens. Thus the use of anti-CD4 monoclonal antibody therapy is an effective strategy to prolong significantly the survival of xenogeneic neural transplants. Furthermore this treatment caused no obvious deleterious side-effects. These findings have implications for future cross-species studies in experimental neurobiology and, possibly, in clinical neural transplantation.
Monoamine oxidases are key enzymes in the metabolism of amine neurotransmitters and neuromodulators and are targets for drug therapy in depression, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Knowledge of their distribution in the brain is essential to understand their physiological role. To study the regional distribution and abundance of monoamine oxidases A and B in human brain, pituitary and superior cervical ganglion, we used quantitative enzyme radioautography with radioligands [3H]Ro41-1049 and [3H]lazabemide, respectively. Furthermore, 35S-labelled oligonucleotides complementary to isoenzyme messengerRNAs were used to map the cellular location of the respective transcripts in adjacent sections by in situ hybridization histochemistry. A markedly different pattern of distribution of the isoenzymes was observed. Highest levels of monoamine oxidase A were measured in the superior cervical ganglion, locus coeruleus, interpeduncular nucleus and ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. The corresponding messengerRNA was detected only in the noradrenergic neurons of the superior cervical ganglion and locus coeruleus. In contrast to rat brain, monoamine oxidase B was much more abundant in most human brain regions investigated. Highest levels were measured in the ependyma of ventricles, stria terminalis and in individual hypothalamic neurons. Monoamine oxidase B transcripts were detected in serotoninergic raphe neurons, histaminergic hypothalamic neurons and in dentate gyrus granule cells of the hippocampal formation. We conclude that [3H]Ro41-1049 and [3H]azabemide are extremely useful radioligands for high-resolution analyses of the abundance and distribution of catalytic sites of monoamine oxidases A and B, respectively, in human brain sections. From levels of messenger RNA detected, the cellular sites of synthesis of the isoenzymes are the noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus (for monoamine oxidase A) and the serotoninergic and histaminergic neurons of the raphe and posterior hypothalamus, respectively (for monoamine oxidase B). The combination of quantitative enzyme radioautography with in situ hybridization histochemistry is a useful approach to study, with high resolution, both the physiology and pathophysiology of monoamine oxidases in human brain.
Pharmacological data indicate that prodynorphin peptides and exogenous kappa agonists affect opioid tolerance and dependence. In order to elucidate the activity of the endogenous prodynorphin system during opiate tolerance and dependence, we investigated the effect of single and repeated morphine administration on the alpha-neoendorphin tissue level, its in vitro release, and the prodynorphin messenger RNA level in the nucleus accumbens and striatum of the rat. Acute and repeated morphine administration (14 days, increasing doses, 20-100 mg/kg, i.p.) increased the level of alpha-neoendorphin in the nucleus accumbens after 3 h; a similar effect was observed at 24 and 48 h after the last chronic morphine injection. On the other hand, the basal and stimulated (K+, 57 mM) release of alpha-neoendorphin from nucleus accumbens slices were significantly elevated only at 24 h after the last morphine injection. The prodynorphin messenger RNA hybridization signal in the nucleus accumbens was enhanced at 3 h after acute morphine injection, whereas repeated morphine administration decreased the messenger RNA level at that time point. Upon late chronic morphine withdrawal (at 24 and 48 h), the prodynorphin messenger RNA level in that tissue was significantly elevated. In the striatum, single morphine administration had no effect on the alpha-neoendorphin tissue level, release of the peptide, and prodynorphin messenger RNA level. On the other hand, chronic injection of morphine elevated all those parameters. The tissue level of alpha-neoendorphin was elevated at 3 h, and was back to normal at 24 and 48 h after the last drug injection. Both the basal and stimulated alpha-neoendorphin release from striatal slices was significantly increased at all the time points studied. Repeated morphine administration elevated the striatal prodynorphin messenger RNA level at 24 and 48 h after the drug withdrawal. Addition of morphine to the incubation medium reduced the basal release of alpha-neoendorphin in both the nucleus accumbens and striatal slices in naive animals, whereas the stimulated release was attenuated in the latter tissue only. The present study indicates that withdrawal of chronic morphine leads to enhancement of the prodynorphin neurons activity in the nucleus accumbens and striatum of the rat. It is suggested that these effects may participate in the mechanism of aversive reactions during withdrawal.
The effects of in utero exposure to cocaine on dopamine receptors in the frontal and cingulate areas of the developing rabbit cortex were assessed by examining receptor-mediated stimulations in GTP binding to alpha-subunits of G proteins. Pregnant Dutch-belted rabbits received intravenous injections of 4 mg/kg of cocaine HCl twice a day on gestational days 8-29, cortical membranes were prepared from their progenies on postnatal days 10-100 and dopamine-stimulated [35S] guanosine-5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate (GTP gamma S) binding to membrane G alpha proteins was measured. Dopamine increased [35S]GTP gamma S binding to G alpha s and G alpha i. These increases in [35S]GTP gamma S binding reflect the stimulation of D1- and D2-dopamine receptors, respectively. The ability of dopamine to stimulate the binding of [35S]GTP gamma S to G alpha s but not to G alpha i was reduced in both frontal and cingulate cortices obtained from cocaine-exposed animals when examined at 10, 50 or 100 days of age. Prenatal cocaine exposure was also shown to reduce dopamine-stimulated [alpha-32P]GTP binding to G alpha s without influencing binding to G alpha i. The muscarinic cholinergic receptor-evoked increases in [35S]GTP gamma S binding to G alpha i and G alpha o were not altered. Immunoblot analyses revealed no differences in the levels of these alpha subunits in membranes from cocaine-exposed animals vs controls. Furthermore, prenatal cocaine did not affect [3H]8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepin-7- olhemimaleate binding to cortical D1 dopamine receptors. The results suggest that prenatal exposure of rabbits to cocaine selectively uncouples the D1 dopamine receptor from its G protein in mesocortical brain areas and that this change persists through postnatal day 100.
Ca-channel currents expressed in Xenopus oocytes by means of messenger RNA extracted from rat thalamohypothalamic complex were studied using the double microelectrode technique. Currents were recorded in Cl(-)-free extracellular solutions with 40 mM Ba2+ as a charge carrier. In response to depolarizations from a very negative holding potential (Vh = -120 mV), inward Ba2+ current activated at around -80 mV, peaked at -30 to -20 mV and reversed at +50 mV indicating that it may be transferred through the low voltage-activated calcium channels. The time-dependent inactivation of the current during prolonged depolarization to -20 mV was quite slow and followed a single exponential decay with a time-constant of 1550 ms and a maintained component constituting 30% of the maximal amplitude. The current could not be completely inactivated at any holding potential. As expected for low voltage-activated current, steady-state inactivation curve shifted towards negative potentials. It could be described by the Boltzmann equation with half inactivation potential -78 mV, slope factor 15 mV and maintained level 0.3. Expressed Ba2+ current could be blocked by flunarizine with Kd = 0.42 microM, nifedipine, Kd = 10 microM, and amiloride at 500 microM concentration. Among inorganic Ca-channel blockers the most potent was La3+ (Kd = 0.48 microM) while Cd2+ and Ni2+ were not very discriminative and almost 1000-fold less effective than La3+ (Kd = 0.52 mM and Kd = 0.62 mM, respectively). Our data show that messenger RNA purified from thalamohypothalamic complex induces expression in the oocytes of almost exclusively low voltage-activated calcium channels with voltage-dependent and pharmacological properties very similar to those observed for T-type calcium current in native hypothalamic neurons, though kinetic properties of the expressed and natural currents are somewhat different.
Galanin, a 29 amino acid peptide, is widely distributed throughout both the peripheral and central nervous systems and is thought to be involved in multiple physiological functions including smooth muscle relaxation, stimulation of feeding, blood pressure regulation, control of hormone secretion and modulation of nociception. Galanin has been shown to co-exist with several neurotransmitters throughout the neuroaxis and in some cases to modify their presynaptic and postsynaptic actions. In the present study, the anatomical distribution of preprogalanin messenger RNA in rat brain was examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry using specific 35S-labelled oligonucleotide probes. Neurons expressing preprogalanin messenger RNA were found throughout the brain and were particularly abundant in the hypothalamus. High densities of preprogalanin messenger RNA-positive neurons were found in the anteroventral preoptic, supraoptic, paraventricular and dorsomedial nuclei of the hypothalamus, in the locus coeruleus and in the nucleus of the solitary tract. Moderate densities of preprogalanin messenger RNA-positive cells were apparent in the periventricular and arcuate nuclei of the hypothalamus, in the dorsal raphe and dorsal cochlear nuclei. Low densities of preprogalanin messenger RNA-expressing neurons were observed in the piriform cortex, medial septum and the retrochiasmatic area. These findings are consistent with results of previous in situ localization studies of preprogalanin messenger RNA and also with studies reporting the distribution of galanin-like immunoreactivity in rat brain. A novel finding, however, was the detection of preprogalanin messenger RNA in Purkinje cells in the caudal cerebellar vermis (lobules 6 to 10) and the flocculus and paraflocculus of the lateral hemispheres of the cerebellum. Galanin is presumably co-localized in these cells with GABA, which is normally present in Purkinje cells and possibly with tyrosine hydroxylase, which has recently been detected in a similar subpopulation of cerebellar Purkinje cells in both rat and mouse. Thus, the present study reveals a previously unreported site of galanin gene expression in the cerebellum which represents a novel, putative site of action for galanin to add to its already varied physiological roles.
Vestibular afferent fibers exhibit a specific, cell size-related uptake of aspartate and glycine [Straka H. et al. (1995) Neuroscience 70, 685-696]. A similar, size-related coexistence of glycine and glutamate had been reported earlier for these fibers [Reichenberger I. and Dieringer N. (1994) J. comp. Neurol. 349, 603-614]. Taken together, these results suggest a size-related co-release of both amino acids and the activation of different glutamate receptors in second order vestibular neurons. To test this hypothesis we stimulated the VIIIth nerve and recorded the responses of central vestibular neurons in the isolated brainstem of frogs before and during the application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists (7-chlorokynurenic acid and D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid). The presence of either one of these antagonists provoked a dose-dependent and Mg(2+)-sensitive partial block of the monosynaptic responses recorded extra- or intracellularly. This implies that afferent-evoked responses in central vestibular neurons are composed of N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated components. In most of the intracellularly recorded neurons (21 out of 24) the relative amplitude of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated component decreased with an increase in stimulus intensity. Since electric stimulation recruits thick afferents at a lower current intensity than thin afferent fibers, our results imply a co-activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors by thick vestibular afferents. At a given stimulus intensity the amplitude of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated component differed between neurons. The results of this study extend the list of known anatomical, histochemical and physiological properties that distinguish thick from thinner vestibular afferent fibers. In spite of this detailed knowledge, however, the physiological role of thick vestibular afferents is so far unclear. The novel concept of a size-related co-activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors by vestibular afferent fibers establishes the basis for more specific physiological hypotheses.
Vestibular afferent fibers and their somata in the ganglion of Scarpa colocalize glutamate and glycine in a size-related manner. In this study tritiated aspartate, glycine or GABA was injected in the vestibular nuclear complex of frogs to investigate the uptake by afferent fibers and the retrograde transport of these amino acids to the cell bodies in the ganglion by autoradiographical methods. Ganglion cells were labeled by [3H]aspartate or [3H]glycine but not by [3H]GABA. The intensity of labeling with [3H]glycine increased and the intensity of labeling with [3H]aspartate decreased with cell size. On consecutive semithin sections the immunoreactivity of the same neurons was investigated with antibodies against glutamate or glycine. The results of this combined study showed that smaller, strongly glutamate immunopositive ganglion cells exhibited only weak or no labeling with [3H]glycine whereas larger, less strongly glutamate immunopositive ganglion cells were more intensely labeled with [3H]glycine. A similar size-related labeling pattern was observed in ganglion cells for [3H]aspartate and glycine-immunoreactivity. Both glycine uptake and glutamate immunoreactivity, as well as aspartate uptake and glycine-immunoreactivity, tended to be inversely correlated with the size of a given ganglion cell. These results provide evidence for a specific, size-related uptake of aspartate and glycine and are compatible with our hypothesis that the two amino acids are coreleased by thick but not by thin vestibular afferents. In an accompanying paper [Straka H. et al. (1995) Neuroscience 70, 697-707], we provide evidence for a size-related, monosynaptic activation of different glutamate receptors by vestibular afferent fibers.
We investigated computer models of a single thalamocortical neuron to assess the interaction of intrinsic voltage-sensitive channels and cortical synaptic input in producing the range of oscillation frequencies observed in these cells in vivo. A morphologically detailed model with Hodgkin-Huxley-like ion channels demonstrated that intrinsic properties would be sufficient to readily produce 3 to 6 Hz oscillations. Hyperpolarization of the model cell reduced its oscillation frequency monotonically whether through current injection or modulation of a potassium conductance, simulating the response to a neuromodulatory input. We performed detailed analysis of highly reduced models to determine the mechanism of this frequency control. The interburst interval was controlled by two different mechanisms depending on whether or not the pacemaker current, IH, was present. In the absence of IH, depolarization during the interburst interval occurred at the same rate with different current injections. The voltage difference from the nadir to threshold for the low-threshold calcium current, IT, determined the interburst interval. In contrast, with IH present, the rate of depolarization depended on injected current. With the full model, simulated repetitive cortical synaptic input entrained oscillations up to approximately double the natural frequency. Cortical input readily produced phase resetting as well. Our findings suggest that neither ascending brainstem control altering underlying hyperpolarization, nor descending drive by repetitive cortical inputs, would alone be sufficient to produce the range of oscillation frequencies seen in thalamocortical neurons. Instead, intrinsic neuronal mechanisms would dominate for generating the delta range (0.5-4 Hz) oscillations seen during slow wave sleep, whereas synaptic interactions with cortex and the thalamic reticular nucleus would be required for faster oscillations in the frequency range of spindling (7-14 Hz).
Previous research has demonstrated increased messenger RNA expression and peptide content in an opioid system localized to hippocampal dentate granule cells in aged rats. This altered regulation of dynorphin was correlated with the emergence of an age-related impairment in spatial learning. Considerable evidence exists for additional effects of aging on systems that provide input to the dynorphin-containing dentate granule cells. Such changes have been well documented for loss of perforant path innervation from entorhinal cortex, deterioration in septohippocampal cholinergic neurons, and high amounts of glucocorticoids that have, among their targets, receptors located in the dentate gyrus. Similar to the effects of aging on hippocampal dynorphin, age-related changes in each of these systems correlate with the severity of spatial learning impairment in aged rats. This raises the possibility that dysregulation of dynorphin in the aged brain is a reactive response to antecedant change(s) in this circuitry, a hypothesis that was examined by separately manipulating in young rats the three neural/neuroendocrine systems identified above. Of the three models examined only removal of the perforant path reproduced the effect of aging on dynorphin in the hippocampal formation. An immunotoxin was used in Experiment 1 to selectively remove septo-hippocampal cholinergic neurons in young rats. No alteration in hippocampal opioid peptides was produced by this treatment. Experiment 2 examined effects of exposure to excess corticosterone. Adrenalectomized rats exhibited a significant decrease in hippocampal dynorphin-A (1-8) content, which was reversed by corticosterone replacement at a concentration approximating normal basal levels. Dynorphin-A (1-8) content, however, was not reliably increased by exposure to excess corticosterone. In contrast, perforant path removal was found to reproduce the effect of aging on dynorphin content; either aspiration of the entorhinal cortex or knife-cut transections of the perforant path reliably increased hippocampal dynorphin content. These results support the conclusion that age-related deterioration in the septohippocampal cholinergic system and evaluated exposure to corticosterone are not sufficient to induce an elevation in hippocampal dynorphin content. Only removal of the perforant path innervation was found to reproduce the elevation in hippocampal dynorphin content observed in aged rats with hippocampal-dependent learning impairment.
The effects of selective D1 or D2 dopamine receptor agonists and the indirect dopamine agonist cocaine on hippocampal acetylcholine release in mice of the C57BL/6 and DBA/2 inbred strains were investigated using intracerebral microdialysis. The D1 SKF 38393 (10, 20, 30 mg/kg, i.p.), the D2 agonist LY 171555 (0.5, 1, 2 mg/kg, i.p.) and cocaine (5, 10, 15 mg/kg, i.p.) all increased, dose-dependently, acetylcholine release in the hippocampus of C57BL/6 mice. Both the D1 agonist and cocaine did not produce any significant effect in DBA/2 mice. In the latter strain, however, LY 171555 produced a decrease in acetylcholine release that was evident after 60 min from injection of the doses of 0.5 and 1 mg/kg, but not at the dose of 2 mg/kg. The effects observed in C57BL/6 mice as well as those produced by low doses of LY 171555 in the DBA/2 strain were consistent with previous results obtained in rats. The present results indicate major strain-dependent differences in the effects of dopamine agonists on hippocampal acetylcholine release in mice. Moreover, they suggest a complex genotype-related neural organization of dopamine-acetylcholine interactions in the mesolimbic system. Finally, the strain differences in the effects of the dopamine agonists on hippocampal acetylcholine release parallel previously reported strain differences in the effects of these substances on memory consolidation.
Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors are assembled from the four subunits GluR1, 2, 3, 4 (or GluRA, B, C, D). AMPA channels that do not contain the GluR2 subunit are permeable to calcium. Recent studies indicate that excitotoxic as well as epileptic and ischemic cell damage may be mediated not only by N-methyl-Daspartate receptors, but also by AMPA receptors. The majority of interneurons in the hippocampus are resistant, but subsets of interneurons are consistently damaged in different disease states. Single immunolabeling using antibodies against AMPA receptor subunits, together with double immunolabeling for calcium-binding proteins (parvalbumin, calbindin and calretinin) and the neuropeptide somatostatin, were performed to study GluR1-4 immunoreactivity in interneuronal populations and principal cells. The ultrastructure of GluR1-4 labeled neurons was also examined using electron microscopy. With the exception of calbindin-positive interneurons, GluR2/3 was absent from hippocampal interneurons in both rat and monkey. In the rat, interneurons were more strongly immunoreactive against GluR1 than principal cells. In the monkey, immunoreactivity for GluR4 in interneurons was stronger than for GluR1. All GluR subunits were confined to spines, dendritic membrane and cytoplasm surrounding the nucleus but absent from axons and presynaptic terminals. Our findings suggest that hippocampal principal cells and interneurons express different complements of AMPA receptor subunits. Furthermore, the absence of GluR2 and/or GluR3 in both vulnerable and resistant interneurons subtypes indicates that knowledge of receptor subunit composition is not sufficient to predict neuronal vulnerability.
We have examined the role of metabotropic glutamate receptor activation in regulating neurotrophin messenger RNA levels in the brain with the use of the selective agonist (1S,3R)-1-aminocy-clopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid. Intracerebroventricular injection of (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid into adult adult rats resulted in increased expression of nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in the hippocampal and pyriform cortex and decreased levels of neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA in the hippocampal dentate gyrus granule cell layer. C-fos messenger RNA levels were also increased throughout hippocampal and cortical subfields following (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid administration. (1S,3R)-1-Aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid-induced changes in messenger RNA levels occurred without behavioral seizures, yet these changes were similar in magnitude and time course to early changes in neurotrophin and c-fos messenger RNA levels observed following recurrent limbic seizures. In contrast quisqualate, a potent agonist of metabotropic as well as ionotropic kainate/alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptors, was only capable of inducing increased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA at doses which produced recurrent motor seizures, and both effects were completely inhibited by the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Neurotrophin messenger RNA changes induced by (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid were also partially susceptible to 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione antagonism, as well as the specific N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydroxy-5H-dibenzo(a,d)-cyclohepten-5,10- iminedizoleipine. These results suggest that (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid-sensitive metabotropic glutamate receptors can dramatically increase the expression of neurotrophin and c-fos messenger RNAs in rat forebrain without producing significant behavioral trauma and that these influences may involve ionotropic glutamate receptors in certain brain regions.
Nerve growth factor is a member of the neurotrophin gene family and acts as a neurotrophic factor on a variety of neuronal populations. Nerve growth factor biological action is mediated by binding to the transmembrane tyrosine kinase trkA, although the low affinity neurotrophin receptor p75 may also play a role. TrkA messenger RNA in the central nervous system is localized within a small number of specific neuronal populations, as opposed to the widespread expression of the other members of the trk family, trkB and trkC. In particular, cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain, the prototype of nerve growth factor-sensitive neurons in the brain express trkA. Several lines of evidence indicate that other populations of central neurons, in particular hippocampal neurons, may be responsive to nerve growth factor as well. In fact, nerve growth factor rescues hippocampal neurons from ischemic cell death in vivo and increases neurotransmitter release from hippocampal neurons in culture. Moreover, nerve growth factor has been implicated in spatial learning, a process known to be dependent on the hippocampal formation. The following paper reports expression of trkA messenger RNA in the rat hippocampus by in situ hybridization and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. This finding supports the notion of hippocampal neurons as an nerve growth factor-sensitive population.
We have used intracellular dye-filling combined with multiple-labelling immunofluorescence to examine the dendritic morphology of neurons and their relations with neuropeptide-containing preganglionic terminals in the lumbar sympathetic chain of guinea-pigs. Presumptive vasoconstrictor neurons with immunoreactivity for both tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y dendritic fields that were significantly smaller, on average, than those of presumptive pilomotor neurons containing immunoreactivity to tyrosine hydroxylase but not to neuropeptide Y. However, there was considerable variation in the sizes of the dendritic fields of the vasoconstrictor neurons. Preganglionic nerve terminals containing immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide, but not to substance P, only surrounded cell bodies of vasoconstrictor neurons containing immunoreactivity to tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y. In most cases, the neuropeptide-containing preganglionic terminals were not associated closely with the distal dendrites of these neurons. Few neuropeptide-containing terminals were associated closely with either the cell bodies or dendrites of the pilomotor neurons. These results show that there is a considerable range in the size of dendritic trees of sympathetic final motor neurons. Some of this variation is related to the pathways within which the neurons lie, so that presumptive pilomotor neurons generally are larger than presumptive vasoconstrictor neurons. The marked variation in size of vasoconstrictor neurons raises the possibility that there may be a size dependent recruitment of these neurons, similar to that seen in pools of spinal motor neurons. The distribution of the peptide-containing preganglionic endings suggests that they would act predominantly at the cell body and proximal dendrites of the final motor neurons.
Cell surface expression of the NR1a subunit has been examined in mouse L cell lines permanently transfected with the complementary DNA for human NR1a or with the complementary DNAs for NR1a and NR2A. The expression of the subunits was under the control of the murine mammary tumour virus promoter and following induction of expression by dexamethazone both cell lines expressed high levels of the NR1a subunit as determined by immunofluorescence using permeabilized cells and immunoblotting of cell membranes with subunit specific antibodies. However, cell surface expression of the NR1a subunit was found only in the cells expressing both the NR1a and NR2A subunits. This was confirmed by cell surface biotinylation of the two cell lines and affinity isolation of the receptor subunits. To determine if this result was solely due to the use of a particular cell line and or the choice of expression vector, Cos-7 cells were transiently transfected with either NR1a or NR1a plus NR2A. Here too cell surface expression was only found following co-transfection of both subunits.
A number of neuronal functions governed by the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus are influenced by serotonin, and it is generally believed that the moderate density of serotonin-immunoreactive fibres and terminals within the paraventricular nucleus originates from the midbrain dorsal and median raphe nuclei. To further evaluate the intricate anatomy of projections from brain stem raphe nuclei of the rat, a combination of retrograde and anterograde tracing experiments were conducted to determine the medullary raphe nuclei projection to the paraventricular nucleus. Rhodamine-labelled latex microspheres, Cholera toxin subunit B and FluoroGold we used as retrograde tracers. Intracerebroventricular injections into the third ventricle of all retrograde tracers labelled a distinct population of neurons in the dorsal raphe situated in the subependymal stratum adjacent to the cerebral aqueduct indicating that these cells take up the tracer from the cerebrospinal fluid. Very few retrogradely labelled neurons were seen in the median raphe after i.c.v. administration of the tracers. Retrograde tracers delivered into the medial part of the paraventricular nucleus labelled no further cells in the midbrain dorsal and median raphe nuclei, whereas a substantial number of retrogradely labelled cells emerged in the pontine raphe magnus. However, when the retrograde tracers were delivered into the lateral part of the paraventricular nucleus, avoiding leakage of the tracer into the ventricle, very few labelled neurons were seen in the dorsal and median raphe, whereas the prominent labelling of raphe magnus neurons persisted. The anatomical organization of nerve fibres terminating in the area of the paraventricular nucleus originating from midbrain raphe nuclei was studied in a series of anterograde tracing experiments using the plant lectin Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. Injections delivered into the dorsal raphe or median raphe labelled but a few fibres in the paraventricular nucleus proper. A high number of fine calibered nerve fibres overlying the ependyma adjacent to the paraventricular nucleus was, however, seen after the injections into the subependymal rostral part of the dorsal raphe. Injections delivered into the raphe magnus gave rise to a dense plexus of terminating fibres in the parvicellular parts of the paraventricular nucleus and moderately innervated the posterior magnocellular part of the paraventricular nucleus as well as the magnocellular supraoptic nucleus. Concomitant visualization of serotonin-immunoreactive neurons and retrograde FluoroGold-tracing from the paraventricular nucleus revealed that none of the serotonergic neurons of the raphe magnus projects to this nucleus, while a few of the neurons putatively projecting to the paraventricular nucleus from the median raphe are serotonergic. The current observations suggest that the raphe magnus constitute by far the largest raphe input to the paraventricular nucleus and strongly questions the earlier held view that most raphe fibres innervating the paraventricular nucleus are derived from the midbrain dorsal and median raphe. However, the source of serotonergic innervation of the paraventricular nucleus remains elusive.
Aging is associated with a variety of alterations in circadian rhythms, including changes in the response to environmental stimuli. The underlying causes for these age-related changes in the circadian system remain unknown. Recent studies have demonstrated that light induces the expression of Fos and phosphorylation of the cyclic-AMP response element-binding protein in the rodent suprachiasmatic nuclei, the location of a master circadian pacemaker in mammals, suggesting that these transcription factors may mediate the effects of light on the circadian clock. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of aging upon light-induced phase-shifting of circadian locomotor activity rhythms, Fos protein expression and cyclic-AMP response element-binding protein phosphorylation in the suprachiasmatic nuclei. Young (three to four months) and old (18-22 months) male golden hamsters free-running in constant darkness were exposed to 5-min monochromatic light pulses of different irradiance levels, at circadian time 19, after which either steady-state phase shifts of locomotor activity rhythms were measured, or else immunocytochemistry for Fos or for phospho-cyclic-AMP response element-binding protein was performed. Old hamsters were approximately 20 times less sensitive to the phase-shifting effects of light on the activity rhythm, and the photic irradiance threshold for Fos-like immunoreactivity induction in the suprachiasmatic nuclei was elevated when compared to young animals. Aging was also associated with a deficit in cyclic-AMP response element-binding protein phosphorylation by light. These data indicate that there are dramatic changes in light-activated molecular responses in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of old hamsters, and suggest that these molecular changes may underlie age-related changes in the effects of light on the circadian clock system.
Behavioral studies support the importance of the medial prefrontal cortex in the circuitry of drug-reinforced behavior, yet the neurophysiological correlates of this phenomenon remain unclear. The present study evaluates opioid neuropharmacology in the medial prefrontal cortex of the anesthetized rat. The effects of both systemic and local application of mu agonists on individual neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex were examined. Systemic morphine was found to inhibit (63%), excite (4%) or have no effect on (33%) spontaneous firing. The inhibitory response was reversed by systemic naloxone in 77% of the cases. Electrophoretic application of a mu-selective agonist, [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin, had mixed effects on cell activity. While most cells exhibited no change in firing rate (53%), 38% showed inhibition of spontaneous activity. The [D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin-evoked inhibitory responses were antagonized by electrophoresis of naloxone (86%). These results indicate that the medial prefrontal cortex might directly mediate some portion of the overall response to opiates in reinforcement or self-administration paradigms. The naloxone-reversible inhibition of firing seen following both systemic and local application of predominantly mu-selective agonists argues for a direct involvement of medial prefrontal cortical neurons in opiate-induced effects. However, the smaller percentage of cells inhibited by local versus systemic application of mu agonists also supports an influence of other brain circuitry in this response.
Glutamatergic and GABAergic responses of the neostriatal spiny neurons to intrastriatal and cortical stimulation were characterized by intracellular recording in brain slice preparations. This study also demonstrated the role of each response in the spike activity of the spiny neuron. Single neostriatal stimulation induced postsynaptic potentials consisting of multiple components. The early part of the postsynaptic potential, which was isolated by the GABAA antagonist bicuculline methiodide and the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 3-(2-carboxypiperzin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP), was mainly an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA)/kainate receptor-mediated response. Perfusion of magnesium-free medium containing bicuculline methiodide and the AMPA/kainate antagonist 3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo[f]quinoxaline (NBQX) disclosed a large, slow N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated response. The N-methyl-D-aspartate response in magnesium-containing perfusing medium was small in neurons at the resting membrane potential, but became a significant component when the neurons were depolarized to subthreshold membrane potential. The duration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate response was over 300 ms. The nicotinic antagonists dihydro-beta-erythroidine hydrobromide and mecamylamine failed to change responses to single stimulation. Repetitive intrastriatal stimulation induced a large, long-duration depolarization with action potentials in the spiny neurons. This stimulation-induced response resembles that of the depolarization stage observed in anesthetized animals. Bicuculline methiodide increased the response amplitude. In contrast, CPP reduced the amplitude of the response to the below the spike generation threshold. The CPP-sensitive N-methyl-D-aspartate response was large and lasted several hundred milliseconds after the termination of repetitive stimulation. Responses of the neostriatal neurons to cortical stimulation were similar to those induced after intrastriatal stimulation. CPP greatly reduced both the response amplitude and the number of spikes triggered from the response. Bicuculline methiodide, on the other hand, greatly increased the response amplitude and the number of spikes. The AMPA/kainate response alone, which was isolated by application of bicuculline methiodide and CPP, did not induce sustained depolarization in spiny neurons to repetitive cortical stimulation. Application of NBQX diminished GABAA response to cortical stimulation. This observation indicates that, for neostriatal spiny neurons to respond with GABAA response after cortical stimulation, the AMPA/kainate response must be induced in the GABAergic secondary neurons in the neostriatum. This study indicates that the main synaptic driving forces of neostriatal spiny neurons include AMPA/kainate, N-methyl-D-aspartate and GABAA responses. Although AMPA/kainate response is the main synaptic input, the generation of the action potentials in neostriatal neurons is greatly influenced by both GABAA and N-methyl-D-aspartate responses.
Neural dynamics in organotypic cortex-striatum co-cultures grown for three to six weeks under conditions of dopamine deficiency are described. Single neuron activities were recorded intra- and extracellularly, and spatiotemporal spreading of population activity was mapped using voltage-sensitive dyes. The temporal properties of spike firing were characterized by interspike interval histograms, autocorrelation and crosscorrelation. Cortical pyramidal neurons (n = 40) showed irregular firing with a weak tendency to burst or to oscillate. Crosscorrelations revealed strong near-coincident firing and synaptic interactions. Disinhibition was a notable feature in a strongly firing cortical interneuron. Cortical activity spread in the co-culture, thus inducing an overall, homogeneous depolarization in the striatal part. Striatal cells were divided into principal cells and type I and II secondary cells. Principal cells (n = 40) were similar to those reported previously in vivo. Spiking activity ranged from irregular spiking at very low rates to episodic bursting, with an average burst duration of 1 s. Interspike intervals were single-peaked. Intracellular recordings revealed characteristic, long-lasting subthreshold depolarizations (&quot;enabled state&quot;) that were shortened by local muscarinic receptor blockade. During prolonged time periods in the &quot;enabled state&quot;, locally applied bicuculline induced strong firing in most principal neurons. Striatal secondary type I neurons (n = 25) showed high spiking rates, single- and double-peaked interval histograms and low-threshold, short-lasting stereotyped bursting activity and occasional rhythmic bursting. The firing of these neurons was increased by bicuculline. Crosscorrelations showed synchronization of these cells with principal cell activity. Secondary type II neurons (n = 15) revealed tonic, irregular firing patterns similar to cortical neurons, except with occasional firing in doublet spikes. We conclude that under conditions of dopamine deficiency in corticostriatal co-cultures (i) the cortex induces the &quot;enabled&quot; state and typical bursting mode in striatal principal neurons; (ii) principal neurons are strongly inhibited during the &quot;enabled&quot; state; (iii) muscarinic activity, presumably from tonically active striatal cholinergic interneurons, stabilizes the &quot;enabled&quot; state; (iv) striatal GABAergic interneurons receives synaptic inhibition and take part in synchronized activity among striatal principal cells. Our results favor the view of the striatum as a lateral inhibition network.
An in vitro system was established to analyse corticostriatal processing. Cortical and striatal slices taken at postnatal days 0-2 were co-cultured for three to six weeks. The anatomy of the organotypic co-cultures was determined using immunohistochemistry. In the cortex parvalbumin-positive and calbindin-positive cells, which resembled those seen in vivo, had laminar distributions. In the striatum, strongly stained parvalbumin-positive cells resembling striatal GABAergic interneurons and cholinergic interneurons were scattered throughout the tissue. The soma area of these interneuron classes was larger than the average striatal soma area, thus enabling visual selection of cells by class before recording. Cortical neurons with projections to the striatum showed similar morphological features to corticostriatal projection neurons in vivo. No projections from the striatum to the cortex were found. Intracellular recordings were obtained from 94 neurons. These were first classified on the basis of electrophysiological characteristics and the morphologies of cells in each class were reconstructed. Two types of striatal secondary neurons with unique electrophysiological dynamics were identified: GABAergic interneurons (n = 17) and large aspiny, probably cholinergic, interneurons (n = 15). The electrophysiological and morphological characteristics of cortical pyramidal cells (n = 27), cortical interneurons (n = 1), as well as striatal principal neurons (n = 34), were identical to those reported for similar ages in vivo. Organotypic cortex-striatum co-cultures are therefore suitable as an in vitro system in which to analyse corticostriatal processing. The network dynamics, which developed spontaneously in that system, are examined in the companion paper.
Previous studies have demonstrated that the ventrolateral region of the rat neostriatum is the site at which dopamine depletions produce profound motor deficits that interfere with food handling and lever pressing. In the present work, two experiments were undertaken to investigate the role of ventrolateral striatal dopamine in lever pressing. The first experiment was a detailed characterization of the motor impairments induced by injections of the neurotoxic agent 6-hydroxydopamine into the ventrolateral striatum. Behavioral output during lever pressing on a fixed ratio 5 schedule was recorded by a computerized system that measured the duration and response initiation time for each lever press. Response initiation time was defined as the time from offset of one lever press to the onset of the next one. Dopamine depletions resulting from 6-hydroxydopamine injections profoundly depressed lever pressing response rate. This deficit was largely due to a dramatic increase in the average response initiation time. Analysis of the distribution of response initiation times indicated that dopamine-depleted rats made relatively few responses with fast initiation times (e.g. 0-125 ms), and also that dopamine depletions led to a dramatic increase in the number of pauses in responding (i.e. response initiation times greater than 2.5 s). This slowing of the initiation of movement was very sensitive to the effects of dopamine depletions, and even animals with mild dopamine depletions (29.1% of control levels) showed increased initiation times. Analysis of response durations indicated that dopamine depletions resulted in a shift in the distribution of durations such that depleted rats had a modal response duration of 375-500 ms, in contrast to the control mode of 125-250 ms. There was an overall increase in average response duration among animals with more severe dopamine depletions, although rats with moderate depletions showed no change in average response duration. In the second experiment, in vivo dialysis methods were used to study the dynamic activity of ventrolateral striatal dopamine during lever pressing. During the performance of a 30-min fixed ratio 5 lever pressing session, there was a small but significant increase (20.9% above baseline) in dopamine release. There was not a linear or curvilinear correlation between lever pressing rate and increases in dopamine release. The relatively modest increase in ventrolateral striatal dopamine release during lever pressing and the lack of relation between dopamine release and behavioral output may indicate that dopamine in the ventrolateral striatum plays mainly a permissive role in lever pressing. These results suggest that ventrolateral striatal dopamine depletions in rats produce deficits in skilled motor control that are similar to the motor deficits observed in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Insulin-like growth factor-I elicits a long-term depression of the glutamate-induced GABA release in the adult rat cerebellum that lasts at least several hours. We studied whether protein kinase C and nitric oxide may be involved in this effect of insulin-like growth factor-I on GABA release since both signalling pathways have been implicated in other forms of neuromodulation in the cerebellum. By using microdialysis in the adult rat cerebellum, we found that either an inhibitor of protein kinase C (staurosporine) or of nitric oxide synthase (Nw-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester) counteracted the long-term, but not the acute effects of insulin-like growth factor-I on glutamate-induced GABA release. On the contrary, when either an activator of protein kinase C (phorbol ester), or an nitric oxide donor (L-arginine), were given with glutamate, they mimicked only the acute effects of insulin-like growth factor-I on glutamate-induced GABA release. Finally, when both protein kinase C and nitric oxide-synthase were simultaneously inhibited by conjoint administration of staurosporine and Nw-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, a complete blockage of both the short and the long-term effects of insulin-like growth factor-I on GABA release was obtained. These results, indicate that: (i) activation by insulin-like growth factor-I of either the protein kinase C or nitric oxide-signalling pathways is sufficient for the short-term inhibition of glutamate-induced GABA release; and (ii) simultaneous activation of both the protein kinase C and the nitric oxide signalling pathways is necessary for insulin-like growth factor-I to induce a long-term depression of GABA responses to glutamate. Thus, long-term depression of glutamate-induced GABA release by insulin-like growth factor-I in the cerebellum is mediated by simultaneous activation of both protein kinase C and nitric oxide-signalling pathways.
Myelinated nerve fibres become beaded when nerves are subjected to a mild stretch; the beading is seen as varicosities, a series of alternating constrictions and enlargements, when using freeze-substitution or cold-fixation to hold this labile form change in place during fixation. One possibility for how this form change comes about is that the myelin sheath or its Schwann cell initiates beading. We now report, however, that a similar beading is seen in the axons of unmyelinated fibres. In electron micrographs, longitudinal sections of axons show the series of constrictions and expansions typical of beading. In cross-sections, axons with unusually small diameter, corresponding to the constrictions, are seen to contain closely packed microtubules and neurofilaments while neighbouring swollen axons with widely dispersed microtubules correspond to the beading expansions. Another possibility for the form change is that the cytoskeleton is responsible for beading. We discovered that direct exposure of nerves to beta, beta'-iminodipropionitrile in vitro for 1-6 h causes both axonal microtubules and neurofilaments to become degraded and replaced by an amorphous residue. Nevertheless, beta,beta'-iminodipropionitrile-treated nerves show constrictions in myelinated fibres when stretched. An even greater degree of beading with narrower and longer constrictions appears in some fibres, with the expanded regions having oblate ends giving the appearance of a string of sausages. In cross-sections taken through the constrictions, a greater than usual reduction of axonal area was seen, this was due to the loss of cytoskeletal organelles which would act to limit the degree of constriction. With longer exposure to beta, beta'-iminodipropinitrile more fibres show complete degeneration of the cytoskeleton and form ovoids typical of Wallerian degeneration. Unmyelinated axons of beta, beta'-iminodipropionitrile-treated nerves which showed degeneration of their cytoskeleton with its replacement by amorphous material still demonstrated beading. As neither the myelin sheath nor the intact cytoskeleton within the axon is necessary for beading, by exclusion, we consider beading constrictions to be initiated at the level of the axolemma. In our hypothesis the membrane skeleton is responsible; namely, the spectrin, actin and other molecular species lining the inside of the axolemma and binding to transmembrane proteins. The membrane skeleton may be activated by stretch via transmembrane proteins (e.g. beta 1-integrins). The membrane skeleton mechanism may also be directly engaged in the production of Wallerian degeneration or be induced by neurotoxic agents.
We have examined whether p21Ras proteins can rescue nerve growth factor-deprived rat sympathetic neurons from death, to test further our hypothesis that p21Ras is a central mediator in the nerve growth factor-to-survival signalling pathway. After crosslinking [125I]nerve growth factor to live neurons, two forms of Trk (molecular weight approximately 140,000 and 115,000) were immunoprecipitated with anti-Trk antibodies. Nerve growth factor induced tyrosine phosphorylation of both Trk forms and at least two additional proteins. When these phosphorylations were prevented by staurosporine (in a protein kinase C-independent manner) the neurons died. However, neurons were rescued from death due to staurosporine treatment by intracellular loading of oncogenic Ha-Ras(val12) protein. Both Ha-Ras(val12) and cellular Ha-Ras proteins maintained survival for several days in the absence of nerve growth factor and mimicked other actions of nerve growth factor, inducing rapid c-Fos protein expression and robust neurite outgrowth. Conversely, Fab fragments of neutralizing antibodies to p21Ras which blocked the capacity of nerve growth factor to promote neuron survival were also found to inhibit the early expression of c-Fos protein in these neurons. The close correspondence observed between the timing of onset of c-Fos responsiveness and acquisition of nerve growth factor-dependence in embryonic day 17 sympathetic neurons, and the coordinate increase found in both parameters until embryonic day 19 indicates that c-Fos protein expression is a good biochemical indicator of the presence of a functional nerve growth factor-to-survival signal transduction pathway. Nevertheless, expression of c-Fos is not sufficient for survival since phorbol esters induce c-Fos with no effect on survival. These data strengthen our proposal that p21Ras proteins are crucial anti-apoptotic mediators of survival in rat sympathetic neurons by demonstrating that p21Ras is both necessary and sufficient to rescue neurons which are disabled from signalling through Trk receptors.
Activation of both calcium and AMP-dependent regulatory pathways promotes survival of cerebellar neurons in vitro. Complex cellular programs such as survival must involve precise genetic responses. We show here, at the genomic level, that depolarization potentiates AMP-driven transcription of a variety of genes including the c-fos and c-jun proto-oncogenes, and the gene for somatostatin, proenkephalin and nerve growth factor. We used a reporter gene driven by the minimal AMP-responsive element (TGACGTCA) as a model system for studying this class of genes. In primary neurons, this reporter construct is co-activated in a synergistic manner by forskolin and KCl. We show that, in contrast to AMP, calcium-driven transcription does not require functional AMP-dependent protein kinase. Thus, when calcium and AMP levels are increased, these two second messengers stimulate transcription through different kinases which converge at the level of the AMP-responsive element. In addition, lower levels of intracellular free calcium can potentiate AMP-dependent transcription. This effect results from increased cyclic AMP accumulation and is strictly mediated by the AMP/AMP-dependent protein kinase pathway. In summary, low and high calcium concentrations potentiate AMP-dependent transcription via distinct mechanisms. Low calcium increases AMP production, whereas high calcium activates a non-cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, which in turn synergizes with AMP-activated transcription. These distinct mechanisms are likely to operate under specific physiological conditions within the neuronal network.
It has been suggested that beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine, a non-protein amino acid present in the Lathyrus Sativus seeds, may play a role in the etiopathogenesis of neurolathyrism, a toxic form of motor neuron disease clinically characterized by a severe spastic paraparesis. In order to investigate the mechanisms of beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine-mediated cell death, we studied the effect of this neurotoxin as well as other excitatory amino acids agonists on the growth and survival of motoneuron hybrid ventral spinal cord 4.1 cells. beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine was toxic to ventral spinal cord 4.1 cells in a concentration-dependent fashion (0.5-10 mM). Among the excitatory amino acids tested, only glutamate (1-10 mM), quisqualate (1 mM) and, with less extent, beta-N-methylamino-L-alanine (10 mM) induced a significant reduction of cell survival. The effect of Lathyrus Sativus neurotoxin was a slow process, becoming apparent only after 24-48 h of incubation. Interestingly, a mathematical analysis applied to the time course and dose curve of beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine toxicity suggested that even for very low concentrations of the amino acid it is theoretically possible to predict a time-dependent effect. The cell death was not blocked by antagonists of N-methyl-D-aspartate or non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors; aurintricarboxylic acid and alpha-tocopherol gave a partial protection; cysteine (1 mM) prevented the toxic effect of both Lathyrus Sativus neurotoxin and glutamate as well as quisqualate. Morphologically, in the presence of either beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine, glutamate or quisqualate, ventral spinal cord 4.1 cells showed apoptotic features also confirmed by ISEL technique and agarose gel electrophoresis of genomic DNA. Thus, our results suggest that in ventral spinal cord 4.1 motoneuron hybrid cells, in the absence of functional synaptic excitatory amino acid receptors, beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine induces cell degeneration through an apoptotic mechanism, possibly mediated by a block of cystine/glutamate Xc antiporter.
Fast cyclic voltammetry at a carbon fibre microelectrode was used to measure dopamine release following electrical or chemical stimulation in rat brain slices incorporating either the ventral tegmental area or the core region of the nucleus accumbens. Electrical or chemical stimulation gave clear voltammetric signals which corresponded to dopamine; less dopamine was released in the ventral tegmental area than in the nucleus accumbens. In contrast to the nucleus accumbens, electrically stimulated dopamine release in the ventral tegmental area was not sensitive to tetrodotoxin, was not modified by the presence of dopamine uptake inhibitors, or agonist or blockers acting at dopamine D2 autoreceptors.
Injury to the central nervous system initiates a series of signals that control cell survival and rearrangement, leading to some functional recovery. Using a unilateral model of hypoxic-ischemic brain injury, we report strong induction of inhibin beta A and alpha subunit messenger RNA in several regions of the brain and provide evidence for novel roles for the inhibin/activin family of peptides in modulating neural function. Expression was visualized by in situ hybridization and the beta A subunit was observed as early as 1 h after injury in the dentate gyrus of the non-ligated hemisphere. Strong induction was seen in the hippocampus, piriform cortex and amygdala on the non-ligated hemisphere 24 h after injury. The early induction of inhibin beta A was associated with seizure activity, since administration of the anticonvulsant carbamazepine (8 mg/kg) markedly attenuated the signal. Only background expression was observed for the alpha and beta B subunits at these early time points. A bilateral induction of both beta A and alpha subunit messenger RNA was demonstrated in the meningeal membrane from three to seven days after injury. This second wave was not blocked by carbamazepine. Thirdly, beta A and alpha subunit expression was observed in the infarct from days 5 to 7. However, expression was not co-localized with isolectin B4 staining for reactive microglia or astrocytes, but instead the pattern of distribution strongly suggested that inhibin/activin was induced around microvessels. These data demonstrated three distinct waves of beta A subunit expression following hypoxic-ischemic injury, two of which coincided with alpha subunit expression. The early induction of beta A subunit was seizure related, whereas subsequent co-induction of beta A and alpha subunit suggested involvement in vascular and meningeal reactions. These results suggest specific roles for both activin and inhibin in the central nervous system during recovery from injury.
Laser-Doppler flowmetry provides a continuous measurement of blood flow without violating the natural state of circulation. The linearity of the laser-Doppler and hydrogen clearance methods of blood flow measurement were compared using a protocol that produced changes in cerebral blood flow that might be experienced in a neurosurgical setting. Cerebral blood flow was measured in both hemispheres of 12 adult cats during the snaring of one common carotid artery, the intracisternal injection of 5 mg of 5-hydroxytryptamine creatinine sulfate, and hypervolemic hemodilution, which produced a 25% reduction in blood hematocrit. The percentage of baseline laser-Doppler flowmetry and hydrogen clearance flows showed an acceptable degree of correlation (R2 = 0.762) over the range of cerebral blood flows measured. More rigorous analysis using Bland and Altman's difference against mean test showed that 10 minutes after hemodilution, the two methods displayed a level of variation outside the limits of agreement (-21.85 to 22.03%). Laser-Doppler flowmetry provided a noninvasive and continuous measure of blood flow, increasing the ability to observe instantaneous changes in cerebral microcirculation. However, laser-Doppler flowmetry did not record absolute blood flow, was affected by cerebral tissue shrinkage, and did not accurately measure flow under conditions of changed blood hematocrit.
Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) is mutated in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. It has been established that CFTR functions as a cAMP-dependent chloride channel. Therefore mutation of CFTR causes the abnormality of the chloride ion secretion. Furthermore, it has been shown recently that CFTR functions as cAMP-dependent negative regulator of sodium channels. The evidence accounts an abnormally high rate of sodium ion in the airway epithelia of the CF patients.
Findings from basic neuroscience have provided information on the effects of estrogen on brain morphology and chemistry that explain how this sex steroid may influence brain function. The clinical literature shows that estrogen enhances mood and specific aspects of cognitive functioning in postmenopausal women. There is also evidence that estrogenic effects on various psychological functions are dissociable and specific. Although several recent epidemiologic case-control studies have suggested a protective effect of estrogen against Alzheimer disease, these findings need to be verified by prospective, controlled investigations.

The study was conducted to investigate which areas of the brain respond to a painful encounter of minor dermal injury (a model of clinical pain) elicited by intracutaneous injection of a minute amount of ethanol. Four healthy volunteers (27-46 years) were subjected to positron emission tomographic (PET) investigation of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), using [15O]butanol as tracer. The ethanol (20 microliters, 70%) and saline (20 microliters, 0.9%) were injected intracutaneously 3 times in a single-blinded, semi-randomised manner for the pain experiment. All the injections were performed, adjacent to each other, at the lateral aspect of the right upper arm. Subjective sensory intensity of pain, unpleasantness and anxiety were rated with separate 100-mm visual analogue scales together with the Spielberger's State Anxiety Inventory (Spielberger et al. 1970) and heart rate. Paired-subtraction (pixel-by-pixel) between ethanol and saline was performed. Traumatic pain significantly caused higher ratings of intensity and affect scales, i.e., pain intensity, unpleasantness and increased sympathetic activity (evidenced by tachycardia). In contrast the anxiety rating remained unchanged. Acute traumatic nociceptive pain prominently activated the hypothalamus and periaqueductal gray (PAG). In addition, activations of the prefrontal cortex (PFC), insular, anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), posterior parietal cortex (PPC), primary motor/somatosensory areas (MI/SI: face, upper arm), supplementary motor area (SMA), and cerebellum were also demonstrated. The central processing of the pain-relevant/anticipatory arousal also engaged the PAG. This study demonstrates the involvement of the human cerebral cortex in perception, arousal, cognitive evaluative processes, and, hence, affective reactions (somatic/ autonomic outflow) associated with pain. The pain stimulus of traumatic character may, by its very nature, evoke the central processing to involve both the hypothalamus and the PAG.
Infantile nephropathic cystinosis is a genetic metabolic disorder in which the amino acid cystine accumulates in various organs, including the kidney, cornea, thyroid, and brain. Despite normal intellect, individuals with cystinosis may have specific impairments in the processing of visual information. To examine further the specific types of deficits in visual processing found in individuals with cystinosis, we administered the Development Test of Visual-motor Integration to 26 children with cystinosis (4 to 16 yr. old) and 26 matched controls. The cystinosis group achieved a significantly lower standard score, raw score, and mean ceiling than did the control group. Qualitative analyses showed that in the cystinosis group, size within errors and rotation errors were more prevalent than in the control group. Correlational analyses showed that with advancing age, the cystinosis subjects tended to fall further behind their chronological age. Our data, together with the findings of previous studies, suggest that the visuospatial difficulties in children with cystinosis may be due to inadequate perception or processing of visually presented information. Furthermore, the increasing discrepancy with age may reflect a progressive cognitive impairment, possibly as a result of cystine accumulation in the brain over time.
Long-term administration of neuroleptics to rats produces a syndrome of vacuous chewing movements (VCMs). The validity of the VCM syndrome as a model for tardive dyskinesia (TD) in humans is unclear. This is due, in part, to inconsistencies between studies. Methods for rating VCMs have varied markedly and could account for the inconsistencies. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the importance of the different methods on VCM scores. The effects of habituation and length of rating sessions were examined in rats habituated for 2 min, 1 h, or several hours over 4 days, compared to unhabituated rats. Ratings with and without habituation were highly correlated, as were ratings from 2- and 5-min observation periods. Ratings from neuroleptic-treated rats in restraining tubes, however, were significantly correlated with unrestrained ratings only following several hours of habituation. Locomotor activity was not correlated with VCM scores. These results suggest that habituation to open cages is not an important factor in assessing VCMs. Use of restraining tubes, however, may alter scores. The lack of an habituation effect or of a relationship between activity and VCMs suggests that locomotor and oral behaviors are not necessarily in competition. Restraining rats to rate VCMs does not appear to be necessary and could alter the neurobiology of VCMs.
We evaluated the effects of two drugs active at serotonin receptors, 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT, a 5-HT1A agonist) and N-3-trifluoromethylphenyl)piperazine hydrochloride (TFMPP, a 5-HT2C agonist) on learning using a novel water maze previously characterized in our laboratory. The water maze utilized is a traditional type of maze with alleyways and doors through which the rats learn to swim to reach a platform, unlike the open pool Morris water maze task. Performance is assessed by swim time required to reach the platform and errors committed. Following initial training on maze configuration A, rats were assigned to saline, TFMPP and 8-OH-DPAT treatment groups and tested for performance once per dose, 30 min after administration of drug (0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 mg/kg IP). Swim times were significantly increased as compared to saline for all doses for both drugs. The error rate was increased for 8-OH-DPAT at all doses, while TFMPP had no effect on error rate at any dose. Next, rats were challenged to learn new mazes following daily administration of 0.25 or 0.5 mg/kg of each drug 30 min prior to each daily swim trial. Rats given 0.25 mg/kg of 8-OH-DPAT learned new maze C more slowly than saline-treated rats, while TFMPP had no effect at this dose. At the higher dose of 0.5 mg/kg, tested on new maze B, TFMPP administration significantly increased swim times but not errors, while this dose of 8-OH-DPAT markedly increased both swim time and errors. Finally, rats from all groups were tested on maze E after drug administration was discontinued, and there were no performance differences among groups. These data suggest that serotonin1A receptors may inhibit learning.
One of the reported adverse side effects of the frequently prescribed benzodiazepines diazepam (Valium) and triazolam (Halcion) is an impairment of anterograde memory in humans. The experiments described in this article compared the effects of triazolam and diazepam on performance in a water maze task that is sensitive to drugs that affect learning and memory. The water maze utilized is a traditional type of maze with alleyways and door choices, unlike the Morris open water maze. Time required to find an out-of-the-water platform and errors committed during the swim are used as performance measures. Rats were tested on a previously learned maze configuration and on the acquisition of new maze configurations. Neither diazepam (0.25, 1.0, or 2.0 mg/kg) nor triazolam (0.05, 0.2, or 0.3 mg/kg) injected 30 min prior to testing on the previously learned maze affected swim time or errors committed. Administration of diazepam (0.5, 1.0, or 2.0 mg/kg, IP) prior to daily training on three different new maze configurations did not affect swim time, but did increase swim errors. Triazolam administered at 0.1, 0.2, or 0.3 mg/kg markedly impaired performance as assessed by either swim time or errors. There were no differences in performance of rats previously treated with triazolam, diazepam, or vehicle in learning another new maze after drug treatment was terminated. These data demonstrate that both diazepam and triazolam affect acquisition but not recall of maze configurations and support similar conclusions reached using other types of tasks in humans and animals.
A 45-year-old man developed cerebral vasculitis associated with a systemic hypersensitivity response shortly after commencing treatment with allopurinol. The illness settled on withdrawal of the drug and no other cause was found.
The Y-maze was used to examine the effects of purines acting at A1 and A2 adenosine receptors upon spontaneous alternation, a model of working memory, in mice. In support of previous work, scopolamine produced a loss of spontaneous alternation behaviour to the 0.5 chance level. The A1 receptor selective agonist N6- cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) did not change spontaneous alternation behaviour alone, but it prevented the decrease of spontaneous alternation scores produced by scopolamine. The A1 receptor selective antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (CPX) blocked the effect of CPA in combination with scopolamine but had no effect alone. The A2 receptor selective agonist (N6-[2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-(2- methylphenyl)ethyl] adenosine (DPMA), and the A2 receptor selective antagonist 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX) had no effect of alternation behaviour alone and did not modify the effect of scopolamine. The results indicate the ability of A1 but not A2 receptor activation to modify working memory deficits induced by scopolamine, but suggest that endogenous adenosine does not normally participate in working memory processes.
In vitro preparations for studying the neural control of respiration consisting of brainstem and spinal cord regions isolated from the newborn (PO-P1) precocial rodent, Acomys cahirinus (spiny mouse) are described. Spiny mice have a longer gestation period (39 days) than laboratory rats (22 days) and mice (20 days) and thus are born in a considerably more mature state. We sought to determine if in vitro preparations isolated from spiny mice would spontaneously generate a respiratory motor pattern and thus offer a more mature in vitro model than previously established altricial rodent models. Brain stem-spinal cords isolated from newborn spiny mice, unlike comparable Sprague-Dawley preparations, did not generate a sustained respiratory rhythm. However, spiny mice medullary slice preparations consisting of respiratory rhythm centres generated a stable spontaneous respiratory rhythm. Moreover, spiny mice and Sprague-Dawley medullary preparations responded in a similar fashion to excitatory amino acid, glycine, TRH and, mu-opioid receptor agonists and antagonists. Thus, considering the extended period of fetal development and the maturity of the spiny mouse at birth, medullary slice preparations isolated from this precocial rodent will compliment altricial models for the study of developmental and general neuronal mechanisms underlying respiratory control.
Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that electroacupuncture (EA) using different frequencies produced differential opioid peptides release in the spinal cord of rats and human beings. In the present study we observed the frequency dependence of substance P (SP) release from rat spinal cord, with the frequencies of EA set at 2, 4, 8, 15, 30 and 100 Hz. The spinal perfusate was collected in 3 periods of 30 min before, during and after EA, and the immunoreactive SP (SP-ir) was measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA). The effectiveness of EA-induced analgesia was assessed by tail flick latency (TFL). Rats showing an increase of TFL over 40% was considered as EA responder. The results showed that in the responders, SP-ir in spinal perfusate showed a moderate decrease during 2 Hz EA, (P &lt; 0.01 compared with baseline level), no change in the 4 Hz EA group, and a marked increase during 8, 15, 30 and 100 Hz EA (P &lt; 0.01), with maximal increase occurring at 15 Hz (P &lt; 0.001). The above results suggest that EA may induce upward or downward modulation in SP-ir release depending on the frequency of EA. However in the non-responder rats no change in spinal fluid SP-ir content was observed. This suggests that changes in SP-ir release have same causal relation with the analgesia induced by EA stimulation.


In an extension of our previous work, an antibody directed against a peptide from the N-terminal region of DAT was used to localize specific dopamine transporter immunoreactivity (DAT-IR) in several regions of rat brain. Apparent axons and varicosities were found in the zona incerta, external layer of the median eminence, various nuclei of the amygdala, the cortex-amygdala transition zone, and in periglomerular regions in the olfactory bulb. Apparent stained neuronal perikarya and dendrites were observed in the arcuate nucleus and olfactory bulb. These regions are known to have dopaminergic neurons and innervations, although there was not a perfect correspondence between DAT-IR and the known distribution of dopaminergic neurons. A possible explanation is that different dopamine containing cell groups express different levels of DAT mRNA and protein, as we have previously shown. Also in the tuberoinfundibular neurons, for example, DAT-IR was preferentially localized to distal axons in the median eminence, suggesting intracellular compartmentation.
There is increasing evidence that adenosine (ADO) and dopamine (DA) interact directly in the basal ganglia via actions at ADO A2a and DA D2 receptors, respectively. The purpose of this study was to determine 1) the extent to which these receptors modulate endogenous GABA release in discrete regions of the rat basal ganglia and 2) whether GABA release is modulated by a direct and opposing interaction between ADO A2a and DA D2 receptors. Tissue slices of striatum (STR) containing globus pallidus (GP; STR/GP) and micropunches of STR, GP, and substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) were studied. Radioligand binding demonstrated that ADO A1, ADO A2a, and DA D2 receptors were present in each of the tissue preparations with the exception of SNr, in which ADO A2a receptors were not detected. Stimulation of ADO A2a receptors with CGS 21680 (1-10 nM) increased electrically stimulated GABA release in STR/GP slices and GP micropunches. Consistent with the lack of A2a receptors in SNr, CGS 21680 had no effect on GABA release from this region. In contrast, stimulation of DA D2 receptors with N-0437 (1-100 nM) inhibited evoked GABA release from STR/GP slices and both GP and SNr micropunches. The D2-mediated inhibition of GABA release in GP was abolished in the presence of CGS 21680 (10 nM). These experiments demonstrate that stimulation of ADO A2a and DA D2 receptors has opposing effects on endogenous GABA release in STR and GP. These opposing actions may explain the antagonistic interactions between ADO and DA that have been observed in behavioral studies and support the hypothesis that the striatopallidal efferent system is an important anatomical substrate for the A2a/D2 receptor interaction.
Research pertaining to gene transfer into cells of the nervous system is one of the fastest growing fields in neuroscience. An important application of gene transfer is gene therapy, which is based on introducing therapeutic genes into cells of the nervous system by ex vivo or in vivo techniques. With the eventual development of efficient and safe vectors, therapeutic genes, under the control of a suitable promoter, can be targeted to the appropriate neurons or glial cells. Gene therapy is not only applicable to the treatment of genetic diseases of the nervous system and the control of malignant neoplasia, but it also has therapeutic potential for acquired degenerative encephalopathies (Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease), as well as for promoting neuronal survival and regeneration in various pathological states.
The establishment by the Wellcome Trust of two four-year PhD programmes in neuroscience, in which PhD students will study neuroscience in greater depth and breadth and be able to make a more informed choice of PhD project and supervisor, marks a commitment to improving the quality of graduate training in neuroscience in the UK.
The activity of single neurones evoked by electrical stimulation of the paws was recorded from the central forepaw and hindpaw receptive fields of the primary somatosensory cortex (Sm1) in anaesthetized rats. In the forepaw receptive area (FRA), 44% of neurones showed pyramidal responses to stimulation of their central receptive fields (CRF) compared with 13% of neurones in the hindpaw receptive area (HRA). The neurones were located primarily in layers IV and V. A number of neurones in superficial layers of the hindpaw region, but not in the forepaw region, had either bilateral or exclusively ipsilateral receptive fields. It was concluded that neurones with bilateral hindpaw receptive fields form a separate population of neurones which are organized somatopically.
The present study aimed to describe the localization, organization and density of lateral hypothalamic neurones projecting to the central amygdaloid nucleus (CeA) using WGA-apoHRP-Au as a retrograde tracer. In the lateral hypothalamus (LH) a cluster of labelled neurones was located in the middle and posterior parts of this region. This retrograde labelling is organized into perifornical and juxtacapsular subpopulations. These results provide a neuroanatomical basis for the concept that these lateral hypothalamic neurones modulate projections from CeA to pons and brainstem autonomic and gustatory centres which integrate responses related to fundamental and adaptive behaviours, and could be related to self-stimulation behaviour elicited from the CeA.
The effects of the volatile anaesthetic isoflurane on dendritic field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP) were compared in hippocampal slices taken from young mature and old Fisher 344 rats. Application of isoflurane (1% v/v) to young brain slices produced minimal effects on the recorded fEPSPs. On the contrary, the same anaesthetic concentration depressed field responses obtained from old hippocampal slices by 42 +/- 6.8% compared with baseline values. Such increased sensitivity to anaesthetic action in the old slices was consistently observed with administration of higher isoflurane concentrations. The presynaptic afferent volley was unaffected by application of low or high anaesthetic concentration, suggesting that age-induced changes in nerve fibre conduction and probably nerve ending excitability are not involved in the increased vulnerability of old synapses to anaesthetic action. Other synaptic sites are probably involved in the mechanisms of age-dependent potentiation of anaesthetic suppression of synaptic transmission.
We compared the cortical fields activated by simple, self-paced index-finger flexions with those activated during visually triggered movement and rest using PET. Of 12 fields detected during self-paced movement compared to rest, three were located in the classically defined motor areas: primary motor area (M1), premotor cortex (PM) and supplementary motor area (SMA). The latter extended into the cingulate motor area (CMA). Four corresponding clusters were also found when triggered movement was subtracted from self-paced movement. The change in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was greater in SMA than in PM during self-paced movement compared with either control. We conclude that repetitive, self-paced index-finger flexions can activate SMA, PM and CMA, and that this movement activates SMA more strongly than PM.
The use of matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) in identifying proopiomelanocortin (POMC) processing products in melanotrope cells of the pituitary intermediate lobe of Xenopus laevis was explored. Mass spectra were obtained with such a high sensitivity of detection that the peptides could be identified in a single melanotrope cell. In addition to known POMC processing products of the Xenopus melanotrope cell, the presence of previously unidentified POMC-derived peptides was demonstrated. Together these POMC processing products accounted for the entire length of the POMC precursor. Furthermore, Xenopus possesses two genes for POMC and the sensitivity and accuracy of the MALDI-MS technique allowed identification of processing products of both the POMCA and POMCB gene. In addition, differences were obtained between the mass spectra of melanotrope cells from Xenopus laevis adapted to different conditions of background illumination. These results show that MALDI-MS is a valuable tool in the study of the expression of peptides in single (neuroendocrine) cells.
Previous experiments based on heterotopic transplantation paradigms have indicated that the distribution of efferents developed by layer V pyramidal cells seems to be related to where in the neocortex the cells develop and not to where they were generated. The present study was undertaken in an attempt to obtain a quantitative estimation of the weight of extrinsic factors in the development of neocortical efferents. Fragments of embryonic (E15-E19) frontal or occipital cortex were grafted homotopically or heterotopically into the frontal or occipital cortex of newborn rats. As adults, the hosts received an injection of a retrograde tracer into the pyramidal tract decussation, and the distribution of the subsequent cell labeling was examined in each category of transplant. The mean numbers of labeled cells were 725 in frontal-to-frontal transplants and 250 in frontal-to-occipital transplants. In occipital-to-frontal transplants, the numbers of labeled cells were extremely low, ranging from 0 to 14. Finally, as expected, practically no cell labeling was found in occipital-to-occipital transplants. Thus, transplants of presumptive frontal origin systematically develop and maintain in adulthood a spinal cord projection even though they are placed in the host occipital cortex. Conversely, transplants of presumptive occipital origin are practically incapable of maintaining a spinal cord projection in adulthood even though they are placed in the host frontal cortex. It seems, therefore, that the generation of regional differences in efferent connectivity found in the mature cortex depends on early regional specification within the neocortical neuroepithelium.
A fast, simple, and cost-effective HPLC method for the quantitation of the antiviral drug ganciclovir is described. The serum samples are extracted with perchloric acid and neutralized with potassium phosphate buffer, and urine samples are diluted with distilled water. A reversed-phase column with isocratic elution by 15 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 2.5) containing 0.25% acetonitrile is used to separate ganciclovir; quantitation is by UV absorbance at 254 nm. Total turnaround time is 22 min; more than 3000 samples can be run on a single column without loss of peak quality. The limit of quantitation is 0.05 micrograms/ml. Recoveries varied from 91 to 107% with coefficients of variation ranging from 0.387 to 7.95%.
It has been known for over 45 years that electrical stimulation of the midbrain reticular formation and of the thalamic intralaminar nuclei of the brain alerts animals. However, lesions of these sectors fail to impair arousal and vigilance in some cases, making the role of the ascending activating reticular system controversial. Here, a positron emission tomographic study showed activation of the midbrain reticular formation and of thalamic intralaminar nuclei when human participants went from a relaxed awake state to an attention-demanding reaction-time task. These results confirm the role of these areas of the brain and brainstem in arousal and vigilance.
Heme oxygenase 2 (HO-2), which synthesizes carbon monoxide (CO), has been localized by immunohistochemistry to endothelial cells and adventitial nerves of blood vessels. HO-2 is also localized to neurons in autonomic ganglia, including the petrosal, superior cervical, and nodose ganglia, as well as ganglia in the myenteric plexus of the intestine. Enzyme studies demonstrated that tin protoporphyrin-9 is a selective inhibitor of HO with approximately 10-fold selectivity for HO over endothelial nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and soluble guanylyl cyclase. Inhibition of HO activity by tin protoporphyrin 9 reverses the component of endothelial-derived relaxation of porcine distal pulmonary arteries not reversed by an inhibitor of NOS. Thus, CO, like NO, may have endothelial-derived relaxing activity. The similarity of NOS and HO-2 localizations and functions in blood vessels and the autonomic nervous system implies complementary and possibly coordinated physiologic roles for these two mediators.
The primate visual system offers unprecedented opportunities for investigating the neural basis of cognition. Even the simplest visual discrimination task requires processing of sensory signals, formation of a decision, and orchestration of a motor response. With our extensive knowledge of the primate visual and oculomotor systems as a base, it is now possible to investigate the neural basis of simple visual decisions that link sensation to action. Here we describe an initial study of neural responses in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) of the cerebral cortex while alert monkeys discriminated the direction of motion in a visual display. A subset of LIP neurons carried high-level signals that may comprise a neural correlate of the decision process in our task. These signals are neither sensory nor motor in the strictest sense; rather they appear to reflect integration of sensory signals toward a decision appropriate for guiding movement. If this ultimately proves to be the case, several fascinating issues in cognitive neuroscience will be brought under rigorous physiological scrutiny.
The past 15 years have brought much progress in our understanding of several basic features of primate color vision. There has been particular success in cataloging the spectral properties of the cone photopigments found in retinas of a number of primate species and in elucidating the relationship between cone opsin genes and their photopigment products. Direct studies of color vision show that there are several modal patterns of color vision among groupings of primates: (i) Old World monkeys, apes, and humans all enjoy trichromatic color vision, although the former two groups do not seem prone to the polymorphic variations in color vision that are characteristic of people; (ii) most species of New World monkeys are highly polymorphic, with individual animals having any of several types of dichromatic or trichromatic color vision; (iii) less is known about color vision in prosimians, but evidence suggests that at least some diurnal species have dichromatic color vision; and (iv) some nocturnal primates may lack color vision completely. In many cases the photopigments and photopigment gene arrangements underlying these patterns have been revealed and, as a result, hints are emerging about the evolution of color vision among the primates.
The effects of chronic administration of the antidepressant drugs desipramine, nortryptiline and paroxetine (PAR) (10 mg/kg/day, 21 days) on changes in turning (circling) behavior and on norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and serotonin and their metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), nucleus accumbens and striatum were evaluated in rats. All three drugs eliminated turning biases in right turning rats. All drugs increased DA concentrations in the PFC while PAR increased NE in the PFC and reduced 5-HIAA in all three structures. The results are discussed with reference to previous findings involving brain asymmetry in depression.
The mammalian dorsal column nuclei (DCN) are principally composed of the cuneate (CN) and gracile (GN) nuclei. Data presented here support previously published anatomical and functional evidence that the longitudinal organization of the CN and GN reflect the complex role of the DCN in somatosensory processing. The CN is organized longitudinally into three parts. Within the middle portion of this nucleus, primary afferent projections and cuneothalamic cells are concentrated. Although traditional cytoarchitectonic analyses had failed to detect this tripartite organization in rats, we found evidence for it, with a functional middle region, extending approximately 0.2-0.9 mm caudal to the obex, characterized by precise somatotopy of primary afferent terminations and corresponding somatotopy of cytochrome oxidase (CO) blotches. Additional evidence is presented here consistent with a functionally distinct middle region within the rat's CN: (1) patches of dense synaptophysin (a synaptic-vesical-associated protein)-immunoreactivity (SYN-IR) are limited to the middle CN region, coincident with the dense CO blotches; (2) neurons immunoreactive for the calcium-binding proteins calbindin-D28 (CB), calretinin (CR) and parvalbumin (PV) are concentrated in the middle CN region. Furthermore, in adult rats subjected to perinatal forepaw removal, (1) the patterns of SYN-IR in the middle region of the CN are disrupted, as had previously been shown for the patterns of CO blotches; (2) in contrast, however, distributions of CN cells with PV-, CB- and CR-IR are unaffected. Evidence for a tripartite division in the GN is also presented, based on the distributions of cells with PV-, CB- and CR-IR.
Using the RNase protection assay, we have found that nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) are expressed in the avian retina during development. The expression peaks around embryonic days 12-15, with decreasing levels at later stages of development. Abundant levels of NGF and BDNF but low levels of NT-3 mRNA were found in the adult retina. We also found that light/darkness regulated the levels of NGF and BDNF mRNAs but not the levels of NT-3 mRNA in the 5-day-old chicken retina. It was demonstrated that NGF and BDNF mRNA levels were up-regulated by light exposure. The cellular localization of mRNA expression for the neurotrophins and neurotrophin receptors TrkA, TrkB, and TrkC in the retina was studied using in situ hybridization. The patterns of NGF and trkA mRNA expression were very similar and were localized to the external part of the inner nuclear layer on the border with the outer plexiform layer and corresponded to the localization of horizontal cells. NT-3 labeling was also found over the external part of the inner nuclear layer, whereas trkC mRNA was found over all layers in the retina. BDNF labeling was found over all layers in the retina, whereas TrkB labeling was intense over cells in the ganglion cell layer, which is in agreement with the response of ganglion cells to BDNF stimulation. Functional neurotrophin receptors were suggested by the response of retinal explants to neurotrophin stimulation. These data indicate that the neurotrophins play local roles in the retina that involve interactions between specific neuronal populations, which were identified by the localization of the Trk receptor expression. The data also suggest that NGF and BDNF expression is regulated by normal neuron usage in the retina.
The aim of the present study has been to investigate the projections of hindlimb muscle afferent fibers to the spinal cord with particular emphasis on the ventral horn and the column of Clarke. Following transections of the appropriate ventral roots, injections of the B-subunit of cholera toxin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase were made into the tibial, peroneal, hamstring, superior gluteal, femoral, and obturator nerves in one group of adult rats. In another group of rats, similar experiments were done with intact ventral roots in order to map the location in the ventral horn of the motoneuron cell columns supplying each investigated nerve. An extensive overlap was found for the different nerve projections to Rexed's laminae V-VII. A somatotopic organization of the nerve projections was seen in the lamina IX cell groups of the ventral horn as well as in the column of Clarke, even though an overlap existed. The densest primary afferent projection from each injected nerve was to its homonymous motoneurons. Only a small to moderate overlap between the projections of the tributary branches of the sciatic nerve was found in the ventral horn, whereas the obturator and femoral nerve projections showed more profound overlap. In the column of Clarke, hindlimb nerves innervating distal muscles projected medially, and nerves innervating proximal muscles projected laterally.
The entorhinal cortex, CA1, and the subiculum receive a major input from the thalamic midline nucleus reuniens. At present, it is not known whether reuniens projections to these intimately interconnected regions are collateralized or arise from different cell populations. We employed the multiple fluorescent retrograde tracing technique with Fast Blue, Diamidino Yellow, and Fluoro-Gold to examine the possible collateralization of reuniens projections to the entorhinal cortex, CA1, and the subiculum. In addition, we studied the extent of collateralization within each target area. The results indicate that different, yet morphologically indistinguishable, populations of reuniens cells selectively innervate the entorhinal cortex, CA1, or subiculum. Within each of these areas, reuniens fibers display a locally restricted collateralization instead of distributing collaterals throughout the entire target structure. The rostal two-thirds of the nucleus reuniens is the major source of ipsilateral projections to CA1, subiculum, and entorhinal cortex. The perireuniens nucleus selectively projects to the perirhinal cortex. Reuniens projections to CA1 and medial entorhinal cortex originate in the dorsolateral part and throughout the medial one-half of the nucleus, respectively. For these two projections, no topography could be established. However, subicular afferents are topographically organized such that a dorsal-to-ventral gradient in the nucleus reuniens corresponds to a dorsal-to-ventral gradient along the subicular axis. Lateral entorhinal afferents display a subtle topography such that a lateral-to-medial shift of terminal fields in the lateral entorhinal cortex corresponds to a lateral-to-medial shift of projection neurons in the ventral nucleus reuniens.
One approach to studying the changes in gene expression which underlie differentiation is to construct cDNA libraries from different tissues or at different stages of development. However, generating representative cDNA libraries from heterogeneous tissues such as the nervous system is often a real problem. Here, we describe a reproducible method for the construction of large and complex cDNA libraries from a few leech Retzius or P neurons (equivalent to about 50 pg of mRNA) using polymerase chain reaction-based technology. The libraries contain about 10(6) independent recombinants and are remarkably free from contaminating rRNA or polymerase chain reaction artefacts. Sequence analysis of randomly picked clones shows that the libraries contain a high proportion (more than 90%) of cDNAs larger than 500 b.p. As expected, many of the clones are novel, but two (alpha-tubulin and cyclophilin-A) have been extensively characterized in other species. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a cDNA library from identified neurons.
The Ras-related GTP-binding protein, Rab6, is localized in late Golgi compartments where it mediates intra-Golgi vesicular trafficking. Herein we report that coexpression of Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta APP751) with a dominant-negative Rab6 mutant (Rab6N126I) in human embryonal kidney 293 cells causes an increase in secretion of the soluble amino-terminal exodomain (s-APP alpha) derived from non-amyloidogenic processing of beta-APP751 by alpha-secretase. The effect was specific to Rab6N126I, since the corresponding mutation in Rab8 (i.e. Rab8N121I), which has been implicated in protein transport to the plasma membrane, caused a modest reduction in s-APP alpha secretion. While Rab6N126I stimulated secretion of APP alpha, the accumulation of amyloid beta peptide (A beta) in the medium was either moderately reduced or unaffected. Similar differential effects of Rab6N126I on secretion of s-APP alpha versus A beta were observed in cell cultures that were overproducing A beta after transfection with a plasmid encoding Swedish variant of beta APP751. Moreover, assays of medium from the latter cultures revealed a marked increase in secretion of s-APP alpha relative to s-APP beta (the immediate product derived from cleavage of beta APP by beta-secretase). The results indicate that vesicular transport events controlled by Rab6 occur at or near a critical juncture in the trans-Golgi network where beta APP is sorted into either the constitutive alpha-secretase pathway or the amyloidogenic beta-secretase pathway.
The selectivity of heparin in inducing potentiation of binding of antagonist ligands to muscarinic receptors was investigated at the five known subtypes of muscarinic receptors. The effects of heparin on binding of [3H]N-methylscopolamine at equilibrium was studied in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells which express each of the individual muscarinic receptor subtypes and in membranes prepared from these cells. Heparin markedly increased equilibrium binding of subsaturating concentrations of the ligand only in membranes of CHO cells which express muscarinic M2 receptors. These effects of heparin were qualitatively similar to those obtained in heart membranes. In contrast, heparin did not influence ligand binding to muscarinic M2 receptors in intact cells. The positive cooperative effects of heparin at muscarinic receptors were abolished following treatment of cells with pertussis toxin. The latter treatment by itself resulted in a significant increase in [3H]N-methylscopolamine binding. Taken together with previous reports of heparin-induced uncoupling of receptors and G-proteins, these data suggest that the effects of heparin on ligand binding to muscarinic M2 receptors might be due to disruption of receptor-G-protein interactions which results in enhancement of binding of antagonist ligands to the receptor.
The hippocampus is critical to declarative memory in humans. This kind of memory involves associations among items or events that can be accessed flexibly to guide memory expression in various and even new situations. In animals, there has been controversy about whether the hippocampus is specialized for spatial memory or whether it mediates a general memory function, as it does in humans. To address this issue we trained normal rats and rats with hippocampal damage on non-spatial stimulus-stimulus associations, then probed the nature of their memory representations. We report here that normal rats demonstrated two forms of flexible memory expression, transitivity, the ability to judge inferentially across stimulus pairs that share a common element, and symmetry, the ability to associate paired elements presented in the reverse of training order. Rats with neurotoxic damage limited to the hippocampus demonstrated neither form of flexible expression, indicating that non-spatial declarative processing depends specifically on the hippocampus in animals as it does in humans.
We describe a family segregating the retinoblastoma phenotype where the affected individuals have only unifocal tumours and where linkage analysis has identified unaffected mutant gene carriers. DNA from members of this 'low penetrance' pedigree was subjected to an exon-by-exon SSCP analysis of the RB1 gene. No mutations were found in the 27 exons of the coding region but an SSCP band shift was seen for PCR products covering the RB1 promoter region. Sequencing identified a G--&gt;C change within a GGGCGG motif which is the core of the recognition sequence of the SP1 transcription factor. Electromobility shift assays demonstrated that SP1 does not bind to oligomers from this region of the RB1 promoter but bandshifts were seen for an, as yet, unidentified protein(s) which was not seen using an oligomer containing the G--&gt;C mutation. Thus, identification of a naturally occurring mutation in a family with only 'mild' phenotypes has identified another regulatory sequence in the RB1 promoter which binds an endogenous cellular protein(s). Identification of this protein should allow a better understanding of the control of expression of the RB1 gene.
CDP-choline was given to patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) at a daily dose of 1000 mg/day p.o. for one month. This compound slightly improved mental performance, tended to reduce theta activity in fronto-temporal regions, increasing alpha power in occipital areas, and enhanced cerebrovascular perfusion by increasing blood flow velocity and reducing pulsatility and resistance indexes. In addition, CDP-choline diminished histamine and interleukin-1 levels in blood and serum, respectively, and increased plasma TNF.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized by changes in phospholipid metabolism leading to a perturbation in the levels of phosphomonoesters, including L-Phosphoserine (L-PS). These early changes in lipid metabolism may result in a defect in membrane bilayer structure, leading to increased rates of beta-amyloid formation. To investigate the effect of L-PS on membrane lipid bilayers, small angle x-ray diffraction and high resolution differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) approaches were used with liposomes composed of lecithin and cholesterol. A one-dimensional electron density profile of a control dimyristoyl phosphatidylcholine (DMPC)/cholesterol lipid bilayer with a unit cell dimension of 52 A at 37 degrees C was generated from the x-ray diffraction data. Following incubation with 2.0 mM L-PS, a broad decrease in electron density +/- 4.12A from the lipid bilayer center was observed concomitant with an increase in the width of the phospholipid headgroup electron density and a 3A reduction in lipid bilayer width. The interactions of L-PS with DMPC lipid bilayers were concentration-dependent, highly affected by cholesterol content and reproduced in egg phosphatidylcholine/cholesterol liposomes. DSC analysis showed that millimolar (1.0-5.0 mM) L-PS levels decreased the phase transition cooperative unit size of DMPC liposomes in a highly concentration-dependent manner which was significantly greater in preparations containing 10 mol% cholesterol. These data provide direct evidence that phosphomonoester levels modulate the biophysical properties of the membrane lipid bilayer which may, in turn, lead to altered structure/function relationships in AD.
APP processing appears to be under complex regulation. This regulation is apparently important under both normal and pathological conditions. Of direct clinical interest is the observation that A beta formation can be regulated by various means. This raises the possibility that altered APP processing may cause an increase in A beta formation in AD, and suggests that it may be possible to regulate the production of A beta as a therapeutic approach in AD. As an example of the utility of the latter approach, consider a patient carrying the Swedish APP mutation. If it is true that the cause of AD in such a patient is due to increased A beta production, then decreasing A beta production should delay the onset of the disease. Even in individuals where increased A beta formation is not the cause of AD but there is some other causes, such as the presence of an allele of apolipoprotein E which causes A beta accumulation and hence synaptic loss, decreasing A beta formation may be beneficial. It is of course a very long way from in vitro experiments to therapy. The current emphasis on studying APP processing in vivo represents the next step towards this goal.
Brain imaging with functional techniques, such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) have been widely applied to the study of dementia. While the pattern of temporal and parietal hypometabolism and hypoperfusion have often been suggested to be of diagnostic utility in ascertaining that a dementia is due to Alzheimer's disease (AD), the exact sensitivity and specificity of this pattern in clinically important situations is unclear. These imaging findings have been of considerable interest, however, in describing the regional patterns of predilection in the disease. Evidence supports the contention that the earliest sites of functional impairment in AD are in the temporal lobes. Surprisingly, however, mesial temporal lobe hypometabolism was difficult to detect in a group of mildly demented AD patients in comparison to a group of healthy older subjects. These results suggest that simple use of mesial temporal lobe metabolic rates as a diagnostic for AD may not be fruitful, and that evaluation of the earliest stages of AD can be most productively studied by investigating healthy older individuals.
Although many cognitive functions are affected by age, some are relatively maintained. There also are numerous age-related changes in brain structure, but not much is known about how these changes impact upon the alterations seen in cognition. In order to understand the basis for the reductions and sparings of cognitive function in the aged, experiments were carried out to compare regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and performance in young and old subjects on visual perceptual and memory tasks. In the first experiment, which examined the perception of faces and spatial locations, old subjects were as accurate as young subjects, and both groups had rCBF activation in fusiform gyrus during face matching and in superior parietal cortex during location matching. However, old subjects had less activation of prestriate cortex and more activation of frontal and lateral temporal cortex than did young subjects. The second experiment tested recognition memory for faces, a task on which old subjects were impaired. Young subjects had rCBF activation in left prefrontal and inferior temporal cortex and in right hippocampus during encoding of the faces, and in right prefrontal and parietal cortex during recognition. Old subjects showed no significant activation of the areas involved in encoding, but did have increased rCBF in right prefrontal cortex during recognition. These results suggest that the aging brain can demonstrate alterations of the functional systems involved in some cognitive processes, such as perception, that may serve as a compensatory mechanism to maintain performance. Failure to show such compensation, coupled with dysfunction of the areas primarily involved in processing may lead to more marked deficits in performance.


Elevation of blood pressure is a characteristic feature of spontaneous and pharmacologically induced panic attacks in man. We examined whether this symptom could be reproduced in conscious rats and, if so, whether the cardiovascular changes induced by anxiogenic agents could be employed as a functional in vivo screen for CCK-B receptor antagonists which might be predictive of anxiolytic activity. Bolus i.v. administration of pentagastrin (0.1-100 micrograms/kg) or the beta-carboline FG-7142 (0.001-3 mg/kg) caused transient ( &lt; or = 5 min) dose-dependent increases in arterial blood pressure of up to 41 mmHg. The benzodiazepine receptor agonist chlordiazepoxide (10 mg/kg i.v, 15 min previously) attenuated the pressor response induced by either pentagastrin (1 microgram/kg i.v.) or FG-7142 (0.3 mg/kg i.v.). In contrast, the CCK-B receptor antagonist CI-988 (3 mg/kg i.v., 15 min previously) inhibited the pressor response induced by pentagastrin, but not FG-7142. Antagonism of the pressor response elicited by pentagastrin in animals provides a simple method to establish the active dose range for CCK-B receptor antagonists in vivo. Since cardiovascular parameters can be readily monitored in man, this approach may assist in guiding clinical dose ranging studies to establish therapeutically beneficial effect of these compounds in panic disorder.
Studies of the noradrenergic system in suicide victims have found evidence of alterations in cortical beta- and alpha-adrenergic receptor binding. Since these receptor changes may be secondary to altered noradrenergic input, we sought to determine whether the pigmented neurons of the locus coeruleus (LC), which provide the noradrenergic innervation to the cerebral cortex, are altered in suicide victims. We studied 11 controls without known psychiatric or neurologic disorders and six suicide victims. LC neuron number, LC volume, and neuron density were determined by computer-assisted mapping. The suicide group had 23% fewer LC neurons and a 38% lower density of LC neurons than controls. The reduction in neuron number was localized to the rostral two thirds of the LC. Neither the LC length nor the LC volume in suicide victims differed from controls. Altered brain noradrenergic neurotransmission in suicide victims may be due to fewer noradrenergic neurons in the LC. Further studies are needed to determine whether this noradrenergic neuron loss is associated with an underlying major depression or specifically with suicidal behavior.
Protein F1/GAP-43 is differentially expressed in brain with high levels present in regions associated with memory functions. However, in hippocampus the granule cells lack F1/GAP-43 expression. To determine if this lack of expression is due to inhibitory signals from the target cells, we selectively destroyed CA3 pyramidal cells unilaterally using microinjections of excitotoxins. Kainate lesions induced F1/GAP-43 mRNA expression bilaterally in granule cells at 24 h post-injection. Since the induction contralateral to the lesion was not due to loss of target cells, that induction may be ascribed to consequences of seizure activity. However, F1/GAP-43 mRNA hybridization decreased by 3 d post-lesion and was at background levels by 6 d, indicating that the lack of F1/GAP-43 expression in granule cells is restored despite a lack of target neurons. Unilateral lesions of CA3 cells using ibotenate, which are not as complete as kainate but do not cause seizures, did not induce F1/GAP-43 mRNA in granule cells on either the contralateral or, in 4 of 5 cases, the ipsilateral side. Taken together, these data suggest that the CA3 target is not essential for the absence of F1/GAP-43 expression in granule cells. To compare the extent of damage caused by the lesions, we investigated the location of astrocytes undergoing reactive gliosis, employing as a reporter glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) gene expression. After both kainate and ibotenate injections GFAP hybridization increased in the lesioned area as well as in the contralateral hippocampus. These results indicate that injections of kainate, and possibly ibotenate to a lesser extent, may affect behavior not only by damaging cells at the injection site, but also by altering gene expression in cells at distant sites.
Neural networks that mediate the reflex response to baroreceptor withdrawal were explored in Sus scrofa. Induction of c-fos was used as a monitor of synaptic activity in response to hypotension sustained by systemic administration of a peripheral vasodilator, sodium nitroprusside. Patterns of c-fos gene expression were compared between Saffan-anesthetized experimental animals and age-matched normotensive controls administered vehicle. Effects of other variables were controlled including 1 h preoperative accommodation to the novel environment, anesthesia, blood gases and pH. Identical post-stimulus survival periods were allowed for accumulation of transcript. The c-fos protein, Fos, was identified immunocytochemically with two rabbit antisera raised against amino acids 1-131 of Fos or residues 4-17 of synthetic human transcript. Fos was identified in catecholaminergic neurons labeled with an antiserum to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Fos was induced in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) of hypotensive piglets. Neurons encoding Fos matched projection patterns of first order visceral afferents. Induction was prominent in the dorsolateral nucleus coinciding with the baroreceptor field. Indices of increased neuronal activity were evident in other baroreceptor terminal sites, e.g., medial subnucleus, the medial commissural field, the intermediate subnucleus and a ventral A2 noradrenergic area. In reticular formation c-fos protein was induced in circumscribed columns in the lateral tegmental field (LTF) extending from facial nucleus to calamus scriptorius. Catecholaminergic (TH-positive) neurons expressed Fos in the porcine C1 and A1 areas of ventrolateral medulla. Fos was also induced in a dorsal intermediate reticular zone of LTF. Minor or inconsistent differences between experimental and control were observed in nucleus raphe pallidus, rostral paramedian reticular formation, upper thoracic intermediolateral cell column, and stellate ganglia. In conclusion, baroreceptor withdrawal in young animals induced patterns of neuronal response along established cardiovascular reflex pathways.
Physiological and immunohistochemical studies have suggested that corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), the hypophysiotropic peptide that initiates endocrine responses to stress, may serve as a neurotransmitter to activate noradrenergic neurons in the nucleus locus coeruleus (LC). We combined immunoperoxidase labeling for CRF and immunogold-silver localization of the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in single sections through the rat LC to determine potential substrates for interactions between these two transmitters. Light microscopic analysis indicated that CRF processes are dense and highly varicose in the rostral LC region in the vicinity of noradrenergic dendrites. Electron microscopy of this rostral region revealed that immunoperoxidase labeling for CRF was mainly restricted to axons and axon terminals and was rarely seen in somata or dendrites. Axon terminals containing CRF immunoreactivity varied in size, content of synaptic vesicles, and formation of synaptic specializations. The postsynaptic targets of the CRF-labeled axon terminals consisted of both TH-labeled dendrites and dendrites lacking detectable TH-immunoreactivity. Of 113 CRF-immunoreactive axon terminals, approximately 70% were in direct contact with TH-labeled and unlabeled dendrites. Of the CRF-labeled axon terminals forming synapses with TH-labeled and unlabeled dendrites, they were either of the asymmetric (excitatory type; 19%) or symmetric (inhibitory type; 11%) variety or did not form identifiable contacts in the plane of section analyzed. Unlabeled axon terminals and glial processes were also commonly located adjacent to the plasma membranes of CRF-labeled axon terminals. These results provide the first direct ultrastructural evidence that axon terminals containing CRF-immunoreactivity 1) directly contact catecholamine-containing dendrites within the rostral pole of the LC, 2) may presynaptically modulate other afferents, and 3) are often enveloped by astrocytic processes.
The distribution of omega-Conotoxin GVIA (CgTx) binding sites was used to localize putative N-type Ca2+ channels in an electrosensory cerebellar lobule, the eminentia granularis pars posterior, and in the electrosensory lateral line lobe of a gymnotiform teleost (Apteronotus leptorhynchus). The binding sites for CgTx revealed by an anti-CgTx antibody had a consistent distribution on somatic and dendritic membranes of specific cell types in both structures. The distribution of CgTx binding was unaffected by co-incubation with nifedipine or AgaToxin IVA, blocking agents for L- and P-type Ca2+ channels, respectively. Incubation with CgTx in the presence of varying levels of extracellular Ca2+ altered the number but not the cell types exhibiting immunolabel. A punctate immunolabel was detected on somatic membranes of granule and stellate cell interneurons in both the eminentia granularis pars posterior and the electrosensory lateral line lobe. Punctate CgTx binding sites were also present on spherical cell somata and on the large presynaptic terminals of primary afferents that terminate on spherical cells in the electrosensory lateral line lobe. No label was detected in association with distal dendritic membranes of any cell class, or with parallel fibers in the respective molecular layers. Binding sites for CgTx in the eminentia granularis are consistent with the established role for N-type Ca2+ channels in cell migrations, an activity which is known to persist in this layer in adult Apteronotus. The distribution of labeled stellate cells with respect to topographic maps in the electrosensory lateral line lobe further suggest that N-type Ca2+ channels are expressed in relation to functional activity across these sensory maps.
In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is responsible for the generation of most circadian rhythms and for their entrainment to environmental cues. Carbachol, an agonist of acetylcholine (ACh), has been shown to shift the phase of circadian rhythms in rodents when injected intracerebroventricularly. However, the site and receptor type mediating this action have been unknown. In the present experiments, we used the hypothalamic brain-slice technique to study the regulation of the SCN circadian rhythm of neuronal firing rate by cholinergic agonists and to identify the receptor subtypes involved. We found that the phase of the oscillation in SCN neuronal activity was reset by a 5 min treatment with a carbachol microdrop (1 microliter, 100 microM), but only when applied during the subjective night, with the largest phase shift (+ 6 hr) elicited during the middle of the subjective night. This effect also was produced by ACh and two muscarinic receptor (mAChR) agonists, muscarine and McN-A-343 (M1-selective), but not by nicotine. Furthermore, the effect of carbachol was blocked by the mAChR antagonist atropine (0.1 microM), not by two nicotinic antagonists, dihydro-beta-erythroidine (10 microM) and d-tubocurarine (10 microM). The M1-selective mAChR antagonist pirenzepine completely blocked the carbachol effect at 1 microM, whereas an M3-selective antagonist, 4,2-(4,4'-diacetoxydiphenylmethyl)pyridine, partially blocked the effect at the same concentration. These results demonstrate that carbachol acts directly on the SCN to reset the phase of its firing rhythm during the subjective night via an M1-like mAChR.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor alpha (CNTFR alpha) is essential for normal embryonic development and may be involved in postnatal and adult neuronal maintenance. In addition, a rapidly growing body of evidence suggests that CNTFR alpha serves as a site of action for future growth factor therapeutics capable of treating a wide variety of disorders resulting from neuronal loss. We raised two polyclonal, anti-CNTFR alpha antisera against synthetic peptides corresponding to independent regions of rat CNTFR alpha. Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses indicated that affinity-purified preparations of both antisera specifically recognize CNTFR alpha. In the adult brain, the highest levels of CNTFR alpha immunoreactivity were found in the perikarya, dendrites and, occasionally, the axons of several distinct classes of neurons including hippocampal formation neurons, some sensory neurons, and many neurons involved in motor control. CNTFR alpha immunoreactivity also was concentrated in the following: perikarya, dendrites, and axons of ventral horn motor neurons in adult spinal cord; perikarya and axons of adult dorsal root ganglion neurons; and axons in adult peripheral nerve. In embryonic tissue, the highest levels of CNTFR alpha immunoreactivity were observed in differentiating neurons and their processes. Therefore, the present data suggest that CNTFR alpha serves several diverse functions in adulthood and during development.
Until recently, steroid hormones were believed to act only on cells containing intracellular receptors. However, recent evidence suggests that steroids have specific and rapid effects at the cellular membrane. Using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques, 17 beta-estradiol was found to reduce Ba2+ entry reversibly via Ca2+ channels in acutely dissociated and cultured neostriatal neurons. The effects were sex-specific, i.e., the reduction of Ba2+ currents was greater in neurons taken from female rats. 17 beta-Estradiol primarily targeted L-type currents, and their inhibition was detected reliably within seconds of administration. The maximum reduction by 17 beta-estradiol occurred at picomolar concentrations. 17 beta-Estradiol conjugated to bovine serum albumin also reduced Ba2+ currents, suggesting that the effect occurs at the membrane surface. Dialysis with GTP gamma S prevented reversal of the modulation, suggesting that 17 beta-estradiol acts via G-protein activation. 17 alpha-Estradiol also reduced Ba2+ currents but was significantly less effective than 17 beta-estradiol. Estriol and 4-hydroxyestradiol were found to reduce Ba2+ currents with similar efficacy to 17 beta-estradiol, whereas estrone and 2-methoxyestriol were less effective. Tamoxifen also reduced Ba2+ currents but did not occlude the effect of 17 beta-estradiol. These results suggest that at physiological concentrations, 17 beta-estradiol can have immediate actions on neostriatal neurons via nongenomic signaling pathways.
There is evidence that intracellular Na+ entry potentiates hypoxic-ischemic cell death by causing cytotoxic cell edema, intracellular acidosis, and gating of Ca2+ entry by reverse activation of the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchanger. In this study, we examined the role of Na+ in mediating traumatic injury to spinal cord axons. Dorsal column segments from adult rats (n = 87) were isolated and maintained in an in vitro recording chamber while being superfused with oxygenated Ringer's solution (95% O2/5% CO2, 25 degrees C). Selected experiments (n = 10) also were done at 33 degrees C. Compound action potentials (CAP) were recorded from microelectrodes. Injury was performed by compression of the dorsal column segment for 15 sec with a modified aneurysm clip exerting a closing force of 2 gm. With injury, the CAP decreased to 72.1 +/- 9.6% of baseline values. Removal of extracellular Na+ and replacement with the impermeant cation N-methyl-D-glucamine enhanced recovery of the CAP to 98.3 +/- 18.3% (p &lt; 0.05) of baseline. The Na+ channel blockers tetrodotoxin and procaine also improved recovery of the CAP to 96.3 +/- 23.7% (p &lt; 0.05) and 82.8 +/- 4.6% (p &lt; 0.05) of baseline values, respectively. In contrast, increasing Na+ permeability with veratridine resulted in greater attenuation of CAP amplitude after 1 hr of trauma (60.1 +/- 8.4%, p &lt; 0.05). Similarly, prevention of extrusion of Na+ from the intracellular compartment by inhibiting the Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase pump with ouabain resulted in greater attenuation of CAP amplitude at 1 hr after trauma (56.7 +/- 3.6%, p &lt; 0.05). The Na(+)-H+ exchange blockers amiloride (100 microM) and harmaline (100 microM) significantly improved recovery after injury to 89.6 +/- 17.0% (p &lt; 0.05) and 85.7 +/- 7.2% (p &lt; 0.05) of baseline, respectively. However, administration of the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange blockers benzamil (100 or 500 microM) and bepridil (50 microM) was ineffective. In summary, reduction of extracellular Na+ confers neuroprotection after spinal cord injury in vitro. Intracellular sodium rises appear to be mediated by voltage-gated Na+ channels. Blockade of the Na(+)-H+ exchanger also is neuroprotective, possibly by reducing intracellular acidosis. Furthermore, prevention of extrusion of intracellular Na+ by the Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase pump exacerbates the effects of compression trauma. However, reverse operation of the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchanger does not explain the injurious effects of Na+ in traumatically injured CNS white matter.
Nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons play an essential role in the central regulation of motor functions. These functions are initiated through the release of dopamine from axon terminals in the striatum or from dendrites in the substantia nigra (SN) and are terminated by the reuptake of dopamine by the sodium- and chloride-dependent dopamine transporter (DAT). DAT also can transport dopamine neurotoxins and has been implicated in the selective vulnerability of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons in major models of Parkinson's disease. We have used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry with an N-terminal domain anti-peptide antibody to examine the subcellular distribution of DAT in the rat SN and dorsolateral striatum. In the SN, immunogold labeling for DAT was localized to cytoplasmic surfaces of plasma membranes and smooth endoplasmic reticulum of dendrites and dendritic spines, few of which contained synaptic vesicles. Neuronal perikarya in the SN contained immunogold-labeled pleomorphic electron-lucent tubulovesicles but showed immunolabeling of plasma membranes only rarely. Axon terminals in the striatum contained extensive immunogold labeling of cytoplasmic surfaces of plasma membranes near aggregates of synaptic vesicles and less frequent labeling of intervaricose segments of plasma membrane or small electron-lucent vesicles. In sections dually labeled for DAT and the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase, both markers were colocalized in most profiles in the SN and striatum. These findings support the proposed topological model for DAT and suggest that this transporter is strategically located to facilitate uptake of dopamine and neurotoxins into distal dendritic and axonal processes of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons.
The gene bcl-x, which is related to a bcl-2, regulates programmed cell death. bcl-x may function in the development of the nervous system. We raised a polyclonal antibody against human Bcl-x protein, and investigated its distribution in the developing human cerebellum. Western blotting revealed that Bcl-x expression in the cerebellum is higher in the fetal, than in the postnatal period. Immunohistochemical studies of fetal brains localized intense Bcl-x immunoreactivity in the granule cell processes at 13-22 gestational weeks and in the Purkinje cell bodies at 24-38 weeks. The immunoreactivity decreased after birth, but was retained in the Purkinje cells at a low level until adulthood. These results suggested that Bcl-x expression in the cerebellum is developmentally regulated and involved specifically in the development of neuronal subpopulations.
1. Whole-cell patch-clamp recording has been used to study the effect of heterosynaptic depolarization on pure N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices. 2. In neurones voltage clamped at -60 mV, paired-pulse stimulation of one set of Schaffer collateral-commissural fibres resulted in homosynaptic paired-pulse facilitation of the NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSCN). In contrast, stimulation of one set of fibres prior to stimulation of a second set of fibres (i.e. heterosynaptic paired-pulse stimulation) did not result in any heterosynaptic interactions. 3. However, under current-clamp conditions, heterosynaptic paired-pulse stimulation resulted in heterosynaptic 'paired-pulse facilitation' of the NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSPN). 4. In neurones held at -50 or -40 mV, perfusion of nominally Mg(2+)-free medium converted the response to heterosynaptic paired-pulse stimulation from 'heterosynaptic facilitation' to 'heterosynaptic depression' of EPSPN. 5. When neurones were held at potentials of between -30 and +40 mV then heterosynaptic paired-pulse stimulation, in normal Mg(2+)-containing medium, resulted in 'paired-pulse depression' of EPSPN. Under voltage-clamp conditions (tested at +40 mV) no heterosynaptic interactions were seen. 6. The time course of 'heterosynaptic facilitation' at -60 mV and of 'heterosynaptic depression' at +40 mV of EPSPN was similar to the time course of EPSCN. 7. We conclude, firstly, that the voltage clamp is able to prevent any voltage breakthrough associated with the synaptic activation of NMDA receptors from influencing neighbouring synapses. Secondly, when the neurone is not voltage clamped these same synapses are strongly influenced by the spreading depolarization generated by the synaptic activation of their neighbours. The time course and direction of this influence are compatible with the hypothesis that spreading synaptic depolarization, leading to a reduction of the voltage-dependent Mg2+ block of synaptic NMDA receptor channels, underlies the property of associativity.
1. Long-term potentiation (LTP) was induced in EPSCs evoked in CA1 pyramidal neurones of young rats in vitro by extracellular stimulation of stratum radiatum. Low frequency stimulation was paired with postsynaptic depolarization to induce LTP, using whole-cell recording techniques. 2. Sufficient control and potentiated records were obtained under stable recording conditions to allow a quantal analysis of eleven EPSCs. The fluctuations in amplitude of all eleven EPSCs were quantized before conditioning stimulation, and they remained quantized after LTP induction, usually with an increased quantal variance. 3. Quantal current was increased by conditioning for nine out of eleven EPSCs. The increase in quantal current was correlated with the percentage increase in the EPSC. For only two EPSCs could the entire potentiation be attributed to an increase in quantal current. 4. The amplitude fluctuations of five control EPSCs could be described by binomial statistics, but after conditioning the binomial description held for only one of these EPSCs. For this EPSC, conditioning caused the release probability to increase from 0.39 +/- 0.05 to 0.47 +/- 0.02. 5. Quantal content was increased by conditioning stimulation for ten out of eleven EPSCs. The increase in quantal content was correlated with the percentage increase in the EPSC. However, for only four EPSCs could the entire potentiation be attributed to an increase in quantal content. 6. Most EPSCs were evoked with a high proportion of response failures. The probability of response failures decreased in eight out of eleven EPSCs following the induction of LTP. There was a negative correlation between the change in the probability of response failures and the amount of LTP. 7. The minimal number of sites at which transmission occurred increased for ten out of eleven EPSCs following LTP induction. Increases in the minimal number of active sites following conditioning were associated with decreases in the probability of response failures for seven out of eleven EPSCs. 8. The induction of LTP usually resulted in changes in the time course of the EPSCs. Cable analysis using a passive compartmental model of a CA1 pyramidal cell suggested that these time course changes were associated with shifts in the average electrotonic location of the active sites following LTP induction, rather than being caused by an increased duration of synaptic current. 9. LTP expression involves postsynaptic modifications to enhance the synaptic current at active sites. New sites are recruited, and our data cannot be used to determine if this is a result of a pre- or a postsynaptic change. Evidence for an increase in release probability was found for one EPSC.
1. EPSCs were evoked in CA1 pyramidal neurones of young rats in vitro by extracellular stimulation of axons in a restricted stratum radiatum field, and were recorded using the whole-cell technique. 2. Quantal fluctuations in EPSC amplitude could be demonstrated for nineteen of fifty EPSCs analysed. Quantal currents (at the soma) ranged from 2.6 to 9.5 pA (after correction for the access resistance) with a mean of 4.0 +/- 2.0 pA. 3. Quantal variance was negligible for the majority (13/19) of the EPSCs. However, a large quantal variance (with a coefficient of variation &gt; 0.4) is one possible reason why a large number of the EPSCs (29/50) could not be shown to have quantal fluctuations. 4. The statistical pattern of fluctuations in the amplitude of the majority of the quantal EPSCs (18/19) could not be described by conventional models of transmitter release. 5. The time course of the EPSC and a compartmental model of CA1 pyramidal neurones were used to calculate synaptic location. The quantal current (at the soma) was independent of the electrotonic location of the synapse at which it was evoked. The peak quantal conductance generating each quantal current ranged from 0.5 to 6.8 nS (mean 1.3 +/- 1.4 nS), its magnitude increasing with distance from the soma. The mean peak conductance is likely to be generated by the opening of at least 60-160 AMPA channels.
Necdin is a 325 amino acid residue protein encoded by a cDNA clone isolated from neurally differentiated embryonal carcinoma cells. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that necdin mRNA-containing cells in vivo coincided with postmitotic neurons in the mouse brain from early periods of neurogenesis until adulthood. To study the regulation of necdin gene expression, we have isolated and characterized the necdin gene from a mouse genomic DNA library. The necdin gene contains no intron, and its upstream region lacks canonical TATA and CAAT boxes. To assess promoter activity, the 5'-flanking sequence (844 base pairs) of the necdin gene was fused to the LacZ reporter gene and transiently transfected into retinoic acid-treated P19 embryonal carcinoma cells. Most of the transfectants expressing high levels of LacZ immunoreactivity were postmitotic neurons differentiated from P19 cells. Deletion analysis using luciferase reporter genes demonstrated that a neuron-restrictive core promoter is localized to positions -80 to -35, in which a G+C-rich domain and a putative binding site for transcription factors with PAS (per, arnt, and single-minded) dimerization domain are comprised. These results suggest that postmitotic neuron-restrictive expression of the necdin gene is mediated by the specific cis-acting elements and that this promoter is applicable to postmitotic neuron-targeted expression of various transgenic systems.
In the apomorphine-induced climbing mouse assay, the potencies of the selective adenosine A1 receptor agonist, N6-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA), and the selective A2A adenosine receptor agonist, 2-p-(2-carboxyethyl) phenethylamino 5'-N-ethyl-carboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680), and various dopamine receptor antagonists were as follows: SCH 23390 = haloperidol &gt; raclopride &gt; CHA = CGS 21680. While in catalepsy, their potencies were SCH 23390 &gt; haloperidol &gt; raclopride &gt; CGS 21680. CHA failed to induce catalepsy due to significant sedation/ataxia. The combined administration of the ED15 dose of CHA failed to potentiate the ED50 value of SCH 23390, raclopride, or haloperidol in the apomorphine-induced climbing mouse assay. However, the combined administration of the ED15 dose of CGS 21680 significantly decreased the ED50 of raclopride by 8.0-fold and haloperidol by 35-fold. The adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, 1,3,7-trimethyl-8-(3-chlorostyryl)xanthine (CSC), significantly decreased catalepsy induced by raclopride and haloperidol, while the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, 1,3-dimethyl-8-phenylxanthine (8-PT), was ineffective. The present results show that in behavioral assays predictive for antipsychotic activity, adenosine receptor agonists block behaviors in a similar manner to dopamine receptor antagonists.
Collapsin-1 is a secreted glycoprotein that inhibits the extension of specific growth cones in vitro. It has been hypothesized to serve as a repulsive guidance cue for extending growth cones in vivo. Here we report the distribution of collapsin-1 message as demonstrated by in situ hybridization using digoxigenin-labeled RNA probes in wholemounts and tissue sections. In the early chick brain collapsin-1 is expressed in specific regions of the retina, the olfactory bulb, and the diencephalon. In the hindbrain collapsin-1 is first expressed in rhombomere 5 and later in bilaterally symmetric rostrocaudal stripes. Collapsin-1 is expressed in high levels in the ventral horn of the spinal cord and in ventricular stripes that extend rostrally to the hindbrain. In the periphery, collapsin-1 is expressed in the dermamyotome and in ectoderm and epidermis. Based on collapsin's expression patterns we tested axons extending from explants of ventral spinal cord and olfactory bulb for sensitivity to collapsin and show that the former are sensitive to collapsin whereas the latter are not. The distribution of collapsin mRNA is consistent with it playing a role in the organization of sensory axonal projections within the spinal cord and skin.
Fertilization in Chlamydomonas is initiated by adhesive interactions between gametes of opposite mating types through flagellar glycoproteins called agglutinins. Interactions between these cell adhesion molecules signal for the activation of adenylyl cyclase through an interplay of protein kinases and ultimately result in formation of a diploid zygote. One of the early events during adhesion-induced signal transduction is the rapid inactivation of a flagellar protein kinase that phosphorylates a 48-kDa protein in the flagella. We report the biochemical and molecular characterization of the 48-kDa protein. Experiments using a bacterially expressed fusion protein show that the 48-kDa protein is capable of autophosphorylation on serine and tyrosine and phosphorylation of bovine beta-casein on serine, confirming that the 48-kDa protein itself has protein kinase activity. This protein kinase exhibits limited homology to members of the eukaryotic protein kinase superfamily and may be an important element in a signaling pathway in fertilization.
Vasopressin binding sites were determined in the choroid plexus of five Alzheimer's disease patients and five non-demented controls using the 125I-labelled linear V1a-antagonist. The Alzheimer's disease patients showed a twofold increase in the density of vasopressin binding sites, whereas the increase in the affinity constant Kd did not reach significance.
In mammals, there are seven classes of beta-tubulin genes, one of which, class III, is neuron specific. Using class-specific monoclonal antibodies, class III beta-tubulin protein could not be detected in frog embryos or in adults with either Western blotting or immunohistochemical techniques. In contrast, the class II beta-tubulin protein, which is predominant in mammalian brain but is also expressed in other tissues, is expressed only in neurons in frog embryos. Protein was detected only in neurons from late stages of neural tube closure through premetamorphic stages. At stages 21-28, the pioneering axons of Rohon-Beard, commissural, primary motor, and trigeminal ganglion neurons were distinctly stained in the axon scaffolds that they formed in the embryonic brain and the peripheral mesenchyme. Nonneuronal cells, both outside the nervous system and within it (e.g., radial glia, Mller glia, roof plate, and floor plate cells) were not immunoreactive. Throughout swimming and premetamorphic stages, neuronal cells in all brain regions became immunoreactive as they differentiated and extended axons. Whereas many embryonic neurons became postmitotic during gastrulation stages, neurons expressed detectable levels of class II beta-tubulin protein only beginning at the onset of overt axon outgrowth. These observations demonstrate that the neuron-specific beta-tubulin in frog is a different gene from that in mammals, and its protein product is detectable at the time of axonogenesis rather than neurogenesis.
Reaction of the decapeptide gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) with the Bolton-Hunter reagent produced a single major derivative. Mass spectrometric analysis of this derivative at M-Scan Corporation revealed that O-acylation of the Ser4 hydroxyl had occurred. Formation of the O-acylated Ser4 derivative was dependent on the presence of the His2 residue in GnRH. Similar experiments with several unrelated peptides revealed that the Bolton-Hunter reagent will readily acylate hydroxyl groups on serine, tyrosine, and threonine side chains located two positions from a histidine residue (e.g., His-X-Ser). Such O-acylated peptides can be formed under mild reaction conditions and appear to be relatively stable. Recognition of this sequence-specific O-acylation can be critical when labeling peptides with the Bolton-Hunter reagent and when interpreting experiments in which such modified peptides are used.
In order to elucidate the pathological mechanism of cerebral hypoplasia in congenital toxoplasmosis, fetal toxoplasmosis was induced by intraperitoneal injection of Toxoplasma gondii into five pregnant mice on embryonal Day 5 (E5). The maternal and fetal brains were examined histologically and immunohistochemically; six fetuses were examined on E16 and 21 on E18. T. gondii organisms were immunohistochemically detected in the maternal brains, placentas and the ventricular zone of the fetal cerebrum. In none of the fetal brains was any gross deformity observed, except for cerebral hypoplasia. On E16 and E18, the cerebral cortices were seen to consist of immature laminations, and the cells had less cytoplasm and rounder hyperchromatic nuclei than those in the control mice. The cerebral walls and the cortical layers, except in the ventricular zone, were thinner than in the controls (P &lt; 0.01 in each case). On E18, the proliferating cell nuclear antigen immunolabeling index was higher, and the cytoplasm of more cells in the cortical plate was immunoreactive with anti-beta-tubulin antibody compared with control mice. Using an in situ end-labeling technique, apoptotic cells were not observed in the cortices in mice of both groups. It is suggested that the cerebral hypoplasia following Toxoplasma infection is related to delayed maturation.
A speech processing algorithm was developed to create more salient versions of the rapidly changing elements in the acoustic waveform of speech that have been shown to be deficiently processed by language-learning impaired (LLI) children. LLI children received extensive daily training, over a 4-week period, with listening exercises in which all speech was translated into this synthetic form. They also received daily training with computer &quot;games&quot; designed to adaptively drive improvements in temporal processing thresholds. Significant improvements in speech discrimination and language comprehension abilities were demonstrated in two independent groups of LLI children.
Children with language-based learning impairments (LLIs) have major deficits in their recognition of some rapidly successive phonetic elements and nonspeech sound stimuli. In the current study, LLI children were engaged in adaptive training exercises mounted as computer &quot;games&quot; designed to drive improvements in their &quot;temporal processing&quot; skills. With 8 to 16 hours of training during a 20-day period, LLI children improved markedly in their abilities to recognize brief and fast sequences of nonspeech and speech stimuli.
Human mu-calpain is activated maximally by 100-200 microM Ca2+. Both the 80 kDa and 29 kDa subunits of mu-calpain have a EF-hand type calcium-binding domain. It is known that trivalent terbium ion (Tb3+) mimics Ca2+ in many biological systems. We found that Tb3+ alone transiently activated calpain. However, in the presence of Ca2+, Tb3+ inhibited mu-calpain with an IC50 of about 100 microM. As high as 10 mM Ca2+ did not significantly shift the IC50 of Tb3+. Preincubating mu-calpain by Ca2+ (before Tb3+ and substrate were added) did not diminish the inhibition by Tb3+. On the other hand, pretreating mu-calpain with Tb3+ produced that Tb3+ has a slow dissociation rate for the calcium-binding sites when compared to Ca2+. Electrophoretic analysis revealed that terbium ion transiently activated mu-calpain followed by the aggregation of the proteinase.
Intraperitoneal administration of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists (5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) and 1-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)piperidine (PCP, 5 and 10 mg/kg) increased the extracellular concentration of acetylcholine in rat hippocampus but not striatum. In contrast, R-(+)-3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one (R(+)-HA-966, 30 and 60 mg/kg), an antagonist at the glycine modulatory site of the NMDA receptor, did not affect acetylcholine efflux in either region. (+/-)-3-[2-Carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid ((+/-)CPP, 10 mg/kg) and cis-4-(phosphonomethyl)piperidine-2-carboxylic acid (CGS19755, 5 mg/kg), competitive antagonists at the glutamate agonist site of the NMDA receptor, marginally increased hippocampal acetylcholine efflux. Pretreatment with R(+)-HA-966 (60 mg/kg) or (+/-)CPP (10 mg/kg) attenuated the increase of hippocampal acetylcholine efflux by MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg). However, prior administration of CGS19755 (5 mg/kg) prolonged the MK-801-induced increase of hippocampal acetylcholine efflux. Results demonstrate differential effects on hippocampal and striatal acetylcholine efflux of antagonists at different sites on the NMDA receptor complex and are discussed in relation to previously described effects of these drugs on mesolimbic dopamine function.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) affects the in vitro and in vivo survival and differentiation of several classes of neurons by binding to the CNTF receptor alpha. We examined the possibility that intracellular cAMP can regulate CNTF receptor alpha mRNA levels in two neuronal cell lines that display cAMP-dependent process outgrowth. Dibutyryl cAMP did not affect CNTF receptor alpha mRNA levels in PC12 cells but elicited a dose- and time-dependent increase in NB41A3 cell CNTF receptor alpha mRNA levels. Forskolin similarly increased CNTF receptor alpha mRNA levels in NB41A3 cells. The data suggest that signal transduction mechanisms involving cAMP may 'crosstalk' with CNTF-initiated signal transduction in a cell type-specific manner and that CNTF receptor alpha expression is not generally linked to neuronal process outgrowth.
The author proposes a theory of how physicians learn that uses clinical problem solving as its central feature. His theory, which integrates insights from Maslow, Schn, Norman, and others, claims that physicians-in-training and practicing physicians learn largely by deriving insights from clinical experience. These insights allow the learner to solve future problems and thereby address the learner's basic human needs for security, affiliation, and self-esteem. Ensuring that students gain such insights means that the proper roles of the teacher are (1) to select problems for students to solve and offer guidance on how to solve them, and (2) to serve as a role model of how to reflect on the problem, its solution, and the solution's effectiveness. Three principles guide instruction within its framework for learning: (1) learners, whether physicians-in-training or practicing physicians, seek to solve problems they recognize they have; (2) learners want to be involved in their own learning; and (3) instruction must both be time-efficient and also demonstrate the range of ways in which students can apply what they learn. The author concludes by applying the theory to an aspect of undergraduate education and to the general process of continuing medical education.
B-50/GAP-43 is a growth-associated phosphoprotein enriched in growth cones and in the presynaptic terminal. The expression of the protein is restricted to the nervous system and is highest in the first week after birth. In adult brain, B-50 is enriched in areas with high plasticity. The regulation of expression of the B-50 gene occurs both at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional level by unknown mechanisms. The gene contains 2 regions displaying promoter activity, the most 3' of which (P2) is the active on in vivo. Expression of B-50 in non-neuronal cells results in filopodial extensions whereas antibodies or antisense oligo's to B-50 prevent neurite outgrowth. The protein is important for neuronal pathfinding. Several post-translational modifications have been described, ADP-ribosylation and palmitoylation in the membrane binding domain, phosphorylation by PKC, casein kinase II and phosphorylase kinase, and dephosphorylation by several phosphatases, among which is calcineurin. Interactions of B-50 have been described with calmodulin, PIP kinase, F-actin, and phospholipids. Recent studies indicate that the phosphorylation state and amount of calmodulin bound to B-50 regulate the rate of transmitter release. Induction of long-term potentiation by high frequency stimulation of hippocampal slices results in an increased state of B-50 phosphorylation. This will increase the amount of free calmodulin in the presynaptic terminal and increase the amount of transmitter released. Although B-50 is involved in seemingly unrelated forms of neuronal plasticity, neurite outgrowth and transmitter release, our unifying hypothesis is that the protein plays an (unknown) essential, modulatory role in membrane expansion.
The distribution of glycine immunoreactivity in the lamprey (Lampetra fluviatilis and Ichthyomyzon unicuspis) spinal cord was studied at the light and electron microscopic levels by use of postembedding techniques and antibodies against glutaraldehyde-conjugated glycine. To determine if glycine may be co-stored with other amino acid transmitters, the levels of glycine immunolabeling in identified GABAergic and glutamatergic synapses were examined. The most intense glycine labeling occurred in axon profiles of different diameter distributed throughout the ventral and lateral columns, with the highest density in the areas bordering the lateral cell column. Intermediate levels of glycine labeling were present in certain interneurons in the lateral cell column and in stretch receptors (edge cells) at the lateral margin of the spinal cord. Most other cell bodies, including glutamatergic dorsal cells, were virtually unlabeled. Examination of adjacent sections incubated with GABA antiserum revealed that many of the glycine-containing cells and fibers also contained high levels of GABA. At the ultrastructural level, the glycine immunolabeling was accumulated in two morphologically distinct types of terminal, one of which co-contained GABA. The terminals which exhibited glycine, but not GABA immunoreactivity, contained flattened synaptic vesicles and formed symmetrical synaptic specializations. The terminals that exhibited both GABA and glycine labeling contained pleomorphic synaptic vesicles and had either symmetrical or asymmetrical synaptic specializations. In both cases the glycine labeling was accumulated over the synaptic vesicles. Examination of identified glutamatergic axons in glycine-labeled sections did not provide any evidence for an accumulation of glycine in the synaptic vesicles or other structures of these exons. The present study provide the first morphological description of the localization of glycine in the lamprey spinal cord. The results confirm previous physiological and pharmacological studies, which have implicated glycine as a major fast inhibitory transmitter in the interneuronal network for locomotion, and in a proportion of stretch receptor neurons. The data also show that a significant proportion of the GABAergic synapses, but not the glutamatergic synapses, may utilize glycine as co-transmitter.

We report the case of a 74-year-old female patient who received the antide-pressant amitriptyline because of a major depression. Incidence of acute lower extremity venous thrombosis required an additional oral anticoagulant therapy with phenprocoumon. During the simultaneous adjustment of both substances, the Quick value displayed great fluctuations which only disappeared after discontinuation of the amitriptyline medication. This finding is discussed as an aspect of a possible drug-drug interaction between amitriptyline and phenprocoumon.

A new measure of complexity of multichannel EEG recordings is proposed. The quantity assesses the diversity of activities of different brain generators contributing to the global dynamics of electric field of brain.

Growing evidence indicates that ATP may play a very important role in Long-Term Potentiation (LTP), a neurophysiological process that has been implicated in memory formation. LTP is an enhancement of synaptic strength induced by a specific pattern of high frequency stimulation, or by application of exogenous ATP. In the hippocampus LTP-inducing stimulation is accompanied by a massive, Ca(2+)-dependent release of ATP from presynaptic terminals. Released extracellular ATP may either interact with numerous types of ATP receptors present on the neuronal surface, or serve as a substrate for ecto-protein phosphorylation. The results of combined electrophysiological and biochemical experiments indicate that participation of extracellular ATP in the ecto-protein phosphorylation process is most likely involved in the permanent amplification of the synaptic response in the hippocampus.

The purpose of this study was to fabricate and investigate amsacrine containing polymeric rods for use in interstitial chemotherapy of malignant glioma. Ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer (EVAc) rods containing 40% amsacrine (AMSA) were fabricated successfully with an extrusion method. In vitro kinetic studies revealed a high level of reproducibility of the production process. The release of AMSA showed a biphasic pattern consistent with a matrix-type controlled-release system with an initial more rapid release rate followed by a slower and more linear release phase. Release of AMSA was observed for over 6 months and the rods continue to release in a stable fashion. In vitro studies using rat glioma (RG2) in cell culture showed that cells treated with AMSA released from the rods were killed in a dose dependent manner indicating that AMSA incorporated into the polymer remained biologically active. In vivo studies of rats with single AMSA rods implanted five days after RG2 tumour implantation revealed histological evidence of an anti-tumour effect as well as an increased survival (p &lt; 0.0003). The mean survival of the amsacrine treated rats was 78 days with 50% still remaining alive &gt; 5 months after implantation. All control animals developed tumours and died within 15-19 days after tumour implantation (mean = 17 days). Amsacrine implanted animals showed no significant histological or clinical evidence of toxicity. We conclude that amsacrine containing EVAc rods can be safely and efficaciously use against the RG2 experimental glioma in a rat model and warrant further investigation.
The distribution and function of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was studied in the rodent C6 implantation glioma model. Using a histochemical stain for NADPH diaphorase, which colocalises with NOS, morphological studies revealed non homogenous staining of the constituent tumour cells and the neoplastic endothelium. Immunocytochemical staining for macrophages (ED1, ED2) showed dense positivity at the tumour brain interface with more patchy positivity within the tumour mass. This finding suggests that both macrophages, which are known to produce large amounts of NO, and the C6 cells contribute to the NADPH diaphorase positivity. Administration of the NOS inhibitor Ng-nitro-L-argine methyl ester (L-NAME) significantly reduced both tumour (40%) and contralateral local cerebral blood flow (20%) compared to control animals. These findings demonstrate that (i) NOS is present in experimental malignant glioma; (ii) NO mediated mechanisms contribute to tumour blood vessel dilatation and blood flow regulation; and (iii) using this model there is a significant differential sensitivity of the tumour and brain parenchymal vascular beds to a NOS inhibitor. Further investigations are required to determine the potential therapeutic and biological relevance of these findings and the relative contributions of tumour cells, neoplastic endothelium and reactive macrophages to NO mechanism in gliomas.
The effect of anti-inflammatory treatment on monocyte/macrophage infiltration, major histocompatibility complex molecules (MHC) class II expression and delayed oedema following experimental brain contusion was studied by immunohistochemistry and tissue-specific gravity measurement in 44 rats. Colchicine, chloroquine and dexamethasone administered once daily for five days after the trauma reduced inflammation and oedema. The difference was statistically significant with colchicine and dexamethasone. The findings comprise further evidence of a pathogenetically important inflammation after experimental contusion. It is probable that anti-inflammatory agents may prevent secondary neurological damage due to elevated intracranial pressure and cell to cell- or cytokine-mediated neuronal degeneration and demyelination.
Generalised or partial seizures are a common problem with many supratentorial gliomas. Their underlying pathophysiological mechanisms are poorly understood. To investigate this problem clinical and EEG seizure thresholds were investigated in experimental rodent gliomas using the epileptogenic drug pentylenetetrazole (PTZ). Mixed C6/A15A5 malignant gliomas were grown in adult Wistar rats after unilateral stereotactic implantation of a 50:50 cell mix into the caudoputaminal region. Eleven to 14 days later EEG (raw and spectrally analysed) was recorded bilaterally from the frontal and parietal regions under mixed alpha-chloralose and urethane anaesthesia. Baseline EEG (15 minutes), EEG during and after (30 minutes) PTZ infusion (100 microliters/min) and the time to appearance of seizure manifestations after starting PTZ were recorded. Fourteen animals were studied (5 normal, 5 with tumours, 4 sham implants) and mean BP, PaCO2, PaO2 and temperature were similar in the three groups. Baseline raw EEG showed predominate slow wave activity with lower amplitude and less spontaneous activity overlying tumours. Following PTZ infusion a sequence of vibrissal twitching (following a mean of 14.5 mg/kg PTZ in control and sham animals); jaw/nasal twitches (17.5 mg/kg); fore and hind limb jerking (46 mg/kg); myoclonic jerking (47 mg/kg); and status (77.5 mg/kg) was observed. The seizure thresholds for all PTZ induced seizure phenomena were, except for status epilepticus, highest in the tumour bearing animals. The time to 70% seizure activity on the EEG was also significantly longer in the tumour bearing animals. Spectral analysis of the EEG, although showing increased alpha and theta activity after PTZ infusion, did not discriminate between the three experimental groups either before or after PTZ activation. These studies have confirmed that experimental gliomas alter baseline EEG and both the EEG and behavioural response to PTZ. The reasons for the raised seizure threshold in the glioma bearing animals and the relevance of this experimental paradigm to human tumour associated epilepsy are discussed.

Non-cognitive symptoms are common in dementia. Emotional disturbances such as depression, anxiety and irritability-aggressiveness dominate. Depression is seen in about one third of demented persons. There are findings indicating that degenerative changes in the brain can cause depressive changes. Depression in elderly and in dementia differs from that in younger ages but no diagnostic criteria have yet been evaluated. Anxiety is a common symptom in depression suggesting a depressive-anxiety disorder. Specific serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRI) are efficient in the treatment of both depression and anxiety while tricyclic antidepressants have side effects including cognitive reduction. Irritability and aggressiveness respond to the treatment with SSRI drugs. Such drugs as benzodiazepines and antipsychotics, especially those with anticholinergic effects, can reduce cognitive function in elderly and demented persons but the knowledge, this side effect is insufficient. Antipsychotics without anticholinergic effects should be used for the treatment of psychotic symptoms in demented persons.
The last 15-20 years have seen a wealth of studies to characterize the neurochemical abnormalities of Alzheimer's disease, in particular those involving the beta-amyloid and tau proteins, as well as more recently, apolipoprotein E4. This article provides a summary of the evidence for the involvement of these proteins in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis based on postmortem brain and CSF studies.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a valuable tool for understanding of functional correlates of biological and structural changes in brain of patients with various dementia diseases. As such it can provide valuable physiological correlates important for diagnosis, management and research of dementia disorders. A crucial question is whether PET is capable of early or preclinical detection of dementia. Longitudinal PET studies in Alzheimer families with chromosomal aberrations will be important for. Impairment of cerebral blood flow and glucose metabolism is a common feature in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The pattern of changes is distinct from other forms of dementia and correlates with neuropsychological impairments. Neuroreceptor studies have to be further applied as well as monitoring of drug treatment effects.
Modern imaging techniques such as X-ray computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are widely used in the clinical evaluation of patients with dementia disorders. Computed tomography was introduced for clinical practice in the beginning of the 1970s. The advent of MRI came later with the first equipment used for clinical purposes being introduced in the first half of the 1980s. The two modalities differ in many aspects: CT has a lower contrast resolution compared with MRI and is also faster and often more convenient for patients. In contrast, MRI gives a superior picture of the brain tissue without the use of contrast agents. Moreover, MRI, like CT, does not suffer from bone artifacts. The latter is of special importance in the study of dementia diseases (especially Alzheimer's) where structural changes are present close to the brain. The possibility of image in arbitrary imaging planes also makes MRI more suitable to study structures of relevance in Alzheimer's disease such as the medial temporal lobes and the hippocampal formation.
A comprehensive neuropsychological examination includes an assessment of both cognitive functions and personality characteristics. In order to evaluate dementia, the patient's present as well as the premorbid functioning has to be assessed, which is performed by means of tests, behavioral observations, rating scales, and inquiries. These methods are used for diagnostic purposes, for differential diagnostics, follow-up studies, and for evaluation of treatment effects. Recent research has shown that neuropsychological methods have a high sensitivity and specificity in detection of dementia, utilizing measures of episodic memory. For staging of dementia, episodic memory as well as other cognitive functions are necessary. The effectiveness of dementia differentiation by means of neuropsychological methods varies from quite good regarding frontal lobe degeneration to less good regarding cerebrovascular dementias, probably due to the variation in site, extent, number, and temporal characteristics of the lesion. Future development is required regarding methods for evaluation of premorbid functioning, instruments for assessment of executive functions, and personality characteristics in dementia. Furthermore, brain-behavior studies are needed to learn more about the relation between neuropsychological measures vs neuropathology, neurochemistry, and neuroimaging.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterised neuropathologically by the accumulation of neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles as well as by cerebrovascular amyloid deposition and neuronal cell loss. The major component of neuritic plaques and cerebrovascular amyloid is a 40-42 amino acid peptide termed beta-amyloid, derived as a proteolytic fragment from the large amyloid precursor protein (APP), a membrane-bound protein expressed in most tissues. The last few years have seen considerable advances in understanding the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease through genetic studies. The importance of the beta-amyloid peptide in the pathogenesis of AD has been strengthened by the identification of pathogenic mutations in the APP gene on chromosome 21.
This state of the art document is the result of the conference held in Stockholm on March 9-10, 1995, initiated by the Swedish Medical Research Council. The conference brought together researchers from basic science and clinic to different disciplines. Response to questions was given in small groups and the answers were presented and discussed with all the participants. The final consensus was formulated in this larger group and comprises the state of the art document.
Few treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been evaluated to date by studying their effects on functional brain activity. Neuroimaging techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) are important tools that can provide an increased understanding of functional correlates to biological and structural changes in brains of patients with AD. These techniques provide valuable information about effects of drug treatments on functional parameters including blood flow, glucose metabolism, and neurotransmitter activity. Functional study outcomes are especially valuable when they are combined with studies of the effect of treatment on EEG and cognitive tests. This paper discusses functional changes observed in the brains of patients with AD following treatment with tacrine or nerve growth factor. Although these agents represent different approaches to cognitive drug treatment for AD, functional study outcomes indicate that both drugs improve cholinergic activity in the brain during long-term treatment.
Cognitive deterioration in dementia includes many changes besides memory disturbances, including agitation, delusions, hallucinations, anxiety, irritability, and aggressiveness. Antipsychotic drugs are often used to control behavioral symptoms, but their benefits are limited. Depression, which is common in dementia, is often associated with anxiety. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) improve mood and reduce anxiety while causing few side effects; they are also useful in managing irritability. Thus, the SSRIs should be considered the agents of choice for treating noncognitive symptoms associated with dementia. Neuroleptics should be used exclusively in patients with severe behavioral or psychotic symptoms, and only those agents without anticholinergic effects should be administered. Neuroleptics can be coadministered with SSRIs in patients who are extremely aggressive. Anxiolytics may also be effective for shortterm use. Future studies of drugs to treat the noncognitive symptoms of dementia should be placebo controlled and should evaluate the effects of those drugs on cognitive function.
The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is based on numerous clinical, neuroradiological, neurophysiological, and neuropsychological evaluations, but a definitive diagnosis can only be established at autopsy or by brain biopsy. Because the need for a simple and accurate diagnostic marker is increasing as new drug treatments emerge, intensive research to identify diagnostic markers is now in progress. Computer tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are being used to compare linear and volumetric measurements of brains for patients with AD and normal controls. Functional imaging techniques, such as single photon emission computer tomography and positron emission tomography, are being used to identify possible disease-related changes in regional blood flow, glucose metabolism, and receptor activities. Elevated tau-protein concentrations or reduced levels of beta-amyloid precursor protein in the cerebrospinal fluid; mutations on chromosomes 14, 19, and 21; the presence of the Apo-epsilon-4 allele; and impaired odor identification are also being evaluated as possible markers.
In the preclinical stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD), studies of asymptomatic mutation carriers have identified impairments in episodic memory. Other cognitive functions show no or slight impairment suggesting that preclinical AD is a unifunctional cognitive syndrome; the brain is affected selectively and predominantly in the medial temporal structures. In the early clinical stage, deficits occur in episodic memory, verbal abilities, visuospatial functions, attention, and executive functions. AD becomes a multifunctional cognitive syndrome and the brain's association cortices are affected. Nevertheless, sensory-motor performance and procedural memory seem to be intact and only slight impairment may be seen in primary memory. In advanced AD, cognitive dysfunction including deficits is global in primary memory, although sensory-motor performance may be well preserved. The brain's association cortices are severely affected. The sequence of cognitive decline; from unifunctional to global deficits, conforms to the three-stage development of neurofibrillary tangles described by Braak and Braak.
An apolipoprotein-E (Apo-E) immunohistochemical study was performed on neonates with pontosubicular neuron necrosis (PSN), aged 38-42 weeks of gestation, and compared to findings for age-matched neonates without PSN. Apo-E was expressed in neurons in both the pontine nuclei and pyramidal layer of the hippocampus, as well as astrocytes of only the PSN cases. The immunoreactive neurons did not exhibit karyorrhexis and were found in neonates by the age of 6 days. Apo-E may be produced by astrocytes and taken up by neurons on membrane remodeling during early responses to cerebral hypoxic or ischemic insult in PSN neonates.
A light and electron microscopic study of the brain of an 18-week fetus with a prenatal genetic diagnosis of Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy revealed a widespread mantle of abnormal neurogliomesenchymal tissue that covered a dysplastic cerebral cortex. In this area alone, the glia limitans that adjoined the abnormal mantle via one or two layers of basal lamina had frequent breaches, through which neuroglial elements extruded. In the most severely affected cortical region, which had only a rudimentary and fragmentary glia limitans, the majority of cortical neurons had migrated into the neurogliomesenchymal tissue. The massive overmigrated neurons still maintained a somewhat columnar arrangement, and the marked dysplasia abruptly shifted to a neurogliomesenchymal tissue-free normal cortical structure with an intact glia limitans, thus indicating essentially vertical overmigration of neurons without significant tangential migration of them. Together the above findings imply that breaches in the glia limitans may be the primary cause of the micropolygyria seen in this genetic disorder.
To study the pathogenesis of the central nervous system (CNS) involvement associated with verocytotoxin-producing Escherichia coli infection, we developed an animal model by administering verocytotoxin 2 to rabbits either intravenously or intrathecally. After an interval of 2-9 days, the rabbits became paralyzed in a dose-dependent manner and in the absence of renal impairment. The minimal intravenous and intrathecal doses that produced these neurological signs were 250 and 0.4 ng/kg, respectively. After intravenous administration, most of the toxin was cleared from the serum within 24 h, with concomitant transition of a small amount into the cerebrospinal fluid. Pathological examination revealed that neurons in various CNS regions showed atrophy, cytoplasmic hyperchromasia and nuclear pyknosis as early as 6 h after administration. The distribution of affected neurons was constant and irrespective of the route of administration. Abnormalities of the blood vessels, such as the thickening of arterioles walls, were noted from 2 days after administration. The vascular lesions became more prominent after the intrathecal injection, which caused thrombosis and multiple infarction. Selective deposition of the toxin on the vessel walls was demonstrated immunohistochemically. Thus, the pathological manifestations of verocytotoxin 2 neurotoxicity consisted essentially of two types of lesions, early neuronal and late vascular, both of which might have developed under the influence of the toxin that had entered the CNS by crossing or circumventing the blood-brain barrier.
Coagulation necrosis (CN)--a type of necrosis characterized by firm, eosinophilic parenchyma with recognizable cell outlines--is thought to be a result of rapid degeneration of tissue protein to a gel state and loss of water which prevents the necrotic tissue from undergoing autolysis and cellular digestion. In this study, we observed CN in cerebral infarcts of 11 of 150 consecutive autopsy cases of large cerebral infarction. Cerebral CN in patients who had survived for about 1 month had already started to be surrounded by newly formed vessels and type I collagen-positive tissue. In patients who had survived for more than 1 year, CN was deposited with calcium and cholesterin crystals and encapsulated by thick, dense collagenous tissue. Encapsulation, however, was not always complete, a finding that suggests that other factors, such as gel transformation at an early stage of CN and calcification at a later stage, are important for the persistence of CN in the infarct. The results of our study suggest that cerebral CN occurs more frequently than is generally believed.
Social support and immune status were assessed in women treated with adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer. Perception of enhanced attachment was associated with an increased number of white blood cell levels three months after, but not during, chemotherapy. After treatment, patients with high attachment ratings had higher numbers and proportions of granulocytes, and lower proportions of lymphocytes and monocytes. It is concluded that the support experienced by a cancer patient can be associated with counts and proportions of leukocytes, but that this effect, if present during chemotherapy, is overridden by the biological factor that affects the haematopoetic process.

The role of sigma receptors in the induction of heat shock protein (HSP)-70 by non-competitive N-methyl-Daspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists (+)-MK-801 (dizocilpine) and phencyclidine (PCP) was studied. HSP-70 is induced in the posterior cingulate and retrosplenial cortex of rat brain 24 hours after a single administration of dizocilpine (1 mg/kg) or PCP (50 mg/kg). The induction of heat shock protein HSP-70 by dizocilpine or PCP was attenuated partially by pre-treatment with the antipsychotic drug haloperidol (3 mg/kg, i.p., 15 minutes previously). However, pre-treatment with high potent and selective sigma receptor ligands, 4-phenyl-4-(1-phenylbutyl)piperidine (4-PPBP, 3 mg/kg, i.p., 15 minutes previously) and N,N-dipropyl-2-[4-methoxy-3-(2-phenylethoxy)phenyl]-ethylamine monohydrochloride) (NE-100, 3 mg/kg, i.p., 15 minutes previously) did not alter the induction of HSP-70 by dizocilpine or PCP. These findings suggest that sigma receptors may not play a significant role in the induction of HSP-70 by non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists dizocilpine and PCP, and that protective effects of haloperidol on induction of HSP-70 protein by dizocilpine or PCP may be due to other effect(s) except sigma receptors.
Alcoholism is a multigenic trait with important non-genetic determinants. Studies with genetic animal models of susceptibility to several of alcohol's effects suggest that several genes contributing modest effects on susceptibility (Quantitative Trait Loci, or QTLs) are important. A new technique of QTL gene mapping has allowed the identification of the location in mouse genome of several such QTLs. The method is described, and the locations of QTLs affecting the acute alcohol withdrawal reaction are described as an example of the method. Verification of these QTLs in ancillary studies is described and the strengths, limitations, and future directions to be pursued are discussed. QTL mapping is a promising method for identifying genes in rodents with the hope of directly extrapolating the results to the human genome. This review is based on a paper presented at the First International Congress of the Latin American Society for Biomedical Research on Alcoholism, Santiago, Chile, November 1994.

Liver and brain are the major organs responsible for taurine synthesis. In both acute and chronic liver failure, brain taurine concentrations are decreased and, since taurine appears to be implicated in K+ and Ca2+ homeostasis in brain, such losses could contribute to the pathophysiology of hepatic encephalopathy. Furthermore, taurine concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid in experimental acute liver failure are increased early in the progression of encephalopathy and prior to the onset of cerebral edema, a potentially fatal complication of acute liver failure. These findings suggest an osmoregulatory role for taurine in brain in acute liver failure. Monitoring of cerebrospinal fluid taurine may be of prognostic value in this severe, frequently fatal disorder.




Opiate substances occur as natural compounds in various invertebrate and vertebrate neural tissues. Recently we have discovered a novel opiate alkaloid-selective and opioid peptide-insensitive receptor, designated mu 3, that provides further evidence of the existence of separate morphine processes. Interestingly morphine biosynthesis appears to be linked to the dopamine pathway. Based on studies documenting the presence of morphine after stress, e.g., trauma, it is noted that this signal substance emerges after a timely delay. From this we speculate that this molecule can serve a specific effect to downregulate physiological processes after stress. We conclude that tolerance represents a natural process that terminates its action. In this regard a morphine hypothesis may be essential to a complete picture of motive circuitry. A speculative view of the psychiatric implications in schizophrenia, depression, and autism are presented with this in mind.

Although the concept of Ca2+ ions as mediators of cytotoxicity has been accepted, there have been past difficulties in correlating intra-cellular Ca2+ levels and neurotoxicity. It is now apparent that neurons that succumb to Ca2+ loading sustain a failure of Ca2+ homeostatic mechanisms due to processes set into motion very early following the initial insult. Recent work suggests that there exists a linear correlation between total neuronal Ca2+ loading and neurodegeneration. However, the slope of this linear relationship may be modulated by numerous factors such as the transmembrane Ca2+ gradient, the route of Ca2+ influx, and the presence of various Ca2+ buffering and extrusion systems within the cell. In the future, processes responsible for neurodegeneration may be better understood through the study of the subcellular interplay between membrane receptors, second messenger systems, and Ca2+ buffering mechanisms. Refinements on past techniques will be necessary to place further quantitative boundaries on global and subcellular neurotoxic Ca2+ increases.





Recently new criteria for diagnosing vascular dementia (VaD) have been suggested by (a) the State of California Alzheimer's Disease Diagnostic and Treatment Centres (ADDTC) and (b) the NINDS-AIREN group after an international workshop convened by the National Institute for Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), with support from the Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences (AIREN). We have retrospectively applied the new criteria to two groups of patients who are thought by us to be suffering from VaD. The first group (20 patients) had a raised Hachinski Ischaemic Score, i.e. 7 or more (mean HIS = 9.5), and a second group (20 patients) with an HIS between 4 and 6 points (mean HIS = 4.9). In group 1, 19 patients fulfilled the ADDTC criteria for probable or possible VaD, compared with 16 patients who fulfilled the NINDS-AIREN criteria. In group 2, 11 patients fulfilled the ADDTC criteria for probable or possible VaD, compared with only five patients who fulfilled the NINDS-AIREN criteria. This suggests that the ADDTC criteria may be more sensitive than the NINDS-AIREN criteria and the HIS. However, post-mortem validation studies of the new criteria are needed to determine if the improved sensitivity of the ADDTC criteria is at the expense of their specificity.
Alcohol interacts with many neurotransmitter systems, including the endogenous opioid peptide system, which influences the mesolimbic dopamine system and is believed to be central to drug-induced reward. These observations emphasize the need to further characterize the alcohol-opioid system link. Two important clinical studies have shown that treatment with the systemically active opioid antagonist naltrexone reduced the frequency as well as the severity of an alcohol slip (i.e., prevented relapse) among alcohol-dependent subjects who were enrolled in outpatient alcoholism treatment programs. Multiple interactions between opioid peptides and various receptors complicate our understanding of these brain mechanisms. Two possible therapeutic approaches to alcohol addiction include interfering with alcohol-induced reward and reducing sensitivity to alcohol by administering drugs that selectively block or reinforce only one selected opioid system.
Animal studies suggest that the endogenous opioid systems in the brain play an important role in the initiation and maintenance of drug dependence. Opioids in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) may be involved in rewarded behaviors and, consequently, in the initiation of drug self-administration that may be associated with addiction proneness. Opioids in the limbic forebrain are particularly implicated in subsequent drug self-administration, which may be associated with craving, maintenance, and relapse. Alcohol intake in monkeys is reduced after treatment with naltrexone in a graded, dose-dependent manner. Naltrexone also is associated with a greater decrease in alcohol consumption after imposed abstinence. These findings support the idea that endorphins play a role in alcohol-drinking behavior, particularly after a period of abstinence during the so-called catch-up phenomenon. Recent studies of recovering alcoholic patients provide evidence that opiate antagonists attenuate the craving for alcohol and decrease and/or postpone relapse into addictive behavior.
The utility of carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT) and gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) as biochemical markers of excessive alcohol consumption was studied in alcohol-dependent subjects. Serum samples were collected once weekly from 10 male out-patients undergoing a 6-month alcohol treatment programme. Frequency of relapse into drinking (defined as any intake of alcoholic beverage) was assessed by self-reports during patient interviews three times per week and by daily determination of the 5-hydroxytryptophol level in urine. A marked decrease in mean CDT and GGT values was observed during the initial month. Only one patient remained totally abstinent throughout the observation period, while four had sporadic relapses (2-5 days with alcohol consumption). Both CDT and GGT remained below the respective reference limits in those patients. The other five patients drank more frequently (range 22-57 days) and increased their mean levels of CDT and GGT after the initial decrease. As determined from the values at admission and during the course of the study, CDT appeared to be the most sensitive marker in six out of the 10 patients. In one patient, both markers were affected in a parallel way, whereas two of those with frequent relapses responded to alcohol consumption with a marked increase in GGT, but with no or only a slight increase in CDT. One patient did not show any abnormal CDT or GGT values. In 54 female and 60 male serum samples collected at random from patients during admission at an alcohol detoxification unit, 35% and 58% of the CDT values exceeded the reference limits for females and males, respectively. For GGT, 59% of the female and 67% of the male values were above cut-off. Carbohydrate-deficient transferrin and GGT were not significantly correlated. Taken together, the present results indicate that measurement of both CDT and GGT will increase the possibility of identifying excessive alcohol consumption. By following changes in CDT and GGT values during a period of alcohol withdrawal, the most sensitive individual marker can be determined. This in turn allows for improved detection of relapse into heavy drinking during long-term monitoring of out-patients.
Peripheral neuropathy with or without agenesis of the corpus callosum (ACCPN) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder that is transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Genealogical studies in a large number of affected French Canadian individuals suggest that ACCPN results from a single founder mutation. A genomewide search using 120 microsatellite DNA markers in 14 French Canadian families allowed the mapping of the ACCPN gene to a 5-cM region on chromosome 15q13-q15 that is flanked by markers D15S1040 and D15S118. A maximum two-point LOD score of 11.1 was obtained with the marker D15S971 at a recombination fraction of 0. Haplotype analysis and linkage disequilibrium support a founder effect. These findings are the first step in the identification of the gene responsible for ACCPN, which may shed some light on the numerous conditions associated with the progressive peripheral neuropathy or agenesis of the corpus callosum.
Two distinct species of amyloid beta protein (A beta) with different C-termini, A beta 42(43) and A beta 40, are deposited in senile plaques (SP) of Alzheimer's disease (AD), with the former being far predominant. To investigate whether A beta 42(43) also predominates over A beta 40 in normal aging, we examined by immunocytochemistry the C-termini of A beta in SP in the brains of non-demented aged individuals and compared the results with those in AD. Virtually all SP were A beta 42(43)-positive; of these 12% in non-demented aged individuals and 25% in AD patients (mean of three areas examined) were also A beta 40-positive. In both the AD and non-demented groups, 2/3 of the A beta 40-positive SP were typical cored SP. These results indicate that A beta 42(43) is the predominant species deposited in SP in normal aging, and there is no qualitative difference in terms of the C-terminus of A beta in the parenchymal amyloid deposition between normal aging and AD.
We have recently identified, in the brain tissue of patients afflicted with Alzheimer's disease (AD), the non-A beta component of AD amyloid (NAC) as a new constituent of amyloid. NAC is derived from a larger precursor, NACP, a presynaptic protein. To better understand the role of NACP/NAC in the pathogenesis of AD, we used semiquantitative immunoblotting and combined double-immunocytochemistry/laser scanning confocal microscopy to study the concentration and distribution of NACP/NAC in human brain, and compared them to the concentration and distribution of the presynaptic marker synaptophysin and the amyloid marker A beta. The semiquantitative immunoblotting demonstrated that the NACP concentration is slightly increased in the AD frontal cortex without statistical significance, whereas synaptophysin was reduced in its levels in AD. Consequently the proportion of NACP/synaptophysin was more than double in the AD frontal cortex as compared with controls. In the AD neocortex, NACP was colocalized with approximately 80% of the synaptophysin-immunoreactive structures (presumably the presynaptic terminals) and with the dystrophic neuritic component of the plaques. Computer-aided analysis showed that numbers of NACP-immunoreactive structures along synaptophysin-immunoreactive structures were significantly diminished (30 to 40%) in AD. Although the overall numbers of NACP-positive structures were decreased, there was a significant increase in the intensity of NACP-immunoreactivity per structure in AD. This increased intensity of NACP immunoreactivity per structure in AD was not observed with anti-synaptophysin, consistent with immunoblotting-based quantification. Antibodies against NAC immunoreacted with amyloid in 35% of the diffuse plaques and 55% of the mature plaques. Normal aged control brains containing small groups of diffuse plaques were negative with anti-NAC. Double-immunolabeling studies with A beta antibodies showed that NAC immunoreactivity is more abundant in the center portion of amyloid rather than in the periphery. These studies suggest that there is a connection between metabolism of presynaptic proteins and amyloid formation, and that NAC might follow diffuse A beta accumulation resulting in the formation of compact amyloid and mature plaques.
In addition to neuromodulation, endogenous opioids serve as growth factors in neural and nonneural cells. This study examined the hypothesis that opioids are inhibitory growth factors in vascular development. No circadian rhythm was detected for DNA synthesis in endothelial, smooth muscle, or fibroblast cells in the aorta of 1-day-old rats. Administration of naltrexone (NTX), a potent opioid antagonist, markedly increased the labeling indexes of all three cell types. [Met5]enkephalin, found to be the only opioid peptide to influence DNA synthesis and termed the opioid growth factor (OGF), depressed DNA synthesis in each cell type for 4-6 h in a dose-dependent and receptor-mediated manner. In aortas placed in tissue culture, DNA synthesis was significantly increased by incubation in NTX and decreased by incubation with OGF, Both OGF and its receptor, zeta (zeta), were associated with the cytoplasm of all three cell types in the neonatal aorta. These results indicate that an endogenous opioid peptide (i.e., OGF) and its receptor (i.e., zeta) reside in the developing vascular cells and govern DNA synthesis, with OGF acting directly as a tonic negative regulator of cell generation in the great vessels.

Cognitive neuroscience has emerged from the neurosciences and cognitive psychology as a scientific discipline that aims at the determination of &quot;how brain function gives rise to mental activity&quot; (S. M. Kosslyn &amp; L. M. Shin, 1992, p. 146). While research in cognitive neuroscience combines many levels of neuroscientific and psychological analyses, modern imaging techniques that monitor brain activity during behavioral or cognitive operations have significantly contributed to the emergence of this discipline. The conclusions deduced from these studies are inherently localizationistic in nature; in other words, they describe cognitive functions as being localized in focal brain regions (brain activity in a defined brain region, phi, is involved in specific cognitive function, psi). A broad discussion about the virtues and limitations of such conclusions may help avoid the emergence of a mentalistic localizationism (i.e., the attribution of mentalistic concepts such as happiness, morality, or consciousness to brain structure) and illustrates the importance of a convergence with information generated by different research strategies (such as, for example, evidence generated by studies in which the effects of experimental manipulations of local neuronal processes on cognitive functions are assessed). Progress in capitalizing on brain-imaging studies to investigate questions of the form &quot;brain structure or event phi is associated with cognitive function psi&quot; may be impeded because of the way in which inferences are typically formulated in the brain imaging literature. A conceptual framework to advance the interpretation of data describing the relationships between cognitive phenomena and brain structure activity is provided.
The discovery of the Huntington's disease (HD) gene has provided the impetus to determine the association between the triplet repeat sequences and clinical manifestations of the disease. The present study is directed toward determining the relationship between the triplet repeat sequences and severity of the neurodegenerative process. Nineteen HD postmortem cases were evaluated for neuropathological changes as well as for the number of trinucleotide repeat sequences, each in a blinded fashion. Each case was assigned a gross grade according to the scale of Vonsattel and colleagues (1985); neuronal counts were then performed on both the caudate and the putamen. For 7 of the postmortem cases, blood had been collected prior to death and was analyzed for the HD gene. For the 12 remaining cases for which blood was unavailable, DNA from the frontal neocortex and striatum was extracted from frozen or formalin-fixed paraffinized tissue and subsequently analyzed for the HD gene. When correlation was made for age at death, greater numbers of trinucleotide repeats were associated with greater neuronal loss, in both the caudate (r = 0.9641, p &lt; 0.001) and the putamen (r = 0.9652, p &lt; 0.001). When correction was made for disease duration, the correlation was again significant, for both the caudate (r = 0.6396, p &lt; 0.01) and the putamen (r = 0.6710, p &lt; 0.001). This suggests that in HD, longer trinucleotide repeat length is associated with a faster rate of deterioration and greater pathological severity. A comparison of trinucleotide repeat length in different brain regions in 4 of the HD postmortem cases associated with greater numbers of repeats consistently demonstrated fewer repeats in the cerebellum than in the frontal cortex, striatum or blood.
Mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene are found in 15 to 20% of patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). Increased levels of neurofilament subunits in transgenic mouse models of ALS also suggests a key role for these proteins in the pathogenesis of the disease. We report the coexistence of an Ile113--&gt;Thr substitution in exon 4 of the SOD1 gene and marked neurofilamentous pathology in the same FALS patient. These observations suggest that two mechanisms, SOD1-induced toxicity and neurofilament disruption, are acting together.
We performed proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy of the mesial temporal regions in 20 children with intractable temporal lobe epilepsy and compared results with those from 13 normal subjects. Abnormalities of the ratio of N-acetylaspartate to choline plus creatine (NAA/[Cho+Cr]) were seen in 15 patients (75%). The ratio NAA/(Cho+Cr) was correctly lateralizing in 55% and incorrectly lateralizing in none. Bilateral abnormalities were seen in 45%. Overall there was a unilateral decrease in N-acetylaspartate on the side ipsilateral to the seizure focus (mean 19% decrease vs normals, with 5% decrease on the contralateral side), suggesting neuronal loss or dysfunction. There was also a bilateral increase in creatine and choline (mean 18%), consistent with reactive astrocytosis. We conclude that proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy can contribute to lateralization of the seizure focus, and by detection of bilateral abnormalities, can contribute to the understanding of the underlying pathophysiology in temporal lobe epilepsy.
Visual object recognition is of fundamental importance to most animals. The diversity of tasks that any biological recognition system must solve suggests that object recognition is not a single, general purpose process. In this review, we consider evidence from the fields of psychology, neuropsychology, and neurophysiology, all of which supports the idea that there are multiple systems for recognition. Data from normal adults, infants, animals, and brain damaged patients reveal a major distinction between the classification of objects at a basic category level and the identification of individual objects from a homogeneous object class. An additional distinction between object representations used for visual perception and those used for visually guided movements provides further support for a multiplicity of visual recognition systems. Recent evidence from psychophysical and neurophysiological studies indicates that one system may represent objects by combinations of multiple views, or aspects, and another may represent objects by structural primitives and their spatial interrelationships.
Long-term depression (LTD) is a lasting decrease in synaptic effectiveness that follows some types of electrical stimulation in the hippocampus. Two broad types of LTD may be distinguished. Heterosynaptic LTD can occur at synapses that are inactive, normally during high-frequency stimulation of a converging synaptic input. Homosynaptic LTD can occur at synapses that are activated, normally at low frequencies. Here we discuss the mechanisms of LTD and their possible relevance to hippocampal function.
The mesocorticolimbic dopamine system is thought to be involved in psychosis and drug addiction. Many intrinsic membrane properties and synaptic regulators have been identified and characterized in the midbrain ventral tegmental dopamine neurons that give rise to this system. Other neuronal properties remain subject to considerable debate. The present review brings together a large literature regarding neurophysiological studies of the synaptic mechanisms thought to regulate the activity of ventral tegmental dopamine neurons. This work is placed within the context of the behavioral responsiveness of midbrain dopamine neurons and the alterations produced in these neurons by repeated treatment with and withdrawal from antipsychotic drugs and drugs of abuse.
Dendrites of neurons in the central nervous system are the principal sites for excitatory synaptic input. Although little is known about their function, two disparate perspectives have arisen to describe the activity patterns inherent to these diverse tree-like structures. Dendrites are thus considered either passive or active in their role in integrating synaptic inputs. This review follows the history of dendritic research from before the turn of the century to the present, with a primary focus on the hippocampus. A number of recent techniques, including high-speed fluorescence imaging and dendritic patch clamping, have provided new information and perspectives about the active properties of dendrites. The results support previous notions about the dendritic propagation of action potentials and also indicate which types of voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels are expressed and functionally active in dendrites. Possible roles for the active properties of dendrites in synaptic plasticity and integration are also discussed.
Imidazoline (I) receptors constitute a family of nonadrenergic high-affinity binding sites for clonidine, idazoxan, and allied drugs. One major subclass, the I1 receptors, whose subcellular distribution and signal transduction mechanisms are uncertain, partly mediates the central hypotensive actions of clonidine-like drugs. The I2 receptors, another subclass, are mitochondrial, not G protein coupled, and have diversified functions. Several endogenous ligands for I receptors, collectively termed clonidine-displacing substances (CDSs), have been detected in tissues and serum, but the structure of only one, agmatine (decarboxylated arginine), is known. Agmatine, widely distributed and bioactive, binds, like clonidine, to alpha 2-adrenergic and I receptors of all subclasses. The presence of agmatine and its biosynthetic enzyme in synaptosomes and specific neuronal pathways as well as serum suggests that it may be a novel neurotransmitter/hormone. Another CDS that binds to I receptors and to antibodies to imidazoline drugs has been detected, but its structure is unknown.
This study reports the sensitivity and specificity of the Clock Drawing Test (CDT) for detecting dementia of the Alzheimer type in a community-dwelling sample of elderly subjects. Forty-two patients with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease and 237 cognitively intact subjects were administered the CDT as part of an epidemiological study of aging and dementia. Three individual measures of clock drawing performance (quantitative score, qualitative score, and combined quantitative and qualitative score) were determined for each participant. When qualitative elements such as errors and strategies were incorporated into the CDT score, the sensitivity was 84% and the specificity was 72%. The findings suggest that a CDT score which evaluates qualitative and quantitative features provides reasonably good discrimination between normal elderly individuals and DAT patients. However, the CDT appears to have limited utility as a single screening instrument in the community. Instruments such as the Dementia Rating Scale (Mattis, 1976) provide better discrimination of DAT, indicating that functions such as memory and verbal fluency need to be assessed during screening.

A population-based sample of healthy old adults ranging from 76 to 93 years of age (n=94) was examined in the Trail Making Test (TMT), and in tests assessing motor functions of the hands (the dynamic and optic-spatial organization of the motor act). Results indicated no age-related differences in TMT accuracy, although the time required to complete the test increased with increasing age. Similar patterns of results were observed for TMT-A and TMT-B. There were no age-related differences in the tests of hand-motor functioning, and subjects were carefully screened on visual and auditory capacity, hence making it unlikely that motor and sensory factors contributed to the results obtained. A test of visuo-spatial skill (Block Design Test) was marginally related to performance on TMT-B, whereas sex, education, a marker of global cognitive status (the Mini-Mental State Exam), and tests of primary memory (digit dpan forward and digit span backward) made no contribution to TMT performance. Several biological variables (e.g. vitamin B12, albumin, blood pressure) were also unrelated to TMT performance, although a positive relationship between thyroid stimulating hormone and TMT-B performance was documented. It was suggested that the influence of age on TMT speed may reflect age-related deficits in a variety of task-relevant skills, including perceptual speed, attentional functions (e.g. vigilance, concentration, visual scanning), and visuo-spatial ability.
Previous work demonstrated that systemic administration of the benzodiazepine receptor (BZR) partial inverse agonist beta-carboline FG 7142 (FG) augments the cardiovascular response to non-signal stimuli, similar to the effects of an aversive context. Analysis of the parasympathetic and sympathetic contributions to the effects of FG prompted the hypothesis that increases in central cholinergic activity mediates the potentiation of the cardioacceleratory response by FG. Consistent with this hypothesis, the present experiments demonstrate: (a) intracerebroventricular (ICV) infusion of the cholinergic receptor agonist carbachol mimics the response-potentiating effects of FG; (b) this effect of carbachol was blocked by ICV co-administration of the muscarinic antagonist atropine; (c) ICV infusions of atropine blocked the potentiation of the cardioacceleratory response by systemically administered FG, but did not alter the basal response to the stimulus; and (d) 192 IgG-saporin-induced lesions of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons prevented the FG-induced potentiation of the cardioacceleratory response, again without altering the basal cardiac response. These data strongly support the hypothesis that the effects of FG on cardiac reactivity are mediated via an activation of central muscarinic cholinergic mechanisms.
Treatment with adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH), as well as with ACTH fragments and analogues, can influence behaviour of animals and humans. Furthermore it facilitates recovery of damaged peripheral nervous tissue. The question whether ACTH/MSH peptides affect recovery processes after injury to the central nervous system as well is addressed in the present review. The effects of administration of the ACTH(4-9) analog ORG 2766 after brain lesions has been studied frequently. However, the interpretation of the available data is confused by the variability of the results. Several factors can be identified which influence the efficacy of the peptide: (i) not all behavioural tests are equally suitable to reveal a peptide effect on behavioural recovery; (ii) the affected brain area; (iii) whether cell bodies or terminals are affected; (iv) the post-operative housing conditions; and (v) the onset and duration of peptide administration. Two possible explanations of peptide efficacy on functional recovery are considered: first, the peptide may accelerate spontaneously occurring recovery processes and second, the peptide may induce compensatory mechanisms underlying functional recovery without recuperation of the damaged neurons. These compensatory mechanisms seem to rely mainly on enhanced non-selective attention by activation of limbic structures. It is as yet unknown to which receptor system ORG 2766 binds; the analog lacks affinity for the known melanocortin (MC) receptors in brain, yet ORG 2766 is able to modulate the activity of endogenous opioids and the NMDA-receptor. A modulating influence of the peptide on NMDA-receptor activity might indirectly account for both enhanced attention--with ensuing behavioural recovery--and the acceleration of spontaneous recovery.
Many neurochemical, electrophysiological and behavioural studies have shown how 5-HT and dopamine neuronal systems are able to interact and it is highly likely that the therapeutic benefits of clozapine-like atypical antipsychotic drugs are achieved by the modulation of such interactions. There are, however, at least fourteen subtypes of 5-HT receptor and five subtypes of dopamine receptor expressed in rodent and/or human brain and the optimum combination of receptor affinities required for maximum therapeutic benefit remains enigmatic.
In the wake of, and as a complement to, a recently published major meta-analytic review of empirical support of the Geschwind-Behan-Galaburda model (GBGM) of cerebral lateralization (CL) the present brief essay attempts to present a critical assessment of the theoretical approach underlying the GBGM. The GBGM is criticized for having been misguided in its representation of the cerebral basis of handedness, and of the links between testosterone and immune function. Some guidelines are presented for the development of a general theory of CL, emphasizing animal research, greater interdisciplinary communication, a hierarchical model-building approach, and the relevance of neuropharmacology and psychiatry.
Point prevalence of specific fears and phobias was determined in 704 respondents of 1000 randomly selected adults aged 18-70 yr. A phobia for lightning, enclosed spaces, darkness, flying, heights, spiders, snakes, injections, dentists and/or injuries was defined if subjects reported a fear that was out of conscious control, interfered with life and lead to the avoidance of the feared object [American Psychiatric Association, 1994. Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (4th edn). Washington, DC: American Psychiatric Press.] Fear intensity was assessed using visual analogue scales. A factor analysis generally supported the classification of fears and phobias into: (1) situational phobias (lightning, enclosed spaces, darkness, flying and heights); (2) animal phobias (spiders and snakes); and (3) mutilation phobias (injections, dentists, injuries). Total point prevalence of any specific phobia was 19.9% (26.5% for females and 12.4% for males). In total, 21.2% women and 10.9% men met criterias for any single specific phobia. Multiple phobias was reported by 5.4% of the females and 1.5% of the males. Animal phobia had a prevalence of 12.1% in women and 3.3% in men. Point prevalence of situational phobia was 17.4% in women and 8.5% in men. For mutilation phobia no gender difference was observed, being presented in 3.2% of the women and 2.7% of the men. Women as compared to men gave higher fear ratings for all objects and situations. Inanimate object fears and phobias were more common in older than younger individuals. Animal fears were more intense in younger than in older individuals. Fear of flying increased and fear of injections decreased as a function of age in women but not in men. Thus, specific fears and phobias are heterogeneous with respect to sex and age distribution.
myo-Inositol and several other polyols were measured in the tissues of the trisomy 16 mouse (animal model of Down's Syndrome; human trisomy 21) and diploid controls. myo-Inositol was found to be selectively elevated in the brain of the trisomy 16 mouse. However, peripheral tissues showed no elevation. These results are consistent with the cerebrospinal fluid and plasma data reported previously on myo-inositol in Down's Syndrome subjects.
Pleckstrin homology (PH) domains are a family of compact protein modules defined by sequences of roughly 100 amino acids. These domains are common in vertebrate, Drosophila, C. elegans and yeast proteins, suggesting an early origin and fundamental importance to eukaryotic biology. Many enzymes which have important regulatory functions contain PH domains, and mutant forms of several such proteins are implicated in oncogenesis and developmental disorders. Numerous recent studies show that PH domains bind various proteins and inositolphosphates. Here I discuss PH domains in detail and conclude that they form a versatile family of membrane binding and protein localization modules.



Neuronal cortical spike trains contain precisely replicating patterns whose presence cannot be accounted for by change production. A comparison of the number of triplets of spikes present two times with the number of doublets replicated three times in the same window duration gives a frequency-insensitive measure of this type of fine temporal organisation. By varying the tolerance with which such precisely replicating patterns are detected, one can evaluate the accuracy of spike timing in spike trains. In the sample of data here analysed, it was found that replicating patterns were best seen in the precision range 0.4-1.4 ms (a result evidently at variance with a simple 'integrate and fire' model of neurons). Surprisingly, the fine temporal structure of spike trains thus evidenced was stronger at relatively low firing rate discharges and was present in both the 'spontaneous' and 'evoked' responses.
The design and synthesis of conformationally constrained, nonpeptide templates (1,1,6-trisubstituted indanes) which allow the incorporation of two adjacent amino acid side chains, plus a third binding group in an orientation similar to that found in alpha-helices are reported. Six racemic and two homochiral Phe-Phe and Trp-Phe mimetics were synthesised and evaluated in tachykinin receptor binding assays as molecular probes for the binding conformation of the endogenous peptides. Several were found to bind with micromolar affinity to the NK1 and/or NK3 receptor. The conformation of one of the homochiral indanes, (1R)-N-((S)-1-hydroxymethylbenzyl)-1,6-dibenzylindan-1-carbo xamide, was analysed by X-ray crystallography and was found to be in an alpha-helix conformation.
This paper is a personal recollection of some of the events and research that surrounded the amino acid sequence determination of the hypothalamic releasing factor, TRF (now known as TRH), by mass spectrometry (MS), and the development of reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) MS and tandem MS (MS/MS) methods for the qualitative and quantitative analysis of native opioid neuropeptides in human pituitary tissue extracts.
Over the last five years, with the advent of flights of U.S. Shuttle/Spacelab missions dedicated entirely to life sciences research, the opportunities for conducting serious studies that use a fully outfitted space laboratory to better understand basic biological processes have increased. The last of this series of Shuttle/Spacelab missions, currently scheduled for 1998, is dedicated entirely to neuroscience and behavioral research. The mission, named Neurolab, includes a broad range of experiments that build on previous research efforts, as well as studies related to less mature areas of space neuroscience. The Neurolab mission provides the global scientific community with the opportunity to use the space environment for investigations that exploit microgravity to increase our understanding of basic processes in neuroscience. The results from this premier mission should lead to a significant advancement in the field as a whole and to the opening of new lines of investigation for future research. Experiments under development for this mission will utilize human subjects as well as a variety of other species. The capacity to carry out detailed experiments on both human and animal subjects in space allows a diverse complement of studies that investigate functional changes and their underlying molecular, cellular, and physiological mechanisms. In order to conduct these experiments, a wide array of biomedical instrumentation will be used, including some instruments and devices being developed especially for the mission.
We studied the incidence of intracranial tumours in Lothian Region in south-east Scotland in 1989-90. Among 106 patients resident in the Region, 60 (57%) were of working age (15-64 years). All but two cases (97%) were histologically confirmed. The average annual incidence of cerebral glioma in this age range was 5.9 (95% CI 3.8-8.0) per 100,000 per year. Cerebral glioma will affect approximately 2100 people of working age in the UK every year.
1. Most neurotransmitters are inactivated by uptake into presynaptic nerve terminals and into glial cells. We recently provided evidence for uptake of amines in postsynaptic neurones. Uptake was evident at nanomolar concentrations of prazosin, but at concentrations of unlabelled prazosin greater than 10(-7) M, there was a further activation of uptake, manifested by a paradoxical increase in accumulation of the radioligand. We have now studied further characteristics of amine uptake in immortalised gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurones. Control cells included SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells (which possess presynaptic type amine transporters) and non-neuronal (COS-7) cells. 2. [3H]-prazosin bound to intact GnRH cells and was displaced by unlabelled prazosin in concentrations of 10(-9) to 10(-7) M. However, at higher concentrations of unlabelled prazosin, there was an increase in apparent [3H]-prazosin binding, as we had previously described. This paradoxical increase in accumulation of the radioligand was abolished by desipramine. 3. Desipramine had no effect on the association of prazosin with COS-7 cells. There was no paradoxical increase in accumulation of [3H]-prazosin in COS-7 cells, indicating that this effect requires the presence of a desipramine-blockable uptake process. 4. The increase in binding of the radioligand that was observed in the GnRH cells is not a general property of neuronal transporters; in SK-N-SH cells, there was no increase in accumulation of (-)-[3H]-noradrenaline in the presence of concentrations of unlabelled (-)-noradrenaline greater than 10(-7) M. 5. The uptake of prazosin and the increase in accumulation of [3H]-prazosin were abolished in the cold, indicating that this is an active, energy-requiring process. 6. Desipramine-sensitive uptake of prazosin was demonstrable in the GnRH cells in the absence of sodium. Further, the Na+/K(+)-ATPase inhibitor, vanadate, abolished noradrenaline uptake in SK-N-SH cells but had no effect on prazosin uptake in GnRH cells. Thus, the uptake of prazosin does not derive its energy from the sodium pump. 7. Prazosin uptake was inhibited by the V-ATPase inhibitor bafilomycin A1, the H+/Na+ ionophore, monensin and the organic base, chloroquine, indicating that uptake derives its energy from a proton pump. In contrast to other proton-dependent amine transporters, the uptake of prazosin was unaffected by reserpine. 8. Increasing extracellular pH did not increase the uptake of prazosin into GnRH cells, indicating that it is unlikely to be due to non-specific diffusion and concentration of a lysosomotropic drug into intracellular acidic particles. 9. The uptake of prazosin was unaffected by steroid hormones. 10. In COS-7 cells transfected with alpha 1-adrenoceptor cDNA, [3H]-prazosin was displaced by unlabelled prazosin without causing an increase in binding of the radioligand. This indicated that the increase in accumulation of the radioligand is unlikely to be due simply to some function of alpha 1-adrenoceptors. 11. Thus, peptidergic neurones possess an uptake process with properties that are distinguishable from known amine transporters.

Despite the ancient origins and aberrant appearance of living jawless fishes, none of their features may be assumed to be primitive without comparisons among hagfishes, lampreys, and gnathostomes, and with the nearest relatives of all craniates, the cephalochordates. In this review, the sensory capabilities of lampreys and hagfishes will be compared, and the major features of early craniate sensory evolution will be infered using cladistic methodology and an accepted phylogeny of the hagfishes, lampreys and gnathostomes. Lampreys have well developed olfactory, visual and octavolateralis systems, each of which is known to play a role in lamprey life and behavior. Hagfishes have poorly developed visual and octavolateralis systems, but elaborate olfactory and chemosensory systems. Unfortunately, the natural behavior and lifestyle of hagfishes are poorly known, limiting our understanding of hagfish sensory biology. Both groups of living jawless fishes show mixtures of primitive and secondarily derived sensory features and have few shared derived sensory features that would indicate close relations between the two groups.
A general statement of the function of the inferior colliculus is lacking, even after more than three decades of electrophysiological investigation. A neuroethological theory is proposed that accounts for a large and diverse body of evidence. Although aimed at characterizing the inferior colliculus in mammals, the theory also applies generally to the auditory midbrain in vertebrates. The theory has two hypotheses: (1) Tuning processes in the inferior colliculus are related to the biological importance of sounds. (2) There is a change in timing properties at the inferior colliculus, from rapid input to slowed output; this transformation is related to the timing of specific behaviors. Expressed in neuroethological terms, at least some neurons in the inferior colliculus are tuned to sign-stimuli, and the processing of these sign stimuli triggers fixed action patterns for hunting, escape or vocal communication. The resulting temporal transformation adjusts the pace of sensory input to the pace of behavior. Evidence for the theory comes from anatomical, neurophysiological and behavioral studies and includes: (1) massive convergence of parallel auditory pathways at the inferior colliculus, (2) interaction of the inferior colliculus with motor systems, (3) tuning of auditory midbrain neurons to biologically important sounds, (4) the slow pace of neural processing at the inferior colliculus, (5) the slow pace of motor output. The theory has the following implications. Neurons in the inferior colliculus are filters for sounds that require immediate action, such as certain sounds made by prey, predators or conspecifics. Neural processing in the inferior colliculus is species specific, resulting in filtering for these kinds of sounds. Specific action patterns should be correlated with the activity of neurons in the inferior colliculus. Motor activities may modify neural processing in inferior colliculus neurons. The rate at which information is transmitted to the thalamus is regulated by the inferior colliculus.
Cardiocrome, containing cytochrome c, flavin mononucleotide and thiamine diphosphate, was administered intravenously for 22 months to a patient with Kearns-Sayre syndrome. This combined therapy alleviated the patient's easy fatigability, motor disability, corneal edema and chilblains, but was not effective for his ophthalmoplegia, blepharoptosis or hearing loss. Truncal ataxia, dysphagia and an atrioventricular block appeared even with this therapy. Although the abnormal distribution of cerebral blood flow demonstrated by single photon emission computed tomography was improved, serial cranial magnetic resonance imaging and electrophysiological examination revealed progressive changes. In conclusion, this therapy was favorably effective for impaired skeletal muscle function and corneal edema, but not for ocular movements, central nervous system symptoms or cardiac conduction abnormalities, because irreversible degeneration had probably occurred in these organs.
This immunohistochemical, neuropathological study was performed on the ventricular wall of the brainstem in children with fetal and neonatal posthemorrhagic and congenital hydrocephalus. In posthemorrhagic hydrocephalus (PHH), hemosiderin deposits, nodular gliosis, ependymal cell loss and subependymal rosette formation developed subventricularly after 2 weeks of age. Ferritin-positive reactive microglia were well stained until about 2 weeks of age and thereafter diminished as reactive astrocytosis occurred. In congenital hydrocephalus (CH), the damage to the ventricular wall was less than in PHH at all ages and was associated with only mild astrogliosis. These differences in the neuropathological findings of periventricular regions, consisting mainly of glial reactions between PHH and CH, are due to differences in pathophysiology, and the timing of the insult in both conditions. The differences may be due to the effects of intraventricular hemorrhage and/or rapidly increased intracranial pressure in PHH. These results may have implications for the neurological prognosis in children with PHH.
This study investigates the changes in auditory-verbal short-term memory (AVSTM) and error patterns in repetition observed in a Wernicke's aphasic, NC, over a period of about 2 years following the onset of a left middle cerebral artery aneurysm. When first tested, NC demonstrated deep dysphasia, a disorder characterized by the production of semantic errors in repetition and a severe disability in repeating nonwords. At this stage, his AVSTM span, assessed in a pointing task, was less than one item. As NC recovered somewhat, his performance on AVSTM tasks improved (span increased to two items), and his pattern of error in word repetition changed (fewer semantic errors, more formal paraphasias and neologisms). Other features of his span performance after some recovery resembled patterns associated with STM-based repetition impairments (reduced recency effects and reduced word length effects). In a series of computer simulation and empirical studies, we show that NC's repetition performance can be accounted for by varying two parameters of an interactive activation model of repetition adapted from Dell and O'Seaghdha's (1991) model of production: decay rate and temporal interval. These results provide support for the view that AVSTM performance depends on storage capacities intrinsic to the language processing system. Such a model allows deep dysphasia and STM-based repetition disorders to be seen as quantitative variants of the same underlying disturbance.

We assessed the effects of addition of the lazaroid U-83836E to a preservation medium on the survival of rat dopamine neurons stored before culturing or intracerebral transplantation. Embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue was preserved at 4 degrees C for 8 days with or without the addition of 0.3 mu M of U-83836E to a chemically defined &quot;hibernation&quot; medium. Freshly dissected mesencephalic tissue was used in control groups. For culture experiments, the mesencephalic tissue was dissociated and grown in serum-containing medium. Following 24-48 h in vitro, the number of dopamine neurons in cultures derived from tissue hibernated without the lazaroid was 40% of fresh control, compared with 67% of control in cultures prepared from tissue stored in the presence of U-83836E. When mesencephalic tissue was transplanted to the dopamine-depleted striatum of hemiparkinsonian rats following 8 days storage at 4 degrees C in a medium without U-83836E, the mean number of surviving dopamine neurons in the grafts was significantly reduced to 40% of control. In contrast, grafts of tissue which had been hibernated in U-83836E-containing medium contained as many dopamine neurons as transplants of freshly dissected tissue. High yields of surviving grafted dopamine neurons were correlated to a significantly faster onset of functional recovery of amphetamine-induced motor asymmetry. We conclude that the storage period for rat mesencephalic tissue can be prolonged up to 8 days when using lazaroid-supplemented hibernation medium. As lazaroids have undergone clinical safety testing, the application of lazaroids for tissue storage in clinical transplantation trials can be envisaged.
The comparison of intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) derived across the anteroposterior axis of medial forebrain bundle (MFB) from the anterior border of lateral hypothalamus (LH) to the ventral mesencephalon including ventral tegmental area-substantia nigra (VTA-SN) in Wistar rats was assessed through stimulation parameters and behavioural response characteristics. The interpretation of response rate/charge consumption (muC/min) with respect to rectangular wave and sine wave electrical stimulation parameters suggests that the rectangular wave parameters are better in order to get the maximum responding rates. The most vigorous and robust responding was observed in the VTA or VTA-SN boundary placements, followed by placements in medial sector of LH. The acquisition of ICSS was fastest in the case of VTA-stimulation. The next site with respect to rapidity of ICSS was posterio-ventral LH. The extinction curves indicated that it is faster and exponential in case of VTA-SN, but it is slower with longer duration in case of LH-MFB. ICSS of SN were accompanied by exploratory locomotion and head bobbing. Thirty-one percent subjects with SN/VTA stimulation showed rotational behaviour. Seventy-eight percent of subjects with LH stimulations showed stimulus-bound ejaculations. Thirty-two percent of subjects with posterior LH stimulations showed biting of pedal edges. LH stimulations were accompanied by induced seizures and increased grooming in 18% and 13% of subjects, respectively. There was lateralisation of cerebral hemispheric function as right paw preference was noted in majority of rats, whether sites of stimulation were in the left or right cerebral hemisphere. The various other modes of pedal pressing operants like use of paw and mouth, alternate paw dribbling, use of head electrode assembly to manipulate the pedal were also recorded and analysed.
A brief review is given on mechanisms by which axons may be initiated during development and by which the polarity of neurons is maintained by selective sorting and delivery of molecules to axons and dendrites. The use of viruses as tools to study targeting of newly synthesized proteins to axons is described. Emphasis is then given to the hazards that are presented to the individual by the retrograde transport of infectious agents in axons to the brain. Borna disease virus, prions, and Listeria monocytogenes are examined briefly as examples of these mechanisms. These agents have attracted interest previously in veterinary medicine for the most part, but they may present potential and substantial threats to human health. Such infectious agents also represent a new type of virus, a new principle for disease transmission, and a new mechanism for intracellular transport, respectively.
The term &quot;axon&quot; was coined by Koelliker in 1896. To celebrate the occasion of this centennial, the contributions made in the 19th century by Remak and Deiters to the discovery of the structural uniqueness of the axon, and its continuity with the nerve cell body are highlighted briefly, and an overview is provided of the pioneering studies performed in the 18th century. Leeuwenhoek, Dutch pioneer of microscopic investigations, first observed nerve fibers in 1717 and described them as &quot;very minute vessels.&quot; Fontana, rigorous and ingenious investigator primarily interested in the biological effects of the viper venom, is credited with the first report of nerve fibers, of which he provided in 1781 a remarkable description as &quot;transparent, uniform and simple cylinders,&quot; &quot;primitive organic elements&quot; that can form a nerve.
We have previously reported that neonatal isolation significantly enhanced the magnitude of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) recorded from freely moving male rats tested at 30 days of age. The present study extends this work to examine the effects of neonatal isolation on hippocampal LTP in male and female juvenile rats. Changes in dentate granule cell population measures, i.e., EPSP slope and population spike amplitude (PSA), evoked by tetanization of the medial perforant pathway were used to assess the effects of neonatal isolation on LTP over a period of 96 hrs. Prior to tetanization, significant sex differences were obtained for input/output (I/O) response measures of EPSP slope and PSA, with males showing consistently higher values than females. No significant effect of treatment was obtained within either sex for baseline measures. Following tetanization significant sex differences were also obtained for both measures, with males showing significantly greater enhancement than females. Comparisons made at 1 hr post-tetanization (establishment of LTP) indicated that isolated males showed significantly greater enhancement than any other group. On the other hand, treatment differences were not obtained from females. At 96 hrs (maintenance of LTP), however, both neonatally isolated males and females showed significantly greater enhancement than either non-isolated siblings or unhandled controls. These results indicate that males and females exhibit different enhancement profiles with respect to both the magnitude and duration of LTP, and that neonatal isolation alters these profiles in a sex-specific manner.
When head motion includes a linear velocity component, eye velocity required to track an earth-fixed target depends upon: a) angular and linear head velocity, b) target distance, and c) direction of gaze relative to the motion trajectory. Recent research indicates that eye movements (LVOR), presumably otolith-mediated, partially compensate for linear velocity in small head excursions on small devices. Canal-mediated eye velocity (AVOR), otolith-mediated eye velocity (LVOR), and Ocular Torsion (OT) can be measured, one by one, on small devices. However, response dynamics that depend upon the ratio of linear to angular velocity in the motion trajectory and on subject orientation relative to the trajectory are present in a centrifuge paradigm. With this paradigm, two 3-min runs yields measures of: LVOR differentially modulated by different subject orientations in the two runs; OT dynamics in four conditions; two directions of &quot;steady-state&quot; OT, and two directions of AVOR. Efficient assessment of the dynamics (and of the underlying central integrative processes) may require a centrifuge radius of 1.0 meters or more. Clinical assessment of the spatial orientation system should include evaluation of central integrative processes that determine the dynamics of these responses.
The vestibulo-ocular reflexes (VOR) are determined not only by angular acceleration, but also by the presence of gravity and linear acceleration. This phenomenon was studied by measuring three-dimensional nystagmic eye movements, with implanted search coils, in four male squirrel monkeys. Monkeys were rotated in the dark at 200 degrees/s, centrally or 79 cm off-axis, with the axis of rotation always aligned with gravity and the spinal axis of the upright monkeys. The monkey's position relative to the centripetal acceleration (facing center or back to center) had a dramatic influence on the VOR. These studies show that a torsional response was always elicited that acted to shift the axis of eye rotation toward alignment with gravito-inertial force. On the other hand, a slow phase downward vertical response usually existed, which shifted the axis of eye rotation away from the gravito-inertial force. These findings were consistent across all monkeys. In another set of tests, the same monkeys were rapidly tilted about their interaural (pitch) axis. Tilt orientations of 45 degrees and 90 degrees were maintained for 1 min. Other than a compensatory angular VOR during the rotation, no consistent eye velocity response was ever observed during or following the tilt. The absence of any response following tilt proves that the observed torsional and vertical responses were not a positional nystagmus. Model simulations qualitatively predict all components of these eccentric rotation and tilt responses. These simulations support the conclusion that the VOR during eccentric rotation may consist of two components: a linear VOR and a rotational VOR. The model predicts a slow phase downward, vertical, linear VOR during eccentric rotation even though there was never a change in the force aligned with monkey's spinal (Z) axis. The model also predicts the torsional components of the response that shift the rotation axis of the angular VOR toward alignment with gravito-inertial force.
We analyzed 577 neurons recorded from visual areas V1, V2, V4, and the inferotemporal area (TEO) of macaque monkeys, which performed a visual fixation task and a spot-off-on (blink) test during the fixation period. Among these neurons, 35% were defined as task-related cells, because they gave responses at the task-start, fixation, or task-end periods but were unresponsive to the spot blink, which was physically identical to these stimuli. Blink-responsive cells accounted for 29% and task-unresponsive cells for 30% of the neurons. The task-related response was large and frequent in V4 (34%) and TEO (41%), but small and less frequent in V1 (31%) and V2 (27%). Other observations further demonstrated nonsensory activities in these areas: In some cells, response to the fixation spot was inhibitory, whereas light stimulation on the fovea was excitatory; some V1 and V2 cells had color-irrelevant responses, and some cells responded to the spot-off only when the monkey regarded it as a task-end cue.
In 1964, Giuseppe Moruzzi (1910-1986), a prominent neurophysiologist of worldwide fame with a scholarly interest in the history of science, published an extensive and insightful analysis of the work and personality of Carlo Matteucci, a 19th century Professor of Physics at the University of Pisa who had worked on &quot;animal electricity&quot; in the great tradition of Galvani. By discovering fundamental phenomena such as the demarcation potential and action current in muscle and nerve, Matteucci paved the way for the development of modern electrophysiology. Being written in Italian and having appeared in a not easily available journal of history of science, Moruzzi's essay has been lost to most members of the international neuroscience community. An English translation of it is published here with two aims: first, to make known to a large audience of neuroscientists a fascinating account of the origins of electrophysiology as seen through a perceptive interpretation of the successes and failures of a brilliant scientist and passionate man; and second, to pay tribute to the memory of Giuseppe Moruzzi and his everlasting contributions to learning and science on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of his death.
In vivo microdialysis was used to examine the effects of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) on basal and d-amphetamine (AMPH)-induced release of dopamine (DA) in the striatum of freely moving rats. MK-801 [0.2 or 0.5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (IP)] significantly increased spontaneous DA release in the striatum, whereas treatment with vehicle elicited no change in this variable. These data suggest that endogenous NMDA receptor activation exerts a tonic inhibitory influence upon striatal DA efflux. Systemic administration of AMPH (2.0 mg/ kg, IP) produced an 18-fold increase in extracellular DA; this effect was potentiated to 33-fold by pretreatment with 0.5 mg/kg MK-801. Pretreatment with 0.2 mg/kg MK-801 did not alter AMPH-induced DA release in striatum. Intrastriatal application, via the microdialysis probe, of 10 microM AMPH increased striatal DA efflux by 19-fold, but this local effect of AMPH was not altered by the MK-801 pretreatment. Thus, MK-801 increased DA efflux in response to systemic but not local AMPH, suggesting that a mechanism requiring the involvement of basal ganglia circuitry underlies this effect. It is hypothesized that NMDA receptor blockade indirectly activates the nigrostriatal DA system by opposing activation of inhibitory striatonigral GABAergic projection neurons.
The phosphorylation of MARCKS, but not protein F1/GAP-43, is increased in the intermediate and medial portion of the hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV) after chick imprinting. Here we investigated if MARCKS, but not F1/GAP-43, gene expression would also be altered after imprinting. We first investigated the constitutive mRNA distribution of MARCKS and F1/GAP-43 in chick brain. MARCKS mRNA was expressed in most cells and exhibited a relatively homogeneous distribution. In contrast, F1/GAP-43 mRNA levels were elevated in discrete brain regions, as we had observed in mammals. The highest F1/GAP-43 mRNA levels in the chick brain were in sensory and associational structures such as the hyperstriatal complex and neostriatum, and lower levels were in structures involved in motor control, such as paleostriatum. These results in chick are consistent with the previously drawn generalization that F1/GAP-43 mRNA is expressed in those brain regions which exhibit synaptic plasticity. After imprinting, MARCKS mRNA levels in IMHV were higher in good learners than poor learners. In contrast, analysis of F1/GAP-43 mRNA levels revealed no differences related to training in any brain region sampled. These selective results for MARCKS but not F1/GAP-43 parallel the prior findings on their phosphorylation, and are consistent with our hypothesis that the very same proteins that are post-translationally modified in association with learning and memory also undergo alterations in their gene expression.
It is well established that leucine-rich repeat (LRR) proteins such as connectin, slit, chaoptin, and Toll have pivotal roles in neuronal development in Drosophila as cell adhesion molecules. However, to date, little information concerning mammalian LRR proteins has been reported. In the present study, we sought LRR proteins of the mouse brain, based on the assumption that fundamental mechanisms are conserved between different species. We screened a neonatal mouse brain cDNA library with a human partial cDNA encoding LRR protein as a probe. We obtained two independent cDNAs encoding LRR proteins, designated NLRR-1 and NLRR-2 (Neuronal Leucine-Rich Repeat proteins). We analyzed the whole sequence of NLRR-1 and partial sequence of NLRR-2. Sequence analysis showed that these two clones are about 60% homologous to each other, and that NLRR-1 protein is a transmembrane protein. Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization histochemistry showed that both NLRR-1 and NLRR-2 mRNAs were expressed primarily in the central nervous system (CNS); NLRR-1 mRNA was also detected in the non-neuronal tissues such as cartilage, while NLRR-2 mRNA expression was confined to the CNS at all developmental stages. These results suggest that there is at least one LRR protein family in the mouse and that these molecules may play significant but distinct roles in neural development and in the adult nervous system.
To assess the potential usefulness of a structured and computer-assisted diagnostic interview under field conditions, menu-driven interviews with 18 of 20 probands undergoing forensic psychiatric examination were scored into axis I DSM-III diagnoses, independent of the regularly derived ICD-9 diagnoses. The computer-assisted interview yielded more affective and anxiety disorders than routine clinical procedures, many of which were amenable to treatment. The computer interview was acceptable to the probands. Controlled studies are suggested to assess the benefits of computer-assisted diagnosis in addition to traditional diagnostic procedures in forensic psychiatric patients.



This report describes self-rated health in 1,239 non-institutionalized Canadians aged 85 years and over who participated in the Canadian Study of Health and Aging. Most (76.8%) rated their health positively (i.e., very or pretty good). Stepwise multiple regression was used to determine the variables that were significantly correlated with self-rated health. A modestly successful model for predicting self-rated health (R2 = 0.27) was developed. Better understanding of the determinants of healthy aging hopefully will lead to effective interventions to improve the quality of life of the very old.
Production of oxygen free radicals is a natural consequence of aerobic metabolism and they are constantly generated in vivo by chemical reactions and metabolic processes. Antioxidant defence systems scavenge and minimise the formation of oxygen-radical-derived biochemical products, however, these defences are not completely effective even under normal physiological conditions. In pathologic situations, oxygen free radicals can be generated in excess of a cell's antioxidant capacity resulting in severe damage to cellular constituents including proteins, DNA and lipids. The inherent biochemical and physiological charateristics of the brain, including high lipid concentrations and energy requirements, make it particularly susceptible to free radical mediated insult. Increasing evidence indicates that many neurological disorders may have components of free radical and oxidative stress induce injury.
Growth cones are highly motile extensions of growing neuronal processes that have a well-characterized cytoskeleton, which is necessary for motility and directed growth. In culture, neurons have been observed to extend processes on a variety of substrates made of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) or extracellular matrix molecules (ECM molecules). We have previously shown that retinal ganglion cell (RGC) growth cones exhibit characteristic morphologies dependent on the substrate on which they are grown (Payne et al., 1992: Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 21:65-73). Upon contact with a sharp border between two substrates, the growth cones display rapid changes in morphology (Burden-Gulley et al., 1995: J. Neurosci. 15:4370-4381) that may result from extensive restructuring of the cytoskeleton. In the present study, immunocytochemical methods were used to examine the distribution of three cytoskeletal elements in RGC growth cones growing on L1, N-cadherin, or laminin as well as on dishes coated with alternating lanes of these substrates. Distinct distribution patterns of f-actin, microtubules (MTs), and neurofilaments (NFs) were observed in growth cones growing on individual substrates. At border regions between two substrates, growth cones with extensive lamellipodial contact with the second substrate were observed to have f-actin and MT distribution patterns appropriate for the new substrate encountered. Contact via filopodia alone did not evoke this change. Redistribution of NFs was observed only after the majority of the growth cone had crossed onto the second substrate. These results suggest that actin and MTs, but probably not NFs, are directly influenced by CAMs and ECM molecules to produce changes in growth cone morphology. The distribution of two members of the protein tyrosine kinase family, pp60arc and p59fyn, and phosphorylated tyrosine residues was also examined. No differences were observed in the distribution patterns of the kinases and phosphorylated tyrosine residues in growth cones on any of the substrate molecules tested. In addition, the distribution patterns were unchanged in growth cones that contacted and crossed borders between two substrates. These results suggest that redistribution of pp60arc or p59fyn is not required to produce alterations in growth cone morphology induced by contact with L1, N-cadherin or laminin.
Opioid peptides activate immunocytes and opiate alkaloids inhibit this activation in the mussel, Mytilus edulis. Here we present evidence that cells of another invertebrate, Leucophaea maderae, can be influenced in a similar way by the Met-enkephalin analogue D-Ala2-Met5-enkephalin (DAMA) and morphine. Effects of different signal molecules on Leucophaea hemocytes were evaluated by computer-assisted image analysis of their conformational state. A small percentage of the untreated cells were found to display spontaneous conformational changes after 25 min of incubation without pharmacological agents which was noted as a decrease in both circularity factor and shape factor values. Activation caused the cells to become elliptical, a feature that appears to be characteristic of Leucophaea immunocytes. Administration of DAMA induced a similar activation of most of the cells. After 30 min these DAMA-activated cells started to display distinct locomotory activity not seen in the controls. alpha-Melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH, 10(-7)) added to the incubation medium after DAMA-activation caused the cells to return to their original &quot;rounded&quot; conformation. In addition, the presence of immunoreactive interleukin (IL-1), adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) in the hemolymph was demonstrated. These data suggest an interaction between both vertebrate-type immunological signal molecules and neuropeptides in the regulation of immunological cells in Leucophaea.
Immunocytochemistry was used to investigate the presence of corticotropin-releasing factor-like peptides in the interrenal (adrenal) glands of the bullfrog Rana catesbeiana by using specific antisera raised against synthetic nonconjugated rat/human corticotropin-releasing factor, urotensin I, and sauvagine. From these three antisera, covering a broad range of corticotropin-releasing factor-like immunoreactivities, only the sauvagine antiserum gave positive immunoreactivity. Sauvagine immunoreactivity was found in cortical cells grouped into cords in the renal zone of the interrenal gland. The central and subcapsular cords were less stained. Tyrosine hydroxylase-positive chromaffin cells were not sauvagine-immunoreactive. The immunoreactivity was abolished, in all cases, by previous immunoabsorption of the sauvagine antiserum with synthetic sauvagine (0.1 microM), but it was not eliminated by sucker (Catostomus commersoni) urotensin I, sole (Hippoglossoides elassodon) urotensin I, sucker corticotropin-releasing factor, rat/human corticotropin-releasing factor, or ovine corticotropin-releasing factor (0.1-10 microM). In a sauvagine radioimmunoassay, interrenal extracts displaced 125I-sauvagine from antiserum only partially, and not in parallel with the sauvagine standard curve. The results suggest that the sauvagine immunoreactivity in the R. catesbeiana interrenal gland may represent a novel sauvagine-like peptide.
Neural transplantation of genetically modified cells has been successfully employed to reverse functional deficits in animal models of neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease. While implanted PC12 cells secrete dopamine in vivo and can ameliorate dopamine deficiency in parkinsonian rat model systems, these cells either degenerate within 2-3 wk postimplantation (presumably due to the lack of neural trophic factor support at the site of implantation), or in some cases, form a tumor mass leading to the death of the host animal. To address these limitations, we have developed a genetically modified PC12 cell line that can synthesize nerve growth factor (NGF) under the control of a zinc-inducible metallothionein promoter. When implanted in the rat striatum and under in vivo zinc stimulation, these cells will neuro-differentiate, express tyrosine hydroxylase, and will undergo survival through potential autocrine trophic support. This regulatable cell line and general approach may provide additional insight on the potential utilization of cell transplants for treatment of Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders.
Positron emission tomography was used to investigate cerebral blood flow (CBF) changes associated with the processing of speech. In a first experiment, normal right-handed volunteers were scanned under two conditions that required phonetic processing (discrimination of final consonants and phoneme monitoring), and one baseline condition of passive listening. Analysis was carried out by paired-image subtraction, with MRI overlay for anatomical localization. Comparison of each phonetic condition with the baseline condition revealed increased CBF in the left frontal lobe, close to the border between Broca's area and the motor cortex, and in a left parietal region. A second experiment showed that this area was not activated by a semantic judgement task. Reanalysis of data from an earlier study, in which various baseline conditions were used, confirmed that this region of left frontal cortex is consistently involved in phonetic tasks. The findings support a model whereby articulatory processes involving a portion of Broca's area are important when phonetic segments must be extracted and manipulated, whereas left posterior temporal cortex is involved in perceptual analysis of speech.
The attenuation of the startle response termed &quot;prepulse inhibition&quot; (PPI) occurs when an abrupt startling stimulus is preceded 30-500 msec by a barely detectable prestimulus or &quot;prepulse&quot;. PPI provides a measure of sensorimotor gating, which is a short time-constant central processing mechanism that is disrupted in patients with schizophrenia, and a number of other neuropsychiatric disorders. The present experiments examined normal PPI in the mouse, and assessed the effects of apomorphine, d-amphetamine, PCP, and MDMA on mouse PPI. As predicted, mice demonstrated robust and reliable PPI, and each compound tested disrupted PPI. As with rats, 2.0 mg/kg apomorphine, 10.0 mg/kg PCP, and 10.0 mg/kg MDMA disrupted PPI significantly, while 5.0 mg/kg d-amphetamine produced a large reduction of PPI that approached significance. Our findings suggest that the mouse may provide another model system for the study of sensorimotor gating mechanisms.

Advances in the molecular cloning, expression and functional characterization of the P2 purinoceptor superfamily have provided a wealth of data to support a diverse functional role for ATP and related nucleotides in the regulation of tissue function. As with other receptor superfamilies, it is likely that distinct subtypes of each receptor will subserve discrete functions depending on tissue distribution and disease pathophysiology. At the present time, ATP is being evaluated as an anticancer agent and as an anaesthesia adjunct whereas UTP is studied as a novel treatment for cystic fibrosis. ARL67085 is a potent and selective P2T receptor antagonist that has potential as a novel antithrombotic agent. The key to exploiting the P2 purinoceptor area to enhance understanding of disease aetiology and concurrent therapeutic potential will be to focus efforts on the identification of novel pharmacophores that have potent and selective interactions with the various receptor subtypes as potential new leads. To this end, the use of high-throughput screening in conjunction with combinatorial chemical, conventional chemical and natural product library compound sources will be critical.
The focus of this short review is the role of certain neurotrophins and their receptors on the survival and regrowth of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) whose axons are damaged in the optic nerve. Initial experiments in our laboratory documented patterns of RGC death after axotomy. Subsequent studies were designed to investigate the distribution of high-affinity neurotrophin receptors in neurons and glial cells of the retina and optic nerve. This information was used both in vitro and in vivo to study the effects of specific trophic molecules on the survival and regrowth of injured RGCs. During the course of experiments involving neurotrophin administration, an endogenous source of trophic support--independent of the exogenous administration of growth factors--was found within the eye. Several experiments were subsequently undertaken to define further this survival effect and determine its nature and source within the eye. Finally, anatomical techniques that help visualize fine axonal processes within the retina have provided insights into the specific effects of neurotrophins on the growth and branching of injured CNS axons.
Neurotrophic factors are target-derived molecules that prevent neuronal degeneration during development and, in some cases, during adulthood. They offer substantial promise as therapeutic agents in neurological disease by preventing cell loss and promoting axonal regeneration. However, the optimal means of delivering neurotrophic factors to the nervous system, and the CNS in particular, is an unresolved issue. Neurotrophic factors rarely influence only a single target neuronal population, hence broad delivery of neurotrophic factors to the nervous system may results in effects on multiple non-targeted neuronal populations. Ideally, neurotrophin delivery to the nervous system should be target-specific, regionally restricted, chronic, safe, well-tolerated and of sufficient concentration to elicit responses from target neurons. In this paper we discuss the use of somatic gene transfer methods to deliver neurotrophic factors to the CNS in a manner that seeks to meet the above criteria.
The phenotypes of many neurological diseases, including motor neuron disease (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; ALS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), are determined by the vulnerabilities of populations of nerve cells and the character/ evolution of cellular abnormalities. Because different cell types respond selectively to individual trophic factors, these factors may be useful in ameliorating pathology in cells that express their cognate receptors. To test therapies for ALS and AD, investigators require model systems. Although there are a variety of models of ALS, two models are particularly attractive: transgenic mice that express human superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD-1) mutations linked to familial ALS develop paralysis associated with a gain of adverse property of the mutant SOD; and axotomy of facial axons in neonatal rats, a manipulation that causes retrograde cell degeneration, which can be ameliorated by several trophic factors.

Increased glutamate-receptor-mediated Ca++ influx is considered an important factor underlying delayed neurodegeneration following ischemia or seizures. Until recently, the NMDA receptor was the only glutamate receptor known to be Ca(++)-permeable. It is now well established that glutamate receptors of the AMPA type, encoded by a gene family designated GluR1-GluR4, exist in both Ca(++)-permeable and Ca(++)-impermeable forms, depending on their subunit composition and degree of RNA editing. Recombinant channels assembled without GluR2 are permeable to Ca++; channels assembled with (edited) GluR2 are Ca(++)-impermeable. AMPA receptors in most adult neurons are hetero-oligomers containing GluR2 subunits, but some neurons have GluR2-less, Ca(++)-permeable receptors. The &quot;GluR2 hypothesis&quot; predicts that a relative reduction in the expression of GluR2 results in enhanced Ca++ influx through newly synthesized AMPA receptors, thereby increasing neurotoxicity of endogenous glutamate. Recent observations indicate reduction in GluR2 expression and predict formation of Ca(++)-permeable AMPA receptors following global ischemia and kainate-induced status epilepticus; these changes are likely to be a major factor contributing to the delayed neurodegeneration that follows these pathological events. The delayed neurodegeneration appears to be primarily apoptotic. Thus, there are at least three strategies for neuroprotection: block of formation of GluR2-less receptors, which may be possible at several levels; block of the GluR2-less receptors themselves; and block of the subsequent apoptosis.

A community-based sample of adolescent-onset anorexia nervosa (AN) cases (n = 51) was contrasted with an age-, sex-, and school-matched comparison group [comp] (n = 51) on the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Revised (WAIS-R) at a mean age of 21 years. There were no study dropouts. Fewer than 10% of AN cases were underweight at the time of testing. Overall, there were few differences across the two groups, even though the COMP group performed significantly better on the object assembly subtest. A small subgroup of AN cases showed autism-spectrum disorders. This subgroup tended toward test profiles similar to those observed in autism and Asperger syndrome. These findings are discussed in relation to the clinical need for subgrouping of AN cases with a view to improving treatment programs/interviews.

Statoconia are calcium carbonate inclusions in the lumen of the gravity-sensing organ, the statocyst, of Aplysia californica. The aim of the present study was to examine the role of carbonic anhydrase and urease in statoconia mineralization in vitro. The experiments were performed using a previously described culture system (Pedrozo et al., J. Comp. Physiol. (A) 177:415-425). Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase by acetazolamide decreased statoconia production and volume, while inhibition of urease by acetohydroxamic acid reduced total statoconia number, but had no affect on statoconia volume. Inhibition of carbonic anhydrase initially increased and then decreased the statocyst pH, whereas inhibition of urease decreased statocyst pH at all times examined; simultaneous addition of both inhibitors also decreased pH. These effects were dose and time dependent. The results show that carbonic anhydrase and urease are required for statoconia formation and homeostasis, and for regulation of statocyst pH. This suggests that these two enzymes regulate mineralization at least partially through regulation of statocyst pH.
The discovery of the ability of the nervous system to communicate through &quot;public&quot; circuits with other systems of the body is attributed to Ernst and Berta Scharrer, who described the neurosecretory process in 1928. Indeed, the immune system has been identified as another important neuroendocrine target tissue. Opioid peptides are involved in this communication (i.e., neuroimmune) and with that of autoimmunoregulation (communication between immunocytes). The significance of opioid neuropeptide involvement with the immune system is ascertained from the presence of novel delta, mu, and kappa receptors on inflammatory cells that result in modulation of cellular activity after activation, as well as the presence of specific enzymatic degradation and regulation processes. In contrast to the relatively uniform antinociceptive action of opiate and opioid signal molecules in neural tissues, the presence of naturally occurring morphine in plasma and a novel mu3, opiate-specific receptor on inflammatory cells adds to the growing knowledge that opioid and opiate signal molecules may have antagonistic actions in select tissues. In examining various disorders (e.g., human immunodeficiency virus, substance abuse, parasitism, and the diffuse inflammatory response associated with surgery) evidence has also been found for the involvement of opiate/opioid signaling in prominent mechanisms. In addition, the presence of similar mechanisms in man and organisms 500 million years divergent in evolution bespeaks the importance of this family of signal molecules. The present review provides an overview of recent advances in the field of opiate and opioid immunoregulatory processes and speculates as to their significance in diverse biological systems.
A significant number of people infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) develop neurologic complications. The AIDS dementia complex is frequently accompanied by HIV encephalitis, which is characterized at the neuropathologic level by loss of neuronal subpopulations in the neocortex, limbic system, and basal ganglia in association with synaptic and dendritic damage, astrogliosis, and formation of microglial nodules and multinucleated giant cells. Recent studies have shown that the extent of neurodegeneration in this condition correlates directly with the amount of HIV-1 antigen in the brain. HIV-1 infection of the brain could result in neurodegeneration via neurotoxic effects of viral products (e.g., gp 120, Nef, Tat) and/or via alterations in the expression of host factors. The latter may include increased production of potentially detrimental factors such as cytokines, excitotoxic amino acids, free oxygen radicals, and bioactive lipid mediators as well as interference with the production or action of neurotrophic/protective factors. Derangements of the neuronal calcium homeostasis, lipid peroxidation, and induction of programmed cell death (apoptosis) may all play a role as final common pathogenetic pathways in HIV-1-induced neurodegeneration. Recent studies in transgenic mice (over)expressing HIV- or host-derived proteins in their central nervous system indicate that distinct neuronal populations may differ in their susceptibility to specific pathogenic factors. For example, glutamate-receptor-bearing pyramidal neurons were particularly susceptible to neurodegeneration promoted by HIV-1 products, whereas interneurons were more sensitive to the neurotoxic effects mediated by cytokines. For the design of effective treatments for the HIV-1-associated cognitive/motor complex, it will be important to determine whether the neurologic deficits in this entity result from global neuronal dysfunction or relate more specifically to the impairment of distinct neuronal subpopulations. It will also be critical to examine diverse in vitro and in vivo models to help decide which of the many pathogenetic processes that may be at work in this complex disease constitute the most promising therapeutic targets.
The chromosome ends are specialized nucleoprotein structures called telomeres, which are essential for stable chromosome maintenance. In tumor-derived cell lines telomeres are maintained by the ribonucleoprotein enzyme telomerase. Telomerase activity is repressed in almost all normal human somatic cells. Due to the end replication problem, progressive telomere shortening occurs in normal somatic cells, leading to a limited replicative capacity and eventually resulting in cellular senescence. In the presence of viral oncogenes or some somatic mutations that block cellular senescence, cells continue to divide and telomere erosion continues. This continuing telomere erosion ultimately leads to the activation of telomerase, a necessary event for the sustained growth of most human tumors.

We have refined the location of the Brn-3a genomic locus (POU4F1), using somatic cell hybrid analysis, to 13q21.1--&gt;q22. Furthermore, we have shown that two YACs, known to contain the closest marker linked to neuronal ceroidlipofuscinosis (CLN5), also contains the Brn-3a gene. As one of these YACs is only 320 kb long, this localises POU4F1 within the critical region defining the CLN5 locus, and raises the possibility that POU4F1 is a candidate gene for CLN5.
We have used a panel of somatic cell hybrids carrying structural rearrangements of human chromosome 13 to regionally localise 10 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from this chromosome. Three of these genes were not present in the somatic cell hybrid PGME, which contains chromosome 13 as its major human component. Using a panel of somatic cell hybrids, two of these genes were localised to chromosome 8 and one to chromosome 16. Using the PCR primers as published, it was impossible to map one EST; consequently, a YAC containing this gene was isolated, and fluorescence in situ hybridisation was used to map the gene to 13q14. The distribution of the remaining six chromosome 13-specific ESTs was nonrandom; one mapped to 13q14 and the remaining five to 13q12, with three mapping within the proximal portion and two mapping within the distal portion of this region.
Using self-rating questionnaires, 63 patients with social phobia but without a history of spontaneous panic attacks reported on their symptoms and traits, and on the development of their social phobia. The anxiety responses were composed of many symptoms (median = 14) of marked intensity, with blushing, trembling, cognitive difficulties, communication difficulties, and fears of the impression they make on others as cardinal symptoms. In contrast to the symptom pattern seen in spontaneous panic attacks, dizziness, chest discomforts, and difficulty in getting air were infrequent. The acute responses were generally followed by prolonged reactions with depressed mood, lowered self-esteem, and increased fears of similar situations. Most often the anticipatory anxiety was both intense and of long duration. Marked childhood traits of insecurity were reported by some patients, but these traits did not seem to be a general forerunner of the social phobia. Most patients had a gradual onset of the disorder between the age of ten and twenty, with increasing traits of social insecurity and anxiety responses developing simultaneously, during a period when a group of healthy controls reported that their insecurity was decreasing.
Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein that synthesizes telomere repeats onto chromosome ends and is involved in maintaining telomere length in germline tissues and in immortal and cancer cells. In the present study, the temporal regulation of expression of telomerase activity was examined in human germline and somatic tissues and cells during development. Telomerase activity was detected in fetal, newborn, and adult testes and ovaries, but not in mature spermatozoa or oocytes. Blastocysts expressed high levels of telomerase activity as did most human somatic tissues at 16-20 weeks of development with the exception of human brain tissue. This activity could no longer be detected in the somatic tissues examined from the neonatal period onward. Neither placenta nor cultured fetal amniocytes contained detectable telomerase activity. Fetal tissues explanted into primary cell culture showed a dramatic decline in telomerase activity which became undetectable after the first passage in vitro. Elucidation of the regulatory pathways involved in the repression of telomerase activity during development may lead to the ability to manipulate telomerase levels and explore the consequences both for cellular aging and for the survival of cancer cells.
We have developed a panel of monoclonal antibodies against rat myogenin, a skeletal muscle regulatory protein of the bHLH family. Some of these monoclonals have been widely used by others, and details of their production are presented. Mapping the epitopes by immunoprecipitation of myogenin deletion mutants demonstrates that this panel recognizes epitopes spanning the entire molecule outside the HLH region. Four antibodies against epitopes outside the bHLH region interfere with the binding of myogenin/E-protein heterodimers to DNA sequences containing the myogenin heterodimer consensus recognition site. Three of these epitopes are partially masked in the heterodimers; antibody binding to these epitopes reduces the interactions between myogenin and E12. This suggests that surfaces outside the HLH dimerization domain may contribute to the stability of myogenin/E12 complexes. The binding of one antibody to its epitope did not appear to affect the myogenin/E12 interaction but nonetheless interfered with the binding of the complex to DNA, suggesting that this epitope lies near to a surface occupied by DNA.
The neural crest provides a useful model to learn how cell fate diversification is regulated during vertebrate development. Our approach is to isolate zebrafish mutations in which the development of neural crest derivatives is disrupted, in order to learn about the underlying genetic mechanisms. We describe a screen in which parthenogenetic diploid embryos are examined both for visible phenotypes and for cellular defects in neural crest-derived sensory neurons recognized immunohistochemically. We present preliminary results from this screen and briefly describe a few representative mutations. We also discuss the general utility of our strategy and comment on the future directions of this approach.
Six patients with ataxia-telangiectasia were given neurophysiological examinations. The patients had progressive sensorimotor axonal neuropathy that had begun at about age eight years. Brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs) showed central alternations in two of four cases. Somatosensory (BAEPs) and motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were altered in four of five cases. In the advanced stage of the disease the neurophysiological findings, except BAEPs and MEPs, resembled those in Friedreich's ataxia. MEP and BAEP results may therefore be useful for differential diagnosis.
The juvenile subventricular zone (SVZ) normally produces oligodendrocytes. To determine whether juvenile SVZ cells are lineage-restricted or whether they remain multipotential, we labeled SVZ cells and characterized their progeny after 1 week in vitro using cell morphology and antigen expression. Heterogeneous clones comprised of retrovirally labeled neurons and astrocytes or astrocytes and oligodendrocytes were observed, as well as homogeneous clones of neurons, astrocytes or oligodendrocytes. Large type-1 astrocyte clones were most common, and mixed oligodendrocyte/type-1-astrocyte clusters represented 15% of the total clusters. Twenty five percent of the total clusters contained at least 1 immature neuron. Of 128 clones, 6-10% contained neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. From these results we conclude that the juvenile SVZ is a mixture of lineage-restricted, bipotential and multipotential neural progenitors.
Juvenile hormone regulates metamorphosis in insects, and its effects on the nervous system during the larval-pupal transition have been studied primarily in the hawk moth, Manduca sexta. The effects of juvenile hormone on the nervous system of adult insects have been little studied. Elucidating the role of juvenile hormone during behavioral development in adult honey bees provides an opportunity to study hormone regulation of nervous system structure and function in an insect with a rich behavioral repertoire and social life. A worker honey bee typically lives 30-60 days. During this time, she performs a sequence of different tasks that sustain the colony. A striking behavioral transition typically occurs at about 3 weeks of age. At this time, worker bees stop performing within-hive tasks such as rearing brood and building comb and begin to forage outside the hive. This behavioral development is accompanied by a marked increase in the production of juvenile hormone. The mushroom bodies of the protocerebrum, the region of the insect brain most often associated with learning and memory, also undergo an internal reorganization during behavioral development. High titers of juvenile hormone and an increased volume of neuropil associated with the mushroom bodies are characteristic of the forager. Importantly, the time of the behavioral transition to foraging is not fixed. Individual bees can respond to changing colony or environmental conditions by accelerating or delaying the switch from within-hive tasks to foraging. For example, in the absence of older workers, some bees will undergo precocious development and may forage as early as 4 days of age. These workers also experience a precocious rise in juvenile hormone and an earlier reorganization of the mushroom bodies. Our current studies investigate the roles played by juvenile hormone and experience in shaping the mushroom bodies of the adult honey bee, and the relationship of these changes to the bee's ability to forage successfully. It is proposed that juvenile hormone may mediate neural plasticity in the brains of adult honey bees to support the demanding cognitive task of foraging.
Programmed cell death, or apoptosis, is a normal process in the development of a variety of embryonic and adult tissues, and is also observed in several pathological conditions. Several recent studies, using both expression and functional assays, have implicated the transcription factor, AP-1, in the regulation of programmed cell death, and specifically implicate the genes c-fos and c-jun, as well as some other family members. If the products of the c-fos and/or c-jun genes are essential components in the cascade of events that leads to programmed cell death in mammalian cells, it follows that cell death would not occur in mice lacking functional copies of these genes. We have made use of null mutations in the c-fos and c-jun genes that were produced by gene targeting (Johnson, R.S., Spiegelman, B.M. and Papaioannou, V.E. (1992). Cell 71, 577-586; Johnson, R.S., Van Lingen, B., Papaioannou, V.E. and Spiegelman, B.M. (1993). Genes Dev. 7, 1309-1317) to investigate this possibility. Cell death was assayed using an in situ apoptosis assay in c-fos null embryos and adults, c-jun null embryos, and c-fos/c-jun double null embryos compared with control mice. The occurrence of cell death in c-fos null mice was also assessed in two experimental conditions that normally lead to neuronal cell death. The first was unilateral section of the sciatic nerve in neonates, which leads to the death of anterior horn cells of the spinal cord on the operated side. The second was a genetic cross combining the weaver mutation, which causes death of cerebellar granule cells, with the c-fos mutation. Our results show that programmed cell death occurs normally in developing embryonic tissues and adult thymus and ovary, regardless of the absence of a functional c-fos gene. Furthermore, absence of c-fos had no effect on neuronal cell death in the spinal cord following sciatic nerve section, or in heterozygous weavers' cerebellae. Finally, the results show that programmed cell death can take place in embryos lacking both Fos and Jun.
The flash and pattern electroretinogram were investigated in a group of families with rare forms of inherited macular dystrophy, which included Sorsby's fundus dystrophy, X-linked retinoschisis and macular dystrophy of uncertain classification and variable expression. Flash electroretinograms, under both photopic and scotopic conditions, were attenuated in both Sorsby's fundus dystrophy and X-linked retinoschisis--with some effect on implicit time being noted in the latter condition--but in the unknown group the effect was less demonstrable, only 50% having attenuated flash electroretinograms. Pattern electroretinograms were reduced in all three conditions and in almost all cases. The study demonstrates that some so-called macular dystrophies also have widespread abnormalities affecting the peripheral retina. These findings may contribute to a better understanding of the underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms in these rare forms of retinal dysfunction.
Fast habituation of the long-latency, vertex-recorded auditory evoked potential (AEP) peaks in humans was first described by Callaway (1973) as a reduction in AEP amplitude that occurs to the second of a pair of acoustic stimuli when both stimuli are presented with an interstimulus interval (ISI) of no more than 10 sec. When acoustic stimuli are presented in pairs with an ISI of 2 sec and an interpair interval (IPI) of approximately 10 sec, reduction in amplitude to the second tone occurs by as much as 30-50%. Fast habituation may depend somewhat on a subject's anticipation of the stimulus and on other factors related to attention and orienting. Studies in our laboratory have demonstrated this amplitude decrement to the second tone of a pair in human infants, children and adults and have explored the implications of this finding with respect to attentional processes and the allocation of cerebral resources. In the present investigation we describe an animal model of fast habituation. Here, vertex-recorded AEPs were obtained to paired tone stimuli delivered to awake adult male Sprague-Dawley rats chronically implanted with skull electrodes. Findings showed: (a) an AEP wave form with 8 distinct peaks, (b) for one component there was a marked decrement in amplitude from tone 1 to tone 2 in recordings obtained from an electrode placed slightly to the right of midline, and (c) that there were no significant differences in peak latencies across tones. This methodology may further our understanding of fast habituation in humans and may prove useful for studies of attention, orienting, and resource allocation using techniques that are not possible for use with human subjects.


Dreaming is characterized by formal visual imagery (akin to hallucination), by inconstancy of time, place and person (akin to disorientation), by a scenario-like knitting together of disparate elements (akin to confabulation) and by an inability to recall (akin to amnesia). Taken together, these four dream features are similar to the delirium of organic brain disease. By studying the brain during rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep--the phase of sleep in which most dreaming occurs--we can begin to understand its basis in the altered neurophysiology of REM.
It is well known that hypothalamic endogenous opioid peptides (EOP) exert an inhibitory influence on LH release, and that a restraint on this inhibitory tone triggers preovulatory LHRH and LH hypersecretion. Recent evidence suggests that hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY) is an important component of the neural circuitry that participates in induction of the LH surge. We have reported previously that blockade of EOP influence by the opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone (NAL), stimulated NPY accumulation in the median eminence (ME) in association with increased LH release in estradiol-17 beta-primed ovariectomized rats. To evaluate whether a restraint on the EOP system will result in an increase in NPY synthesis, the effects of NAL infusion on preproNPY messenger RNA (mRNA) levels in the medial basal hypothalamus were studied by solution hybridization/RNase protection assay and by in situ hybridization. NAL (2 mg/0.6 ml.h) or saline (SAL, 0.6 ml/h) was infused for 3 h (1100-1400 h) via an intrajugular cannula in estradiol-17 beta-primed ovariectomized rats. In accord with previous studies, NAL infusion significantly increased plasma LH levels at 1400 h. concomitant with this activation of LH release, NPY gene expression was also augmented. As compared with initial control levels at 1100 h, preproNPY mRNA levels in the medial basal hypothalamus increased at 1400 h in SAL (106%)- and NAL (202%)-infused rats, and at this time, preproNPY mRNA levels were significantly higher in NAL-infused rats than in SAL-infused rats. In situ hybridization studies showed that NAL infusion significantly increased the preproNPY mRNA signal at 1400 h mainly in the rostral and middle regions of the arcuate nucleus (ARC) as compared with that seen at 1100 and 1400 h in SAL-infused rats. To examine further the relationship between the NAL-induced increase in LH release and increase in NPY gene expression, the effects of NPY mRNA antisense oligonucleotides (oligos) on NPY levels in the ME-ARC and on plasma LH levels were studied in NAL-infused rats. In NAL-infused rats, intracerebroventricular administration of a NPY antisense oligo (25 micrograms/rat) at 1000, 1200, and 1300 h decreased NPY levels in the ME-ARC and blocked the increase in plasma LH levels at 1500 h, whereas control missense oligos had no effect. Collectively, these results show that a decrease in opioid influence rapidly augments NPY gene expression in a subpopulation of neurons in the ARC, and support the hypothesis that a disinhibition from opioid influence acutely promotes NPY synthesis and release, which is necessary for phasic LH discharge in rats.
Several members of the neurotrophin (NT) family, including nerve growth factor (NGF), NT-3, and NT-4/5, are expressed in the mammalian ovary. As their respective receptor tyrosine kinases are also found in the gland, the possibility exists that NTs act directly on the gonads to exert effects unrelated to their support of the ovarian innervation. We now report that trkA, the NGF receptor tyrosine kinase, is involved in the acute activational process that leads to the first ovulation. The trkA gene becomes transiently expressed in periovulatory follicules at the time of the first preovulatory surge of gonadotropins at puberty; the increase in trkA messenger RNA (mRNA) content is dramatic ( &gt; 100-fold), but transient (approximately 9 h). No such changes in trkB or trkC mRNA were observed; the abundance of these mRNAs, which encode the receptor tyrosine kinase for NT-4/5 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and NT-3, respectively, remained at very low levels throughout puberty. In vivo and in vitro experiments demonstrated that the activation of trkA gene expression is brought about by the proestrous discharge of LH. The increase in trkA mRNA levels is mainly localised to cells of the follicular wall and interstitial tissue of the ovary. NGF mRNA abundance also increases at proestrus, with peak values detected about 5 h before ovulation; as in the case of trkA mRNA, NGF mRNA was found in thecal-interstitial cells. Both trkA and NGF protein, detected by immunohistochemistry, were localized to this same ovarian compartment. Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), a putative mediator of LH action, enhances both trkA and NGF gene expression in ovarian cells, an effect prevented by IL-1ra, a natural IL-1 beta receptor antagonist. Il-1 beta also stimulates PGE2 release, and this effect was inhibited by both NGF antibodies and a trk receptor blocker, NGF antibodies administered in vivo attenuated the increase in ovarian PGE2 synthesis that antedates ovulation. Immunoneutralization of NGF action or pharmacological blockade of trk tyrosine kinase activity targeted to one ovary resulted in the ipsilateral inhibition of ovulation. The remarkably narrow time frame of trkA gene activation at the completion of follicular growth suggests that NGF acting as a neuroendocrinotrophic factor in a developmentally restricted manner contributes to the acute cytodifferentiation process that leads to the first ovulation in mammals.




Dopamine receptor dysfunction and altered tyrosine hydroxylase activity have both been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Schizophrenic patients and control subjects were examined for allele frequencies in the tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine D2 and D4 receptor genes. No significant differences of allele or genotype frequencies were found between the two groups after adjustment for multiple comparisons. Neither were any significant relationships observed between allele frequencies and a number of clinical variables within the schizophrenic subsample. When no adjustment was made for multiple testing a few significant tendencies were obtained which warrant further research in extended patient and control materials. The results are compatible with the view that the tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine receptor D2 and D4 gene polymorphisms examined are not of major importance in the aetiology or pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
The association between the epsilon 4 allele of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene and Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been reported. In order to examine if the epsilon 4 allele may play a role also in schizophrenia, another mental disorder, patients (n = 87) and control subjects (n = 57) were genotyped for APOE. No significant difference was found between the groups. The data indicate that the APOE gene is not of major importance for the genesis of schizophrenia.
The large so-called type I afferents of the cochlear nerve carry the majority of the auditory input from the cochlea to the cochlear nuclei in the brainstem. These fibres are excitatory and previous studies have suggested they may use glutamate as their neurotransmitter. In the present investigation therefore, antibodies to glutamate and to the glutamate precursor, glutamine, were applied to resin sections of perfusion-fixed brains and of in vitro brain slices subjected to depolarizing levels of potassium before fixation to study glutamate handling and synaptic release. Ultrathin sections were labelled by the immunogold technique, and the immunoreactivity was quantified by recording the density of gold particles over the various tissue profiles. Non-primary, presumably inhibitory, terminals and glial processes were used as reference structures. The cochlear primary terminals proved to be strongly immunoreactive for glutamate. The density of glutamate labelling was higher in primary terminals than in non-primary ones, and lowest in glial processes. The ratio between the mean glutamate and glutamine labelling densities was also higher in primary terminals than in non-primary ones, and lowest in glial processes in each case. In the primary terminals, the glutamate immunoreactivity was higher over vesicle-containing regions than over vesicle-free regions, whilst glutamine was evenly distributed throughout. The in vitro brain slices showed a potassium-induced, partly calcium-dependent depletion of glutamate from the primary terminals but not from the non-primary ones. These observations strongly support the conclusion that glutamate is a neurotransmitter of type I cochlear afferents.

Fluctuations in motor performance and dyskinesias are a common problem in the long-term management of Parkinson's disease. The pharmacokinetics and the pharmacodynamics of levodopa, loss of presynaptic dopamine terminals, alterations in postsynaptic dopamine receptor sensitivity, or changes in the modulatory influences of nondopaminergic transmitter system could play a pathogenic role. The short half-life of levodopa and its absorption and transport are important factors. The pharmacodynamic response to levodopa changes during long-term therapy. An absolute threshold in plasma levodopa level, below which the patients are off, appears. The patients show a therapeutic window for levodopa which becomes narrower with time. This therapeutic window can be widened by giving continuous infusion of dopaminergic drugs. Motor fluctuations can be ameliorated by a more physiological continuous stimulation of the receptor site and by avoiding repeated shifting in levodopa levels. Long-term complications are attenuated by an early combination of levodopa with dopamine agonist.

In an attempt to understand schizophrenia, four important fields have been implicated in the disease process and are reviewed here. Early findings that antipsychotic drugs were dopamine antagonists led to a dopaminergic theory of schizophrenia. However, it now appears that a primary dopaminergic abnormality is an unlikely explanation. The cortex has always been thought to be involved in the development of schizophrenia and recent data from neuropsychological, postmortem and imaging studies have indicated that connections between the prefrontal and temporolimbic areas within the brain may be abnormal. Traditionally, schizophrenia has been considered to be a disease with an adult onset pathology. This theory has now been challenged by data suggesting that in schizophrenia, anatomical changes in the adult brain are non-progressive and occurred prior to the onset of illness. Finally, studies on neuronal gene expression have indicated that all antipsychotic drugs modulate DNA transcription in the shell of the nucleus accumbens and that newer antipsychotics produce a quite different pattern of expression from conventional neuroleptics. These recent approaches provide new opportunities in the understanding of schizophrenia, its treatment and prevention.
We report the case of a 68-year-old depressive patient who developed severe thrombocytopenia during hospitalization. EDTA-associated thrombocytopenia and psychodrug-induced thrombocytopenia are illustrated as potential causes of low platelet counts, particularly in regard to psychiatric patients.
In acquired peripheral demyelinating disease only few publications point out the possibility of simultaneous involvement of the CNS. We describe two patients with chronic polyneuropathy and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) developing a progressive dementia syndrome with extensive cerebral white matter alterations.
In the anesthetized cat we have analyzed the changes in primary afferent depolarization (PAD) evoked in single muscle spindle and tendon organ afferents at different times after their axons were crushed in the periphery and allowed to regenerate. Medial gastrocnemius (MG) afferents were depolarized by stimulation of group I fibers in the posterior biceps and semitendinosus nerve (PBSt), as soon as 2 weeks after crushing their axons in the periphery, in some cases before they could be activated by physiological stimulation of muscle receptors. Two to twelve weeks after crushing the MG nerve, stimulation of the PBSt produced PAD in all MG fibers reconnected with presumed muscle spindles and tendon organs. The mean amplitude of the PAD elicited in afferent fibers reconnected with muscle spindles was increased relative to values obtained from Ia fibers in intact (control) preparations, but remained essentially the same in fibers reconnected with tendon organs. Quite unexpectedly, we found that, between 2 and 12 weeks after crushing the MG nerve, stimulation of the bulbar reticular formation (RF) produced PAD in most afferent fibers reconnected with muscle spindle afferents. The mean amplitude of the PAD elicited in these fibers was significantly increased relative to the PAD elicited in muscle spindle afferents from intact preparations (from 0.08 +/- 0.4 to 0.47 +/- 0.34 mV). A substantial recovery was observed between 6 months and 2.5 years after the peripheral nerve injury. Stimulation of the sural (SU) nerve produced practically no PAD in muscle spindles from intact preparations, and this remained so in those afferents reconnected with muscle spindles impaled 2-12 weeks after the nerve crush. The mean amplitude of the PAD produced in afferent fibers reconnected with tendon organs by stimulation of the PBSt nerve and of the bulbar RF remained essentially the same as the PAD elicited in intact afferents. However, SU nerve stimulation produced a larger PAD in afferents reconnected with tendon organs 2-12 weeks after the nerve crush (mean PAD changed from 0.05 +/- 0.04 to 0.32 +/- 0.17 mV). The results obtained indicate that the PAD patterns of the afferent fibers reconnected with muscle spindle and tendon organ afferents are changed after crushing their axons in the periphery: stimulation of the bulbar RF appears to produce larger PAD in fibers reconnected with muscle spindles, and stimulation of cutaneous afferents produces larger PAD in fibers reconnected with tendon organs. It is suggested that these alterations in the patterns of PAD of muscle afferents result from central changes in the balance of excitatory and inhibitory influences acting on the segmental pathways mediating the PAD. Although the functional role of these changes has not been established, they may reflect compensatory changes aimed to adjust information arising from damaged afferents.
The present investigation documents the patterns of primary afferent depolarization (PAD) of single, functionally identified muscle afferents from the medial gastrocnemius nerve in the intact, anesthetized cat. Classification of the impaled muscle afferents as from muscle spindles or from tendon organs was made according to several criteria, which comprised measurement of conduction velocity and electrical threshold of the peripheral axons, and the maximal frequency followed by the afferent fibers during vibration, as well as the changes in discharge frequency during longitudinal stretch, the projection of the afferent fiber to the motor pool, and, in unparalyzed preparations, the changes in afferent activity during a muscle twitch. In confirmation of a previous study, we found that most muscle spindle afferents (46.1-66.6%, depending on the combination of criteria utilized for receptor classification) had a type A PAD pattern. That is, they were depolarized by stimulation of group I fibers of the posterior biceps and semitendinosus (PBSt) nerve, but not by stimulation of cutaneous nerves (sural and superficial peroneus) or the bulbar reticular formation (RF), which in many cases inhibited the PBSt-induced PAD. In addition, we found a significant fraction of muscle spindle primaries that were depolarized by stimulation of group I PBSt fibers and also by stimulation of the bulbar RF. Stimulation of cutaneous nerves produced PAD in 9.1-31.2% of these fibers (type B PAD pattern) and no PAD in 8.2-15.4% (type C PAD pattern). In contrast to muscle spindle afferents, only the 7.7-15.4% of fibers from tendon organs had a type A PAD pattern, 23-46.1% had a type B and 50-61.5% a type C PAD pattern. These observations suggest that the neuronal circuitry involved in the control of the synaptic effectiveness of muscle spindles and tendon organs is subjected to excitatory as well as to inhibitory influences from cutaneous and reticulospinal fibers. As shown in the accompanying paper, the balance between excitation and inhibition is not fixed, but can be changed by crushing the afferent axons in the peripheral nerve and allowing subsequent reconnection of these afferent fibers with muscle receptors.
The messenger RNAs (mRNAs) for the neurotrophins, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and nerve growth factor (NGF), are upregulated during epileptic seizure activity, as visualized by in situ hybridization techniques. Neurotrophins might be protective against excitotoxic cell stress, and the upregulation during seizures might provide such cell protection. In this study, a high dose of pilocarpine (300 mg/kg) was used to induce long-lasting, limbic motor status epilepticus and a selective pattern of brain damage. The regulation of BDNF, trkB, and NGF mRNA was studied by in situ hybridization at 1, 3, 6, and 24 h after induction of limbic motor status epilepticus. BDNF immunoreactivity was examined with an anti-peptide antibody and the neuropathological process studied in parallel. BDNF mRNA increased in hippocampus, neocortex, piriform cortex, striatum, and thalamus with a maximum at 3-6 h. Hybridization levels increased earlier in the resistant granule and CA1 cells as compared to the vulnerable CA3 neurons. BDNF immunoreactivity was elevated in dentate gyrus at 3-6 h. trkB mRNA increased in the entire hippocampus. NGF mRNA in hippocampus appeared in dentate gyrus at 3-6 h and declined in hilar neurons at 6-24 h. Cell damage was found in the CA3 area, entire basal cortex, and layers II/III of neocortex. Endogenous neurotrophins are upregulated during status epilepticus caused by pilocarpine, which is related to the coupling between neuronal excitation and trophic factor expression. This upregulation of neurotrophic factors may serve endogenous protective effects; however, the excessive levels of neuronal hyperexcitation resulting from pilocarpine seizures lead to cell damage which cannot be prevented by endogenous neurotrophins.
Several neurotrophic factors have been identified that influence neuronal populations during central nervous system development, maturation, and senescence. To examine the responsiveness of the intact and the lesioned adult mammalian spinal cord to neurotrophic factors, primary rat fibroblasts were genetically modified to produce and secrete human nerve growth factor (NGF). These NGF-producing cells were then grafted to nonlesioned or lesioned adult rat spinal cords for periods of up to 1 year in vivo. Robust outgrowth of sensory and noradrenergic neurites was elicited by grafts in the previously nonlesioned spinal cord. Equally robust growth of sensory and noradrenergic neurites was observed in the lesioned spinal cord; in addition, partial sprouting of local motor neurites was elicited in the lesioned spinal cord. Thus, multiple neuritic populations of the adult spinal cord respond to neurotrophic factors by extending neurites, and this responsiveness is maintained and extended after major injury. Nerve growth factor delivered by somatic gene transfer may be a useful means of promoting axon regrowth in the injured spinal cord.
The so-called infantile strabismus syndrome consists, among other signs, of (1) strabismus, (2) a defect of pursuit and optokinetic tracking with particular involvement of temporally directed responses on monocular viewing, (3) latent nystagmus and (4) adduction preference of the fixating eye. The following causal relationship between these three phenomena is suggested. (1) Binocularity in the visual cortex is impaired, either as a primary defect or as a consequence of misalignment of the eyes. (2) The reduced binocularity prevents maturation of signal transmission from the visual cortex to the brainstem such that slip control is evident in poor pursuit and optokinetic responses, particularly to monocular, temporally directed stimuli. (3) The asymmetry of the pursuit and optokinetic systems is also evident in latent nystagmus which reflects a tonic preponderance, directed nasally with reference to the fixating eye. The directional preponderance drives the slow phases of latent nystagmus if the visual input is unbalanced in favour of one eye. Because of the maldeveloped slip control latent nystagmus is not inhibited by visual contours. When both eyes are open the better-functioning nasally directed pursuit and optokinetic control systems of the two eyes complement each other and largely prevent drifting of the eyes. The defect responsible for the abnormal motor control cannot be located between the retina and the visual cortex because perception of motion is only slightly impaired and a nasal-temporal asymmetry of the motion VEP, typically encountered in infantile strabismus, does not correlate quantitatively with the asymmetry of the motor control. Rather, the defect is located between the cortex and the brainstem. (4) Adduction preference of the fixating eye with a compensatory headturn is due to a gaze-evoked component added to the latent component of the nystagmus. The gaze-evoked component is a purposeful reaction that allows dampening of the nystagmus in adduction at the expense of an increase in abduction.
To initiate and terminate bipedal and quadrupedal locomotor movements, a smooth transition to and from standing is necessary. For this, integration of postural and locomotor control systems is required. Recent studies in nonhuman primates and other quadrupedal animals such as cats have clearly shown that there exist significant analogies between the primate species investigated (Macaca mulatta, Macaca fascicularis, and marmosets) and the cats regarding the spinal stepping generator or central pattern generator (CPG), supraspinal descending pathways which activate CPG, and the midbrain and brain stem postural and locomotor control structures. Further studies aimed at elucidating the differences and similarities in the manner of locomotor control among different animal species will help us in understanding the control mechanisms involved in both bipedal and quadrupedal locomotor movements in nonhuman primates.
The effects of soman (pinacolyl methylphosphonofluoridate) on coronary blood flow, the electrocardiogram, and cardiac function were measured in alpha-chloralose-anesthetized swine. Coronary blood flow (CBF), mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), peak systolic left ventricular pressure (IVP), maximum rate of left ventricular pressure development (dP/dtmax), cardiac output, and the ECG were monitored continuously. A dose of 2X LD50 of soman (1 LD50 = 4.6 micrograms/kg) was given at 1 LD50/min in the femoral vein, which produced an increase in coronary sinus plasma acetylcholine (ACh) from a control of 0.7 +/- 0.01 nmol/ml to a maximum 314% of control at 15 min and a decrease in CBF from a control of 99 +/- 13 ml/min/100 g to a minimum 55% of control at 15 min. The increase in ACh in the coronary sinus was significantly correlated with a decrease in CBF (r = -0.87, p &lt; 0.001). The fall in CBF was accompanied by concomitant decreases in IVP, MAP, and dP/dtmax, with S-T segment elevation and ventricular fibrillation. The increase in coronary sinus acetylcholine concentration was significantly correlated with a 10-fold fall in coronary sinus acetylcholinesterase levels from a control of 2.47 +/- 0.97 mol acetylcholine hydrolyzed/ml blood/min and was consistent with the time course for the reduced hemodynamic measurements. These studies support the hypothesis that acetylcholine increases following soman toxicity may decrease coronary blood flow, thereby initiating ischemic electrocardiographic changes and reducing cardiac function.

During development of the vertebrate central nervous system, many types of neural precursors originate in the ventricular zone of the central nervous system (CNS) and migrate through the neuropil to their final destination. In embryonic rat spinal cord, the ventral ventricular zone gives rise to neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocyte precursors. We have used a spinal cord stripe preparation to examine the migration of neural precursors from different regions of the spinal cord ventricular zone in vitro. Astrocyte and oligodendrocyte precursors, neurons, and neurites all emigrated from stripes of embryonic day 14 (E14) rat ventral spinal cord while only neurites emigrated in significant numbers from stripes of E14 dorsal spinal cord. The first wave of migrating cells from E14 ventral spinal cord stripes comprised a population of A2B5+ astrocyte precursors that exhibited a semicircular or ellipsoid morphology and showed an unusual form of lamellipodia-based motility. These cells were highly motile, migrating at rates of approximately 20 microns/h. The cortical region of the rapidly translocating astrocyte precursors contained high levels of actin microfilaments oriented in a circumferential band, but few microtubules. In their morphology, cytoskeletal organization, and rapid translocation, this subpopulation of vertebrate CNS glial precursors more closely resemble epidermal keratocytes than other neural cells. The rapid translocation exhibited by A2B5+ astrocyte precursors may reflect a role in CNS wound healing and be responsible for the rapid spread of some forms of CNS glial tumors.
In recent modeling of hippocampal function, we have attempted to integrate formal behavioral analyses of classical conditioning with psychobiological data on brain lesions (Gluck and Myers [1993] Hippocampus 3:491-516; Myers and Gluck [1994] Behav Neurosci 108(5):835-847). Based on comparative behavioral analyses, we have argued that animals with hippocampal region damage are unable to alter stimulus similarity based on experience. While hippocampal-damaged animals can still learn whether to respond to an individual stimulus, they are notably impaired at many tasks involving learning relationships between stimuli-especially in the absence of explicit reinforcement. These analyses lead to a computational theory which identifies two representational recoding processes-predictive differentiation and redundancy compression-which alter stimulus similarity relationships in intact animals but are dependent on intact hippocampal region processing. More recent, and ongoing, modeling aims to broaden this model of hippocampal region function in classical conditioning, with an emphasis on physiological and anatomical constraints, including the role of the fornix and subcortical modulation, preprocessing in sensory cortices, and localization of the proposed representational functions within more precisely identified hippocampal region substrates (Myers et al. [1995] Psychology 23(2):116-138; Myers and Gluck [1996] Behav Neurosci; Myers et al. [1996] Neurobiol Learning Memory). Working to bridge between behavioral and physiological levels of analysis, we ultimately hope to develop a more complete understanding of hippocampal region function in memory across a wider range of behavioral paradigms, elucidating how this functionality emerges from underlying physiological and anatomical substrates.

This study addressed changes in interneuron driving in the dentate gyrus (DG) of urethane-anaesthetized rats in response to tetanic stimulation of the perforant path (PP) or the converging dentate commissural pathway (CP). Using an extracellular tungsten electrode, we recorded from putative interneurons in the DG that fired to stimulation of both the PP and the CP. Conditioning trains (400 Hz, 17.5 ms) were delivered to each pathway individually and to the two pathways together. The primary measure of synaptic drive was the latency of interneuron discharge. High-intensity PP tetany, CP tetany, and paired tetany consistently reduced firing latency to CP driving (P &lt; .05 for all three), indicating an LTP-like increase in synaptic activation through the CP. High-intensity PP tetany decreased latency to PP driving in only two of seven cases. Heterosynaptic changes occurred frequently in individual experiments. Activity-mediated adjustments in synaptic driving of inhibitory interneurons could play a role in normal physiological function.
In simulations with artificial neural networks, efficient information processing and storage has been shown to require that the strength of connections between network elements has the capacity to both increase and decrease in a use-dependent manner. In contrast to long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatory synaptic transmission, activity-dependent long-term depression (LTD) has been difficult to demonstrate in forebrain in vivo. Theoretical arguments indicate that coincidence of presynaptic excitation and low-magnitude postsynaptic activation are the necessary prerequisites for LTD induction. Here we report that stimulation paradigms which cause 1) sufficient excitation to result in NMDA receptor activation and simultaneously 2) attenuate the level of postsynaptic activation by recruitment of GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition consistently produce LTD of commissural input to area CA1 in the hippocampus of anesthetized adult rats, and of the perforant path input to the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus of anesthetized and unanesthetized adult rabbits. A functionally similar pre- and postsynaptic activation pattern applied to the hippocampal slice preparation by injecting hyperpolarizing current into the postsynaptic cell during NMDA receptor-mediated excitation also was effective in consistently inducing LTD. Results of studies in vitro show that Ca2+ influx through the NMDA channel is necessary for the induction of LTD, and moreover, that NMDA receptors also participate in the expression of LTD. Our findings demonstrate a general mechanism for the implementation of a theoretically derived learning rule in adult forebrain in vivo and in vitro and provide justification for the inclusion of use-dependent decreases of connection weights in formal models of cognitive processing.
The authors examine the potential role of the different sources of dendritic Ca2+ influx in long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic efficacy. Recent data on the location and functional distribution of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels obtained from fluorescence imaging and patch clamp experiments are presented. This is followed by a discussion of the existing evidence for different sources of Ca2+ playing a role in the induction of LTD. The authors conclude that a number of key issues need to be resolved before any conclusions are drawn as to the involvement of any specific route of Ca2+ entry in LTD.
The controversy of neuroanatomy on the principal structure of the nervous systems, which took place at the end of the nineteenth century, is described. Two groups of scientists are identified: one that favoured the idea of a discrete cellular organization of the nervous tissue, and one that favoured a syncytial organization. These two interpretations arose from different histological techniques that produced conflicting pictures of the organization of the nervous tissue. In an experimental reexamination of the techniques used at the end of the nineteenth century, the present study concerns the impact of these different histological procedures on the controversy about the principle nature of the nervous tissue. This controversy could not be resolved by neuroanatomy itself until the 1950s when electron microscopy was introduced into neurobiology. Thus, in a critical period of the conceptual development of neurosciences, neuroanatomy failed to establish a proper base for an interpretation of the functional morphology of nervous tissues.
Gene targeting provides a direct method for introducing mutations into specific mouse loci. This approach has been used productively to demonstrate that insulin-like growth factor (IGF) peptides and receptors are required for normal prenatal growth. Six genes comprising a third major component of the IGF system, the IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs), are all expressed during prenatal rodent development. One of these genes, IGFBP-2, has also been disrupted using gene targeting, and homozygous null BP-2 mice are characterized by a decreased spleen size and an increase in circulating levels of other IGFBPs. These alterations are less dramatic than initially expected based on the fetal IGFBP-2 expression pattern. These results are discussed in light of both other genetic ablations involving members of gene families and in the context of the expression of other IGFBPs in rodent fetal and uterine tissues.
To aid our understanding of age-related changes in brain activation during visuoperceptual processing, we designed an experiment to test the effect of task difficulty on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as measured by positron emission tomography (PET). We report here the results from 10 young subjects engaged in match-to-sample tasks of progressively degraded faces. The tasks consisted of a control task, a face matching task with no stimulus degradation, and five levels of degradation: 20%, 40%, 50%, 60%, and 70%. Both performance accuracy and reaction times deteriorated significantly with increasing face degradation. There was a significant increase of rCBF in bilateral fusiform gyri during all face-matching conditions compared to the control task, and bilateral prefrontal activation during the 70% degradation condition. Linear regression analyses revealed a significant increase of rCBF in the right prefrontal cortex, and linear decreases of rCBF in the striate and fusiform cortex as face degradation increased. Performance on the 70% task was correlated positively with rCBF in right prefrontal and bilateral fusiform gyri, and negatively with left prefrontal and striate rCBF. These results show that the right prefrontal, striate, and ventral extrastriate cortex are the principal brain regions that modulate their activity as this visual discrimination task becomes more difficult. The right prefrontal increase probably represents an increasing demand on working memory or attention, whereas decreased rCBF in the striate cortex may be due to changes in the characteristics of the stimuli, or to suppression of low-level processing by one of a number of mechanisms. This experiment has implications both for the design of neuroimaging experiments, and for interpreting differences in rCBF activation between groups.
In the statistical analysis of PET rCBF data, it has become routine to use a mathematical transformation to reduce individual differences in global metabolic rate and increase the power of statistical tests. Two methods of adjustment have been proposed: the ratio adjustment, dividing rCBF for a brain region by the whole-brain average CBF, and the ANCOVA adjustment based on a regression model. We compared these two transformations on the empirically derived PET data sets to assess which of these transforms worked best. Within-subject Z-scores were also considered as an additional transformation technique. Comparisons between the three transform techniques, and the untransformed raw data, were made on the detected significant differences, the size of the statistical effects, and the relative reduction in error variance. Two data sets were considered: 1) a visual perception study comparing object and spatial vision; 2) a data set from a parametric visual working memory study. There was no striking difference in the detected significant differences between any of the three transformed data sets and all transformed data sets detected more differences than the raw data set. There was little difference between the transformed data sets in terms of effect sizes, with the Z-score data set showing slightly lower total error variance that either the ratio-adjusted or ANCOVA-adjusted data sets. It was concluded that PET data sets should be closely examined for task-related changes in global CBF and subject heterogeneities (outliers) since these factors will influence the outcome of image-based statistical comparison more than the particular data transformation.
Four pixel-based methods for estimating regional activation in positron emission tomography (PET) images were implemented so as to allow the comparison of their performances in the same dataset. Change distribution analysis, Worsley's method, a pixelwise general linear model, a nonparametric method, and several methods derived from them were investigated. Important technical factors, including the degree of smoothing, stereotactic transform, coregistration algorithm, search volume, and the volumetric alpha level, were held constant. The dataset, which was obtained with a verb generation paradigm, was large enough to permit assessment of concordance between independent samples of conventional size, as well assessment of within-cohort replicability. (Eighteen normal subjects performed four GENERATE-READ pairs each.) Same-task (noise) images were also analyzed.In noise datasets, type I errors (false positives) occurred at the nominal rate (in 5% of datasets). Detected regions of activation were highly likely to be internally replicated (93%). The detected activations were a superset of activations previously reported using the same paradigm. The methods were chiefly distinguished by type II error rates and by the stability of the location of activation clusters. Those methods dependent on local variance estimates were less powerful with small sample sizes and less stable with respect to the attributed location of task-induced changes. The use of pooled variance (Worsley's method) reduced these problems, but variance was not stationary. Overall, the power of all analyses was modest with samples of conventional size (nine subjects x one or two task-pairs). Modeling of the sources of variance, particularly improvement of anatomical standardization, is likely to improve the power of pixel-based analyses.
Lymphoproliferative activities produced by cloned thymic myoid cell 871207B were analysed by immunological and biochemical methods. The lymphoproliferative activities were separated into two fractions by DEAE-Sepharose CL-6B chromatography: one is in the fraction passed through the column and the other in the fraction eluated from the column with a low concentration of NaCl. The eluated fraction induced the proliferation of interleukin-1 (IL-1)-dependent D10N4 M cells. This activity was abrogated by an anti-IL-1 alpha antibody, but not an anti-IL-1 beta antibody. Expression of IL-1 alpha mRNA was also detected in 871207B cells. The thymocyte proliferative activity found in the fraction passed through the DEAE-Sepharose column was further separated into three fractions by heparin-Sepharose column chromatography: (1) the fraction passed through the column, (2) the fraction weakly bound to the column, and (3) the fraction firmly bound to the heparin column. The fraction passed through the heparin column sustained the growth of IL-6-dependent MH60.BSF-2 cells. IL-6-specific mRNA was found in 871207B cells. The thymocyte proliferative activity of the fraction firmly bound to the heparin column was neutralized with an anti-IL-7 antibody. The biological activity of the fraction weakly bound to the column remained to be elucidated. These results suggest that thymic myoid cells produce IL-1 alpha, IL-6, IL-7 and unidentified lympho-stimulatory factors, all of which play significant roles in many steps of T-cell development in the thymus.
The present study explored the utility of erythrocyte aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) as a peripheral marker in alcoholism. The ALDH levels in aocoholics, their first degree nonalcholic relative and controls were compared. ALDH was found to be significantly lower in alcoholics (3.381.70 mU p&lt; 0.001) and their first degree relatives (4.041.55 mU p&lt; 0.05) compared to controls (5.061 55mU). Low ALDH levels among alcoholics persisted despite abstinence. The levels did not correlate with indices of hepatic dysfunction or with severity of alcoholism. These findings indicate that low erythrocyte ALDH may be considered as a biochemical trait marker associated with alcoholics, and the alcohol abuse would further decrease enzyme activitiy. To evaluate this proposition, logitudinal studies involving high risk progeny of alcohol dependents is being planned.

In the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS), autoimmune T cells reactive with proteolipid protein (PLP) may play a crucial role. We determined 23 TCR beta-chain sequences of limiting dilution T cel lines (TCL) selected against a synthetic peptide, PLP 95-116, 105-124 or 139-155, from the peripheral blood of three Japanese MS patients with the DR2,w15 haplotype (TI, SK and OK). Fourteen sequences were originated from TI, seven from SK and two from OK. The PLP-reactive TCL utilized various Vbeta and Jbeta gene segments, but there was significant bias in the Vbeta and Jbeta usage. Overutilization of the Vbeta2 family and dominant usage of the Jbeta2.5 subfamily was seen in PLP 105-124-reactive and 95-116-reactive TCL respectively. More remarkably, a majority of the TCL were found to express beta-chain CDR3 motifs that appear to be unique to MS brain infiltrates. In contrast, these motifs were only rarely seen in control TCR sequences from peripheral blood or from a TCL selected against tetanus toxoid. In several cases, the betaCDR3 homologies between the PLP-reactive T cells and MS brain T cells were extensive, owing to the shared motifs in combination with the surrounding amino acid identities. These results indicate that PLP-specific T cells may be involved in the immunopathology of MS.
In the post-transplant period, antimicrobial agents are often coadministered with cyclosporine (CsA) to treat the infections occurring in the immunosuppressed patients. These agents produce drug interactions with cyclosporine and can increase or reduce the blood concentration of the immunosuppressant. We report two cases of drug interaction between cyclosporine and two antimicrobial agents, josamycin and rifampicin, coadministered in a kidney-transplanted and a liver-transplanted patient, respectively. Josamycin increased the CsA blood levels by inhibiting the CsA metabolism through the hepatic cytochrome P450 enzymes. Conversely, rifampicin decreased the CsA blood levels by stimulating the same enzymatic system. When using these agents it is necessary to adjust the CsA doses to avoid risks of CsA toxicity or allograft rejection.



Mass spectrometry was used to determine the molecular mass of rat pituitary beta-endorphin1-31 (BErat, 1-31). The measured molecular mass (3435 +/- 1 Da, n = 5) of endogenous BErat, 1-31 differed from the molecular mass of commercially available synthetic BErat, 1-31 (3465 +/- 1 Da, n = 9), but corresponded to the molecular mass of synthetic BEbovine, 1-31 (3436 +/- 3 Da, n = 3). Based on the combination of these ESIMS molecular mass measurements, HPLC retention time data, LSIMS measurement of the molecular mass of selected tryptic fragments, and consideration of codon sequences, we suggest that the amino-acid sequence of endogenous BErat, 1-31 differs from the DNA-deduced sequence of BErat, 1-31, and that endogenous BErat, 1-31 contains Ala instead of Val in position 26.
In the present open study, the long-term safety, tolerability, and efficacy of citalopram in the treatment of elderly people with emotional disturbances were studied. One hundred twenty-three elderly patients with symptoms of depression-anxiety were included. Most of the patients (76%) were demented. Fifty-two patients completed a 12-month treatment. Irritability, depressed mood, anxiety, restlessness, and fear-panic were significantly reduced. The severity of illness from baseline to Month 9 was rated as significantly improved. The side effects were infrequent and mostly mild.





Evidence from diverse sources, including postmortem investigations, in vivo imaging studies and animal models, suggests that schizophrenia has its origins in early cortical maldevelopment, which in turn may lead to dysfunctional connectivity during brain maturation and clinical symptomatology in early adulthood. Antipsychotic drugs, including the atypical agent clozapine, appear to act at key sites involved in higher cortical-limbic connectivity, possibly mediated by a variety of neurotransmitters. Studies of gene expression may provide a better understanding of how antipsychotic drug effects are integrated at the postsynaptic level. The data from schizophrenia research are discussed within a neurodevelopmental framework.
We generated T cell clones specific to a Japanese cedar pollen allergen (Cry j 1) and investigated effects of altered T cell receptor (TCR) ligand on changes of T cell responses. One of these Cry j 1-specific T cell clones established from patients with Japanese cedar pollinosis, ST1.9, recognized an antigenic peptide Cry j 1 p335-346 in the context of HLA-DRA+DRB3*0301 molecules and secreted interleukin-4 dominantly, with a smaller amount of interferon-gamma. ST1.9 represented one of the major T cell clones specific to Cry j 1 in the donor, because a short-term cultured polyclonal T cell line specific to Cry j 1 exhibited the same character as the ST1.9. We synthesized various analog peptides derived from Cry j 1 p335-346 with single amino acid substitutions and determined key residues for interactions between TCR of ST1.9 and HLA-DR molecules. We also analyzed changes in the responses of ST1.9 to Cry j 1 p335-346-derived analog peptides. Of interest was that the substitution of 339threonine to valine resulted in a significant increase in interferon-gamma production, with no remarkable changes either in proliferative response or interleukin-4 production. Analog peptides carrying the substitutions of 339threonine to glycine or glutamine revealed TCR antagonism, without changes in their binding affinities to the DR molecule. Therefore single amino acid substitutions on an allergen peptide carrying the T cell epitope may suppress helper-T-dependent class switch pressure to IgE in B cells either by inducing increased interferon-gamma production or by inhibiting proliferative responses in helper-T cells.
A group of clinically useful antihypertensive agents, including clonidine, moxonidine, and rilmenidine, are all ligands at alpha(2)-adrenergic and imidazoline (I-) receptors, the latter principally of the I1-subclass. These agents all lower blood pressure by reducing the activity of tonically active sympathoexcitatory reticulospinal neurons of the C1 area of the rostroventrolateral medulla (RVL). They tonically excite preganglionic sympathetic neurons in the spinal cord by release of L-glutamate and mediate most reflexes influencing blood pressure. The RVL contains alpha(2)-adrenergic and I1-receptors, and there is evidence to suggest that both receptors may participate in the hypotensive actions of the drugs. However, because only activation of the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors appears responsible for somnolence, the imidazoline-receptor agonists moxonidine and rilmenidine, both relatively selective for I-receptors, may have superior clinical utility in antihypertensive therapy, since they are sympatholytic and also suppress the generation of angiotensin II.
Myogenic cells provide excellent in vitro models for studying the cell growth and differentiation. In this study we report that lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), a bioactive phospholipid contained in serum, stimulates the growth and inhibits the differentiation of mouse C2C12 myoblast cells, in a distinct manner from basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) whose mitotic and anti-differentiation actions have been well investigated. These actions of LPA were both blocked by pertussis toxin, suggesting the involvement of Gi class of G proteins, whereas bFGF acts through receptor tyrosine kinases. Detailed analysis revealed that LPA and bFGF act differently in regulating the myogenic basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins, the key players in myogenic differentiation process. LPA stimulates the proliferation of undifferentiated myoblasts allowing the continued expression of MyoD, but in contrast, bFGF does so with the MyoD expression suppressed at the mRNA level. Both compounds maintain the myf-5 expression, and suppress the myogenin expression. In addition, while LPA did not inhibit cell-cell contact-induced differentiation, bFGF strongly inhibited this process. Furthermore, LPA and bFGF act cooperatively in their mitogenic and anti-differentiation abilities. These findings indicate that LPA and bFGF differently stimulate intracellular signaling pathways, resulting in proliferating myoblasts each bearing a distinct expression pattern of myogenic bHLH proteins and distinct differentiation potentials in response to cell-cell contact, and illustrate the biological significance of Gi-mediated and tyrosine kinase-mediated signals.

A brief review of some current views of consciousness is provided. Edelman's view of there being both 'primary consciousness' and 'higher order consciousness' is supported. The basis for the clinical view that primary consciousness is the result of the dynamic interaction between the cerebral cortex and the brainstem reticular activating system is presented. It is suggested that an audacious theoretical breakthrough is needed in order to advance our understanding of this complex and fascinating problem.
A series of investigations were performed to elucidate the mechanisms of action of lithium, valproate, and carbamazepine. We have found that lithium exerts major effects on G proteins, most likely via a posttranslational process stabilizing the inactive heterotrimeric (alpha beta gamma) form of the protein. We also find that chronic lithium and valproate exert major, very similar effects on the PKC signaling pathway, with both drugs decreasing the levels of membrane-associated PKC alpha and epsilon, and have similar effects on the DNA binding activity of the transcription factor, AP-1. By contrast, we find that carbamazepine exerts major, direct inhibitory effect at the level of adenylyl cyclases. Overall, the results suggest that signal transduction pathways are targets for the actions of mood-stabilizing agents; given their key roles in the amplification and integration of signals in the central nervous system, these findings have clear implications not only for research into the etiology/pathophysiology of manic-depressive illness, but also for the development of innovative treatment strategies.
Studies with positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography have yielded important findings concerning the relationship between dopamine D2 receptor occupancy and neuroleptic dose, plasma neuroleptic levels, and clinical response. For &quot;typical&quot; neuroleptics, therapeutic response is associated with occupancy levels as low as 60%-70%, which can be achieved at lower doses than are routinely used. For these drugs, extrapyramidal side effects increase, and therapeutic response remains unchanged with higher occupancy levels. Although the mechanisms responsible for the improved clinical efficacy and tolerability of atypical neuroleptics are still poorly understood, antipsychotic efficacy has been observed at lower D2 receptor occupancy rates than with typical neuroleptics. It is unclear whether the lower incidence of extrapyramidal side effects observed with the atypical neuroleptic clozapine can be attributed to its lower D2 occupancy, its relatively specific effects on the ventral striatum, or its nondopaminergic effects. There are a number of additional unresolved issues, including the high interindividual variation in scan outcome measurements, possible effects of concomitant medication, possible effects of endogenous dopamine, and assumptions in various strategies used to model receptor densities and occupancy rates.
Neuropharmacologic discoveries have driven much of the research on neural substances of schizophrenia since the advent of neuroleptic drugs, which appear to share blockade of dopamine receptors. as their common denominator. Yet, despite concerted efforts to identify the source of putative dopaminergic hyperactivity in the brain in schizophrenia, definitive evidence for the &quot;dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia&quot; remains elusive. More recently, a &quot;neural systems&quot; approach, focussing on the limbic system, has yielded substantial convergent evidence, from both in vivo imaging and postmortem morphological, biochemical, and molecular biological methods, implicating limbic cortex in the neuropathology underlying schizophrenia. Moreover, these limbic cortical regions modulate dopaminergic function in the striatum and nucleus accumbens, via glutamatergic projections. Increasingly, focus is shifting to a role for glutamatergic dysfunction in schizophrenia, opening the possibility that drugs that act upon glutamate function, either directly or indirectly via co-modulators of glutamate transmission, could potentially be developed as adjunctive or primary novel pharmacotherapeutic strategies.
Advances in the neurosciences, concerns about cost containment, and a growing consumer advocacy movement are creating new hopes and challenges for the development of more effective and cost-effective treatments for persons with psychotic disorders. Using the development of new antipsychotic agents for the treatment of schizophrenia as a prototype, this article examines the assessment of outcomes of treatments for these patients. Psychotic disorders exert a broad range of negative effects on patients' lives. This requires a broad view of outcomes to assess the relative effectiveness of alternative pharmacotherapies. The outcomes of interest cover the clinical, rehabilitative, humanitarian, and public welfare domains. Most of our knowledge about the efficacy of antipsychotic agents focuses on improvements in and prevention of positive symptoms of schizophrenia. However, better antipsychotic medications must show advantages above and beyond symptom suppression. We need to know not only whether alternative medications offer advantages in these other dimensions of outcome, but also how they interact with psychosocial treatments to enhance outcomes, how effective they are with patients in usual practices settings, and how cost-effective they are relative to other treatments. A research agenda for evaluating these impacts must include longer term outcome studies that evaluate the wider range of outcomes of interest to practitioners, patients, families, and payers.
We present a new method for generating two-dimensional maps of the cerebral cortex. Our computerized, two-stage flattening method takes as its input any well-defined representation of a surface within the three-dimensional cortex. The first stage rapidly converts this surface to a topologically correct two-dimensional map, without regard for the amount of distortion introduced. The second stage reduces distortions using a multiresolution strategy that makes gross shape changes on a coarsely sampled map and further shape refinements on progressively finer resolution maps. We demonstrate the utility of this approach by creating flat maps of the entire cerebral cortex in the macaque monkey and by displaying various types of experimental data on such maps. We also introduce a surface-based coordinate system that has advantages over conventional stereotaxic coordinates and is relevant to studies of cortical organization in humans as well as non-human primates. Together, these methods provide an improved basis for quantitative studies of individual variability in cortical organization.
This study investigated the influence of ethanol exposure throughout gestation on cholinergic development within the rat striatal region. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were maintained on three diets throughout gestation: A liquid diet in which ethanol accounted for 35-39% of the total calories, a similar diet with the isocaloric substitution of sucrose for ethanol, and a lab chow control diet. At postnatal days 14 and 60 (P14 and P60), the striatal regions of the offspring were analyzed for the number of cholinergic neurons, via choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunostaining. The area of the striatum was also measured in these animals. At P14, P21, and P60, ChAT activity was assessed in the same region. These analyses revealed a significant increase in the number of cholinergic striatal neurons at P14 in the animals which had been exposed prenatally to ethanol. This increase was transient, however, with equal numbers of ChAT-positive cells found in all three groups by adulthood (P60). The brain weights of the ethanol-exposed animals were significantly reduced at P14 and P21, but were comparable to controls by P60. There were no significant differences in the striatal area or the overall volume of the region assessed, however, at either P14 or P60. Although there were some increases in ChAT activity across the ages viewed (most notably between P14 and P21), there were no effects of diet on ChAT activity at any age assessed. It is proposed that the increased numbers of cholinergic neurons could be a function of errors in migration, enhanced neurogenesis, diminished cell death, alterations in gene expression, or increased cell survival as a result of alterations in neurotrophic factor production or availability.
This study characterized the influence of full-term gestational ethanol exposure on choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunoreactive neurons that project to the hippocampus, within the medial septal (MS) nucleus and the vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca (DBv). On gestation days 1-22, pregnant dams were fed either a vitamin fortified ethanol-containing liquid diet, pair fed a calorically equivalent sucrose-containing diet, or given rat chow ad libitum. In a previous study, we found that chronic prenatal exposure to ethanol, in this manner, resulted in a significant decline in the ontogenetic upregulation of ChAT activity in the septal area during the second postnatal week, but was followed by recovery to control levels by adulthood. On postnatal days 14 and 60 (P14 and P60) the brains were prepared for ChAT immunocytochemistry. Ethanol exposure had little influence on the number of ChAT-positive neurons in the MS nucleus of animals at either age. Ethanol exposure had no effect on neuronal size or ChAT staining intensity of MS or DBv neurons when compared to chow-fed offspring. Although age-related increases in cholinergic neuronal numbers and decreases in neuronal size were observed between juvenile and adult animals, prenatal ethanol exposure did not appear to influence these postnatal changes in the population as a whole. Overall, these findings suggest that the anatomical maturation of septal cholinergic neurons may be relatively insensitive to prenatal ethanol exposure under conditions of a vitamin-rich dietary supplementation, while biochemical development within this region may be more susceptible to early ethanol influences.
An anatomical basis was sought for the postulated roles of nitric oxide (NO) as a labile transcellular messenger in the dorsal vagal complex (NTS-X). The diaphorase activity of NO synthase was used as a marker of neurons in NTS-X that are presumed to convert L-arginine to L-citrulline and NO. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPHd) staining patterns in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) were spatially related to terminal sites of primary visceral afferents from 1) orosensory receptors (e.g., rostral-central nucleus); 2) soft palate, pharynx, larynx, and tracheobronchial tree (e.g., dorsal, intermediate, and interstitial nuclei); 3) esophagus (nucleus centralis); 4) stomach (nucleus gelatinosus); 5) hepatic and coeliac nerves (nucleus subpostrema); and 6) carotid body and baroreceptors (medial commissural and dorsal-lateral nuclei). Primary visceral afferents were identified as sources of NADPHd-stained fiber plexuses in the NTS-X based on three findings: 1) the presence of NADPHd in nodose ganglion cells with morphological features of first-order sensory relay neurons; 2) retrograde transport of Fluoro-Gold (FG) or cholera toxin B (CT-B) from NTS-X to NADPHd-positive nodose ganglion neurons; and 3) striking reductions of NADPHd-stained processes within primary vagal projection fields ipsilateral to unilateral nodose ganglionectomy. A central origin of NADPHd-stained processes in NTS-X was identified in the medial parvicellular subdivision of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. We conclude that NO of peripheral and central origin may modulate viscerosensory signal processing in the NTS-X and autonomic reflex function.
Luminance-defined edges or bars are among the basic units of visual analysis: a &quot;primitive&quot; component of perception. We have utilized this stimulus in a psychophysical study of bar orientation discrimination in the cat before and after selective lesions in visual cortical areas. The cortices have been divided on the basis of their connectivity into three tiers. Tier I refers to areas 17 and 18, tier II includes areas that receive directly from tier I, and tier III includes those areas that receive directly from tier II. Previous studies (Vandenbussche et al. [1991] J. Comp. Neurol. 305:632-658) have shown that the discrimination of bar orientation depends heavily upon the integrity of areas 17 and 18 (tier I). The present study indicates that several extrastriate areas in tiers II and III contribute to this discrimination task. Our data suggest that the anterior medial lateral suprasylvian, the posterior lateral lateral suprasylvian (tier II), and the anterior lateral lateral suprasylvian (tier III) areas are most likely to contribute to bar orientation discrimination.
Neuron and synapse numbers are important assays in neuroscience. These numbers are estimated by one of four methods: 1) profile counts, 2) assumption-based methods, 3) serial reconstructions, and 4) stereological methods. The criteria for these methods are diverse. This creates a disparity in that some reviewers accept estimates from any of these methods, while others accept only specific methods. An equally important issue is the diversity of sampling strategies, since unbiased estimates of neuronal or synaptic numbers are contingent upon both counting and sampling techniques. The purpose of this commentary is to institute a dialog that will lead to a better understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of the above methods, and to propose guidelines that should lead to more uniform and thus fairer judging of the studies that provide estimates of neuron or synapse numbers. In addition, adoption of more uniform standards for obtaining unbiased numerical estimates should result in the generation of an unbiased database that will be of considerable use in future studies.
Axon calibre in monopolar cells L1 and L2 of the fly's lamina can change dynamically. Swelling by day, L2 exhibits a daily rhythm of changing size apparently mediated by wide-field LBO5HT and PDH cells. L1/L2 axon profiles were measured planimetrically in the housefly, Musca domestica, from 1 microns cross sections. Four hours after injecting 80-100 nl of 1.25 x 10(-4) M 5-HT into the optic lobe, L1's axon swelled but L2's did not, whereas 2.2 x 10(-5) M of PDH enlarged both axons. Similar to 5-HT, 1.63 x 10(-4) M histamine (the photoreceptor transmitter) enlarged L1 but not L2, mimicking light exposure, while 1.7 x 10(-4) M glutamate and 1.94 x 10(-4) M GABA both decreased L1 and L2. 2.5 x 10(-4) M of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine decreased L2 and, somewhat, L1, an effect attributable to the loss of LBO5HT neurites. Twenty four hours after cutting LBO5HT and PDH commissural pathways, L1 and L2 both shrank. Apparently, L2's size depends on either LBO5HT or sufficient 5-HT, and L1 and L2 have different response ranges to 5-HT. Responses to PDH imply that daytime PDH release drives a circadian rhythm, enlarging L1 and L2.
Plasma growth hormone (GH) concentrations were measured serially every 20 min for 6 h in unrestrained chronically-catheterised male rats to define physiological GH pulsatile secretory patterns. Bursts of GH secretion lasted 69 +/- 5 min and occurred every 177 +/- 4 min. Intravenous administration of the opioid receptor agonist morphine (200 micrograms/kg) caused an immediate GH burst of normal duration (63 +/- 3 min) in all animals. This burst of secretion occurred whatever the phase of the background GH cycle and was followed by normal trough GH levels; a second GH burst occurred 177 +/- 6 min later, an inter-burst period not different from controls. Opioid receptor blockade with naloxone (5 mg/kg) administered i.v. every 20 min during spontaneous GH bursts significantly lengthened the interburst interval from 177 +/- 4 to 200 +/- 9 min (P = 0.015). Naloxone did not affect synchronisation of the GH rhythm induced by morphine but lengthened the duration of GH secretory bursts from 69 +/- 5 to 94 +/- 9 min (P = 0.017). The findings indicate that opioid receptor activation resets the hypothalamic mechanism generating pulsatile GH secretion and that both the period of the GH rhythm and duration of the GH burst is normally shortened by opioid mechanisms.
To investigate whether spatial learning complies with associative learning theories or with theories of cognitive mapping, rats were trained in three experiments exploring the effect of variations in spatial predictive relationships. In experiment 1, it was found that making one of two landmarks the sole spatial predictor of reward, by varying the spatial relationship between reward and other cues, reduced the control over search exerted by that landmark compared with that observed when the landmark and context cues were both reliable predictors of reward location. This requirement for landmark stability rather than predictive power appears to contradict results obtained in conventional conditioning paradigms. Discrimination learning was unaffected, suggesting a dissociation between discrimination and spatial learning with respect to the influence of geometric stability. Further experiments used arrays of both single and multiple landmarks. Experiment 2 revealed that the stability of a single landmark improved accuracy of search, but also showed that local stability between a pair of landmarks that moved around the arena together was sufficient to support spatial learning. Experiment 3 examined landmark stability using fixed directional cues in the absence of vestibular disorientation. This also revealed a relative advantage of stable landmarks, but animals presented with a landmark that moved from trial to trial did show some evidence of learning. Parametric manipulation of landmark stability offers an intriguing way of influencing the process of spatial representation and thus understanding better the processes through which egocentric representations of perceived space are transformed into allocentric representations of the real world.
There is little evidence allowing the hypothesis of the existence of direct pathways from the sensorimotor cortex (SMC) to main cardiovascular medullary nuclei: the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV), the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). The purpose of this study was to identify in the rat direct SMC-NTS/DMV and-RVLM projections descending through the pyramidal tract (PT) and corticospinal neurones projecting to spinal somatic centers and sending collaterals to the NTS/DMV and the RVLM. The first group of animals (N = 15) received injections of anterograde tracers into the SMC: wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxydase (WGA-HRP) or rhodamine-conjugated dextran (DR). In the second group (n = 35), retrograde tracers were injected: fluorogold (FG) into the NTS/DMV or into the RVLM and DR into the lateral thoracic cord (Th2-Th4). Anterograde transport of WGA-HRP and DR allowed corticofugal fibers to be followed inside the PT ipsilaterally to the site of cortical injection and showed bilateral labeled projections to the NTS/DMV and RVLM. After retrograde transport, bilateral FG or DR labeled cells were distributed in the SMC, mainly in the medial (AGm) and lateral (AGl) agranular cortex. After spinal and bulbar injections, double-labeled cells were distributed in same cortical areas. After injections in RVLM, 49% of labeled cells showed a double-labeling in the frontal cortex (rostral AGm and premotor cortex) while only 24% were observed in the posterior SMC (caudal AGl). On the contrary, when injections were done in NTS/DMV, double-labeled neurons were respectively of 11% in the frontal cortex and 4% in the posterior SMC. In the present work it was shown that the SMC sent direct projections to bulbar cardiovascular nuclei by means of fibers descending through the PT and corticospinal collaterals. The hypothesis which may be drawn from this study is that cortical motor areas probably program cardiovascular adjustments, preparatory or concomitant to the control of striate muscles.
The NADPH-diaphorase histochemical technique, which reflects the activity of nitric oxide synthase was used in order to map the corresponding chameleon brain structures. In the forebrain, stained neurons were found particularly in the dorsal ventricular ridge and the ventral telencephalon, but no stained somata were observed in the cortical areas nor in the septum. In the midbrain, few NADPH-stained structures were seen. The stained cells were confined in the nucleus dorsomedialis, the nucleus geniculatus lateralis dorsalis, and the ventromedial hypothalamus. More caudally, some stained neurons were observed in the nucleus opticus mediodorsalis hypothalami posterior. In the brainstem, NADPH-stained cells were located in the optic tectum, the torus semicircularis, the substantia nigra, the ventral tegmental area, and all motor nuclei of the cranial nerves. The present results showed some striking differences and similarities with birds and mammals. Moreover, the presence of NADPH-staining in most of retinofugal, retinopetal and oculomotor nuclei suggests that nitric oxide system plays a prominent role in the visual and oculomotor functions.

Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), the enzyme responsible for the alpha-amidation of neuroendocrine peptides, is more prevalent in the atrium of the heart than in pituitary or brain. RNase protection assays indicate that PAM transcripts account for approximately 0.5% of the mRNA in the neonatal atrium and 0.06% of the mRNA in the neonatal ventricle. In primary atrial cardiomyocyte cultures PAM mRNA turns over slowly, with a half-life of approximately 20 h. Levels of PAM mRNA in primary atrial cardiomyocytes are increased to 16.5% of control upon treatment with dexamethasone and decreased to 63% of control upon treatment with thyroid hormone.
Much of our understanding of the mechanisms of the gating, modulation, and function of neuronal Ca channels has its origins in investigations of sympathetic neurons. In this article, we use molecular analyses to identify the three Ca channel alpha 1-subunits that are the likely counterparts to the pharmacologically defined: omega-Conotoxin GVIA-sensitive N-type; dihydropyridine-sensitive L-type, and omega-Conotoxin GVIA-insensitive, dihydropyridine-insensitive Ca channel currents observed in sympathetic neurons. With a combination of degenerate and exact primers, small regions of Ca channel alpha 1-subunit sequences were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Although all five Ca channel alpha 1-subunit genes were expressed in rat sympathetic ganglia, alpha 1B-, alpha 1D-, and alpha 1E-derived cDNAs were the dominant species. No novel Ca channel alpha 1-sequences were identified in the regions selected for amplification, and we conclude that alpha 1B, alpha 1D, and alpha 1E likely encode, respectively, N-type, L-type, and non-N/non-L-type channel currents of rat sympathetic neurons. In addition, we show that Ca channel beta 2-, beta 3-, and beta 4-subunit sequences are strongly represented in sympathetic ganglia. The results of this study also suggest that alpha 1D, and not alpha 1C, regulates Ca influx through dihydropyridine-sensitive Ca channel currents.
Gluatamtergic fibers have been immunocytochemically localized in the entorhinal cortex of postmortem schizophrenic brains. The density of small caliber vertical fibers was higher in schizophrenics than controls, with no significant increase in the number of large caliber fibers. Increased glutamatergic fiber density has been previously reported in the cingulate cortex. It is proposed that increases in glutamatergic fibers from the amygdala may be responsible for these changes and that they may play a central role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
We evaluated the effect of TJS-010, a new prescription of oriental medicine, on hypothermia and flat body posture in rats, induced by activation of serotonin (5-HT)-1A receptors by (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT). Hypothermia was induced by 8-OH-DPAT in a dose and time-dependent manner. The hypothermia induced by 0.1 mg/kg 8-OH-DPAT was enhanced by 500 and 750 mg/kg of TJS-010. At the concentration of 0.1 mg/kg, 8-OH-DPAT also produced flat body posture in rats, and 750 mg/kg TJS-010 increased the flat body posture. These results suggest that TJS-010 facilitates the 5-HT-1A receptors in the central nervous system.
Serotonergic abnormalities have been identified in the brain of suicide victims independent of psychiatric diagnosis. We report the first study of serotonin 5-HT3 receptors in the brain of suicide victims. There were no differences in the number (Bmax) or affinity (KD) of 5-HT3 receptors in the temporal cortex of suicide victims compared to matched controls. There was a negative correlation between brain serotonin levels and receptor number (r = -0.5, p = 0.04) in both groups. This study indicates that alterations in serotonergic function in the brain of suicide victims do not appear to directly involve the 5-HT3 receptor.
Recently, a method for transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the brain has been developed. Thus, it is possible to explore neurochemical and behavioral effects of TMS in rats. Repeated TMS (9 days) reduced beta-adrenergic receptor binding in cortex, as does electroconvulsive shock (ECS) and other antidepressant treatments. Thus TMS appears to be a potential antidepressive treatment.
Suicide has been associated with decreased serotonin transmission. Measurement of concentrations of serotonin, its precursors tryptophan (TRY) and 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), have been used as indices of serotonin activity, and with serotonin transporter binding, are indices of the integrity of serotonin nerve terminals. Most previous studies have not distinguished high affinity transporter binding from a very similar nontransporter binding site, where binding is not dependent on Na+ or Cl- and that does not have a known functional role. We therefore, assayed binding kinetics in prefrontal (PFC) and temporal cortex (TC) in matched pairs of suicide victims and controls using the selective ligand 3H-paroxetine, and employing 1 microM sertraline to define specific binding to the transporter and 10 microM sertraline which also displaces binding to the high affinity, nontransporter site. In addition, we measured concentrations of TRY, 5-HTP, serotonin and 5-HIAA in the same brain areas. The total number of 3H-paroxetine transporter and nontransporter binding sites (Bmax), was lower in the suicide group compared to controls in both Brodmann area 9 (prefrontal cortex; p = 0.02) and in Brodmann area 38 (temporal cortex, p = 0.01). In contrast, no differences were found in the number of high affinity transporter binding sites and concentrations of serotonin, 5-HIAA, 5-HTP or TRY (p &gt; 0.05). We conclude that the number of serotonin transporter sites is not altered in Brodmann area 9 in suicide, and that fewer 3H-paroxetine and 3H-imipramine binding sites found in this region of cerebral cortex of suicides may be explained by a reduction in the nontransporter binding sites.
Acute (1 h) intraperitoneal (i.p.) treatment with interferon (IFN)-alpha-2a (300 IU/g) significantly inhibited wet-dog shakes (WDS) induced by (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2 aminopropane (DOI; 0.5, 1.0 mg/kg), which is mediated by serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT)2 receptor in rats. IFN-alpha did not affect spontaneous locomotion. The inhibition of DOI (0.5 mg/kg)-induced WDS by IFN-alpha was dose (90-300 IU/g)- and time (1-6 h)-dependent, and was prevented by 30 min pretreatment with naltrexone (NLTX; 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.), an opioid receptor antagonist. Acute (1 h) intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) treatment with IFN-alpha (1,500 IU/rat) also inhibited DOI (0.5 mg/kg)-induced WDS, and the effect was blocked by NLTX (50 micrograms/rat, i.c.v.). These results suggest that IFN-alpha may modulate 5-HT2 receptor-mediated behavior through opioid receptors in the central nervous system.
Antipsychotic medications appear to exert their therapeutic effects by blocking D2 receptors. While D2 blockade occurs rapidly, reduction in psychotic symptoms is often delayed. This time discrepancy has been attributed to the relatively slow development of depolarization inactivation (DI) of dopaminergic neurons. The reduced firing rates associated with DI has been hypothesized to reduce dopamine release and thus psychotic symptoms. Studies assessing changes in dopamine release during chronic neuroleptic treatment, using microdialysis and voltammetry, have been inconsistent. This may be due to methodological differences between studies, the invasive nature of these procedures, or other confounds. To investigate the effects of DI on dopamine release, 3-MT accumulation, an index of dopamine release that does not involve disruption of brain tissue, was measured during acute and chronic neuroleptic treatment. These results are compared with those using other techniques. 3-MT levels remained elevated after chronic treatment, suggesting that DI does not markedly reduce release. Regulation of dopamine release during DI was examined using two techniques known to block dopamine neuronal impulse flow. 3-MT levels were markedly reduced by both, implying that DI does not alter the portion of dopamine release mediated by neuronal impulse flow. Overall, studies to date suggest that the delayed therapeutic effects of neuroleptics are not due to reductions in impulse dependent dopamine release. Recent studies using a neurodevelopmental animal model of schizophrenia have pointed to altered pre- and post-synaptic indices of dopamine neurotransmission. The results suggest that neuroleptics may exert their therapeutic effects, in part, by limiting the fluctuations in dopamine release, and raise new issues for future research.
The general anesthetics urethane and chloral hydrate have profound anti-serotonergic effects both in the rat cortex in vivo and the rat aortic ring in vitro. The suggestion that these effects may be due to an action on 5-HT2 receptors was tested using ex vivo and in vitro [3H]ketanserin binding assays with membrane-enriched fractions from rat brain. Urethane did not alter [3H]ketanserin binding in the ex vivo assay. In the in vitro assay, urethane, chloral hydrate, and its active metabolite 2,2,2-trichloroethanol produced slight reductions (of 16%, 9%, and 18%, respectively) of [3H]ketanserin binding. These studies suggest that anti-serotonergic effects of urethane and chloral hydrate may not be mediated by a blockade of 5-HT2 receptors.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterised by an increased number of senile plaques (SP) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) as compared with that found in non-demented individuals of the same age, and a marked degeneration and loss of synapses. One of the main risk-factors for the disorder is inheritance of the apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4) allele. To further study the relation between these pathogenetic substrates for AD, we quantified the synaptic vesicle membrane protein rab3a in brain tissue from 19 patients with AD and 9 age-matched control subjects. Rab3a levels were reduced in AD, both in the hippocampus (60% of control level, p &lt; 0.0001), and in the frontal cortex (68% of control level, p &lt; 0.01), but not in the cerebellum (92% of control level). Within the AD group, lower rab3a levels were found both with increasing duration and severity of dementia. These findings further support that synaptic pathology is closely correlated to the clinical dementia in AD. In contrast, no significant correlations were found between SP counts and duration or severity of dementia, while higher NFT counts in the frontal cortex were found with increasing severity of dementia (r = 0.54, p &lt; 0.05). There were no significant correlations between the rab3a level and SP or NFT counts, and by immunohistochemistry, reduced rab3a immunostaining was found throughout the neuropil in AD brain, without relation to SP or NFT. These findings suggest that the synaptic pathology in AD is not closely related to the presence of SP and NFT. No significant differences in rab3a levels were found in any brain region between AD patients possessing different numbers of the ApoE4 allele, suggesting that, although ApoE4 is A risk factor for earlier development of AD, the degree of synaptic pathology does not differ between patients with or without the ApoE4 allele.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and centromedial amygdala share many neuroantomical and neurochemical characteristics, suggesting similarities in their development. Here we compare the neurogenesis of a group of cells for which already several common characteristics have been documented, that is, the sexually dimorphic arginine vasopressin-immunoreactive (AVP-ir) cells of the BNST and amygdala. To determine when these cells are born, pregnant rats received intraperitoneal injections of the thymidine analogue bromo-2-deoxy-5-uridine (BrdU) on one of nine embryonic days, E10 to E18; E1 being the day that a copulatory plug was found. At 3 months of age, the offsprings of these females were killed and their brains stained immunocytochemically for BrdU and AVP. Most AVP-ir cells were labeled with BrdU by injections on E12 and E13. Although BrdU labeling of AVP-ir cells did not differ between the BNST and amygdala, it differed between males and females. From E12 to E13, the percentage of BrdU-labeled AVP-ir cells decreased more in males than in females. AVP-ir cells appeared to be born earlier than most other cells in the same area, the majority of which were labeled with BrdU by injections on E14, E15, and E16. The similarities in the birthdates of AVP-ir cells in the BNST and amygdala may help to explain why these cells take on so many similar characteristics. The sex difference in birthdates of AVP-ir cells may help to explain which cellular processes underlie the sexual differentiation of these cells.



We have shown previously that a neurofilament (NF)-associated kinase (NFAK) extracted from chicken NF preparations phosphorylates selectively the middle molecular mass NF subunit (NF-M). Here we show that the major kinase activity in NFAK is indistinguishable from enzymes of the casein kinase I (CKl) family based on the following criteria: (1) inhibition of NFAK phosphorylation by the selective CKl inhibitor CKl-7, (2) the similarity in substrate specificity of NFAK and authentic CKl, (3) the correspondence of two-dimensional phosphopeptide maps of NF-M phosphorylated in vitro by NFAK with those generated by CKl under similar conditions, and (4) immunological cross-reactivity of NFAK with an antibody raised against CKl. We have also identified Ser502, SER528, and Ser536 as phosphorylation sites by NFAK/CKl in vitro, each of which is also phosphorylated in vivo. All three serines are found in peptides with CKl phosphorylation consensus sequences, and Ser528 and Ser536 and flanking amino acids are highly conserved in higher vertebrate NF-M sequences. Neither Ser502 nor Ser536 has been identified previously as NF-M phosphorylation sites.
Male copulatory behavior in the snail Lymnaea stagnalis is controlled by several types of peptidergic neurons, including a cluster of neurons in the ventral lobe of the right cerebral ganglion that show immunoreactivity to myomodulin-A of Aplysia and innervate the penis complex. We identified structurally myomodulin-A and three related peptides from Lymnaea and showed that they are present in a characteristic ratio in both the penis nerve and penis complex, suggesting that they are processed from a single precursor and transported from the ventral lobe to the penis complex. All four peptides decreased the relaxation time of electrically evoked contractions of the penis retractor muscle. However, their effects on the amplitude of contraction were different, ranging from no effect to an increase or a decrease in the amplitude. A mixture of the peptides in a ratio as determined by direct mass spectrometry of the penis nerve decreased the contraction time, the relaxation time, and the amplitude. These effects resemble those of one particular peptide in the mixture. The direct mass spectrometry determinations of the peptide profile in the penis nerve suggest that many more, as yet unidentified, neuropeptides are involved in modulation of muscle activities of the penis complex.
Mice infected with the retrovirus mixture designated LP-BM5 murine leukemia virus (MuLV) develop an immunosuppressive disease. Quinolinic acid (QUIN) is an endogenous neurotoxic N-methyl-D-aspartate agonist that may contribute to the pathogenesis of HIV-associated neurologic disease. In the present study, the levels of QUIN in brain and blood were measured in mice infected with LP-BM5 MuLV and compared with those in uninfected mice and mice infected with the nonpathogenic strain of ecotropic MuLV (helper component of LP-BM5 MuLV). Infection with LP-BM5 MuLV resulted in progressive increases in blood QUIN levels beginning 2 weeks after inoculation that peaked by 16 weeks postinfection. QUIN levels were also increased in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and striatum. In systemic tissues, QUIN levels were increased in lung, liver, and spleen. In contrast, infection with the ecotropic viral component of the LP-BM5 MuLV mixture was not associated with any changes in brain, blood, or systemic tissue QUIN levels, even though helper virus burdens were comparable to those in mice infected with LP-BM5 MuLV. Treatment of LP-BM5 MuLV-infected mice with the antiretroviral agent zidovudine (azidothymidine) significantly reduced blood and brain QUIN levels in association with reductions in viral load in brain and spleen. These observations suggest that elevated QUIN production is not attributable to productive infection with retrovirus per se but occurs in response to an agent or agents, such as cytokines, that are produced by the host in response to virus infection.
The microtubule-associated protein tau plays an important role in the dynamics of microtubule assembly necessary for axonal growth and neurite plasticity. Ischemia disrupts the neuronal cytoskeleton both by promoting proteolysis of its components and by affecting kinase and phosphatase activities that alter its assembly. In this study the effect of ischemia and reperfusion on the expression and phosphorylation of tau was examined in a reversible model of spinal cord ischemia in rabbits. tau was found to be dephosphorylated in response to ischemia with a time course that closely matched the production of permanent paraplegia. Dephosphorylation of tau was limited to the caudal lumbar spinal cord. In a similar manner, Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase II activity was reduced only in the ischemic region. Thus, dephosphorylation of tau is an early marker of ischemia as is the rapid loss of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase II activity. tau, however, was rephosphorylated rapidly during reperfusion at site(s) that cause a reduction in its electrophoretic mobility regardless of the neurological outcome. Alterations in phosphorylation or degradation of tau may affect microtubule stability, possibly contributing to disruption of axonal transport but also facilitating neurite plasticity in a regenerative response.
The possibility that clathrin plays a role in the agonist-mediated sequestration of muscarinic cholinergic receptors in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells has been investigated by the application of experimental paradigms previously established to perturb clathrin distribution and receptor cycling events. Preincubation of SH-SY5Y cells under hypertonic conditions resulted in a pronounced inhibition of agonist-induced muscarinic receptor sequestration (70-80% at 550 mOsm), which was reversed when cells were returned to isotonic medium. Depletion of intracellular K+ or acidification of the cytosol also resulted in &gt; 80% inhibition of muscarinic receptor sequestration. Under conditions of hypertonicity, depletion of intracellular K+, or acidification of cytosol, muscarinic receptor-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis and Ca2+ signaling events were either unaffected or markedly less inhibited than receptor sequestration. That these same experimental conditions did perturb clathrin distribution was verified by immunofluorescence studies. Hypertonicity and depletion of intracellular K+ resulted in a pronounced accumulation of clathrin in the perinuclear region, whereas acidification of the cytosol resulted in the appearance of microaggregates of clathrin throughout the cytoplasm and at the plasma membrane. The results are consistent with the possibility that muscarinic receptors in SH-SY5Y cells are endocytosed via a clathrin-dependent mechanism.
Immobilization (IMO) stress elevates plasma catecholamines and increases tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene expression in rat adrenals. This study examined the mechanism(s) of IMO-induced changes in adrenal TH mRNA levels. Innervation of the adrenal medulla is predominantly cholinergic and splanchnicotomy as well as nicotinic receptor antagonists prevent the cold-induced rise in TH mRNA levels. In this study, the IMO-induced rise in plasma catecholamines, but not TH mRNA levels, was reduced by the antagonist chlorisondamine. Muscarinic antagonist atropine also did not prevent the IMO stress-elicited rise in TH mRNA. Furthermore, denervation of the adrenals by unilateral splanchnicotomy did not block the IMO-induced rise in TH mRNA but completely prevented the induction of neuropeptide Y mRNA. These results suggest that (1) the large increase in adrenal TH gene expression elicited by a single IMO stress is not regulated via cholinergic receptors or splanchnic innervation, and (2) there is a dissociation between regulatory mechanisms of catecholamine secretion and elevation of TH gene expression in the adrenal medulla of rats during IMO stress.
We compared sympathoadrenal responses to intermittent cold (SART) stress (in which cold exposure is interrupted by 4-hourly intervals daily at room temperature) with those to continuous cold (-3 degrees C) stress. Plasma levels of dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), catecholamines and their metabolites as well as tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activities in sympathetically innervated tissues were examined in rats exposed to each stressor for 1 day or for 5 days. Neither SART nor continuous exposure to cold for 1 day or 5 days altered plasma epinephrine (EPI) levels. However, norepinephrine (NE) and dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) levels increased markedly during exposure to these stressors. On the first day of SART or continuous cold stress, NE levels were increased similarly, but the increments in DHPG levels were greater during SART stress. Since DHPG is formed in neurons, neural reuptake of NE may be more enhanced on the first day of SART stress than on the first day of continuous cold stress. After 5 days of SART stress plasma NE levels were significantly higher than those found after 5 days of continuous cold exposure. Plasma levels of DHPG were elevated to the same extent in both 5 days SART- and continuously cold-stressed rats, whereas plasma levels of methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) increased only by 5 days SART stress. Even at 1 h after the removal from 5 days SART stress, increased plasma levels of NE, DHPG and MHPG were still evident. These results suggest that 5 days SART stress elevates extraneuronal O-methylation of DHPG, and that NE turnover is more greatly increased by SART stress than by continuous cold stress. Plasma levels of DOPA, dopamine, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid also increased after either SART or continuous cold stress for 1 day and 5 days. Adrenal TH activities were significantly increased in rats exposed to SART or continuous cold stress for 1 day and 5 days, but in brown fat TH activity was elevated only in rats exposed to 5 days of continuous cold. Both SART and continuous cold stress are selective and potent stimuli for activation of the sympathoneural system, apparently without significant adrenomedullary EPI release. The increase of TH activity in the brown fat pad as well as of plasma NE and its metabolites is probably a result of adaptation to cold. It appears that even short intervals of return to a normal environmental temperature, as in SART, are sufficient to diminish sympathetic adaptation to cold.
The anteroventral periventricular nucleus of the preoptic region (AVPV) represents a key site for hormonal feedback on gonadotropin secretion. It plays a critical role in the neural control of luteinizing hormone secretion and contains high densities of neurons that express receptors for estrogen and progesterone. In this study in situ hybridization was used to examine the expression of mRNAs encoding the estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PR) receptors in the AVPV during the estrous cycle. ER gene expression fluctuated during the cycle with the lowest levels of ER mRNA observed in animals killed on the afternoon of proestrus, and the highest levels present in animals killed during metestrus. This apparent inverse relationship between circulating levels of estradiol (E2) and ER mRNA levels in AVPV neurons was supported by the observation that treatment of ovariectomized rats with E2 suppressed expression of ER mRNA in the AVPV. The influence of progesterone (P4) on ER expression was less pronounced, but a significant increase in ER mRNA in the AVPV was detected 3 h after treatment with P4. In contrast, PR mRNA levels were highest in the AVPV during diestrus and lowest on the morning of proestrus suggesting that PR expression in the AVPV is regulated in a complex manner that may reflect the combined regulatory effects of E2 and P4. E2 treatment caused a dramatic induction of PR mRNA in the AVPV, but P4 did not affect PR mRNA expression acutely, although PR mRNA appears to be attenuated in the AVPV 27 h after P4 treatment. These findings suggest that ovarian steroid hormones regulate ER and PR gene expression in the AVPV during the estrous cycle, which may represent molecular events that contribute to cyclic changes in the responsiveness of AVPV neurons to steroid hormones.
Here we show that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induction of glial inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) requires membrane (m) and soluble (s) forms of CD14. In glial cell cultures, an anti-rat CD14 monoclonal antibody detected CD14 protein in whole cells and cell lysates, and reduced LPS-dependent iNOS expression. Glial cells and normal brain tissue expressed CD14 mRNA, as revealed by isolation of a rat CD14 clone (rCD14) from an astrocyte cDNA library and RT-PCR analysis. Finally, serum the ED(50) of LPS required for glial iNOS expression, and antibodies against sCD14 blocked the potentiating effect of serum.
We analysed the performances of 69 patients with left unilateral spatial neglect in copying a multi-object figure, as well as their performance of the line cancellation and line bisection tests. Three patterns of copying were mainly observed. The first pattern was almost satisfactory performance in copying the central figure with occasional omission of the elements located more laterally to the left. The second pattern was omission of the left half of the whole figure, which was the pattern expected of patients with typical left unilateral spatial neglect. The third pattern was left unilateral spatial neglect when copying the central figure, with favourable copying of left lateral objects; this may be regarded as &quot;object-centered&quot; neglect. Performance of the line cancellation test, which requires exploratory ability, was significantly better for the patients with the third pattern than for those with the second pattern. A significant difference was also observed between the two groups of patients in performance of the line bisection test, in which exploratory ability plays a more minor role. No significant difference was found in performance of the line cancellation and line bisection tests between the patients with the third and first patterns, in spite of remarkable differences in their copying performances. No distinctive characteristics were found for any group of patients as regards lesion, age, duration after onset, education, and WAIS scores. Therefore we concluded that in most of our patients with neglect, these diverse patterns of copying deficits resulted from different levels of neglect severity but not from different types of unilateral spatial neglect.

Patients with the Lewy body variant (LBV) of Alzheimer's disease (AD) meet diagnostic criteria for AD but have a lighter burden of plaque and tangle AD pathology despite comparable dementia. We quantified neocortical Lewy bodies (LB) in LBV patients (n = 14) using anti-ubiquitin polyclonal antibody, selecting for quantification those neocortical regions with the highest densities of LB. Neocortical neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) and neuritic plaques were evaluated with thioflavin- S. A group of classical AD patients (n = 12), matched for disease duration, was also studied. For most of these cases, entorhinal neurofibrillary pathology had previously been assessed by applying a modification of the Braak and Braak AD staging protocol. Although LBV and AD groups had similar mental test scores when last evaluated prior to death, lower neocortical NFT and plaque counts and lower modified Braak stages were observed in LBV. Neocortical NFT counts correlated with impaired neuropsychological test performance in AD but not in LBV. Plaque counts did not correlate with mental status in either group. Lewy body concentrations in four neocortical areas correlated significantly with dementia severity in LBV. The association of AD lesions in the neocortex with dementia in LBV was comparatively weaker than that observed for LB concentrations. These findings suggest that neocortical LB combined with entorhinal NFT or subcortical Parkinson's disease-type pathology may equalize the degree of dementia seen in LBV with that encountered in classical AD.
1. Starburst amacrine cells were studied using whole cell patch recording. Displaced starburst cells were labeled in rabbit retinas by intraocular injection of 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole. The retinas were isolated and maintained in vitro. The inner limiting membrane and Mller cell endfeet were removed mechanically from small areas above the starburst cell bodies, allowing an unimpeded approach under visual control to the cells. A total of 104 cells was studied. 2. In voltage-clamp recordings, the cells responded to light with slow, graded inward and outward currents on which were superimposed smaller, rapid inward currents. The rapid inward currents appeared to be postsynaptic currents. 3. The receptive fields of the cells were mapped using small spots. They had an on-center, off-surround organization. Visualizing the dendrites by including Lucifer yellow in the patch pipette showed that the receptive fields' centers closely approximated the dendritic spread of the neurons. 4. The cells' responses to movement were tested with smooth movements or with two-spot apparent motion. No directional preference was seen for spots swept across the whole receptive field, for centrifugal movements, or for centripetal movements. 5. Bath-applied tetrodotoxin (TTX) or intracellularly applied lidocaine N-ethyl bromide (QX-314) had no effect on any component of the spontaneous or light-evoked activity. Depolarization of the cell bodies by injected current showed evidence of active conductances, but they were unaffected by TTX or QX-314. 6. 6-Cyano-7-nitroquionxyline-2,3-dione eliminated the small rapid currents, indicating that they depend on alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4- isoxazolepropionic acid/kainate glutamate receptors. 7. Because it is unlikely that we voltage clamped the distalmost dendrites of these wide-field cells, uncertainties remain about rapid electrical events occurring in the dendrites. From a functional point of view, though, the fact that slow responses to distal photic stimulation were recorded at the soma suggests that the starburst cells could in principle integrate inputs across fairly substantial fractions of their total dendritic arbors. The extent to which this actually occurs remains to be learned.
1. The responses of 126 neurons in primary gustatory cortices of two rhesus monkeys were recorded during sapid stimulation of the tongue with 18 taste stimuli. Ten of these stimuli were dissolved in distilled water (DW): 1.0 M sucrose (Suc), 0.1 M and 0.03 M sodium chloride (NaCl), 0.003 M hydrochloric acid (HCl), 0.001 M quinine hydrochloride (QHCl), 0.03 M monosodium glutamate (MSG), 0.03 M polycose, 0.3 M glycine, 0.1 M proline, and 0.1 M malic acid. Seven other stimuli were dissolved in 0.03 M MSG; the last stimulus was a mixture of 1.0 M Suc and 0.03 M NaCl. 2. The average spontaneous rate (2.2 +/- 0.2 spikes/s, mean +/- SE) and response to DW (2.5 +/- 0.2) of these 126 neurons was low but within the range previously reported for neurons in primate taste cortex. Suc was the most effective stimulus for 24.1% of the neurons tested followed by NaCl (15.7%), QHCl (14.8%), HCl (11.1%), MSG (10.2%), and other miscellaneous unitary gustatory stimuli (8.3%). Binary taste mixtures were the most effective stimuli for 15.7% of the sample. The net responses (corrected for DW, in spikes/s) for Suc-best (3.3), NaCl-best (4.3), HCl-best (3.4), QHCl-best (2.3), and MSG-best (4.1) were sluggish, but comparable with that reported previously. 3. The response breadth of the 82 neurons that responded best to either Suc, NaCl, HCl, or QHCl measured with the entropy coefficient indicated a moderate response breadth for these neurons (mean = 0.79; range = 0.30-0.98). According to the response criteria adopted in this experiment (water response +/- 1.96 SD), however, 81 of these 82 neurons (98.1%) responded to only one or two of the four basic taste stimuli. The disparity between the entropy- and criterion-based measures of response derive from the nature of the two statistics. Adjustments that would make the entropy statistic less inclusive and the definition of a response according to statistical criteria less exclusive would increase their concordance. 4. Three multivariate statistics (cluster, principal axis factor, and multidimensional analysis) were used to analyze the data. Cluster analysis enabled us to divide the 82 taste neurons into groups on the basis of response similarity. Each of the four largest groups was dominated by neurons that responded best to one of the four basic taste stimuli: Suc, NaCl, QHCl, and HCl (ranked in descending order); the fifth largest cluster contained neurons that responded best to MSG. Principal axis factor analysis demonstrated that 80.8% of the total variance could be accounted for by three factors. Neurons responding best to Suc, NaCl, and QHCl each were closely associated with one of those three factors, but the loadings of the HCl-best neurons were evenly distributed across all three factors. The communality coefficient of these three factors was &gt; 80% for the Suc-, NaCl-, HCl-, and QHCl-best neurons; the MSG-best neurons, by comparison, had very few high loadings on any of these three factors and a correspondingly low communality coefficient of 40.4%, a difference that was statistically significant from the other four groups. Thus the three factors related to Suc-, NaCl-, HCl-, and QHCl-best neurons are not relevant to MSG-best neurons. We used multidimensional analysis to arrange the neurons that responded best to Suc, NaCl, HCl, QHCl, and MSG into five loosely arranged and partially overlapping clusters. A multidimensional space based on stimulus similarity showed that MSG was as different from the four basic taste stimuli as they were from one another. 5. Mixture suppression, a common observation in human psychophysical experiments, was examined at the neurophysiological level by including binary tastants in the stimulus battery. The average response of 19 Suc-best neurons to 1.0 M Suc (4.1 spikes/s) decreased to near 0 when the solvent was changed from DW to either 0.03 M MSG or 0.03 M NaCl. Similar decrements were observed in NaCl- and MSG-best neurons tested with Suc/NaCl mixtures.
1. Mechanisms underlying cortical reorganizations were studied using a three-layered neural network model with neuronal groups already formed in the cortical layer. 2. Dynamic changes induced in cortex by behavioral training or intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) were simulated. Both manipulations resulted in reassembly of neuronal groups and formation of stimulus-dependent assemblies. Receptive fields of neurons and cortical representation of inputs also changed. Many neurons that had been weakly responsive or silent became active. 3. Several types of learning models were examined in simulating behavioral training, ICMS-induced dynamic changes, deafferentation, or cortical lesion. Each learning model most accurately reproduced features of experimental data from different manipulations, suggesting that more than one plasticity mechanism might be able to induce dynamic changes in cortex. 4. After skin or cortical stimulation ceased, as spontaneous activity continued, the stimulus-dependent assemblies gradually reverted into structure-dependent neuronal groups. However, relationships among individual neurons and identities of many neurons did not return to their original states. Thus a different set of neurons would be recruited by the same training stimulus sequence on its next presentation. 5. We also reproduced several typical long-term reorganizations caused by pathological manipulations such as cortical lesions, input loss, and digit fusion. 6. In summary, with Hebbian plasticity rules on lateral connections, the network model is capable of reproducing most characteristics of experiments on cortical reorganization. We propose that an important mechanism underlying cortical plastic changes is formation of temporary assemblies that are related to receipt of strongly synchronized localized input. Such stimulus-dependent assemblies can be dissolved by spontaneous activity after removal of the stimuli.
1. Using a three-layered network model defined in the previous paper, we studied the basic features of neurons in the cortical layer while the synaptic strengths of lateral excitatory connections were made modifiable by a Hebbian learning rule and a normalization process. 2. We found that neurons in the cortical layer formed groups through their lateral excitatory connections after the network was trained with sequential random dot stimulations. Neurons within a group connected tightly; neurons in different groups connected weakly. 3. The effects of model parameters and input parameters on the formation of neuronal groups were investigated. Results showed that the average size and rough shapes of groups were mainly determined by the spatial distribution of lateral connections within the cortical layer, irrespective of input parameters and training methods. Thus groups are structure dependent. 4. Lateral inhibition in the network is the only key factor that affects the grouping of neurons. Without an appropriate amount of distant inhibition, group formation does not occur. Group formation is very robust to all other parameters we tested. On the other hand, group locations are very easily disturbed by inputs or changes of parameters, suggesting that such neuronal groups are dynamically maintained. 5. With the development of neuronal groups, neurons can be divided into two response types. TN-1 neurons respond weakly to inputs and have small receptive fields or do not respond at all (silent); TN-II neurons, approximately 30-40% of all, respond strongly to inputs and have large receptive fields. The two types of neurons also differ with respect to response threshold and temporal firing patterns. After groups formed, receptive fields of TN-II neurons within the same group clustered spatially with high overlap, whereas receptive fields of TN-I neurons with detectable responses shifted systematically with the neuron's spatial location. 6. The two types of neurons are homogeneously distributed across the cortical layer. The population of each type of neuron produces a full representation of the input layer with weak or strong responses, respectively. 7. We concluded that neurons in the cortical network naturally assembled into functional groups. Such groups are dynamic and amenable to change by input stimuli. A fraction of neurons (30-40%) within the same group shares a similar receptive field and strongly respond together to stimuli, so that the network has more robust response to inputs. On the other hand, the responses of a large portion (60-70%) of neurons become weak or silent: these neurons are available for other (unknown) functional purposes.
1. We studied the rapid dynamic changes of neuron response properties in the somatosensory cortex by the use of computer simulations. The model consists of three feedforward layers of spiking neurons, corresponding to skin, subcortex, and cortex structures. Measurements and analysis of model activity throughout this work are similar to those used in neurophysiological experiments. 2. The effects of various parameters on response properties of model neurons were investigated. The most important parameters were the lateral excitation and inhibition in the simulated cortical network. 3. The balance between excitation and inhibition is a key factor in determining the stability of the network model. There is a large excitation-inhibition (E-I) parameter region within which the model can stably respond to inputs. 4. The input-output relations and receptive field (RF) sizes of simulated neurons are modifiable by the E-I balance. The shapes of RFs are determined by both feedforward projections and the spatial distribution of lateral connections. 5. We simulated changes in temporal and spatial properties of neurons in response to manipulations that mimic bicuculine methiodide or glutamate application to the cortex. Simulation results agreed well with experimental data, suggesting that cortical transmitter levels play an important role in the dynamic responses of the neural net through their effects on E-I balance. 6. With parameters of the model set to an inhibition-dominant scheme, the model was able to reproduce experimentally observed rapid RF expansions that follow cortical lesion or input denervation. Simulation results also suggested that spontaneous inputs to a sensory system can serve as a source of tonic inhibition in the cortex. 7. We conclude that lateral connections could produce and maintain a cortical network having dynamic properties without the need to invoke synaptic plasticity. Individual neuron properties could be modified by changing the balance of cortical layer excitation and inhibition. In a real brain, this could be achieved either by changing levels of cortical transmitter (gamma-aminobutyric acid. for example) or by changing tonic background input to the cortical network.
1. gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is thought to inhibit both pre- and postsynaptically the transfer of nociceptive signals from primary afferent fibers to spinal dorsal horn sensory cells, including spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons. The inhibition can be mediated by both GABAA and GABAB receptors. We now attempt to characterize the synaptic inhibition of STT cells by spinal GABAA and GABAB receptors in anesthetized monkeys and to analyze the roles of these two receptor subtypes in the inhibition of STT cellular activity produced by stimulation in the periaqueductal gray (PAG). 2. Iontophoretic release of GABA or muscimol (a selective GABAA receptor agonist) onto STT cells elicited a profound and dose-related inhibition of the responses of all cells tested to noxious cutaneous stimuli. Only four cells (16.7%) were found to be inhibited when baclofen (a selective GABAB receptor agonist) was applied iontophoretically. However, a strong and dose-dependent inhibition of the responses to cutaneous mechanical and thermal stimuli was obtained in all cells examined when baclofen was administered into the dorsal horn through a microdialysis fiber. The inhibitory effects were mainly on nociceptive inputs. 3. The inhibition of cellular activity by GABAA and GABAB agonists could be selectively antagonized by specific antagonists applied through a microdialysis fiber. 4. The excitatory responses evoked by pulsed release of glutamic acid (GLUT) were also inhibited in a dose-related manner by iontophoretic application of GABA and muscimol, but not by baclofen. A high dose of baclofen administered by microdialysis resulted in only a small decrease in GLUT-evoked excitatory responses. 5. Infusion of GABAA and GABAB antagonists into the dorsal horn by microdialysis caused an increase in both background activity and responses to cutaneous stimuli, suggesting that there is a tonic GABAergic inhibition of STT cells. 6. The inhibition of responses to mechanical and thermal stimulation of the cutaneous excitatory receptive field resulting from stimulation in PAG was significantly antagonized in most of the STT cells tested when the GABAA antagonist bicuculline was infused into the spinal dorsal horn through a microdialysis fiber. In contrast, the inhibition produced by PAG stimulation in most of the cells examined was not significantly antagonized by the GABAB antagonists phaclofen or 3-amino-propyl(diethoxymethyl)phophinic acid (CGP35348) administered into the spinal dorsal horn by microdialysis. 7. Our results support the contention that GABAergic mechanisms in the spinal dorsal horn normally exert a tonic modulation of nociceptive inputs through both GABAA and GABAB receptors. The evidence provided here indicates that GABAA receptors located on primate STT neurons contribute to a postsynaptic inhibitory effect on the transmission of peripheral nociceptive inputs. A possible presynaptic GABAA action was not investigated. Our finding of a GABAB-receptor-mediated inhibition is consistent with the view that both pre- and postsynaptic GABAB receptors are involved in inhibitory modulation of spinal nociceptive transmission. Finally, it is suggested from this study that primate spinal GABAA, but not GABAB receptors, are involved in mediating the descending inhibition induced by PAG stimulation.
1. The aim of this study was to examine the nature of motoneuron firing-rate modulation in type-identified motor units during smoothly graded contractions of the cat medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle evoked by stimulation of the mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR). Motoneuron discharge patterns, firing rates, and the extent of firing-rate modulation in individual units were studied, as was the extent of concomitant changes in firing rates within pairs of simultaneously active units. 2. In 21 pairs of simultaneously active motor units, studied during 41 evoked contractions, the motoneurons' discharge rates and patterns were measured by processing the cells' recorded action potentials through windowing devices and storing their timing in computer memory. Once recruited, most motoneurons increased their firing rates over a limited range of increasing muscle tension and then maintained a fairly constant firing rate as muscle force continued to rise. Most motoneurons also decreased their firing rates over a slightly larger, but still limited, range of declining muscle force before they were derecruited. Although this was the most common discharge pattern recorded, several other interesting patterns were also seen. 3. The mean firing rate for slow twitch (type S) motor units (27.8 imp/s, 5,092 activations) was found to be significantly different from the mean firing rate for fast twitch (type F) motor units (48.4 imp/s, 11,272 activations; Student's t-test, P &lt; 0.001). There was no significant difference between the mean firing rates of fast twitch, fatigue-resistant (type FR) and fast twitch, fatigable (type FF) motor units. When the relationship between motoneuron firing rate and whole-muscle force was analyzed, it was noted that, in general, smaller, lower threshold motor units began firing at lower rates and reached lower peak firing rates than did larger, higher threshold motor units. These results confirm both earlier experimental observations and predictions made by other investigators on the basis of computer simulations of the cat MG motor pool, but are in contrast to motor-unit discharge behavior recorded in some human motor-unit studies. 4. The extent of concomitant changes in firing rate within pairs of simultaneously active motor units was examined to estimate the extent of simultaneous motoneuron firing-rate modulation across the motoneuron pool. A smoothed (5 point sliding average) version of the two motoneurons' instantaneous firing rates was plotted against each other, and the slope and statistical significance of the relationship was determined. In 16 motor-unit pairs, the slope of the motoneurons' firing-rate relationship was significantly distinct from 0. Parallel firing-rate modulation (&lt; 10-fold difference in firing rate change reflected by a slope of &gt; 0.1) was noted only in pairs containing motor units of like physiological type and then only if they were of similar recruitment threshold. 5. Other investigators have demonstrated that changes in a motoneuron's &quot;steady-state&quot; firing rate predictably reflect changes in the amount of effective synaptic current that cell is receiving. The finding in the present study of limited parallel firing-rate modulation between simultaneously active motoneurons would suggest that changes in the synaptic drive to the various motoneurons of the pool is unevenly distributed. This finding, in addition to the findings of orderly motor-unit recruitment and the relationship between motor-unit recruitment threshold and motoneuron firing rate, cannot be adequately accommodated for by the existing models of the synaptic organization in motoneuron pools. Therefore a new model of the synaptic organization within the motoneuron pool has been proposed.
1. The recruitment order of 64 pairs of motor units, comprising 21 type-identified units, was studied during centrally evoked muscle contractions of the cat medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle in an unanesthetized, high decerebrate preparation. Motor units were functionally isolated within the MG nerve by intra-axonal (or intramyelin) penetration with conventional glass microelectrodes. 2. Graded stimulation of the mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR) was used to evoke smoothly graded contractions, which under favorable conditions was estimated to reach 40% of maximum tetanic tension of the MG muscle. With this method of activation, 100% of slow twitch (type S) units, 95% of fast twitch, fatigue-resistant (type FR) units, 86% of fast twitch, fatigue-intermediate (type FI) units, and 49% of fast twitch, fatigable (type FF) units studied were recruited. 3. Motoneuron size as estimated by axonal conduction velocity (CV) was correlated with muscle-unit size as estimated by maximum tetanic tension (Po). Although the correlation between these properties was significant among type S and FR units, no significant correlation was found for these properties among type FI and FF units. 4. Motor-unit recruitment was ordered by physiological type (S &gt; F, 100% of pairs; S &gt; FR &gt; FI &gt; FF, 93% of pairs). Although none of the motor-unit properties studied predicted recruitment order perfectly, motor-unit recruitment was found to proceed by increasing Po (89% of pairs), decreasing contraction time (79% of pairs), decreasing fatigue index (80% of pairs), and increasing CV (76% of pairs). These percentages were significantly different from random (i.e., 50%). Statistically, all four motor-unit properties were equivalent in predicting recruitment order. These results are similar to those reported by other investigators for motor-unit recruitment order evoked from other supraspinal centers, as well as from peripheral sites. 5. When, however, motor-unit recruitment within pairs of motor units containing two fast-twitch (type F) units was examined, Po was a significantly better predictor of recruitment order than CV (85% vs. 52% of pairs). One explanation for this observation is that the correlation between Po and CV is high among type S, type FR units, and possibly among the lower-tension type FF units, but not among the remaining higher-tension type FF units. 6. The reproducibility of recruitment order in multiple contractions was investigated in 16 motor-unit pairs. Recruitment order was found to be variable in only three motor-unit pairs, all of which contained units of similar physiological type and recruitment threshold. 7. Analysis of recruitment order by pair-wise testing confirms the general conclusion reached in human studies that the muscle force level at recruitment for a motor unit is highly correlated with its strength. As an additional confirmation, the whole-muscle force level at recruitment for 41 units was measured in a series of contractions in which the rate of rise of muscle tension was limited to rates &lt; 1,000 g/s. For these contractions, a significant correlation was found between muscle tension at recruitment and motor-unit Po.
1. The objective of the experiments was to explore the modulatory functions of the serotonergic cerebral giant cells (CGCs) of the Lymnaea feeding system by examining their synaptic connections with the central pattern generator (CPG) interneurons and the modulatory slow oscillator (SO) interneuron. 2. One type of modulatory function, &quot;gating,&quot; requires that the CGCs fire tonically at a minimum of 7 spikes/min. Above this minimum level the CGCs control the frequency of CPG interneuron oscillation-- &quot;frequency control,&quot; a second type of modulation. In an SO-driven fictive feeding rhythm, an increase in the frequency of the rhythm, with increased CGC firing rate, resulted from a reduction in the duration of the N1 (protraction) and N2 (rasp) phases of the feeding cycle with little effect on the N3 (swallow) phase. 3. The CGCs excited the N1 phase interneurons SO and N1M (N1 medial) cells but had no consistent effects on the N1 lateral cells. The CGC--&gt;SO postsynaptic response was probably monosynaptic (&lt; or = 200 ms in duration) with unitary 1:1 excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) following each CGC spike. The CGC--&gt;N1M excitatory response was slow and nonunitary, and a burst of CGC spikes evoked a depolarization of the N1M cells that lasted up to 10 s and triggered N1M cell bursts. Both CGC--&gt;SO and CGC--&gt;N1M excitatory responses could be mimicked by the focal application of serotonin (5-HT). 4. Both CGC--&gt;SO and CGC--&gt;N1M excitatory connections systematically increased the N1M cell firing rate within the CGCs' physiological firing range (0-40 spikes/min). This was due to both the direct (CGC--&gt;N1M) and indirect (CGC--&gt;SO--&gt;N1M) excitatory synaptic pathways. The CGC-induced increase in N1M cell firing rate probably accounted for the reduced duration of the N1M cell feeding burst by causing a more rapid reversal of the feeding cycle from the N1 phase to the N2 phase. This phase reversal was due to the previously described recurrent inhibitory pathway (N1--&gt;N2 excitation followed by N2--&gt;N1 inhibition). 5. The CGCs' ability to provide a depolarizing drive to the N1M cells meant that this excitatory connection was also likely to be important for gating. 6. Activity in the CGCs produced nonunitary, long-lasting, excitatory postsynaptic responses on the N2 ventral (N2v) CPG interneurons, and these were likely to be involved in both the gating and the frequency control by the CGCs on the N2 phase of the feeding rhythm. Suppressing CGC tonic firing initially increased the duration of the N2v plateau (which determines the duration of the N2 phase of the feeding cycle, frequency function) but eventually led to a loss of N2v plateauing (gating function). 7. Nonunitary, weakly inhibitory CGC--&gt;N2 dorsal responses were recorded that could be mimicked by the application of 5-HT. 8. Spikes in the CGCs evoked 1:1 monosynaptic EPSPs in the N3 tonic (N3t) CPG interneurons. This excitatory effect could be mimicked by the application of 5-HT. Within the physiological range of CGC firing, this excitation did not appear to influence the firing rate of the N3t cells. 9. N3 phasic (N3p) CPG interneurons showed biphasic (hyperpolarizing followed by depolarizing) unitary responses to spikes evoked in the CGCs. The inhibitory synaptic response was maintained in a high-Ca2+/high-Mg2+ (Hi-Di) saline and was mimicked by the focal application of 5-HT, indicating that it was probably monosynaptic. The excitatory component was, however, reduced in a Hi-Di saline, indicating that it was probably polysynaptic. Suppressing the CGCs during an SO-driven feeding rhythm caused the N3p cells to fire less, suggesting that the removal of the excitatory component of the response might be significant. 10. We conclude that the general depolarizing effects of the CGCs on a number of the CP
The intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+])i of astrocytes within rat hippocampal slices was measured during simultaneous hypoxia and hypoglycemia to examine the early intracellular signaling events induced by this in vitro model of ischemia. Hypoxia-hypoglycemia for 3.3-7.5 min evoked [Ca2+]i increases in astrocytes iontophoretically loaded with calcium orange (11/14 slices; 2.5 min to peak [Ca2+]i, 5 min to &gt; 60 min duration). Calcium elevations also were observed in the absence of extracellular calcium ([Ca2+]o) (4/4 slices), indicative of Ca2+ release from internal stores. Hypoxia-hypoglycemia depolarized astrocytes (51 +/- 16 mV), suggesting additional contribution from voltage-gated Ca2+ influx. Depolarization of a similar magnitude (51 +/- 4 mV) by 50 mM extracellular potassium ([K+]o triggered [Ca2+]i increases (20/24 slices), which were blocked by removal of [Ca2+]o (8/8 slices) indicating that depolarization promoted Ca2+ influx. Voltage-gated Ca2+ influx and internal release were measured in accurately isolated astrocytes during in vitro ischemia to examine these processes in the absence of surrounding neurons. Hypoxia-hypoglycemia (7.5-34.0 min) induced only modest, slow increases in the basal [Ca2+]i of Fura-2-loaded isolated astrocytes (average 12% increase in Fura-2 ratio R340/380 after 10 min) that were blocked by [Ca2+]o removal. Voltage-gated Ca2+ influx was still functional under ischemia, however, as 50 mM [K+]o evoked [Ca2+]i increases (14/14 cells, delta R340/380 of 48%) approximately equal to preischemic responses. Isolated neurons displayed large irreversible increases in basal [Ca2+]i after 1.5-6.5 min in vitro ischemia (10/12 cells; average delta R 340/380 of 152%). The absence of significant basal [Ca2+]i increases on isolated astrocytes indicates that ischemia-induced Ca2+ influx and internal release in astrocytes within slices depend on signals released from neurons (K+, neurotransmitters). Ischemic [Ca2+]i elevations may constitute a signaling mechanism for postischemic reactive responses.
Studies in a number of cortical systems have shown that the NMDA component of the EPSP is strongly regulated by GABAA-mediated inhibition. The present study explored the possibility that specificity in inhibitory circuitry could allow such regulation to occur during normal function without increasing the propensity for epileptiform bursting, which occurs with indiscriminate GABAA blockade. Specifically, the hypothesis was tested that a dendritic GABAA-mediated IPSP is present which strongly modulates the NMDA component and can be activated independently of the somatic IPSP. The experiments were performed on slices of piriform cortex in which the NMDA component of the EPSP was pharmacologically isolated by bath-applied 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. A facilitation of NMDA responses to burst stimulation of afferent fibers is described, which required GABAA blockade and served as an assay for the presence of a functionally significant GABAA input. When bicuculline was applied focally in the somatic region, the feedback IPSP was blocked with little or no increase in the NMDA component of the response to burst stimulation of afferent fibers. In contrast, when bicuculline was applied focally in the dendritic region, the NMDA-mediated response to burst stimulation was facilitated with minimal effect on the somatic IPSP, confirming the hypothesis.
Rat sweat glands provide an interesting model system for a developmental study of adrenergic receptor expression because their sympathetic innervation undergoes a switch from a nonadrenergic to cholinergic and peptidergic phenotype. alpha 1B, alpha 2B, and beta 2 receptors are expressed in rat footpads; alpha 1 and beta 2 receptors are localized specifically to sweat glands, and alpha 2 receptors also are expressed in other tissues. alpha 1 and, to a lesser extent, beta 2 receptors decrease during development, whereas alpha 2 levels remain relatively constant. Decreased receptor expression is accompanied by the loss of alpha 1-stimulated inositol phosphate accumulation, but no change in beta-stimulated cAMP production. The number of alpha 1 and beta 2 receptors decreases after P21, when the sympathetic innervation no longer produces catecholamines. Neonatal sympathectomy causes a partial failure of alpha 1 downregulation, but has no effect on beta 2 or alpha 2 receptor levels. Therefore, at least two distinct mechanisms regulate development of adrenergic receptors in sweat glands. Innervation-independent processes control developmental expression of alpha 1, beta 2, and alpha 2 receptors, and an additional, innervation-dependent mechanism influences expression of alpha 1 receptors. Denervation at postnatal day 20, when the sympathetic innervation is cholinergic and peptidergic, results in retention of alpha 1 receptors, but cholinergic blockade begun at P20 does not. These results indicate that regulation of receptor expression in sweat glands is complex, and suggest that the innervation-dependent factors that decrease alpha 1 levels during development act through a nonadrenergic, noncholinergic mechanism.
Specific antibodies and cytochemical markers combined with several imaging and morphometric techniques were used to characterize the endosomal-lysosomal system in mature neurons of the normal human central nervous system and to quantitate changes in its function in Alzheimer's disease. Compartments containing cathespin D (Cat D) and other acid hydrolases included a major subpopulation of mature lysosomes lacking mannose-6-phosphate receptors (MPR) and smaller populations of late endosomes (MPR-positive) and lipofuscin granules (MPR-negative). Antibodies to the pro-isoform of Cat D decorated perinuclear vacuolar compartments corresponding to late endosomes. Neurons and glia contained lysosomes with differing complements of acid hydrolases, implying different processing capabilities. Endosome/lysosome number per unit volume of cytoplasm was relatively well conserved within populations of normal neurons. By contrast, in morphometric analyses of Alzheimer's disease brains, 80-93% of pyramidal cells in the prefrontal cortex (laminae III or V) and hippocampus (CA2, CA3) displayed two- to eightfold higher numbers of hydrolase-positive vacuolar compartments than did corresponding cell populations in age-matched normal brains. Only 5-10% of cerebellar Purkinje cells, a less vulnerable population, showed the same statistically significant elevations. Most affected in these brain regions and in subcortical areas seemed otherwise normal by conventional histological staining and ultrastructural inspection. That both lysosomal and pro-Cat D- and MPR-positive endosomal compartments increased in number demonstrates that the endosomal-lysosomal system is activated markedly in vulnerable neuronal populations of Alzheimer's disease brains and implies that endocytosis or autophagy or both are accelerated persistently at an early stage of cellular compromise, greatly surpassing the degree of activity associated with normal aging. Early activation of the endosomal-lysosomal system represents a biological event potentially linking major etiological factors in Alzheimer's disease, including defective membrane proteins, apolipoprotein E function, and altered amyloid precursor protein processing.
Activating direct olfactory (glutamatergic) inputs to supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons increases interneuronal coupling in slices from lactating but from not virgin or male rats. Studied here were influences on coupling of another monosynaptic input to SON, the histaminergic tuberomammillary nucleus (TM) projection, activation of which selectively excites phasically firing (putative vasopressin) cells. Effects of TM stimulation and its possible downstream consequences on Lucifer yellow (LY) dye coupling among putative vasopressin cells were determined in male rat SONs. In unstimulated slices, 12 LY injections (1 cell/SON) yielded eight single and four pairs of coupled neurons. In slices in which TM was stimulated for 10 min at 10 Hz, 13 injections yielded 4 single and 28 coupled cells, with groups of 2 to 4 cells coupled to the injected neuron, a threefold increase in the number of coupled cells per injection (p &lt; 0.02). Bathing slices in medium containing 10 microM pyrilamine (H1 antagonist) blocked this stimulation-induced coupling increase, suggesting mediation by activation of guanylate cyclase-cGMP to which H1 receptors often are linked . Bathing slices in medium containing 0.5-1 mM 8-bromo-cGMP yielded results similar to those of TM stimulation, a 2.5-fold increase over control in the number of coupled cells per injection. Effects of TM stimulation on coupling also were blocked by bathing slices in a guanylate cyclase inhibitor (10 microM LY83583). In contrast to cGMP, 1 mM 8-bromo-cAMP significantly reduced coupling. We conclude that synaptically released histamine increases coupling via cGMP-dependent mechanisms.
We developed a modified monoclonal hybridoma technique that combines two conventional methods: a conventional immunosuppression method with cyclophosphamide treatment and an in vitro immunization method. This technique is advantageous over conventional methodologies because it requires a shorter period for immunization of mice and a smaller quantity of antigen, and gives rise to antibody-secreting hybridomas with higher efficiency. One monoclonal hybridoma line, designated as BG5, was established by this technique after activation of lymphocytes with muramyl dipeptide and with the immunogen obtained from human entorhinal cortex. Western blot analysis showed a relatively high expression of BG5 antigen in human entorhinal cortex. Our results suggest that this hybridoma technique may rapidly facilitate the acquisition of brain region-specific antibodies. We call this technique 'suppression immunization followed by in vitro stimulation procedure' (SOFISTIC).
In order to study the suitability of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded brain tissue for vasopressin (AVP)-mRNA detection, we used symmetric halves of 5 human hypothalami. In every case, one half was formalin fixed for 10-35 days and paraffin embedded while the other half was frozen rapidly. Following in situ hybridization (ISH) histochemistry on systematically obtained sections of the supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of both halves, total amounts of AVP-mRNA in these nuclei were estimated using densitometry of film autoradiographs. Total amounts of radioactivity were found to vary considerably between patients and amounted to 1297 +/- 302 arbitrary units (AU) (PVN) (mean +/- SEM) and 2539 +/- 346 (SON) for the cryostat sections and 868 +/- 94 (PVN) and 1259 +/- 126 (SON) for the paraffin tissue. Variations introduced by the method itself yielded a coefficient of variation of only 0.19. Furthermore, a non-significant negative trend with postmortem delay was found in cryostat tissue, but not in paraffin sections. No effect of fixation time was observed in the paraffin tissue. Both ways of tissue treatment have specific advantages and disadvantages that may be different for other probes or other brain areas. For ISH of a highly abundant mRNA like AVP in a very heterogeneous brain area such as the human hypothalamus, formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue sections can be used for quantitative analysis of entire brain nuclei because of the small variation in this tissue, the remarkably good signal recovery (some 75% as compared to cryostat sections) and its practical advantages with regards to anatomical orientation, storage and sampling of the tissue.
The 3-dimensional (3D) basal dendritic branching patterns of the layers IIIc and V pyramidal neurons in the human prefrontal cortex were morphometrically analyzed using Golgi-Cox stained single sections without reconstruction. Since the dendritic field extends beyond the section, the section thickness affected its 3D measures, such as total dendritic length per neuron. An exploratory analysis to assess the cutting effect in relation to section thickness was performed by examine the graphic display of the following dendritic measures per section thickness class of 10 microns, within a total range of 101-210 microns: (1) percentage cut dendritic segments, (2) individual terminal segment length, (3) radial distance from the terminal tips, and (4) total dendritic length per neuron. Additionally, 1-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was applied with section thickness as main factor. The graphic displays did not show a trend towards increasing dendritic lengths and distances with increasing section thickness. In general the ANOVA showed no statistically significant effect of section thickness, with the exception of one thickness class (layer IIIc: 151-160 microns). This leads to the conclusion that the thickness range has to be larger to detect a cutting effect related to section thickness.
Fluorescent dyes were used to mark and identify the tracks left by extracellular microelectrodes in neurophysiological experiments. Forty-two penetrations were made into the postcentral gyrus of 3 Macaque monkeys with electrodes coated with 1 of 5 fluorescent dyes (DiI, DiO, DiI-C5, PyPO, and Fast Blue). The electrodes were driven at rates ranging from 10 to 1000 microns/min, to a depth of about 4000 microns, where a small electrolytic lesion was made. Histological sections were viewed under fluorescent optics and the electrode tracks were reconstructed from the dye traces. Fluorescent traces (width 50-400 microns) were observed in 41 of 42 penetrations with 24 traces extending to the lesion site. Of the electrodes driven in less than 3 h, those coated with DiI (8/8) and DiI-C5 (8/8) left a trace to the lesion site, while 57% (4/7) of the DiO, 40% (2/5) of the Fast Blue and only 11% (1/9) of the PyPO tracks were fully marked. This method of marking penetrations can be used with any extracellular recording configuration, does not require tissue sections to be processed or stained, does not require electrical lesions, and causes no detectable tissue damage. Because the dyes fluoresce at different wavelengths, closely spaced tracks can be uniquely identified.
A computer-based method of estimating resetting index is presented which was successfully applied to a study of resetting of human voluntary rhythmical movement. Peaks were detected before and after the stimulus (magnetic cortical stimulation) from position records and the phase of stimulation and the phase change induced by the stimulus estimated. The phase change versus phase of stimulation relationship was rotated until the best linear fit was obtained: the gradient of this relationship is the resetting index. The calculation of resetting index was thus independent of the initial assignment of reference phase. A constant, the null phase, was derived from the best linear fit and indicates the phase to which the original waveform is being reset by the stimulus. Statistical tests of significance and linearity of the final relationship are also described.
The objective of this study was to develop a reliable and sensitive method of diaminobenzidine (DAB) photoconversion through systematic variation of the objectives and the method of DAB enhancement employed. Results showed that reliable photoconversion of DiI-labeled macaque monkey cortical cells and processes can be obtained consistently by using fresh filtered DAB solutions, clean slides, and a bright fluorescent light source. Using a 20x objective and enhancing the DAB reaction product with Giemsa stain provided the most sensitivity and best resolution in the photoconverted area. Objective size was found to correlate directly with sensitivity and indirectly with both the size of the area photoconverted and the time to complete photoconversion. Nitro blue tetrazolium (NBT) did not produce as much contrast in the photoconverted cells as Giemsa stain, but allowed for the best visualization of finer processes because it somewhat enlarged the fiber diameter. Nickel and cobalt used together, but not separately, were found to provide adequate enhancement. These results are likely to apply to photoconversion and enhancement of all fluorescent material, but may require slight modifications in protocol.
Two-dimensional 'joint' interval distributions of sequential interspike (ISIs) are a commonly used tool in neuronal spike train analysis. We present and evaluate here a modification of the joint interval plot using ranked ISIs. This modification provides clearer graphical evaluation of serial dependence in ISI sequences, a distribution-free basis for isolating changes in serial dependence across experimental treatments from changes in ISI distributions, and a basis for unambiguous statistical tests of serial dependence and stationarity. To validate this method and illustrate the advantages of its use we have applied it to both single-neuron spike trains recorded from cultured mammalian spinal cord neurons and artificial spike trains generated by stochastic models with defined burst envelopes and serial dependencies.
This article critically reviews 8 computer implementations of Fujimori's method for EEG waveform recognition, with methodological considerations for the application of this method to the analysis of all-night sleep EEG. Fujimori's method has been considered one of the most appropriate waveform analyses for EEG. This kind of analysis is advantageous for measuring frequency and amplitude of each EEG wave separately. However, current implementations have drawbacks which must be resolved before they can be used on all-night sleep EEG. An optimal sampling rate should be determined which is appropriate to the purpose of analysis. Amplitude thresholds for wave recognition, which are now set arbitrarily, should also be improved. Measurement of waves in higher orders of superimposition is also necessary, although existing systems are limited to the second order. Additional algorithms, such as for the separate detection of sleep slow waves, may be useful. Further applications for Fujimori's method are suggested.
FK-506 is a relatively new immunosuppressant similar in action to cyclosporine A, but is much more potent. Its primary action is against T lymphocytes, the major cellular component in corneal allograft rejection. The purpose of this study was the evaluation of the ability of topical and systemic FK-506 in preventing corneal xenograft rejection in an experimental animal model. Cross-species xenotransplants were used as the most vigorous stimulus to induce corneal rejection. Corneas derived from Hartley guinea pigs were transplanted into the left eyes of 32 male Lewis rats. Topical treatment was administered by using FK-506 0.3 mg/ml in a cyclodextrin suspension or vehicle (cyclodextrin suspension) four times per day. For systemic treatment, 0.5 mg/kg/day of FK-506 or vehicle (saline) was administered intraperitoneally. Treatments were started 60 minutes after surgery and continued for 21 days. The grafts underwent a double-masked examination, and a score was given for clarity, edema, and vascularization. The animals were sacrificed 21 days after transplantation. The control groups had allograft rejection after 6.75 +/- 0.31 (topical vehicle) and after 7.37 +/- 0.32 (systemic vehicle) days. The FK-506-treated groups showed allograft rejection after 14 +/- 0.88 (topical FK-506) or after 16.25 +/- 1.23 (systemic FK-506) days. In addition, FK-506-treated rats manifested less corneal neovascularization than control animals. We conclude that systemic or topical FK-506 is effective in prolonging xenograft survival in the rat keratoplasty model.
Investigations into the etiology of diabetic polyneuropathy have largely concentrated on the mixed peripheral nerve trunk. Although a number of workers have suggested that reductions in mixed nerve blood flow account for early diabetic polyneuropathy, experimental results remain controversial and are not fully sustained by human studies. Later disease is unquestionably associated with microangiopathy. Patients with diabetic neuropathy may have exclusive and severe sensory and autonomic involvement without obvious motor disease. The prominent sensory involvement in early diabetic polyneuropathy may suggest that the disease particularly targets dorsal root ganglia. Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) have features that might suggest they would be vulnerable to changes known to occur in diabetes, i.e. microangiopathy, excessive polyol flux and protein glycosylation. Autonomic ganglia may also be targeted early in the disease. The interest in using growth factors to treat diabetic neuropathy is at least partly based on the hypothesis that these agents might provide important trophic support for DRG neurons.
We investigated the pharmacological properties and neuroprotective actions of a novel alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-y-propionate (AMPA)/kainate receptor antagonist, [6-(1H-imidazol-1-yl)-7-nitro-2,3-(1H,4H)-quinoxalinedione hydrochloride (YM90K); formerly YM900], in comparison with those of 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline (NBQX). YM90K selectively displaced [3H]-AMPA binding (Ki = 0.084 microM) and was less potent in inhibiting [3H]-kainate (Ki = 2.2 microM), [3H]-L-glutamate (N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive site; Ki &gt; 100 microM) and [3H]-glycine (strychnine-insensitive site; Ki = 37 microM) binding to rat brain membranes. YM90K co-injected with AMPA or kainate into the rat striatum protected cholinergic neurons against AMPA- or kainate-induced neurotoxicity. YM90K showed potent suppressive activity against audiogenic seizure in DBA/2 mice; ED50 values of YM90K and NBQX against tonic seizure were 2.54 and 7.17 mg/kg (i.p.), respectively. The duration of the anticonvulsant effects of YM90K and NBQX was 30 min, indicating that both compounds possess short action. In a global ischemia model, YM90K (15 mg/kg i.p. x 3), NBQX (30 mg/kg i.p. x 3) and CNQX (60 mg/kg i.p. x 3) significantly prevented the delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 region in Mongolian gerbils when administered 1 h after 5-min ischemia. In addition, the therapeutic time window for the neuroprotective effect of YM90K (30 mg/kg i.p. x 3) was 6 h. In a focal ischemia model, YM90K (30 mg/kg i.v. bolus+10 mg/kg/h for 4 h) reduced the volume of ischemic damage in the cerebral cortex in F344 rats. Thus, YM90K was shown to be a potent and selective antagonist for AMPA/kainate receptors in vitro and in vivo. This compound may provide a therapeutic effect in various neurodegenerative disorders such as ischemic stroke in which glutamate neurotoxicity is thought to play a critical role in neuronal damage.
Electrical stimulation in the periaqueductal gray (PAG) can inhibit dorsal horn cell responses to both innocuous and noxious cutaneous stimuli. This inhibition is believed to be due to the release of serotonin (5-HT) into the dorsal horn of the spinal cord from descending axons of the nucleus raphe magnus and the adjacent reticular formation. It is still not clearly known which subtypes of 5-HT receptors are involved in the PAG-induced inhibition. Extracellular single-unit recordings of dorsal horn cell activity, in combination with drug administration through a microdialysis fiber, were used to test the role of 5-HT3 receptors in PAG-induced inhibition. The responses of the cells to mechanical stimulation of the skin (BRUSH, PRESS and PINCH) and to the same stimuli while stimulating PAG were recorded. When the 5-HT3 antagonist, ondansetron, was perfused through the microdialysis fiber, not only was the background activity of the cell increased, but also the responses to BRUSH, PRESS and PINCH stimuli. The PAG-induced inhibition of responses to the same stimuli was partially or completely blocked by ondansetron. Another 5-HT3 antagonist, zacopride, did not increase the background activity or responses to PRESS and PINCH, yet this agent, like ondansetron, blocked PAG inhibition. The 5-HT3 agonist, phenylbiguanide, inhibited the background activity and the responses to mechanical stimuli. These results suggest that 5-HT released in the dorsal horn by stimulation in the PAG excites inhibitory interneurons through 5-HT3 receptors, resulting in inhibition of dorsal horn neurons.
It has been proposed that volumes of neural tissue may represent important processing elements. This viewpoint suggests one way that populations of synaptic elements cooperate to implement important computational capacities. I extend this view by proposing a set of computational functions for the extracellular space shared by a local population of synapses. The critical hypothesis is the existence of a hypothetical 'fluid' resource present outside synapses that must be internalized in order for a synapse to function. I outline some of the consequences of assuming that such a resource is in limited supply on short time scales.
Recordings from the cerebellum under behavioral conditions that cause learning in the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) constrain the cellular mechanisms that could mediate learning. Analysis of the complex-spike responses of Purkinje cells demonstrates a mismatch between the properties of cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) in vitro and the signals available to guide learning in vivo. To resolve this mismatch, it may be necessary to assume that there are multiple cellular mechanisms of VOR learning, including both depression and potentiation.
We report two experiments conducted on a radial arm maze in the mouse showing that training could either enhance or reduce the efficacy of the fimbria-lateral septal synapses. It is suggested that the direction of change is determined by the kind of situation the animal is faced with (ie trial-dependent, respectively).
The NMDA receptor activates a biochemical pathway that regulates long-term changes in synaptic strength. A combination of pharmacological and gene-knockout approaches shows that the postsynaptics signalling cascade initiated by the NMDA receptor involves Fyn tyrosine kinase. We found that Fyn phosphorylates the NMDA receptor and proteins associated with the receptor and proteins associated with the receptor. The interaction of the NMDA receptor with postsynaptic signalling proteins is likely to initiate changes in synaptic strength that contribute to learning and memory.

Plasticity of NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission was studied in the CA1 region of the hippocampus utilising whole cell patch-clamp recording techniques. LTP was associated with a decrease in CV whereas LTD was accompanied by an increase in CV and a decrease in Pr. These data are consistent with LTP and LTD being an opposite expression of the same fundamental process.

This paper reviews a series of electrophysiological experiments on syntactic processing against the background of a psycholinguistic two-stage model of parsing. The data reveal two event-related brain potential components in correlation with syntactic processes: an early left anterior negativity and a late centro-parietal positivity. It is argued that these two components can be correlated with two separate stages of syntactic processing: the early left anterior negativity reflecting first-pass parsing processes and the late positivity reflecting second-pass parsing processes possibly including processes of reanalyses.
Benzodiazepine receptor agonists and inverse agonists exert generally opposite actions at both the cellular and behavioural levels. The present study, however, reveals that both the benzodiazepine receptor agonist, chlordiazepoxide and the partial inverse agonist, FG7142, yield a dose-dependent (2-16 mg/kg, i.p) reduction in the amplitude of the acoustic startle response in the rat. The similarity in drug effects on startle was not attributable to congruent effects on basal somatic activity, as chlordiazepoxide resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in activity whereas FG7142 was associated with a small but non-significant increase in activity. As these results contrast with the bidirectional actions of benzodiazepine receptor agonists and inverse agonists in behavioural tests of fear or anxiety, the neuronal mechanisms mediating the effects of benzodiazepine receptor ligands on the acoustic startle response may be distinct from those that underlie the specific fear- attenuating and potentiating actions, respectively, of benzodiazepine receptor agonists and inverse agonists.
The effects of four BZ receptor ligands in an operant test were compared with a rotarod test. In the operant test, rats were trained to pull a chain on a schedule that regulates the probability of delivery of food pellets to maintain a steady chain-pulling rate across a 1 h test session. For the rotarod test, mice were trained to remain on a rotarod for 2 min. Diazepam (0.1-3.0 mg/kg, i.p.), FG 8205 (0.1-3.0 mg/kg, i.p.), quazepam (3.0-60.0 mg/kg, i.p.) and zolpidem (0.3-10.0 mg/kg, i.p.) each produced dose-related impairments of performance in both the chain- pulling test and the mouse rotarod test. Furthermore, the impairment in performance induced by FG 8205 (10.0 mg/kg, p.o.) was dose-dependently reversed by the BZ receptor antagonist, flumazenil (1.0-10.0 mg/kg, i.p.), indicating that the chain-pulling deficit was mediated via BZ receptor activation. Diazepam, FG 8205 and quazepam all had comparable potencies in both the rotarod assay and the chain-pulling test. However, zolpidem suppressed the chain-pulling rates at a dose 30-fold lower than that required to induce a significant deficit in the rotarod performance. As zolpidem is a preferentially sedative compound, this pattern of results is consistent with the hypothesis that the chain-pulling test is sensitive to sedation induced by BZ receptor agonists.

Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire (TPQ) scores are compared for three groups of adults: (a) current smokers with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHDSmk, n = 14); (b) current smokers without ADHD (NonADHDSmk, n = 21); and (c) ADHD never smokers (ADHDNevSmk, n = 17). The ADHASmk participants started smoking at a significantly younger age than NonADHDSmk participants. On the TPQ Novelty Seeking (NS) scale, all groups scored more than a standard deviation above the norm, and ADHDSmk participants scored significantly higher than NonADHDSmk participants. The earlier onset of smoking in ADHD adults suggests that smoking prevention efforts may be particularly important for ADHD children. Previous studies have reported that both smokers and ADHD patients have elevated NS scores; this study suggests an additive effect for smokers with ADHD. This exaggerated tendency towards thrill seeking in ADHDSmk participants may complicate smoking-cessation treatment in this population, because the health consequences of smoking may be of less concern to ADHD smokers.
Using the Electrodiagnostic Neurophysiological Automated Analysis (ENAA) telematic system, 1560 standardized electrodiagnostic tests have been performed on 70 normal subjects and 320 patients in five laboratories in three European countries. The data from each patient have been transmitted from the five satellite laboratories to the Bristol Telematic Electrodiagnostic Centre (BRITEC), housed in the Bristol Eye Hospital, where they were evaluated and the conclusions transmitted to the place of origin. The results from the normal subjects were not significantly different between laboratories. Also patients with specific types of disease had similar results in all laboratories. The results from both the normal subjects and the patients show that a working prototype for providing telematic electrodiagnosis is available and has been well received by both clinicians and patients.
MPP-production and uptake by dopaminergic terminals are critical steps in MPTP-induced Parkinson-like disorder. We reported evidence for a specific uptake of MPP by synaptic vesicles from mouse striatum. Its regional distribution suggests it as a marker of the dopamine vesicular carrier. We decided to further characterize such an MPP uptake. Tetrabenazine inhibits the dopamine uptake both in the striatum and in the cerebellum with similar Km values suggesting an identify of the vesicular carrier in these areas. On the contrary, 3H-MPP vesicular uptake had in the striatum a t1/2 of 60 sec, but was not detectable at any time in the cerebellum. Moreover, MPP inhibited the uptake of 3H-DA (Ki: 1.6 +/- 0.03 microM) and 3H-NE (Ki 2.6 +/- 0.01 microM) in the striatum but not in the cerebellum, even at molar concentration. These pharmacological data indicate that in nondopaminergic areas the monoamine carrier may be similar but not identical from that located in dopaminergic areas.
To better understand the molecular mechanisms that underlie the exaggerated bradykinin (BK)-stimulated release of Ins(1,4,5)P3 in fibroblasts from Alzheimer patients, the role of G-proteins, protein kinase C (PKC) and cyclic AMP in BK-induced Ins(1,4,5)P3 formation was determined. A role for G-proteins in the coupling of the BK receptor to intracellular signals was indicated by guanosine 5'-(3-O-thio)triphosphate (GTP gamma S) enhanced BK-stimulated Ins(1,4,5)P3 release. The coupling of G-proteins to Ins(1,4,5)P3 formation was sensitive to cholera toxin (CTX), but not pertussis toxin (PTX), and was not altered by PKC activation. The inhibition by CTX appeared to be secondary to its ability to increase cyclic AMP, because forskolin also inhibited the BK-mediated Ins (1,4,5)P3 release. Activation of PKC with TPA diminished the number of BK receptors by 33% and proportionally decreased BK-mediated Ins(1,4,5)P3 formation by 28%. The latter response was abolished by PKC inhibitors. Depletion of PKC by prolonged TPA treatment did not further alter the number of BK receptors but further decreased the Ins(1,4,5)P3 response by 65%. Thus, changes in PKC probably do not underlie the enhanced BK-induced Ins(1,4,5)P3 formation in AD fibroblasts, because both activation and depletion of the PKC diminished the Ins(1,4,5)P3 response.
CCK-B receptor-mediated polyphosphoinositide (PPI) turnover in GH3 pituitary cells has been examined and comparisons are made with Ca2+ mobilisation and receptor binding data, previously described. Sulphated cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8s) and the CCK-B-selective agonist pentagastrin dose-dependently stimulated PPI turnover in GH3 cells with similar maximal increases of 3.0 fold and 3.3 fold, respectively, in production of [3H]inositol phosphates over control. Responses, measured over 30min periods in the presence of 10mM LiCl, were generally maximal for both agonists at 100nM. Consistent with their [125]Bolton Hunter CCK-8s (BHCCK) binding affinities and with effects on Ca2+ mobilisation, CCK-8s was slightly more potent than pentagastrin in stimulating PPI turnover (EC50s 1.3nM and 3.9nM respectively). Both peptides showed higher potency in the PPI assay than in Ca2+ studies. 100nM pentagastrin-induced PPI turnover was dose-dependently inhibited by the CCK-B receptor-selective antagonist L-365,260 (IC50 470nM) whilst the CCK-A receptor antagonist, devazepide, only produced weak partial inhibition (18% at 10,000nM). Antagonists alone were observed to depress control activity in PPI turnover but not in Ca2+ mobilisation assays. The selectivity of L-365,260 compared to devazepide was similar in binding studies to that for both 100nM pentagastrin-induced functional responses. Schild analysis of antagonism of PPI turnover by L-365,260 yielded a line with slope close to unity (1.07) and a pKB of 8.27+/-0.05.
In this paper we discuss the possible role of disturbed neuronal calcium homeostasis in brain aging and diabetic neuropathy. Disturbances in the homeostasis of cytosolic calcium concentration have been implicated in the pathogenesis of various acute and chronic neurodegenerative disorders and in brain aging. Obviously, these disorders do not all share the same pathogenetic mechanisms. However, a number of the pathogenetic mechanisms involved have in common that they may ultimately cause loss of calcium homeostasis, leading to neuronal damage. By identifying the possible role of calcium, treatment strategies can be developed that may be effective in a variety of neurodegenerative disorders, despite differences in their pathogenesis. Our aim is to explore some of the similarities that exist between a number of processes that have been implicated in the pathogenesis of brain aging and diabetic neuropathy, including ischemia, oxidative stress and non-enzymatic protein glycosylation. Each of these factors might impair neuronal calcium homeostasis, and ultimately lead to neurodegenerative changes. By discussing the putative role of these specific factors in two apparently dissimilar disorders, such as brain aging and diabetic neuropathy, we obviously do not intend to suggest that their pathogenesis is one and the same. Instead, by examining the relative role of these factors in two different types of neurodegenerative disorders we would like to emphasize the importance of disturbances in cellular calcium homeostasis as a final common pathway in neuronal damage resulting from various noxious events.
Apo-ptosis, derived from Greek for 'falling off', can refer to the falling off of leaves during autumn (1), but is currently often used to describe a particular cell behaviour which occurs during development, cell maturation, in response to varying noxious stimuli or in disease. The cells die without causing their neighbours trouble, unlike necrotic cell death which is accompanied by an inflammatory response. In contrast, it is believed that during apoptosis cells neatly package their contents such as DNA, lipids and other biomolecules, and offer them to neighbouring cells which can take up these biomolecules by phagocytosis and use them in a type of environmental-friendly cellular recycling. It is these budding bodies that inspired the name apoptosis.
These experiments have investigated selenium movement between blood and CNS in anaesthetised rats. Each animal was surgically anaesthetised and the left femoral blood vessels cannulated for blood withdrawal and solute infusion. Each rat received 75-selenium as sodium selenite infused in normal saline and experiments lasted between 5 minutes and 5 hours during which blood samples were periodically taken. At termination, the CNS was removed, regionally dissected and analysed with the plasma samples for 75-Se radioactivity by gamma-counting. Data were analysed by graphical analysis. Results showed unidirectional uptake of 75-Se into the CNS and regional differences were not found except for the hypothalamus. On average the CNS influx rate constant (Kin) was about 7 +/- 1 x 10(-5) ml/min/g. Data suggest that the 75-Se most likely entered the CNS as a free ionic form.
Although the basic mechanism for parkinsonian tremor is known to be central, the case for the oscillator(s) of physiological tremor and shivering is still a matter of dispute. In this case, an important role has been proposed for muscle afferents. Oxotremorine tremor has in common with shivering its frequency range (10-28 Hz) and the co-contraction of flexors and extensors. On the other hand, in contradistinction, it can be blocked by atropine, as is the case with parkinsonian tremor. Thus it was of interest to analyze the role of muscle afferents in the production and maintenance of oxotremorine tremor in the acutely decorticated cat. This was studied with two experimental approaches. In one, either a front or hind limb of a cat was completely deafferented by dorsal rhizotomy and the tremor activity recorded electromyographycally in a pair of antagonistic muscles. In the other, the nerve and muscle electrical activity and force produced by the tremoring muscle (gastrocnemius) were recorded simultaneously. Tremor activity was induced by oxotremorine injection (200-750 micrograms/kg i.p.) given at different postoperative periods. The drug induced a regular tremor in the chronically deafferented animals (3 weeks to 5 months) but not in the acutely deafferented limb (3 hrs after dorsal rhizotomy). The tremor observed in the former group was very regular and had the same frequency range (10-28 Hz) for both normal and deafferentd sides. Section of all the muscle afferents of a given pool (agonist and its main synergist) did not have any effect on the regularity and frequency of the oscillation (tremor) of that pool. The role of other muscle and/or cutaneous afferents, although perhaps of some importance, remains unclear. A pure spinal mechanism to account for the regular oscillations (tremor) is proposed.
Infusion of the excitotoxins, ibotenic acid, quisqualic acid, or AMPA, into the medial septal nucleus, diagonal band, and the nucleus basalis magnocellularis of rats produced less cholinergic cell loss as assessed by choline acetyltransferase activity in the projection fields, cortex and hippocampus, than that obtainable by intraventricular administration of the immunotoxin, 192 IgG-saporin. All excitotoxins produced reductions in tissue levels of some monoamines, while no decreases were found for the immunotoxin. All toxins produced acquisitional impairment in the hidden platform water maze. This behavioral deficit was slightly greater for the excitotoxic-lesioned rats than for those given 192 IgG-saporin at a dose which produced ChAT depletions similar to the most potent excitotoxin (AMPA). This supports the idea that some of the behavioral effects produced by excitotoxic lesions are due to the cholinergic basal forebrain lesion and some are due to noncholinergic damage.
The distribution of the putative anti-addictive substance ibogaine was measured in plasma, brain, kidney, liver and fat after ip and sc administration in rats. One hr after ip dosing (40 mg/kg), drug levels ranged from 106 ng/ml (plasma) to 11,308 ng/g (fat), with significantly higher values after sc administration of the same dose. Drug levels were 10-20 fold lower 12 hr after the same dose. These results suggest that: 1) ibogaine is subject to a substantial &quot;first pass&quot; effect after ip dosing, demonstrated by higher drug levels following the sc route, 2) ibogaine shows a large accumulation in adipose tissue, consistent with its lipophilic nature, and 3) persistence of the drug in fat may contribute to a long duration of action.
We have previously reported that a group of isoquinolinesulfonamide kinase inhibitors (H7, 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine; H8, N-[2-(methylamino)ethyl]-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide; and H9, N-2-(aminoethyl)-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide) prevents apoptosis triggered in neurons by an inhibition of phosphatases 1 and 2A with okadaic acid, and by inhibition of protein kinase C with staurosporine and chelerythrine. In the present study we assessed the capability of isoquinolinesulfonamides (IQS) to prevent different types of apoptosis in primary cultures of cerebellar granule neurons. We induced apoptosis by: a) serum removal, b) potassium deficiency, c) serum removal + potassium deficiency, and d) beta-amyloid peptide (beta AP). The IQS prevented apoptosis in all the above models. Thus, it appears that the IQS-sensitive pathway is a common mechanism in different types of neuronal apoptosis, and that it might be used as a target in the development of novel neuroprotective drugs.
Long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission is a candidate for a neuronal model of forgetting and is considered to be important in learning and memory. The present study employed extracellular recording in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer of rat hippocampal slices following orthodromic stimulation of Schaffer collateral fibres in stratum radiatum. Muscimol induced a time and concentration-dependent LTD at a frequency of stimulation of 0.01 Hz or in the absence of stimulation. The LTD was reversed by stimulation at 1 Hz. The ability of muscimol to act via GABAA receptors was confirmed by the ability of bicuculline (5 microM) to reverse the LTD. The NMDA non-selective glutamate antagonists kynurenate, failed to modify the LTD. receptor antagonist 2-AP5, the selective metabotropic antagonist L(+)AP3 and the non-selective glutamate antagonists kynurenate, failed to modify the LTD. (1S,3R)-ACPD, a selective agonist at metabotropic receptors, did not induce LTD. The lack of involvement of glutamate receptors in muscimol induced LTD in our protocol may indicate a novel type of long-lasting synaptic depression
Non-transfected COS-7 cells have been found to possess functional melanotropin receptors on their cell surface. These receptors, and the properties of the melanocyte stimulating hormone (MSH) peptides can be characterized by measuring melanotropin stimulation of cAMP accumulation in the cells. In these cells we studied the ultra-long lasting super agonist [Nle(4)-D-Phe(7)]-alpha-MSH (NDP-alpha-MSH), and compared it with the endogenous MSH peptides with respect to potency, maximal activity, duration of action, and rate of desensitization. Surprisingly, NDP-alpha-MSH did not act as a full agonist in COS-7 cells. In multiple experiments, it could stimulate cAMP accumulation to approximately 50% of the level of alpha-MSH, beta-MSH and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). The MSH receptor mediating this activity is unknown. The time course of cAMP accumulation, and the duration of receptor activation was also investigated. In contrast to other systems NDP-alpha-MSH did not induce prolonged activity, with respect to cAMP accumulation, in COS-7 cells. The MSH receptors present in COS-7 were found to desensitize rapidly subsequent to pretreatment by any of the MSH peptides. As expected for a partial agonist, the activity of NDP-alpha-MSH desensitized more rapidly than any of the full agonists. Surprisingly, desensitization induced by pretreatment with NDP-alpha-MSH also occurred more rapidly than desensitization induced by the other MSH analogs.
The highly selective 5-HT2A receptor antagonist, MDL 100907 ((R)-(+)-4 -(l-hydroxy-1-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)methyl)-N -2-(4-fluorophenylethyl)piperidine), was labeled with 11C for Positron Emission Tomography (PET) studies. After i.v. injection of (R)-(+)-[3-OCH3-11C]MDL 100907 [11C]MDL 100907) in Cynomolgus monkeys a marked accumulation in the 5-HT2A receptor rich neocortical regions was obtained with a neocortex to cerebellum ratio of 3.5-4.5 after 60-80 minutes. In the neocortical regions a transient equilibrium occurred within 40-60 minutes. Radioactivity in the neocortex, but not in the cerebellum, was reduced after injection of ketanserin, indicating that neocortical radioactivity following injection of [11C]MDL 100907 represents specific binding to 5-HT2A receptors. There was no evident effect on neocortical binding after pretreatment with raclopride or SCH 23390. [11C]MDL 100907 has potential to become the first selective radioligand for PET-quantitation of 5-HT2A receptors in the human brain in vivo.
Rats were treated chronically with 20 mg/kg/day cocaine (by intraperitoneal injection) for 16 days, followed by 7 days of cocaine wash-out. On the next day, rats were challenged with an acute dose of cocaine administered by one of two routes (systemic or intracranial), and extra-cellular dopamine (DA) in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) was measured by in vivo microdialysis. Rats acutely challenged systemically with 20 mg/kg cocaine showed enhanced Acb extracellular DA levels (compared to control rats that had not previously received chronic cocaine). However, rats acutely challenged with intracranial cocaine by perfusion of 10(-5) M cocaine directly into the Acb did not. It is suggested that both the development and triggering of cocaine sensitization, as manifested by enhanced Acb DA content to subsequent acute cocaine challenge, may involve more than just neural mechanisms occurring locally within the Acb.

Receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) play important roles in cellular proliferation, differentiation, and survival. We performed reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reactions (RT-PCR) from enriched embryonic day 5 (E5) chick motoneurons by panning to identify RTKs involved in the early development of motoneuron. In situ hybridization revealed that Cek8, a member of the eph family, was specifically expressed on motoneurons at the brachial and lumbar segments of the spinal cord which innervate limb muscles, and disappeared after the naturally occurring cell death period (E6-E11). Immunohistochemistry using an anti-Cek8 monoclonal antibody showed the localization of Cek8 protein at the cell bodies and axonal fibers of motoneurons and muscles. The unique expression of Cek8 suggests its involvement in cellular survival or cell-cell interactions for specific subpopulations of developing motoneurons.
Clinical cases for problem-based learning should capture the relevance of patient encounters, and not serve merely as a 'take-off' point for scientific study. As a vehicle of learning, the case should drive the science and the science should drive the case. Decision points elicit intellectual commitment, and help to raise the level of inquiry. Our cases are focused, avoiding clinical complexity and reliance on pattern recognition. We emphasize formulation of evidence-based mechanistic hypotheses. The case does not stand alone, but must suit its position in the course and curriculum.
The Symbolic Atlas of the brain is a novel software tool which enables the user to store and access non-visual information associated with the brain anatomy. The atlas is potentially capable of storing any information about neuroanatomical objects. The user can construct a number of atlases, each containing a different kind of information related to functionality, pathology, symptoms and other facts. The Prolog database that underpins the storage of knowledge frames provides scope for nearly unconstrained usage and manipulation of the stored data, including reasoning with and about data and complex querying. The access to the stored information is provided in an intuitive way, through a simple 'click' on an anatomical structure either in a two- or three-dimensional atlas, or on an outline of a structure superimposed on a real image slice. A pilot educational and clinical use of the atlas indicates its great potential, especially in the are of education.


The molecular specificity of MS/MS methods for the accurate quantification of endogenous neuropeptides, such as ME and BE, exceeds that of all other methods because: 1. MS/MS qualitative analysis first establishes the amino acid sequence of the endogenous peptide; 2. MS/MS establishes and maintains the structural link between the (M + H)+ ion and its corresponding amino acid sequence-determining ion(s) during quantification; and 3. A stable isotope-incorporated synthetic peptide internal standard is used. Endogenous ME and BE have been measured in human pituitary tissue by this quantitative analytical MS method.

The timing of oligodendrogenesis depends on the specific location within the central nervous system, suggesting the local environment influences oligodendrocyte precursor proliferation. Spinal cord and optic nerve oligodendrocyte precursors both proliferate in response to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). Here we show that neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) enhanced PDGF-induced proliferation of optic nerve oligodendrocyte precursors, and these cells were labeled by an anti-trkC antibody. By contrast, NT-3 did not enhance PDGF-induced proliferation of spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors, and these cells were not labeled by an anti-trkC antibody. Furthermore, PDGF-induced oligodendrocyte precursor proliferation was greater in spinal cord than in optic nerve cultures. The difference in NT-3 response between spinal cord and optic nerve oligodendrocyte precursors appears cell intrinsic, while the enhanced PDGF-induced proliferation of spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors appears environmentally regulated. The spinal cord PDGF proliferation-enhancing activity may provide a mechanism to allow temporal and spatial regulation of gliogenesis.
Protein tyrosine phosphorylation has been suggested to play an important role in the clustering of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) at the developing neuromuscular junction. Recent studies have shown that the 43-kDa synapse-associated protein rapsyn induces clustering of the AChR in heterologous expression systems. In this study we examined whether tyrosine phosphorylation is involved in this rapsyn-induced AChR clustering. Rapsyn-induced AChR clusters in fibroblasts contain phosphotyrosine, as detected using immunofluorescent labeling with anti-phosphotyrosine antibodies. No anti-phosphotyrosine staining of rapsyn clusters is seen in the absence of AChR expression, indicating that the AChR is required for the appearance of phosphotyrosine at clusters. In addition, coexpression of rapsyn with the AChR induces the tyrosine phosphorylation of the beta amd delta subunits of the AChR. Surprisingly, mutation of the tyrosine phosphorylation sites in the AChR did not inhibit rapsyn-induced clustering of the AChR and clusters of the mutant AChRs still contained high levels of phosphotyrosine. Experiments with single AChR subunits demonstrate that the alpha subunit of the AChR appears to be necessary and sufficient for codistribution of phosphotyrosine with rapsyn-induced clusters of AChR subunits. Finally, transfection of cells with rapsyn activates cellular protein tyrosine kinase activity, resulting in the tyrosine phosphorylation of several membrane-associated proteins. These results suggest that rapsyn may therefore regulate clustering at least in part by regulating the tyrosine phosphorylation of cellular proteins.
The adult avian forebrain continues to generate neurons from subependymal zone (SZ) precursor cells, whose neuronal progeny migrate into the brain upon radial guide fibers. These neurons express the immunoglobulin-family adhesion molecule NgCAM, and their migration in culture is disrupted by anti-NgCAM Fab. Confocal imaging of adult zebra finch SZ loaded with the calcium indicator fluo-3, as well as ratio imaging with the indicator fura-2, revealed that migrating new neurons responded to microgram amounts of NgCAM with reversible increments in cytosolic calcium. The calcium response to NgCAM antigen was developmentally restricted, in that it was only manifested by neurons for roughly the 3- to 4-day period between 6 and 9 DIV, even though NgCAM expression persisted tonically thereafter. The period during which NgCAM elicited a calcium signal corresponded to the postmitotic age at which new, bipolar neurons leave the adult SZ to enter the brain parenchyma in vivo. Accordingly, the calcium response to NgCAM was largely limited to morphologically bipolar cells. Anti-NgCAM IgG also evoked a neuronal calcium signal over the same restricted period that NgCAM protein exerted its effect. These findings suggest a dynamic coupling and uncoupling of calcium-dependent signal transduction pathways to a stably expressed surface adhesion molecule, whose function in a given neuron may therefore evolve with cellular maturation.

We investigated the identity of the G protein mediating the muscarinic stimulation of adenylyl cyclase in rat olfactory bulb membranes by examining the sensitivity of this response to selective anti-G protein antisera. Preincubation of tissue membranes with the antisera AS/7 (anti-Gi1/2 alpha), EC/2 (anti-Gi3 alpha/Go alpha), and GO/1 (anti-G(o) alpha) but not with the antiserum QL (anti-Gq/11 alpha) significantly attenuated the carbachol-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity. These antisera had no effect on the enzyme activity stimulated by the beta-adrenergic agonist L-isoproterenol. On the other hand, the anti-Gs alpha antiserum RM/1 markedly depressed both carbachol- and L-isoproterenol-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities. This antiserum also reduced the basal enzyme activity to a similar extent. However, different than the anti-Gi/Go antisera, the RM/1 antiserum failed to affect the carbachol-stimulated [35S]guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) binding to membrane G proteins, whereas it curtailed the [35S]guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) binding stimulated by pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide. Exposure to either pertussis toxin or the anti-Go alpha antiserum 9072 but not to cholera toxin or the anti-Gs alpha antiserum 1191 reduced the high-affinity binding of oxotremorine M to muscarinic receptors. Moreover, the labeling of a 45-kDa protein catalyzed by cholera toxin was markedly stimulated by pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide but not by carbachol. These data indicate that in rat olfactory bulb membranes, muscarinic receptors interact with both Gi and Go and that these G proteins mediate the stimulation of adenylyl cyclase. Although this response appears to require Gs activity, no evidence was found for the direct coupling of muscarinic receptors to Gs.
R1 and R2 blink reflex responses to single and paired stimuli were investigated in 23 control subjects, 21 patients with blepharospasm (BSP), 20 patients with torticollis spasmodica (TS), and 23 with hemifacial spasm (HFS). For paired stimuli, we compared measurements of area and peak responses at two and three times R2 threshold. R1 and R2 indices were calculated as the average of the recovery values at 0.5-, 0.3-, and 0.21-s interstimulus intervals to test individual patients. Peak amplitude measurements at three times R2 threshold were optimal. The R2 index was abnormal in 67% of BSP patients, 37% of TS patients, and 50% of HFS patients on the affected side and 20% on the unaffected side. A normal R2 index in one third of patients with BSP may indicate that different pathophysiological mechanisms are involved in this type of focal dystonia.

Neurons showing activity after sweet taste stimulation, were detected with c-fos immunocytochemistry, to identify brainstem nuclei involved in processing taste information. The distribution of the evoked expression of c-fos was visualized in the rat brainstem after voluntary ingestion of sucrose. Sucrose-taste-specific c-fos immunoreactive neurons were found within the medial part of the nucleus of the solitary tract, the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus at caudal levels, the paratrigeminal nucleus and the lateral and medial part of the parabrachial nucleus. These nuclei are known to be involved in the processing of information related to ingestive behavior such as information about taste quality. The present study has shown that c-fos is a useful anatomical marker for activated neurons in the rat brainstem, and that the above-mentioned brainstem areas are involved in the processing of sweet taste information.
Classically, the contiguous epithelial cells show intercellular tight junctions (TJ) positioned as a continuous belt of cell-cell contacts at the boundary of apical and basolateral plasma membranes. Among the epithelia, the &quot;typical&quot; cerebral ependyma is very peculiar due to the absence of TJ, in contrast to the ependyma of the circumventricular organs (e.g. choroid plexus and the subcommissural organ) which shows well differentiated TJ. Since the &quot;typical&quot; ependyma is covered in the rat with a plexus of intraventricular nervous fibres not present at the surface of the circumventricular organs, we hypothesized local repression of TJ by molecules (serotonin, GABA, etc.) released by the supra-ependymal varicosities. Neither the denervation of the &quot;typical&quot; ependyma nor the ex vivo activation of protein kinase C (which increases the transepithelial resistance as it has been reported in other epithelia) produced junctional fibrils as shown by freeze-fracture. As the protein ZO-1 was not detectable in the &quot;typical&quot; ependyma by immunocytochemistry, there is probably repression of the genes responsible for TJ biosynthesis by unidentified endogenous factors.

A survey conducted among African neurosurgeons shows that there are nowadays 500 neurosurgeons in Africa, that is one neurosurgeon for 1,350,000 inhabitants, and 70,000 km2. The distribution of these neurosurgeons shows a striking regional disparity: North Africa has 354 neurosurgeons for 119 million inhabitants, that is one neurosurgeon for 338,000 inhabitants, and South Africa has 65 neurosurgeons for 40 million inhabitants, that is one neurosurgeon for 620,000 inhabitants. Between these two areas where neurosurgery is developing quite well, we have the majority of African countries with a scanty density of neurosurgeons (81 neurosurgeons for 515 million inhabitants, that is one neurosurgeon for 6,368,000 inhabitants). The Panafrican Association of Neurological Sciences &quot;PAANS&quot; brings together the African neurosurgeons. This continental African Association represents African neurosurgeons in the WFNS. In addition to this continental Association, there are national societies of neurosciences. However, there are only six Societies of Neurosurgery. Two systems of training exist in Africa: local training and training abroad. These two systems have unequal quality and specific difficulties which have already been pointed out. Among the optimistic elements which make us believe in the development of neurosurgery in Africa are the existence of a quite good level of neurosurgery at the two extremities of the continent (North Africa and South Africa), the development of neurosciences in the African universities, and the increasing interest that the international community bears to Africa in the last years. However, the real factor of optimism is the African neurosurgeons who should promote neurosurgery in their continent, at the level of their own countries by developing information and health education, setting their specialty in the education syllabus and health planning, and settling into active and performing societies. At the continental and international level, African neurosurgeons should institutionalize inter-African cooperation, expedite their continental association (PAANS), and further exchanges with the other continents through the SNCLF (Socit de Neurochirurgie de Langue Francaise). The latter, together with other associations such as the EANS (European Association of Neurosurgical Societies) and WFNS (World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies) could provide help to the development of Neurosurgery in Africa as far as training, exchanges, research and organization are concerned.
In this study, we determined the relationship between Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) and pregnancy. By taking advantage of several nationwide registers and the availability of personal identification numbers, we calculated person-years for Swedish females aged 15-49 years in the following categories: (1) neither pregnant nor postpartum; (2) pregnant; (3) in the first month postpartum, or (4) in the first 3 months postpartum during 1973-1983. For these women, we determined the corresponding exposure status of hospital-registered GBS cases. Medical records were examined for GBS cases hospitalized during the 2-week period postpartum and 1-month period after the last menstruation. Poisson regression analysis yielded age-adjusted relative risks (RRs) of 0.86 (95% CI 0.40-1.84) for pregnant women, and 1.47 (0.54-3.99) and 2.21 (0.55-8.94) for females during the 3-month and the 30-day period after delivery. The risk for GBS seems to be lower during pregnancy and increases after delivery.
At least seven different sets of criteria are commonly used for the diagnosis of vascular dementia (VaD). These are the ischemic scales (IS) of Hachinski, Rosen and Loeb, the criteria from the DSM-III-R, those outlined by Erkinjuntti et al., the State of California Alzheimer's Disease Diagnostic and Treatment Centers (ADDTC) and the international workgroup of the American National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) and the European &quot;Association Internationale pour la Recherche et l'Enseignement en Neurosciences'. To investigate the differences and similarities of these criteria, we applied them to a sample of 124 demented patients from the Maastricht Memory Clinic. Only 8 patients were diagnosed as having VaD by all criteria. Depending on which criteria were used, the frequencies of VaD and Alzheimer's disease (AD) ranged from 6 to 32%, and from 48 to 56%, respectively. The IS of Hachinski and Rosen resulted in the highest frequencies of VaD, whereas the criteria of Erkinjuntti and those from the ADDTC and the NINDS workgroup yielded the lowest. The number of patients with VaD was reduced substantially when neuroradiological data and the temporal relationship between stroke and dementia were taken into consideration. We conclude that the seven sets of criteria cannot be regarded as interchangeable. Differences in the criteria for VaD and AD may be an overlooked source of interstudy variance
The spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders varying in both clinical manifestations and mode of inheritance. Six different genes causing autosomal dominant SCA are mapped: SCA1, SCA2, Machado-Joseph disease (MJD)/SCA3, SCA4, SCA5, and dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA). Expansions of an unstable trinucleotide CAG repeat cause three of these disorders: SCA type 1 (SCA1), MJD, and DRPLA. We determine the frequency of the SCA1, DRPLA, and MJD mutations in a large group of unrelated SCA patients with various patterns of inheritance and different ethnic backgrounds. We studied 92 unrelated SCA patients. The frequency of the SCA1 mutation was 3% in the overall patient group and 10% in the non-Portuguese dominantly inherited SCA subgroup. We found that DRPLA mutation in only one Japanese patient, who was previously diagnosed with this disease. We identified the MJD mutation in 41% of the overall patient group, which included 38 autosomal dominant kindreds of Portuguese origin; the frequency of the MJD mutation among the non-Portuguese dominantly inherited cases was 17%. These results suggest that SCA may be occasionally caused by the SCA1 mutation and rarely caused by the DRPLA mutation and that, to date, the MJD mutation seems to be the most common cause of dominantly inherited SCA. Finally, our results suggest that recessively inherited cases of SCA are not caused by the known trinucleotide repeat expansions.

Stretch-sensitive ion channels are ubiquitous, yet evidence of their role in mechanotransduction remains scarce. The presence of stretch-inactivated cation channels in supraoptic neurons is consistent with the osmoreceptor potentials regulating vasopressin release. However, whether osmosensitivity depends on mechanical gating and ion flux through stretch-inactivated channels is unknown. Here we report that changes in channel open probability associated either with modification of pipette pressure or with external osmolality selectivity result from variations in closed time. While channel mechanosensitivity and osmotically evoked changes in cell volume are not affected by gadolinium, similar concentrations of the lanthanide inhibit cation permeation through the single channels and macroscopic osmoreceptor potentials. Mechanotransduction through stretch-inactivated channels is therefore necessary for osmoreception in supraoptic neurons.

These studies have compared the pharmacological profile of two non-peptide human type neurokinin1 (hNK1) receptor selective antagonists, L-741,671 and a quaternised compound L-743,310. In radioligand binding studies L-741,671 and L-743,310 had high affinity for ferret and cloned hNK1 receptors [Ki (nM) ferret 0.7 and 0.1; human 0.03 and 0.06, respectively] but low affinity for rodent NK1 receptors [Ki (nM) 64 and 17, respectively] suggesting that ferret receptors have hNK1-like binding pharmacology. Studies in vivo showed that L-741,671 and L-743,310 had equivalent functional activity in the periphery (ID50s of 1.6 and 2 micrograms/kg i.v., respectively) as measured by inhibition of plasma protein extravasation evoked in the oesophagus of guinea pigs by resiniferatoxin (7 nmol/kg i.v.). Using an in situ brain perfusion technique in anaesthetised rats, L-741,671 was shown to be much more brain penetrant than the quaternary compound L-743,310 which had an entry rate similar to the poorly brain penetrant plasma marker inulin. These compounds thus provided an opportunity to compare the anti-emetic effects of equi-active hNK1 receptor antagonists with and without brain penetration to central NK1 receptor sites. When tested against cisplatin-induced emesis in ferrets, L-741,671 (0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg i.v.) produced marked dose-dependent inhibition of retching and vomiting but L-743,310 was inactive at 3 and 10 micrograms/kg i.v. In contrast, direct central injection of L-741,671 and L-743,310 (30 micrograms) into the vicinity of the nucleus tractus solitarius or L-743,310 (200 micrograms) intracisternally was shown to inhibit retching and vomiting induced by i.v. cisplatin. L-741,671 and L-743,310 had equivalent functional activity, at the same dose, against cisplatin-induced emesis when injected centrally. These observations indicated that had L-743,310 penetrated into the brain after systemic administration it would have been active in the cisplatin-induced emesis assay and so show that brain penetration is essential for the anti-emetic action of systemically administered NK1 receptor antagonists.
The present study examines the effect of prior morphine exposure on ibogaine antagonism of morphine-induced dopamine release. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were pretreated once a day for 2 days with morphine (20 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline and given a low dose of ibogaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline 5 hr after the last morphine or saline injection. Nineteen hours later, rats (awake and freely moving) were challenged with morphine (5 mg/kg, i.p.), and dopamine and its metabolites were monitored in the striatum and nucleus accumbens using in vivo microdialysis. Neither saline pretreatment, morphine pretreatment, nor ibogaine alone altered morphine-induced increases in extracellular dopamine and dopamine metabolites in either structure. However, when morphine pretreatment was combined with ibogaine, the morphine-induced elevation of dopamine, but not of metabolites, was completely blocked. These data suggest that prior morphine exposure enhances an opioid antagonist action of ibogaine on dopaminergic systems and that prior drug exposure may be a clinically significant determinant of ibogaine efficacy and/or potency in the treatment of opioid addiction.
YM992, (S)-2-[[(7-fluoro-4-indanyl)oxy]methyl]morpholine monohydrochloride, exhibited the biochemical profile of a selective serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) with 5-HT2A receptor antagonistic activity. YM922 showed the same high affinity as fluoxetine against the 5-HT reuptake site (Ki = 21 nM) and a similar affinity to that of crazodone against the 5-HT2A receptor (Ki = 86 nM). In other receptor binding studies, an affinity for the adrenergic alpha 1 receptor (Ki = 200 nM) and 5-HT2C receptor (Ki = 680 nM) was observed. In a monoamine uptake study, YM992 showed a selective 5-HT uptake inhibition (IC50 = 0.15 microM), but only very weakly inhibited both noradrenaline (NA) and dopamine (DA) uptake (IC50 = 3.1 microM (NA), &gt; 10 microM (DA)). YM992 was also found to potently inhibit the aggregation of human platelets (IC50 = 1.9 microM), revealing antagonistic activity for the 5-HT2A receptor in vitro. Enhanced serotonergic neurotransmission, in particular that mediated by the 5-HT1A receptor, has recently been reported to be important in the long-term treatment of depressive disorders with antidepressants. In addition, some 5-HT1A receptor-mediated responses are known to be potentiated by co-administration of 5-HT2A receptor antagonists. Thus, YM992, having both selective 5-HT reuptake inhibition and 5-HT2A antagonistic activity, might show potent therapeutic activity as a novel antidepressant in comparison with conventional SSRIs.
Dark Agouti rats injected with either p-chloroamphetamine (PCA; 2.5 mg/kg i.p.) or fenfluramine (15 mg/kg i.p.) had substantial decreases (approximately 50%) in the concentration of 5-HT and 5-HIAA and binding of [3H]paroxetine in the cerebral cortex 7 days later. This indicates that both compounds had produced neurodegeneration of 5-HT axon terminals. Two doses of alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN; 150 mg/kg i.p.) 130 min apart had no effect on cortical 5-HT content or [3H]paroxetine binding. However, when PBN (150 mg/ kg) was given 10 min before and 120 min after PCA (2.5 mg/kg) it attenuated the PCA-induced neurodegeneration. In contrast, PBN was without significant effect on the fenfluramine-induced damage. Changes in rectal temperature following either the neurotoxins or neurotoxins+ PBN were no more than +/-1 degree C of saline-injected control rats. These data indicate that PCA, like MDMA, probably induces neurotoxic degeneration because of the formation of catechol or quinone metabolites and subsequent reactive tree radical formation. Such a mechanism does not appear to explain fenfluramine-induced damage to 5-HT neurones.
The pharmacological effects of two novel N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor glycine site antagonists, L-701,324 and L-695,902 were examined on whole-cell voltage-clamped cells and compared to a prototypic antagonist, 7-chlorokynurenic acid. Both L-701,324 and L-695,902 non-competitively antagonised NMDA responses elicited in rat cultured cortical neurones, this was shown to be due to a competitive interaction at the glycine co-agonist site on the receptor complex (Kb values: 19 nM and 2.6 microM, respectively). Inhibition curves for the antagonism of responses to combined applications of NMDA and glycine showed that both antagonists were devoid of any intrinsic activity i.e. &quot;full&quot; antagonists and were, therefore, capable of completely abolishing inward currents. Despite this fact, both of these novel antagonists apparently modulated glutamate affinity for its recognition site-a property hitherto associated only with glycine site partial agonists. Human recombinant NMDA receptors comprising NR1a/NR2A and NR1a/NR2B subunits expressed in mouse fibroblast cells were also used to determine whether L-701,324 and L-695,902 were capable of discriminating between subtypes of NMDA receptor. Inhibition curves to each antagonist showed no difference in affinity for either of these subunit assemblies (mK1 values L-701,324 = 0.005 microM on both assemblies; L-695,902 = 4.37 and 3.7 microM on NR1a/NR2A and NR1a/NR2B, respectively). Kinetic analysis of the off-rates of antagonism with L-701,324 revealed that the high affinity of this compound compared to 7-chlorokynurenic acid were attributable to an exceptionally slow dissociation of the antagonist from the receptor.
Heterologous expression of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) RNAs in Xenopus oocytes was used to examine the structural basis for pharmacological and physiological differences between muscle-type and neuronal nAChRs. Neuronal nAChRs have a higher permeability to calcium than muscle-type nAChRs and display inward rectification. while muscle-type nAChRs have a linear current-voltage relation. In addition, neuronal nAChRs are more sensitive to inhibition by a class of compounds known as &quot;ganglionic blockers&quot;. It has been shown previously that neuronal-muscle hybrid receptors show increased sensitivity to the use-dependent inhibitor of neuronal nAChRs, BTMPS, based on the presence of a neuronal beta subunit. In this study, we report that omission of gamma subunit RNA has a similar effect. alpha beta delta receptors exhibit prolonged inhibition by BTMPS; show a significant permeability to divalent ions, display inward rectification and are more sensitive to mecamylamine. However, while pharmacological effects are associated with the presence of an additional delta subunit, the physiological changes described seem to be associated with the presence or absence of a gamma subunit. These results suggest that, for nAChRs, as is also the case for non-NMDA ionotropic glutamate receptors, the crucial functional property of limiting calcium permeability can be served by a single subunit.
Both native and recombinant &quot;diazepam-insensitive&quot; GABAA receptors (DI) are characterized by the very low affinities of prototypic 1,4-benzodiazepines such as diazepam and the high affinity of an imidazobenzodiazepine, Ro 15-4513. The presence of either an alpha 4 or alpha 6 subunit imparts this unusual pharmacological profile to DI. Based on the affinities of these compounds at recombinant DI, the pharmacological properties of alpha 4- and alpha 6-bearing receptor isoforms appear to be very similar if not identical. Using a larger sample of structurally diverse compounds, we now demonstrate distinct but related ligand binding profiles of recombinant alpha 4 beta 2 gamma 2 and alpha 6 beta 2 gamma 2 DI. Comparison of 18 ligands drawn from three principal structural groups (beta-carbolines, imidazobenzodiazepines and pyrazoloquinolinones) revealed that the affinity of at least one representative from each group differed by &gt; 5-fold between alpha 4- and alpha 6 beta 2 gamma 2 receptors. While the high correlation (r2 = 0.926; p &lt; 0.001) obtained between the affinities of these ligands at alpha 4- and alpha 6-containing receptors underscores the similarity between these receptor isoforms, a significant deviation of the slope of this correlation (0.792; 95% C.I. 0.673-0.911) from unity is substantive evidence that these DI possess distinct pharmacological profiles. These findings indicate that it is feasible to develop selective ligands for these DI isoforms.
Loreclezole is an anticonvulsant and anxiolytic compound which has been reported to potentiate GABA via a novel allosteric site on the beta-subunit of the receptor. We have now studied in rats both the in vivo and in vitro pharmacology of the compound. The dose of loreclezole required to increase by 50% the dose of intravenous pentylenetetrazol eliciting a seizure was comparable to that of barbiturates and chlormethiazole (in mg/kg): diazepam, 1.3; pentobarbitone, 16; chlormethiazole, 22; loreclezole, 25; pentobarbitone, 36. Loreclezole dose-dependently decreased locomotion (dose to decrease locomotion by 50% (in mg/kg): chlormethiazole, 9; pentobarbitone, 16; loreclezole, 25). Loreclezole, chlormethiazole and pentobarbitone all failed to displace [3H]muscimol and [3H]flunitrazepam binding from a rat cortical membrane preparation. All three compounds fully displaced [35S]TBPS binding (IC50 values: loreclezole, 4.34 +/- 0.68 microM; pentobarbitone, 37.39 +/- 3.24 microM; chlormethiazole, 82.10 +/- 8.52 microM). Addition of bicuculline (10 microM) produced a major rightward shift in the loreclezole and pentobarbitone displacement curves, increasing IC50 values for [35S]TBPS binding by 25 times (loreclezole), 6 times (pentobarbitone) and 2.7 times (chlormethiazole), suggesting a greater involvement of GABA in the interaction of loreclezole with the chloride channel than in the case of chlormethiazole. Anticonvulsant activity of the compounds did not appear to relate to [35S]TBPS binding activity. Other binding data suggested that although the evidence of others indicates that loreclezole interacts with a specific allosteric site on the beta-subunit, it nevertheless also alters the binding characteristics of other modulatory sites.

We examined the chronic effects of desipramine and mianserin on increases of intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) induced by noradrenaline (NA), acetylcholine (ACh), or high K+ in cultured neurons of rat frontal cortex, using fluoromicroscopic analysis with Ca(2+)-sensitive dye fura-2. NA- and ACh-induced [Ca2+]i increases were abolished in the presence of 1 microM prazosin and 1 microM atropine, respectively, and partially inhibited in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. When cultures were treated with 1 microM desipramine for 5 days, the dose-dependent curves of NA- and ACh-induced (0.01-100 microM) [Ca2+]i increases were similar to those of the control cultures. Neither NA- nor ACh-induced [Ca2+]i increases were affected by desipramine exposure, even at a concentration of 10 microM. Treatment with mianserin (0.1, 1, or 10 microM) for 5 days had no effect on either NA- or ACh-induced [Ca2+]i increases. Additionally, [Ca2+]i increases induced by high K+ (12.5-50 mM) were not affected following chronic 10 microM desipramine exposure for 5 days. Thus, chronic antidepressant exposure does not modify the [Ca2+]i increased mediated by alpha 1-adrenoceptors, muscarinic cholinergic receptors, or voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels. Changes in Ca2+ mobilization may not be one of the mechanisms of antidepressants.
In this study, the effects of chronic ethanol treatment on inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) and inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4) specific binding in rat brain was investigated. In the cerebellum, chronic, but not acute, ethanol treatment caused a decrease in the number IP3 receptors. The effect of chronic ethanol treatment on IP3 and IP3 receptor mRNA levels was also studied in order to determine the mechanisms responsible for the decrease in IP3 receptor binding. Chronic ethanol treatment did not change IP3 levels, indicating that the decrease of IP3 receptors is not caused by the alteration of IP3 levels. Also IP3 receptor mRNA levels had no change after chronic ethanol treatment. These findings suggest that the decrease in IP3 receptors in the cerebellum could be caused by either a decrease in the translation of IP3 receptor mRNA or an increase in proteolysis of IP3 receptors. In contrast, chronic ethanol treatment had no effect on the Bmax or Kd of IP4 specific binding in the cerebellum. It is speculated that a change at the level of the IP3 receptor in the cerebellum may be associated with the development of adaptation and tolerance to chronic ethanol exposure.
The effects of antidepressants and calcium (Ca2+) antagonists on serotonin (5-HT)-induced Ca2+ increase were investigated in single C6BU-1 glioma cells with digital imaging microscopy. Application of 5-HT (100 nM-100 microM) caused a rapid and reversible rise of intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in a concentration-dependent manner. In the absence of extracellular Ca2+, the sustained phase of the [Ca2+]i response was strongly reduced, which was greater than the suppression of the initial peak. This suggests that the peak value is mainly due to internal Ca2+ storage sites, and the sustained phase is mainly composed of Ca2+ influx. The sustained phase was significantly attenuated by 100 nM clomipramine and verapamil. The present findings demonstrate that clomipramine and verapamil, in their therapeutic concentrations, have a common action of inhibiting Ca2+ influx, and suggest that the calcium antagonistic effect may play an important role in clinical effects of antidepressants.
Electrocorticograms of rats were recorded after administration of increasing doses of the major metabolite of nortriptyline (NT), E-10-hydroxynortriptyline (E-10-OH-NT). The results were compared with those of NT administration. In visual as well as computerized evaluations, E-10-OH-NT demonstrated clear antidepressant properties, thus confirming previous experiments in depressed patients. There is some evidence that E-10-OH-NT also has an anxiolytic profile. The results with the parent drug NT were not so pronounced. Since E-10-OH-NT has been shown to be devoid of side effects when previously administered to humans, this substance is clearly to be considered of interest for potential development into a new antidepressant. Whether or not the anxiolytic profile is of clinical interest needs to be investigated further.
The effects of drugs for affective disorders on the sustained phase of serotonin (5-HT)-induced calcium (Ca2+) response were investigated in single C6BU-1 glioma cells with digital imaging microscopy. The sustained phase was significantly attenuated by 32 microM carbamazepine and 320 microM sodium valproate as well as 100 nM clomipramine and verapamil, whose effects we evaluated in our previous report. The present findings demonstrate that drugs for affective disorders, in their therapeutic concentrations, have common action of inhibiting Ca2+ influx, and suggest that the Ca2+ antagonistic effect may play an important role in the mechanism of the action sites of the drugs for affective disorders.
The effects of the addition of short-term lithium to long-term administration of antidepressants (clomipramine or citalopram) on the levels of 5-HT and 5-HIAA and serotonergic receptors were studied in the rat cortex. The addition of short-term Li to long-term antidepressant treatment potentiated an increase in 5-HIAA, although Li alone had no effect. On the serotonergic receptors, the addition of short-term Li had no effect. It is speculated that the therapeutic action of Li when added to antidepressants in the treatment of refractory depression may partly have its basis in the further activation of the presynaptic serotonergic system.
Researchers have suggested that the right hemisphere is superior at processing emotional facial expressions because it contains stored perceptual 'templates' of facial expressions. We tested each hemisphere of a split-brain patient on two tasks involving emotional facial expressions. Both hemispheres performed equally well and significantly above chance matching facial expressions with emotion words. The subject's right hemisphere consistently performed well judging whether two facial expressions were the same or different. His left hemisphere performed poorly on this discrimination task at first, but showed a sharp improvement when the instructions were changed slightly, emphasizing verbal labels for the facial expressions. Results suggest that 'facial expression templates' may not be stored only on the right.
In the past few years, there has been a burgeoning of interest in reassessing the appropriateness and applicability of historically well entrenched nomenclature germane to persons in low level neurological states following brain injury. Surprisingly, the effort to develop a cross-disciplinary uniform set of clinical definitions for low level states has only been a very recent endeavor within the neuroscience community. The intent of this review is to provide clinicians with a better understanding of some of the history and ongoing issues pertinent to appropriate diagnostic labeling and the ultimate rationale of a uniform terminology for this special population of neurologic patients.




Three diffusion parameters of brain tissue, extracellular space volume fraction (alpha), tortuosity (lambda) and non-specific uptake (kappa') of tetramethylammonium were studied in the somatosensory neocortex and subcortical white matter of the rat during postnatal development (postnatal days 2-21) after X-irradiation at postnatal days 0-1. The diffusion parameters were determined from extracellular concentration-time profiles of tetramethylammonium. The tetramethylammonium concentration was measured in vivo with ion-selective microelectrodes positioned 130-200 microns from an iontophoretic source. X-irradiation with a single dose of 40 Gy resulted in typical early morphological changes in the tissue, namely cell death, DNA fragmentation, extensive neuronal loss, blood-brain barrier damage, activated macrophages, astrogliosis, increase in extracellular fibronectin and concomitant changes in all three diffusion parameters. The changes were observed as early as 48 h post-irradiation (at postnatal days 2-3) and still persisted at postnatal day 21. On the other hand, X-irradiation with a single dose of 20 Gy resulted in relatively light neuronal damage and loss, while blood-brain barrier damage, astrogliosis and changes in diffusion parameters were not significantly different from those found with 40 Gy. It is known that the volume fraction of the extracellular space in the non-irradiated cortex is large in newborn rats and diminishes with age [Lehmenkhler A. et al. (1993) Neuroscience 55, 339-351]. X-irradiation with a single dose of 40 or 20 Gy blocked the normal pattern of volume fraction decrease during postnatal development, and in fact brought about a significant increase. At postnatal days 4-5, alpha increased to 0.49 +/- 0.036 in layer III, 0.51 +/- 0.042 in layer IV, 0.48 +/- 0.02 in layer V, 0.48 +/- 0.028 in layer VI and 0.48 +/- 0.025 in the white matter. The large increase in alpha persisted three weeks after X-irradiation. Tortuosity and non-specific uptake decreased significantly at postnatal days 2-5; at days 8-9 they were not significantly different from those of control animals, while they increased significantly at days 10-21. Less pronounced but significant changes in all three diffusion parameters were also found in areas in the ipsilateral hemisphere adjacent to directly X-irradiated cortex. Compared to the control animals [Lehmenkhler A. et al. (1993) Neuroscience 55, 339-351], a significant decrease of alpha, lambda and kappa' was found in the contralateral hemisphere 48-72 h after X-irradiation. Later, alpha values were not significantly different from those in control animals. The decrease in lambda persisted at postnatal days 4-5. A significant increase in lambda and kappa' was found at postnatal days 18-21. We conclude that X-irradiation of the brain in the early postnatal period, even when it results in only relatively light damage, still produces changes in all three diffusion parameters, particularly a large increase in extracellular space volume fraction in all cortical layers, and in the subcortical white matter. Such changes in extracellular volume fraction of the brain can contribute to impairment of signal transmission, e.g. by diluting ions and neuroactive substances released from cells, and can play an important role in functional deficits, as well as in the impairment of developmental processes. Moreover, the increase in tortuosity (inferred from the decrease in apparent diffusion coefficient) in the X-irradiated cortex, as well as in the contralateral hemisphere, suggests that, even when extracellular volume is large, the diffusion of the substances is substantially hindered.
A complementary DNA clone encoding molluscan insulin-related peptide VII was identified from a complementary DNA library of the cerebral ganglia of the CNS of the freshwater snail, Lymnaea stagnalis. The novel molluscan insulin-related peptide VII complementary DNA encodes a preprohormone resembling the organization of preproinsulin, with a putative signal sequence, and an A and B chain, and is connected by an unusual long C peptide. The A and B chains, as well as the C peptide of molluscan insulin-related peptide VII, differ remarkably in primary structure with the previously identified molluscan insulin-related peptides. The C peptide of molluscan insulin-related peptide VII shares no significant sequence identity with counterparts in other molluscan insulin-related peptides. Both molluscan insulin-related peptide VII and the other molluscan insulin-related peptides exhibit structural features which make them a unique class of the insulin superfamily. Molluscan insulin-related peptide VII complementary DNA was shown to hybridize in situ with messenger RNA present in the cerebral light green cells, neuroendocrine cells that control growth and that have previously been shown to produce molluscan insulin-related peptides I-III and V. Uniquely, the molluscan insulin-related peptide VII gene is also expressed in neurons that may form part of the feeding circuitry in Lymnaea, indicating that it may function as a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator.
The aim of the present study was to characterize the second messenger activated protein kinase and phosphatase systems in chick ciliary ganglion using biochemical and immunochemical techniques. Using synthetic peptide substrates cyclic-AMP-, cyclic-GMP-, Ca2+/calmodulin- and Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase activities were detected in homogenates of ciliary ganglion dissected from 15-16-day-old embryos. Autophosphorylation of the alpha and beta subunits of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II in the presence of Ca2+/calmodulin or 5 mM ZnSO4 was detected by sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and autoradiography. Protein kinase C was shown to be present using a monoclonal antibody. Two cyclic-AMP binding proteins whose molecular weights corresponded to the regulatory subunits of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (RI and RII) were detected in ciliary ganglia using 8-azido-cyclic-AMP. The most heavily labelled band following incubation with [gamma-32P]ATP under most conditions had an apparent molecular weight of 65,000 which corresponds to the chicken form of myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate, a known substrate of protein kinase C. Another substrate for protein kinase C was a 45,000 molecular weight protein which was tentatively identified as neuromodulin (B-50/GAP-43). Although no endogenous substrate proteins for cyclic-GMP-dependent protein kinase were detected, protein kinase A strongly labelled a 40,000 molecular weight protein. Using 32P(i)-labelled glycogen phosphorylase, protein phosphatases 1 and 2A were identified in ciliary ganglia homogenates at levels which were indistinguishable from forebrain at the same age. The major endogenous protein substrates in ciliary ganglion homogenates from 15-16-day-old embryos were also labelled to a similar extent in homogenates of ciliary ganglia from newly hatched chickens. Intact ciliary ganglia remained viable for several hours after dissection and, after incubation with 32P(i), responded to phorbol ester stimulation by an increased endogenous phosphorylation of several proteins, but especially myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate. These results represent the first systematic characterization of the protein phosphorylation systems in chicken ciliary ganglion and provide a basis for future studies on the biochemical mechanisms responsible for regulating synaptic transmission in this tissue.
In order to gain insights into the steps (binding, uptake, intracellular effect) which differ in the inhibitory actions of tetanus toxin and botulinum neurotoxins types A or B, their temperature dependencies were investigated at identified cholinergic and non-cholinergic synapses in Aplysia. Upon lowering the temperature from 22 degrees C to 10 degrees C, extracellularly applied botulinum neurotoxin type A and B appeared unable to inhibit transmitter release whilst tetanus toxin exhibited a residual activity. Binding of each toxin to the neuronal membrane appeared virtually unaltered following this temperature change. By contrast, the intracellular effects of botulinum neurotoxin type B and tetanus toxin were strongly attenuated by temperature reduction whereas the inhibitory action of botulinum neurotoxin type A was only moderately reduced. Importantly, this discrepancy relates to the known proteolytic cleavage of different synaptic proteins by these two toxin groups. Since both the binding and intracellular activity of botulinum neurotoxin type A are minimally affected at 10 degrees C, its inability to inhibit neurotransmission at this low temperature when applied extracellularly indicated attenuation of its uptake. Due to the strict temperature dependence of the intracellular action of tetanus toxin and botulinum neurotoxin type B, but not A, an examination of the effects of changes in temperature on the internalization step was facilitated by the use of heterologous mixtures of the toxins' heavy and light chains. At 10 degrees C, heavy chain from tetanus toxin but not from botulinum neurotoxin type B mediated uptake of botulinum neurotoxin type A light chain. Collectively, these results provide evidence that, at least in Aplysia, the uptake mechanism for botulinum neurotoxin types A and B differs from that of tetanus toxin.
Hyperalgesia (tenderness) is a prominent feature of the inflammatory response. It is thought to be mediated, in part, by humoral factors such as prostaglandin E2, which act directly to sensitize primary afferent nociceptors. Prostaglandin E2 also interacts with nociceptors to induce a release of substance P, which can feed back to enhance the inflammatory response and also induce a long-lasting hyperalgesia. This study examined the mechanism of prostaglandin E2-induced substance P release from cultured adult rat dorsal root ganglion cells. Release studies were performed by bathing cultures with Tyrode solution +/- test agents and substance P was measured by radioimmunoassay. Substance P release induced by 100 nM prostaglandin E2 was inhibited by the prostaglandin antagonist, SC19220, and modulated by the guanine nucleotide analogs, guanosine-5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate and guanosine-5'-[beta-thio]diphosphate, which stimulate and inhibit, respectively, stimulatory G-proteins. Substance P release was found to be Ca(2+)-dependent, requiring an influx of Ca2+ via N-type voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels, since it was blocked by omega-conotoxin, but not nifedipine. The results suggest that prostaglandin E2 acts via a G-protein-coupled binding site on dissociated dorsal root ganglion cells to induce a Ca(2+)-dependent release of substance P, and provide further insight into the possible mechanisms underlying hyperalgesia associated with inflammation.
While serotonin has been shown to play an important role in peripheral pain mechanisms, the specific subtypes of receptors involved and their differential distribution between the sensory and sympathetic nervous system remains poorly understood. In this study, the presence of messenger RNA for rat serotonin receptor subtypes in peripheral sensory and sympathetic ganglia was detected using the method of polymerase chain reaction. Lumbar dorsal root ganglia, superior cervical sympathetic ganglia and lumbar sympathetic ganglia were excised from anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. Oligonucleotide primers were chosen based on unique regions of complementary DNA sequence for each of the 12 cloned rat serotonin receptor subtypes (i.e. 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D, 5-HT1F, 5-HT2A, 5-HT2B, 5-HT2C, 5-HT3, 5-HT5A, 5-HT5B, 5-HT6 and 5-HT7) and high stringency conditions were used during polymerase chain reaction. Within lumbar dorsal root ganglia, the presence of the 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D, 5-HT2A, 5-HT2C, 5-HT3 and 5-HT7 receptor subtype messenger RNAs was detected. Within superior cervical ganglia, the presence of messenger RNA for 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT1D, 5-HT2A, 5-HT3, 5-HT6, and 5-HT7 receptor subtypes was detected. Lumbar sympathetic ganglia displayed banding identical to the superior cervical ganglia with the exception of the 5-HT6 receptor which was not detected in the lumbar sympathetic ganglia. The polymerase chain reaction product from each positively-detected receptor subtype was subcloned and sequenced and found to correspond to published complementary DNA sequences. Findings from this study may direct further efforts to determine the role of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors in the peripheral nervous system.
Sexual dimorphism in catecholamine and indoleamine content in the brain preoptic area and mediobasal hypothalamus was studied in 10-day-old rat pups whose mothers had been exposed to the daily 1-h immobilization stress during the last week of pregnancy. Concentration of noradrenaline in the preoptic area and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the mediobasal hypothalamus of the prenatally stressed male offspring as well as dopamine content in the mediobasal hypothalamus and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid content in the preoptic area of the females were increased by 59%, 45%, 34%, 76%, respectively. Dopamine content in the preoptic area of the female pups was decreased. In addition, an increase of 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolism in the female preoptic area has been revealed. As a result of prenatal stress, sex-related differences in noradrenaline and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentrations in the preoptic area and those in dopamine concentration in the mediobasal hypothalamus disappeared. The suggestion is made that the early changes in sexual dimorphism of the brain catecholamines and 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolism in prenatally stressed rats may be responsible for the development of the long-term disorders of sexual differentiation of the neuroendocrine functions.
The expression of the immediate early gene c-fos has been studied in the entire brain of rats 3, 6 and 24 h after surgical unilateral labyrinthectomy. We combined in situ hybridization for c-fos messenger RNA with immunocytochemistry for Fos protein to document very early changes in c-fos expression and to identify with cellular resolution neuronal populations activated by unilateral labyrinthectomy. Three hours after unilateral labyrinthectomy a bilateral increase in both c-fos messenger RNA and protein levels was seen in the superior, medial and spinal vestibular nuclei, nucleus Y, and prepositus hypoglossal nucleus. These changes were asymmetric in the medial vestibular nucleus, being most prominent in the dorsal part of the contralateral nucleus (where second order vestibular neurons are located) and in the ventral part of the ipsilateral nucleus (where commissural neurons acting on the medial vestibular nucleus of the intact side are located). An increase in c-fos messenger RNA expression was seen bilaterally, but with an ipsilateral predominance, in the vermal and paravermal areas of the cerebellar cortex, flocculus and paraflocculus, as well as in the precerebellar lateral and paramedian reticular nuclei. c-fos messenger RNA and protein levels increased in a few regions of the contralateral inferior olive. A predominantly ipsilateral increase in c-fos expression also occurred in the caudate-putamen. A bilateral but not exactly symmetric increase in both c-fos messenger RNA and protein levels was present in several nuclei of the dorsal pontine tegmentum (parabrachial nucleus, locus coeruleus and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus), mesencephalic periaqueductal gray, and several hypothalamic, thalamic and cerebrocortical regions. No change was seen in the cerebellar nuclei, lateral vestibular nucleus and red nucleus. The increased expression of c-fos observed 3 h after unilateral labyrinthectomy, in conjunction with the sudden occurrence of postural and motor deficits, usually declined 6-24 h after the lesion, i.e. during the development of vestibular compensation. In the dorsal part of the medial vestibular nucleus, however, the pattern of c-fos expression observed 3 h after unilateral labyrinthectomy was reversed 6-24 h after the lesion: both c-fos messenger RNA and protein levels increased on the ipsilateral side, but greatly decreased on the contralateral side. In conclusion, asymmetric changes in c-fos expression occurred within 3 h after unilateral labyrinthectomy, but gradually declined or reversed 6 and 24 h after the lesion, thus being temporally related to the appearance and development of vestibular compensation.
There have been numerous experimental studies on human perception and misperception of self-motion and orientation relative to the earth, each focusing on one or a few types of motion. We present a formal framework encompassing many types of motion and including all angular and linear components of velocity and acceleration. Using a mathematically rigorous presentation, the framework defines the space of all possible motions, the map from motion to sensor status, the space containing each possible status of the sensors, and the map from sensor status to perceived motion. The shape of the full perceptual map from actual motion to perceived motion is investigated with the framework, using formal theory and a number of published experimental results. Two principles of simple motion perception and four principles of complex motion perception are presented. The framework also distinguishes the roles of physics and the nervous system in the process of self-motion perception for both simple and complex motions. The present rigorous development of the self-motion perception framework allows the scientist to compare and contrast results from many studies with differing types of motion. The six principles formalized here comprise a foundation with which to explain and predict perceptual phenomena, both those observed in the past and those to be encountered in the future. The framework is especially aimed to expand our capacity to investigate complex motions such as those encountered in everyday life or in unusual motion environments.
Two completely different motions of a subject relative to the earth can induce exactly the same stimuli to the vestibular, somatosensory and visual systems. When this happens, the subject may experience disorientation and misperception of self-motion. We have identified large classes of motions that are perceptually equivalent, i.e. indistinguishable by the subject, under three sets of conditions: no vision, with vision and earth-fixed visual surround, and with vision during possible movement of the visual surround. For each of these sets of conditions, we have developed a classification of all sustained motions according to their perceptual equivalences. The result is a complete list of the possible misperceptions of sustained motion due to equivalence of the forces and other direct stimuli to the sensors under the given conditions. This research expands the range of possible experiments by including all components of linear and angular velocity and acceleration. Many of the predictions in this paper can be tested experimentally. In addition, the equivalence classes developed here predict perceptual phenomena in unusual motion environments that are difficult or impossible to investigate in the laboratory.
The present study is an attempt to examine the neuronal circuitry of a supraspinal site engaged in pain modulation. Five physiological measures were postulated as the criteria for defining a central nervous system site engaged in the circuitry of pain modulation. The lateral hypothalamus met these five measures: (i) 81% of the lateral hypothalamus neurons (247/304) responded to noxious stimuli using a single cell recording procedure; (ii) stimulation of the periaqueductal gray-dorsal raphe area or the habenula modulated 98% and 87% of the lateral hypothalamus noxious-evoked activity; (iii) microiontophoretically applied morphine modulated 77% of the lateral hypothalamus noxious evoked activity; (iv) electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus produced behavioral analgesia proportional to the stimulus intensity as assessed by the tail flick assay; and (v) morphine application into the lateral hypothalamus produced behavioral analgesia in a dose-response manner using the tail flick assay. In conclusion, the lateral hypothalamus can be considered one of the pain modulation sites.
We have studied the response properties of cells in the lateral part of the lateral posterior nucleus or striate-recipient zone (LPl) of the lateral posterior nucleus-pulvinar complex to the motion of textured patterns [visual noise]. Our purpose was to determine basic noise response characteristics and to compare these properties to that of cells in area 17 known to project to the LPl. Practically all LPl cells (87%) responded to the motion of visual noise. The evoked discharges were either sustained or characterized by several bursts. On average, as found in cortex, LPl neurons were more broadly tuned for the direction of noise than that of gratings (bandwidths of 49 and 36 degrees, respectively; t-test, P &lt; 0.005). Noise tuning function in LPl was comparable to that found in cortex (mean of 48 degrees). One third of the LPl units did not exhibit any preferences for drift direction of noise. Such cells were virtually not encountered in the striate cortex. This group of LPl cells was generally not tuned for grating direction. For practically all LPl cells, responses to noise varied as a function of drift velocity. The mean optimal velocity was 27.5 degrees/s with mean bandwidth of 2.5 octaves. LPl cells were sensitive to a broader range of velocities than complex cells in area 17. The results of the present study showed that visual noise is an appropriate stimulus for studying motion sensitivity of cells in the LPl. It also revealed that the noise response properties, such as direction and velocity tuning functions, are very similar to those reported in the striate cortex. The exact contribution of area 17 in the visual noise responsiveness of LPl cells remains to be determined. This study provides additional evidence that the lateral posterior nucleus-pulvinar complex may be involved in many aspects of visual processing.
The distribution of ecto-5'-nucleotidase, a glycosyl phosphatidylinositol anchored membrane protein capable of hydrolysing extracellular nucleoside monophosphates, was investigated by immunocytochemistry in cultures of rat cerebellar cells obtained at postnatal days 6 and 8. The enzyme was expressed at the surface of granule cells including their neurites as well as on other neurons in the culture. The distribution of 5'-nucleotidase matched that of the synaptic vesicle protein 2. Oligodendroglial cells were identified by their immunoreactivity for 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase. Their entire surface was labelled for 5'-nucleotidase. In contrast, only a subset of astrocytes immunopositive for the glial fibrillary acidic protein revealed surface-located immunoreactivity for 5'-nucleotidase. Antibody-binding of the labelled-astrocytes was enhanced at restricted surface domains. Endothelial cells that avidly bind Lycopersicon esculentum lectin were the most intensely anti-5'-nucleotidase-labelled cell type of the culture. Double labelling revealed an exact match of surface-located antibody binding sites for 5'-nucleotidase and laminin. Immunoreactivity for 5'-nucleotidase was essentially absent from fibroblasts that could be identified by their immunoreactivity for fibronectin. All cell types that carried surface-bound 5'-nucleotidase also revealed a cytoplasmic pool of the enzyme. Our results provide the first immunocytochemical demonstration of the surface-location of 5'-nucleotidase in neurons. They suggest that the broad distribution of the enzyme at the surface of neurons and other cells types from neonatal brain reflects its functional importance in the differentiation of the nervous system.
GABAB receptors affect short-term signalling in various cell types. However, nothing is known about possible long-term effects on transcription. To analyse such effects in the CNS, we studied GABAB receptor-mediated gene regulation in primary cultures of cerebellar granule neurons. Transcription was followed using a chloramphenicol acetyl transferase reporter gene driven by the minimal cyclic AMP-responsive element (TGACGTCA). Transcription was stimulated by activation of both the cyclic AMP (forskolin: 5 x 10(-6) M) and the Ca2+ dependent (KCl: 30 mM) pathways (-)-Baclofen (10(-6) M to 10(-4) M), a specific GABAB receptor agonist, reduced by 50-70% the transcriptional stimulation evoked by both forskolin and KCl, whereas isoguvacine, a GABAA receptor agonist, was without effect. Moreover, the GABAB antagonist CGP 35348 abrogated the inhibitory effects of both GABA and baclofen, indicating that GABAB receptors were specifically implicated in this response. Measurements of cyclic AMP levels suggested that (-) baclofen inhibits forskolin-initiated transcription by reducing cyclic AMP production. Direct transcriptional activation, via the cyclic AMP pathway, by overexpression of the catalytic subunit of the cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, was not significantly altered by (-) baclofen. This indicates again that (-) baclofen-dependent inhibitory mechanisms operate upstream of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase at the level of second messenger formation. Further, we used a yeast transcriptional activator GAL4-cyclic AMP-responsive element binding protein to analyse whether GABAB receptor-mediated inhibition of cyclic AMP-responsive element transcription implicated the transacting factor cyclic AMP-responsive element binding protein. We show that the negative effects of (-) baclofen implicate this transcription factor and this holds good for both the forskolin and KCl-stimulated pathways. The results indicate that GABAB receptors negatively regulate cyclic AMP-responsive element binding protein-mediated transcription in the CNS.
Tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine, a centrally acting anticholinesterase, has been reported to improve clinical conditions of certain patients with Alzheimer's disease. A previous study from our laboratory suggested that tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine presynaptically inhibited synaptic transmission. In the present study, the mechanism responsible for presynaptic inhibition mediated by tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine was studied in the rat amygdalar slice preparation using intracellular recording techniques. Bath application of tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine reversibly suppressed the excitatory postsynaptic potential. Tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine's inhibitory action was unaffected by the pretreatment of slices with baclofen (5 microM), suggesting that it did not act by eliciting the release of GABA, which binds presynaptic GABAB receptors to inhibit glutamate release. The synaptic depressant effect of tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine was blocked in the presence of 4-aminopyridine. The action of 4-aminopyridine could be reversed by reducing extracellular Ca2+ concentrations from a control level of 2.5 to 0.5 mM, suggesting that tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine inhibits excitatory postsynaptic potentials by acting directly at the terminals to decrease a Ca2+ influx. The L-type Ca2+ channel blocker nifedipine (50 microM) had no effect on tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine-induced presynaptic inhibition. However, the depressant effect of tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine was partially occluded in slices pretreated with the N-type Ca2+ channel blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA (1 microM). It is concluded that a reduction in omega-conotoxin GVIA-sensitive Ca2+ currents contributes to tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine-mediated presynaptic inhibition. After exposure to bicuculline, a GABAA receptor antagonist, afferent stimulation evoked epileptiform bursts. Occasionally, spontaneous bursts similar in waveform to synaptically triggered bursts also occurred in disinhibited slices. Application of tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine reversibly reduced the burst duration in a concentration-dependent manner. These results suggest that tetrahydro-9-aminoacridine possesses anticonvulsant activity against disinhibited bursts.
On- and off-cells of the rostral ventromedial medulla are thought to be involved in bulbospinal inhibition of ascending nociceptive information. Experiments were carried out in lightly anaesthetized rats to assess the effects of prefrontal cortex stimulation on the responses of neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla. For comparison purposes, effects of periaqueductal gray stimulation were also investigated. Single unit activity was recorded in the rostral ventromedial medulla and on-, off- and neutral-cells were identified based on the tail nocifensor reflex to noxious heat. Short (0.1-1 s) and long (10-15 s) trains of bipolar electrical stimulation (100-300 Hz) were delivered to the ventrolateral orbital cortex of the rat forebrain and the periaqueductal gray. Short-train stimulation of the periaqueductal gray (including dorsolateral, ventrolateral and the dorsal raph regions) excited 58% (25 of 43) of on-cells and 44% (seven of 16) of off-cells in the rostral ventromedial medulla. Long trains blocked the noxious stimulus-evoked pause of all seven off-cells tested and blocked the excitatory response of two, and enhanced one of three on-cells. Such stimulation also inhibited or abolished the tail-flick reflex at currents below 100 microA. Glutamate microinjections into the periaqueductal gray inhibited the noxious-evoked response of two off- and two on-cells and increased the tail-flick latency. Short-train stimulation of the ventrolateral orbital cortex (100-400 microA) excited eight of 25 on-cells and inhibited the ongoing activity of 10 of 14 off-cells. Long-train ventrolateral orbital cortex stimulation (5-15 s, 100-200 microA, 200-300 Hz) enhanced the noxious evoked responses of 10 of 11 on-cells, prolonged the noxious heat-evoked pause of all of four off-cells and decreased the tail-flick latency (pronociception). The results of this study support the proposed role of on- and off-cells in descending inhibition of nociception from the periaqueductal gray and implicate the ventrolateral orbital cortex in the control of this pathway.
The assessment of immediate-early gene induction has proven to be a useful method for delineating the neural systems that subserve antipsychotic drug actions. In order to differentiate the sites and mechanisms of action of typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs, we examined the effects of antipsychotic drugs on Fos protein expression in the medial prefrontal cortex. The atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine selectively increased the number of neurons that expressed Fos-like immunoreactivity in the prefrontal cortex, targeting the deep layers of the infralimbic and prelimbic cortices. Pyramidal cells were the major cell type in which Fos was expressed. A small number of calbindin-like immunoreactive, but not parvalbumin- or reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase-containing, interneurons also expressed Fos after clozapine challenge. Immunoblot studies revealed that clozapine induced Fos protein in the infralimbic and prelimbic cortices. Other antipsychotic drugs that are D2 receptor antagonists, including haloperidol, raclopride, sulpiride, remoxipride and loxapine, did not alter Fos expression. The clozapine-induced increase in Fos expression was also not attributable to actions at the D1 dopamine receptor, nor to serotonin type 2a/2c receptor antagonism or combined serotonin type 2-D2 dopamine receptor antagonism. The ability of clozapine to block alpha 1-adrenergic or muscarinic cholinergic receptors did not contribute to the unique actions of clozapine. Despite the inability of dopamine receptor antagonists other than clozapine to elicit an increase in Fos expression, both the mixed D1-D2 dopamine agonist apomorphine and the D2-like agonist quinpirole increased Fos protein levels in the prefrontal cortex. However, neither pretreatment with sulpiride to block D2/3/4 dopamine receptors or SCH 23390 to block D1/5 dopamine receptors modified the Fos response to clozapine. Since dopamine receptor antagonist pretreatments did not attenuate the clozapine-elicited Fos expression, but D2 agonists increased cortical Fos expression, clozapine may act in the prefrontal cortex on an as yet undefined dopamine receptor. In contrast to the nucleus accumbens shell, where all antipsychotic drugs increase Fos expression, only clozapine induced Fos in the medial prefrontal cortex. These observations suggest that the ability of clozapine to treat schizophrenic patients who are resistant to the therapeutic benefits of conventional antipsychotic drugs may occur through actions in the prefrontal cortex.
The effects of the arylalkyamine arthropod toxins argiotoxin 636 and philanthotoxin 343 were studied on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor currents in cultured rat hippocampal neurons using whole-cell recording techniques. Argiotoxin 636 and philanthotoxin 343 blocked 10 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate (+10 microM glycine) currents in a concentration-dependent fashion (steady-state IC50 values, 0.9 and 56 microM, respectively). The onset and recovery from argiotoxin 636 block occurred slowly (forward and reverse rate constants, 7.5 x 10(3) s-1 M-1 and 6.9 x 10(-3) s-1, respectively) whereas the philanthotoxin 343 block was more rapid (forward and reverse rate constants, 1.1 x 10(5) s-1 M-1 and 0.1 s-1). A portion, but not all, of the block by the two toxins could be reversed by depolarization to positive holding potentials, indicating that there are voltage-dependent and non-voltage-dependent components of the block. The long-lasting argiotoxin 636 block at -60 mV occurred in a use-dependent fashion and could be substantially reduced by co-application with 10 mM Mg2+, providing evidence that the toxin has a channel blocking action. In contrast to the use dependence of the voltage-dependent argiotoxin 636 block, the non-voltage-dependent component of block (at +60 mV) did not require agonist gating of the channel. The non-voltage-dependent block by argiotoxin 636 was unaffected by increasing the glycine concentration, but was reversed by increasing the N-methyl-D-aspartate concentration, suggesting that the toxin may act as a competitive antagonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate recognition site. This mechanism was further supported by the near identity of the time constant for argiotoxin 636 block with the time constant for agonist dissociation, irrespective of whether the rapidly dissociating agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate or the more slowly dissociating agonist glutamate was used. With high concentrations of N-methyl-D-aspartate (&gt; or = 100 microM), argiotoxin 636 produced a potentiation of the peak N-methyl-D-aspartate response (at +60 mV) that was accompanied by a slowing in the rate of current desensitization and an increase in the affinity for glycine. We conclude that the arylalkylamine toxins antagonize N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor currents by two distinct mechanisms: use-dependent and voltage-dependent open channel block and competitive antagonism at the N-methyl-D-aspartate recognition site. In addition, argiotoxin 636 exerts a polyamine-like facilitation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor currents. This facilitation occurs via both the glycine-dependent and glycine-independent mechanisms, whereby spermine is known to potentiate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor responses.
The action of diadenosine polyphosphates on Ca2+ channels was studied in two preparations: isolated hippocampal neurons and synaptosomes, both from the rat brain. High-voltage-activated Ca2+ channels were recorded in freshly isolated CA3 neurons using a whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Current-voltage relationships were measured in the control and after incubation in 5 microM diadenosine pentaphosphate. In the majority of tested pyramidal neurons, the latter procedure led to a reversible increase in the high-voltage-activated current through Ca2+ channels when measured at the holding potential of -100 mV but not at -40 mV. In experiments on synaptosomes from the whole brain, diadenosine pentaphosphate taken at a concentration of 100 microM increased the intrasynaptosomal calcium level measured by means of spectrofluorimetry for 26 +/- 1.8 nM (by 24 +/- 2%). Nifedipine failed to block this effect both in synaptosomes and hippocampal neurons. Potentiation of the current through Ca2+ channels in hippocampal neurons as well as the increase in intrasynaptosomal Ca2+ were irreversibly blocked by 5 microM omega-conotoxin, but not by 200 nM omega-Agatoxin-IVA. These data indicate that diadenosine polyphosphates enhance the activity of N-type Ca2+ channels in many central neurons of the rat brain.
The ability to generate burst discharges is a widespread phenomenon in central neurons and often has been attributed to Ca2+ currents. The diversity of burst patterns seems to be at variance with a single mechanism. Selected neocortical bursting neurons were examined by intracellular recordings. Selective blockers and pulse protocols were applied to characterize the crucial components of bursting activity. In the presence of tetrodotoxin and Ca2+ channel antagonists a transient depolarization persists, which shares the activation and deinactivation properties with the burst. The sensitivity to Na+ removal and resistance to tetrodotoxin suggests a tetrodotoxin-insensitive Na+ current as the crucial component in neocortical bursting neurons. A tetrodotoxin-insensitive Na+ current has been isolated in neocortical bursting neurons. The biophysical properties of this current allow for burst firing at frequencies up to about 12 Hz. This tetrodotoxin-insensitive Na+ may generate the alpha-rhythm of the electroencephalogram by effectively synchronizing arrays of follower cells. The implications of the intrinsic currents of bursting neurons for the initiation of epileptic discharges are discussed.
Nerve growth factor regulates the developmental programmed cell death of certain neurons in the peripheral nervous system. The functions of nerve growth factor in the central nervous system are less well characterized. Nerve growth factor withdrawal results in the protein synthesis-dependent death of a large percentage of developing septal cholinergic neurons in sandwich tissue culture. In this study double labelling techniques were used to demonstrate that septal cholinergic neurons subjected to nerve growth factor withdrawal exhibit condensed chromatin and fragmented nuclei, and are labelled intensely for fragmented DNA. These degenerative changes are characteristic of apoptotic cell death. Half of the cholinergic neurons were committed to die and could no longer be rescued by nerve growth factor reapplication following approximately 16.5 h of nerve growth factor deprivation, whereas half of the cholinergic neurons could no longer be rescued by cycloheximide addition after only 9 h of nerve growth factor deprivation, suggesting that nerve growth factor and cycloheximide effect rescue by distinct mechanisms. Addition of a cyclic AMP analogue or depolarization with high K+, but not the general nuclease inhibitor aurintricarboxylic acid, prevented the death of cultured septal cholinergic neurons subjected to nerve growth factor withdrawal. Furthermore, these agents are capable of rescuing cholinergic neurons subjected to a period of nerve growth factor withdrawal after which addition of cycloheximide is no longer protective. Thus, nerve growth factor, cyclic AMP and high K+ can effect rescue after inhibition of translation ceases to be protective. These findings suggest that under defined conditions in vitro, withdrawal of nerve growth factor from septal cholinergic neurons during a critical period of development results in the apoptotic death of these CNS neurons, which can be prevented at the post-translational level by nerve growth factor, cyclic AMP and high K+.
The immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin induces an efficient and specific lesion of low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor-bearing cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain. Intraventricular injection of 192 IgG-saporin, which caused a complete loss of cholinergic afferents to the hippocampus and neocortex and a partial denervation of amygdala and piriform cortex, was found to markedly facilitate the initial stages of seizure development in hippocampal kindling. In contrast, the progression of kindling process from focal to generalized seizures was not affected. In situ hybridization demonstrated that basal levels of brain-derived neutrotrophic factor messenger RNA in the hippocampal formation and piriform cortex were significantly decreased by the lesion, which also attenuated the seizure-induced increase of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA expression in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. In the dentate gyrus, the 192 IgG-saporin lesion selectively reduced the upregulation of messenger RNAs for brain-derived neurotrophic factor exons I and III after a generalized seizure, whereas the increase of exon II messenger RNA was unchanged. The lesion abolished the seizure-evoked increase of nerve growth factor and TrkC messenger RNA levels and decrease of neutrophin-3 messenger RNA expression in dentate granule cells, while TrkB messenger RNA levels were not affected. We conclude that the basal forebrain cholinergic system (1) suppresses kindling epileptogenesis in the hippocampus, and (2) enhances both basal and seizure-evoked brain-derived neurotrophic factor synthesis in the hippocampal formation and some cortical areas through a specific pattern of activation of promoters within the brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene.
In order to clarify the roles of hippocampal metabotropic glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in working and reference memory performance of rats, the effects of intrahippocampal administration of selective antagonists for both receptors on these behaviours were examined with a three-panel runway task. In the working memory task, the potent and competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP), significantly increased the number of errors (attempts to pass through two incorrect panels of the three panel-gates at four choice points), when injected bilaterally at 10 and 32 ng/side into the dorsal hippocampus. Intrahippocampal injection of CPP at a dose of 3.2 ng/side had no effect on the number of working memory errors. The metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, (+)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (+)-(MCPG), injected into the hippocampus at doses up to 3.2 micrograms/side, did not significantly affect the number of working memory errors. Combined administration of (+)-MCPG (3.2 micrograms/side) and CPP (3.2 ng/side) into the hippocampus, neither of which had an individual effect on errors, significantly increased the number of working memory errors. However, intrahippocampal administration of the relatively inactive isomer, (-)-MCPG, at 3.2 micrograms/side did not affect working memory errors, whether given independently or concurrently with the behaviourally ineffective dose of CPP (3.2 ng/side). In the reference memory task, intrahippocampal injection of CPP at doses up to 32 ng/side had no effect on the number of errors. Intrahippocampal (+)-MCPG at doses up to 3.2 micrograms/side did not affect the number of reference memory errors, whether administered alone or together with 3.2 ng/side of CPP. These results indicate that blockade of hippocampal metabotropic glutamate receptors aggravates impairment of working memory resulting from deficiency of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated glutamatergic neurotransmission, suggesting that mechanisms regulated by co-activation of hippocampal metabotropic glutamate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are involved in working memory performance of rats.
The aim of this study was to determine whether forebrain neurons projecting to the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus in rats express glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA as a marker for GABAergic neurons. Forebrain glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA-containing neurons that project to the mediodorsal nucleus were identified using a combination of retrograde tracing with Fluoro-Gold and in situ hybridization for the messenger RNA encoding the 67,000 molecular weight synthetic enzyme for GABA. Glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA-containing afferents to the mediodorsal nucleus were observed in the olfactory tubercle, vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca, ventral pallidum, sublenticular substantia innominata, globus pallidus, lateral preoptic area, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and reticular nucleus of the thalamus. The largest proportions of glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA-containing afferents to the mediodorsal nucleus were observed in the vertical limb of the diagonal band, ventral pallidal parts of the olfactory tubercle and the reticular nucleus of the thalamus. Somewhat fewer glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA-containing, retrogradely labeled neurons were observed in the subcommissural ventral pallidum and sublenticular substantia innominata. These data suggest that a GABAergic projection from the basal forebrain to the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus can influence the function of this nucleus.
The effects of sensory deprivation on excitatory and inhibitory activity in the primary somatosensory cortex were studied in the adult rat. Excitatory and inhibitory transmission generated by whisker stimulation, and neuronal responsiveness to iontophoretically applied excitatory amino acids were recorded. Whisker input deprivation, through whisker trimming for a median of 24 days, resulted in a significant decrease in excitatory transmission to surround whisker stimulation. In contrast, the response magnitude to principal whisker stimulation remained unchanged. However, the response latencies to principal whisker and surround whisker stimulation were significantly reduced, which led to altered temporal response distributions in deprived cells. Neurons deprived of sensory input were significantly less responsive to glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4- isoxazolepropionate and kainate. Following deprivation, no change was observed in cortical inhibitory transmission measured 30-200 ms post-stimulus. These results show that excitatory transmission (including excitatory amino acid receptor function) is altered by adult whisker deprivation.
Quantitative receptor autoradiography was used to investigate the distribution of binding of [3H]SCH 23390 to dopamine (D1) and [3H]spiroperone to D2 receptors in regions of the forebrain of the one-day-old domestic chick (Gallus domesticus). High levels of specific binding of the D1 and D2 ligands were found in the striatal regions (paleostriatum augmentatum and lobus parolfactorius) of the one-day-old chick, as reported previously in the pigeon, turtle and rat, whilst binding levels were considerably lower in the pallidum (paleostriatum primitivum), hippocampus and hyperstriatum ventrale. The proportions of D1 and D2 receptor binding in the chick were relatively similar in the striatum and pallidum, apart from the paleostriatum augmentatum, where D2 receptors outnumber those of D1 by a factor of two. Binding of the D1 and D2 ligands to forebrain regions was also investigated 30 min after one-trial passive avoidance training of one-day-old chicks in which the aversive stimulus was a bead coated with a bitter tasting substance, methyl anthranilate. These experiments demonstrated a large and highly significant bilateral increase (compared to control birds) in binding to D1 (but not D2) receptors in the lobus parolfactorius. In this striatal region, equivalent to the caudate-putamen of mammals, previous studies have shown that synaptic and dendritic alterations occur following avoidance training. It is concluded that alterations in dopamine binding may be involved in processes that result in modification of the pecking response in chicks after avoidance training.
Myocyte-specific enhancer binding factor 2 (MEF2C) is a transcription factor expressed at high levels in brain. In this study, the distribution of MEF2C expression in brain was studied in normal adult gerbils and in adult gerbils subjected to 10 min of global cerebral ischemia. In normal animals, MEF2C-immunoreactivity and messenger RNA expression were detected in cortex, hippocampus, caudate-putamen, thalamus, hypothalamus, and amygdala. Within the hippocampus, MEF2C-immunoreactivity and MEF2C messenger RNA were found in interneurons scattered through the CA fields, a subset of which are parvalbumin-immunoreactive. MEF2C-immunoreactivity and MEF2C messenger RNA were also present in granule cells in the dentate gyrus. MEF2C-immunoreactivity was also detected in microglia in the hippocampus. After transient forebrain ischemia, CA1 pyramidal neurons, which are MEF2C-negative, degenerate whereas MEF2C-positive interneurons survive. Our results thus indicate that MEF2C is a marker for hippocampal neurons that are resistant to ischemia. It remains to be determined whether MEF2C plays a direct role in protecting the neurons that express it from ischemic injury. In addition, MEF2C-immunoreactivity is present in microglia, and, after ischemia, there were increased numbers of MEF2C-immunoreactive microglia in CA1, so MEF2C-immunoreactivity is a marker of both resting and activated microglia.
Astrogliosis and microglial activation are associated with many neurodegenerative disorders including multiple sclerosis, its animal model experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, and Alzheimer's disease. To address the hypothesis that chronic astroglial or microglial activation could be contributing factors to neuronal death or injury, the immunostimulant lipopolysaccharide was infused into the hippocampus for 16 days using Alzet mini-osmotic pumps attached to a cannula. Placement of the cannula and infusion of vehicle for 16 days caused a hippocampal lesion with a volume of 0.5 +/- 0.1 mm3. Infusion of lipopolysaccharide at the dose of 2.0 micrograms/day produced a lesion of 4.9 +/- 1.3 mm3 (P &lt; 0.01, Newman-Keuls), whereas, a lower dose of 0.2 microgram/day caused a lesion of 1.3 +/- 0.3 mm3 (P &lt; 0.05). The lesion was defined as a focal necrotic reaction with fibrin deposits outlining an area at an early stage of encapsulation. No apparent neuronal loss was observed by Cresyl Violet staining outside the encapsulated necrotic area. There was a pronounced astrogliosis and an increase in activated macrophages throughout the lipopolysaccharide-infused hippocampus as determined by glial fibrillary acidic protein and ED-1 immunohistochemistry, respectively. Choline acetyltransferase and glutamic acid decarboxylase enzyme activities, used as functional measures of neuronal viability for cholinergic and GABAergic neurons, respectively, were unaffected in the hippocampus following a 16 day infusion of lipopolysaccharide at the doses of 0.2, 0.6 and 2.0 micrograms/day. In addition, unilateral infusion of lipopolysaccharide into the hippocampus did not affect 24 h locomotion when tested on day 13, body temperature or weight gain. Under the experimental conditions employed in the present study, chronic infusion of lipopolysaccharide into the hippocampus resulted in a dose-dependent focal necrotic lesion at the site of infusion. In tissue surrounding the encapsulated lesion, neurons were present among the reactive astrocytes and increased number of macrophages suggesting that astrocytes and macrophages can be activated without causing neuronal loss.
Changes in peptide YY receptor binding were investigated at various intervals after limbic seizures induced in rats by an intraperitoneal injection of kainic acid (10-12 mg/kg). Six to 24 h after kainic acid, specific peptide YY binding, representing Y1 and Y2 neuropeptide Y receptor subtypes, was markedly enhanced in the strata radiatum and oriens CA3 (increase by up to 185% and 178% of control values, respectively). Seven and 30 days after kainic acid, a reduction by up to 63% was found. The basal and kainic acid-induced changes in peptide YY binding were mainly represented by Y2 receptor sites. In the hilus of the dentate gyrus, an increase of global peptide YY binding by up to 400% was observed after 24 h which became attenuated to 125% after 30 days. In the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus global peptide YY binding increased by up to 87% between six and 24 h after kainic acid injection and was reduced by 37% after 30 days. Similar changes were observed in the cerebral cortex. Whereas in the hilus of the dentate gyrus peptide YY binding consisted mainly of Y2 sites, it represented predominantly Y1 receptors in the molecular layer and the cortex. The decline in global and Y2 specific peptide YY binding observed at 30 days in the hippocampus proper was prevented in animals protected from seizure-induced brain damage by an anticonvulsant dose of phenobarbital 3 h after injection of kainic acid. In the stratum moleculare of the dentate gyrus, Y2 specific binding was significantly enhanced while global peptide YY binding was slightly decreased compared to controls. These results show lasting changes in neuropeptide Y receptor binding sites after the acute seizures induced by kainic acid. Since neuropeptide Y modulates glutamatergic neurotransmission, these modifications may play an important role in the hippocampal excitability of chronically epileptic rats.
The sequence of neuronal alterations resulting from epileptic activity is poorly understood. In the hippocampus of some epileptic patients, there is a loss of certain neuronal types in the hilar region and in CA3. The neuronal alterations preceding this degeneration probably affect synaptic structures. Here we have estimated the number of dendritic spines, major postsynaptic elements of hippocampal neurons, in defined dendritic segments of identified (intracellularly stained) CA3 pyramidal neurons in &quot;epileptic&quot; slice cultures of hippocampus and in control cultures. Slice cultures were prepared from five- or six-day-old rat pups and maintained in vivo for 23 days before epileptic activity was induced by application of the convulsants bicuculline and picrotoxin for three days. Individual CA3 pyramidal neurons were then intracellularly injected with horseradish peroxidase, and the number of dendritic spines was counted in proximodistal dendritic segments by applying the Sholl method. In addition, the total dendritic length was measured and the branching index evaluated. The number of spines on CA3 pyramidal cell dendrites in the &quot;epileptic&quot; cultures was found to be decreased by 40%. This spine loss affected proximal and peripheral dendritic segments of the CA3 pyramidal neurons to a similar extent. No significant differences were observed between control and &quot;epileptic&quot; cultures in dendritic length or in the branching index. Quantitative electron microscopic analysis did not reveal differences between &quot;epileptic&quot; cultures and control cultures in the spine area of the labelled CA3 pyramidal cells, indicating that there was a real spine loss, not just a reduction in the size of the spines. We conclude that epileptic activity causes morphological alterations in defined postsynaptic compartments of hippocampal pyramidal cells surviving under these conditions.
We have raised antibodies against D-stereoisomers of the amino acids glutamate and glutamine. These stereoisomers are not naturally occurring in mammals but can be taken up into cells by transporters that normally handle the endogenous L-amino acids. Exposure of isolated rabbit retinae to 50 microM D-glutamate resulted in a strong accumulation of D-glutamate, and hence immunoreactivity for D-glutamate in radial glial cells (Mller cells). By contrast the glutamatergic ganglion cells exhibited no immunoreactivity for D-glutamate. D-Glutamate can be converted into D-glutamine by the glial enzyme glutamine synthetase. Immunolabelling for D-glutamine revealed the presence of D-glutamine in somata of subsets of neurons including the glutamatergic ganglion cells. Labelling was also present in the inner plexiform layer, possibly indicating labelling of neuronal processes. These data indicate that after D-glutamate has been taken up into glial cells it is converted into D-glutamine. This D-glutamine is then exported from the glial cells and taken up by a subset of neurons, including the glutamatergic ganglion cells.
NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry, that allows the visualization of cells producing the gaseous intercellular messenger nitric oxide, was used in the study of the forebrain during the first three postnatal weeks in the rat. Subpopulations of NADPH-diaphorase positive neurons were observed at all ages studied. In addition, non-neuronal NADPH-diaphorase-stained cells were detected in the subcortical white matter, and were very numerous in the supraventricular portion of the corpus callosum, and in the internal and external capsules. These cells were present during the first two postnatal weeks, and were especially prominent at the end of the first postnatal week. They were round-shaped and morphologically similar to the brain macrophages, whose phagocytic activity has been shown in previous studies to play a role in naturally occurring cell death and elimination of exhuberant axons. Series of sections adjacent to those stained with NADPH-diaphorase were processed with immunohistochemistry, using two different antibodies (OX-42 and ED-1) that detect macrophagic and microglial markers, and antibodies that recognize the neuronal form of nitric oxide synthase. Furthermore, brain sections from rats at postnatal day 7 were sequentially processed for either OX-42 or nitric oxide synthase immunohistochemistry followed by NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry. The morphological features and distribution of the non-neuronal NADPH-diaphorase-positive cells were superimposable to those obtained with OX-42 and ED-1 immunohistochemistry. In addition, these cells did not display nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity. Double-labelled NADPH-diaphorase-positive and OX-42-immunoreactive cells were detected at postnatal day 7. The present results show that brain macrophages express NADPH-diaphorase activity during the early stages of the normal postnatal maturation and suggest that nitric oxide produced by brain macrophages could be involved in the development reshaping of the central nervous system.
The optic tectum of Xenopus offers a readily manipulated system for testing the hypothesis that polysialylation of the neural cell adhesion molecule is associated with axonal plasticity. Axons relaying input to the tectum from the ipsilateral eye employ visual input to establish a topographic map in register with the contralateral map, despite naturally-occurring or surgically-induced repositioning of the eyes. This capacity for activity-dependent refinement or re-organization of the ipsilateral map is normally confined to a period between about one and four months postmetamorphosis but can be restored in adults by local application of N-methyl-D aspartate to the tectum. In addition, dark-rearing prolongs plasticity indefinitely. We have used immunohistochemical staining with antibodies to polysialic acid to determine whether conditions of high plasticity are correlated with high levels of polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule in the tectum. We find that the staining level is high in tecta from one to three month postmetamorphic frogs but is low both before and after this period. Thus, in normal Xenopus frogs, anti-polysialic acid staining is heavier in the period of high plasticity than in the preceding or following postmetamorphic periods. As a further test of this relationship, we examined brains of adults with experimentally-induced plasticity. Tecta of N-methyl-D-aspartate-treated adults and of dark-reared adults showed higher levels of staining than did the tecta of normally-reared adults. These results also support the hypothesis that the presence of high levels of polysialic acid on neural cell adhesion molecules is causally related to activity-related changes in axonal growth patterns.
The localization of GABA and parvalbumin was studied in the developing cerebellum of human fetuses from 16 to 28 weeks of gestation. The avidin-biotin complex immunohistochemical method combined with silver staining were used to reveal the presence of GABA- and parvalbumin-positive neurons and nerve fibres. As early as the 16th week of gestation, GABA immunopositivity was observed in the cerebellar cortex and the deep nuclei. GABA-positive neurons included Purkinje cells, stellate and basket cells of the cerebellar cortex and neurons in the deep nuclei. The gradient of immunoreactivity increased with the maturing cells, being weak at 16 weeks and becoming markedly pronounced at 28 weeks of gestation. GABA-immunopositive mossy fibres were observed in the granular cell layer at 16 weeks, and by 28 weeks, a robust fibre network was present in the cortex and deep nuclei. Immunohistochemical localization for parvalbumin indicates that weak immunoreactivity was observed in Purkinje cells, stellate and basket cells at 16 weeks of gestation, increasing in intensity with advancing age, notably in the Purkinje cells which had acquired an elaborate arbor of neurites at 28 weeks of gestation. In the deep nuclei, parvalbumin-positive cells and nerve fibres were observed throughout the 16 to 28 week period. These results indicate that GABA- and parvalbumin-positive neurons and fibres appeared as early as 16 weeks of gestation, expressing a high degree of immunoreactivity by the 28 week of fetal age.
Using the fluorescent carbocyanine tracer DiI, we examined in detail the early development of the projections emanating from the rat olfactory bulb. The study commenced at embryonic day 13 when the first fibres can be detected and ended at embryonic day 20, when all major fibre systems have been established. The first axons arising from the prospective olfactory bulb area are seen at embryonic day 13. Labelled fibres are provided with elaborate axonal growth cones advancing through the ventrolateral part of the telencephalic vesicle. At embryonic day 14, while the main fibre tract has not developed much further, some isolated fibres are located quite distally from the prospective olfactory bulb. These early fibres apparently course within a narrow cell-free space that extends caudally along the ventrolateral part of the telencephalic vesicle. At embryonic day 15, a number of labelled fibres form a compact bundle, corresponding to the lateral olfactory tract, that ultimately reaches the prospective primary olfactory cortex. The fibres do not stop growing, but continue to extend caudally at embryonic day 17. The results of this study provide new information on the development of axonal tracts in the olfactory system. We show that the olfactory tract projection develops earlier than the morphological appearance of the olfactory bulbs. This suggests that the early development of olfactory projections might not depend on the arrival of the olfactory epithelium axons and thus, could be governed by factors intrinsic to the neurons and/or cues present in the target environment.
Dorsal horn spinocerebellar tract cells were identified according to electrophysiological criteria in adult cats and labelled intracellularly with horseradish peroxidase. Sections containing labelled neurons were processed to reveal serotonin immunoreactivity and examined with light and electron microscopy. Numerous contacts were observed on cell bodies, and on proximal and intermediate parts of dendrites. Electron microscopic examination of contacts revealed that synaptic junctions were usually present at the region of apposition. It is concluded that serotonin has a postsynaptic action on dorsal horn spinocerebellar tract cells and that this action is mediated through conventional synapses.
The structures in the mammary gland involved in milk ejection have been investigated with regard to their relation to different types of peptidergic nerve fibres and their origin. Lactating rats were studied with immunohistochemistry focusing on the nipple, the parenchyma, the mammary blood vessels and the mammary nerve. The human mammary gland was also analysed. In the mammary gland from rat and human, nerve endings in the subepidermis, around smooth muscle cells in the nipple, in the connective tissue surrounding lactiferous ducts and alveoli in the nipple and in the parenchyma of the mammary gland showed immunoreactivity for calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, peptide histidine isoleucine, neuropeptide Y, galanin and tyrosine hydroxylase, whereas dynorphin-positive nerve fibres could not be detected. The mammary nerve contained calcitonin gene-related peptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, neuropeptide Y and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivities; the adventitia of the mammary artery contained nerve fibres immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y and tyrosine hydroxylase, while vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, peptide histidine isoleucine-, calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-positive fibres were found in the tissue surrounding the artery. The wall of the mammary vein had nerve terminals immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y, tyrosine hydroxylase, calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P. With the help of retrograde tracing using wheat germ agglutinin in combination with immunohistochemistry, projections of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive cells in the dorsal root ganglia to the nipple were established. Neurons in the sympathetic stellate ganglion containing neuropeptide Y and tyrosine hydroxylase also projected to the mammary gland. Moreover retrogradely-labelled cells were found in the nodose ganglion, and they were vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive. These results demonstrate a rich distribution of different types of nerve fibres in structures of the mammary gland related to milk ejection. These nerve fibres and their peptides may be involved in the local control of milk ejection.
Spinal cord injury results in abnormal sympathetic control of the cardiovascular system, perhaps because of reactions of sympathetic preganglionic neurons to loss of their supraspinal afferent inputs. We investigated morphological changes in sympathetic preganglionic neurons in rats one week after midthoracic spinal cord hemisection or complete transection and one month after complete transection. Morphological changes in adrenal sympathetic preganglionic neurons retrogradely-labelled by cholera toxin were examined as well as changes in other thoracic preganglionic neurons identified by their expression of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase. Reactive astrogliosis around these neurons was determined by assessing changes in immunoreactivity to glial fibrillary acidic protein. Changes in immunoreactivity to the synaptic vesicular protein synaptophysin were also evaluated in these areas. One week after transection, a comparison of sympathetic preganglionic neurons rostral and caudal to the lesion revealed significant loss of dendrites and decreased cell size caudal to the injury. Reactive astrocytes surrounded sympathetic preganglionic neurons as far as six segments below the transection. Constitutive expression of synaptophysin was observed rostral to the cord hemisection and synaptophysin expression was increased caudal to the lesion by seven days after the injury. One month after transection, the dendritic arbor of preganglionic neurons was re-established and the intensity of the reactive gliosis around the preganglionic neurons was diminished throughout the thoracic cord. These findings demonstrate that sympathetic preganglionic neurons undergo significant atrophy within a week after deafferentation and that this reaction is reversed within one month. Reactive astrogliosis could contribute to plastic changes in the neuropil that affect the sympathetic neurons, and the enhanced expression of synaptophysin in the gray matter caudal to a cord injury is consistent with fibre outgrowth leading to new synapse formation. Such re-organization could be one of the mechanisms for disorders in blood pressure control that occur after spinal cord injury.
Numerous studies have implicated the primary afferent derived neuropeptide, substance P, which exerts its effects via the neurokinin-1/substance P receptor, in the transmission of nociceptive messages at the level of the spinal cord. Immunocytochemical studies demonstrate that the substance P receptor is concentrated in neurons of lamina I of the superficial dorsal horn. Since alterations in the number and distribution of the receptor may underlie persistent pain conditions, we have used immunocytochemistry to study the distribution of the receptor in two very different rat models of persistent pain: chronic inflammation, which is associated with increased levels of substance P, and sciatic nerve section, which is associated with decreased levels of substance P in the dorsal horn. Inflammation was produced by unilateral hindpaw injection of complete Freund's adjuvant. We report that there is an up-regulation of substance P receptor immunoreactivity in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn in both injury models. The increase was found at all time points studied (up to one week after induction of inflammation and up to two weeks after sciatic nerve section). The increase in substance P receptor immunoreactivity was not only present in the medial part of the dorsal horn at segment L4, which is the region of input of the afferents from the hindpaw, but also in the lateral parts of the dorsal horn, and at segments rostral (L1) and caudal (S1) to the afferent input from the hindpaw. These results indicate that the up-regulation of the receptor is not predictable merely by the change in the concentration of substance P in the dorsal horn. Furthermore, the non-topographic up-regulation of substance P receptor in these different conditions may contribute to the central sensitization of dorsal horn nociceptors under conditions of persistent pain.
Background activity was recorded from sensory neurons in laminae I-V of the lumbar spinal dorsal horn of the rat prior to and during cold block spinalization at the cervical cord. To graphically and quantitatively describe the complexity of the discharge patterns, phase space portraits were plotted and the correlation dimension D2 was calculated by using the Grassberger-Procaccia algorithm adopted for point processes, i.e. for series of interspike intervals. The algorithm is validated both for the Baker transformation, which is a simple point process, and for the Lorenz model, whereby a transformation from continuous to point process variables is achieved. A method of surrogate data is provided in order to show the difference between original neuronal patterns and their surrogate stochastic data. Therefore, this method shows that neuronal discharge patterns cannot be fully described in terms of interspike interval histograms. However, in the intact cord most (73%) of the neurons displayed background activity with low (0.28-4.3) D2 values. During spinalization, D2 values significantly increased in 68% of the neurons showing previously low D2 values, irrespective of classification and laminar location of neurons, thus proving that tonic descending systems may maintain a high order in the discharge of sensory dorsal horn neurons.
Syntheses of substance P, somatostatin, and calcitonin gene-related peptide in sensory neurons have been suggested to be regulated by neurotrophic factors retrogradely transported from target tissues. In this study, we re-examined this idea by investigating the coexpression of neurotrophin receptor (trk family proto-oncogene) messenger RNAs, and preprotachykinin-A (a precursor peptide of substance P), alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide and somatostatin messenger RNAs in lumbar dorsal root ganglion neurons by means of in situ hybridization histochemistry in rats. Approximately 35-40%, 5% and 15-20% of sensory neurons displayed signals for trkA, trkB, and trkC messenger RNAs, respectively. Approximately 28% of dorsal root ganglion neurons were positive for preprotachykinin-A messenger RNA, and were divided into two groups; those labeled strongly and those labeled weakly by in situ hybridization. All the strongly-labeled neurons (78% of preprotachykinin-A-positive cells) expressed trkA messenger RNA at the same time, while the weakly-labeled neurons did not. Thirty-seven per cent of dorsal root ganglion neurons expressed alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA, and most of these neurons (84%) also expressed trkA messenger RNA. No or few preprotachykinin-A messenger RNA- and/or alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA-expressing neurons were also positive for trkB or trkC messenger RNAs. Nine per cent of dorsal root ganglion neurons expressed somatostatin messenger RNA, and these neurons lacked all three trk messenger RNAs. Furthermore, most of these neurons (about 90%) showed positive, albeit weak, signals for preprotachykinin-A and alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNAs. The results suggest that expression of preprotachykinin-A and alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNAs is mediated by nerve growth factor via trkA receptor but not by brain-derived neurotrophic factor or neurotrophin-3, and that somatostatin gene transcription is not regulated by any member of the neurotrophin family in rat sensory neurons.
A negative correlation has been found between smoking and Parkinson's disease. There is evidence to suggest that this correlation appears to be associated with a neuroprotective role of nicotine for dopamine neurons at least in relation to mechanical injury. However, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6,-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) neurotoxicity to dopamine neurons is enhanced by chronic continuous (-)nicotine. More recently, basic fibroblast growth factor has been found to possess neurotrophic activities for many nerve cells including the dopamine cells in vivo and in vitro. Therefore, it is of interest to explore a possible effect of nicotine on basic fibroblast growth factor expression in the ventral midbrain of intact and 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats and how treatment with nicotine can alter the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced injury of the nigral dopamine nerve cells as evaluated by dopamine biochemistry. In the present paper, an analysis of the effects of chronic continuous infusion of (-)nicotine via minipumps was carried out on basic fibroblast growth factor expression in the vental midbrain of the intact male rat and of the 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rat. A quantitative messenger RNA protection assay analysis was used as well as an immunocytochemical analysis in the substantia nigra. Our findings give evidence that a two-week continuous infusion with (-)nicotine in the intact rat leads to substantial and dose-related (0.03-0.3 mg/kg per h) reductions of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA levels in the ventral midbrain. These changes are not associated with changes in neuronal and glial basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity in this region with the antibodies used. However, a one-week continuous infusion with (-)nicotine (0.125 mg/kg per h) failed to significantly alter the basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA levels in the ventral midbrain of solvent and 6-hydroxydopamine-injected rats and thus also the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced increase of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA levels in the ventral midbrain of the lesioned side observed at this time-interval and known to be of astroglial origin [Chadi G. et al. (1994) Neuroscience 61, 891-910]. In agreement, the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced depletion of dopamine in the neostriatum was unaltered by the nicotine treatment (0.125 mg/kg per h). Thus, chronic continuous (-)nicotine treatment may lead to a reduced basic fibroblast growth factor trophic tone in the ventral midbrain of the intact but not of the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat neither on the lesioned nor on the unlesioned side of the ventral midbrain. It seems possible that chronic nicotine treatment mainly reduces basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA levels of neuronal origin, since the astroglial messenger RNA levels dominate after the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions.
Changes in the background impulse activity of midbrain central gray substance neurons have been studied on slice preparations from the rat midbrain upon application of calcium-free solution, an activator of calcium channels, BAY-K 8644 (10 nM), organic (verapamil, 40 microM; D600, 10 microM; nifedipine, 1-10 microM; amiloride, 1 microM) and inorganic (Co2+, 1.5 mM) calcium channel blockers. Besides BAY-K 8644, all the substances inhibited most of the neurons studied. Verapamil, BAY-K 8644 and Co2+ also revealed facilitatory effects. Facilitatory action of BAY-K was most effective in silent neurons and in those previously inhibited by amiloride. Latent period values of inhibition in calcium-free solution and upon application of organic and inorganic blockers have the following sequence: D600 &gt; amiloride &gt; verapamil &gt; Co2+ &gt; nifedipine &gt; calcium-free solution. Maximum rise time had the following order: amiloride &gt; D600 &gt; nifedipine &gt; verapamil &gt; Co2+ &gt; calcium-free solution. Complete suppression of the neuronal activity induced by amiloride lasted twice as long as that induced by calcium-free solution, Co2+ and nifedipine, and six times as long as verapamil-induced suppression. Preliminary application of calcium channel blockers reduced facilitatory and increased inhibitory effects of serotonin and substance P. Data obtained are discussed with the supposition in mind that inhibition of the function of calcium channels in central gray substance neurons could be one of the mechanisms underlying the analgesic effect of a series of neurotropic agents after their introduction into this structure.
Noradrenergic neurons from the locus coeruleus innervate several brain regions, such as hippocampus and cortex. The hippocampus exhibits the highest concentration of the neurotrophins nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 in the brain. To study the role of the noradrenergic system in the chronic regulation of neurotrophin messenger RNA expression, chemical [N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine, 6-hydroxydopamine] and mechanical (knife-cut axotomy) lesions were performed, in the rat, and neurotrophin messenger RNAs analysed after 14 and 35 days. The intensity of the lesion was verified by characterization of the noradrenergic system using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization for dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and the measurement of noradrenaline tissue levels. To study the acute regulation, hippocampal organotypic slice cultures were prepared and neurotrophin messenger RNAs analysed after incubation in different concentrations of noradrenaline. We report that the noradrenergic N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine depletion significantly increased nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNAs but not neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA in hippocampal areas 35 days after the lesion, while the knife-cut axotomy had a less pronounced effect and the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion did not change the neurotrophins. When incubating the organotypic hippocampal cultures with different concentrations of noradrenaline, nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNAs but not neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA were significantly reduced in the dentate gyrus. We conclude that nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor but not neurotrophin-3 expression are inhibited by noradrenaline, arising from the locus coeruleus.
Ionic mechanisms responsible for histamine-induced prolonged depolarization in supraoptic nucleus neurons were investigated using whole-cell patch recordings in horizontally prepared brain slices from adult male rats. Bath application of histamine (1-10 microM) in control medium induced membrane depolarization in nine of 12 phasically firing, putative vasopressin cells, but not in continuous firing, putative oxytocin cells (none of five cells). Depolarization, usually accompanied by increased firing rate, started within 20 s after histamine reached the slices, lasting for 3-13 min, after which they repolarized, and this was repeatable upon washout. Chelation of intracellular Ca2+ with 11 mM 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetate and perfusion of slices with Ca(2+)-free medium blocked neither histamine-induced membrane depolarizations nor increased firing rates in 24 of 30 cells recorded. Depolarizations were always associated with decreases in membrane conductance. Following treatment with promethazine (H1 receptor antagonist) in six cells excited previously by histamine, subsequent application induced neither membrane depolarization nor increased firing. H1 receptor agonists mimicked histamine-induced depolarization (four of six cells) but the H2 receptor agonist, dimaprit (10 microM), had no effect (all of nine cells). In medium containing 0 mM Ca2+, 2 mM Co2+ and 1-2 microM tetrodotoxin, with internal Ca2+ chelation, bath application of histamine induced an apparent inward current in 15 of 20 supraoptic neurons tested. The peak of inward current evoked by 1-10 microM histamine at holding potentials around -50 mV varied from 10 to 50 pA (27.3 +/- 0.3 pA, mean +/- S.E.M.). Ramp voltage tests revealed that this inward current decreased as membrane potential was hyperpolarized and had a reversal potential of -90.1 +/- 3.8 mV (n = 10). Subtraction of current obtained before from that during histamine application revealed a current that was linear against membrane potential. Increasing external K+ concentration or introduction of K+ channel blockers in the medium attenuated or abolished histamine-induced inward current at membrane potentials close to -50 mV. When external Cl- concentration was reduced, histamine-induced inward current was still seen in five of seven supraoptic cells tested. Neither inward current nor change in conductance was observed following bath application of histamine in 11 of 12 neurons recorded using patch pipettes containing guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), and in seven of eight neurons using pipettes containing guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate). These results suggest that histamine depolarizes supraoptic neurons, at least in part, by inhibiting a K+ leakage current mediated by H1 receptors linked to GTP-binding proteins and Ca(2+)-independent pathways. This study provides initial evidence for the second messengers regulating K+ leakage current.
Suprachiasmatic nuclei, derived from neonate rats, were maintained for several weeks in stationary organotypic culture. Hypothalamic slice explants, supported by Millicell filters and incubated in Petri dishes containing serum-based medium, flattened appreciably, yet preserved the organization of the suprachiasmatic nucleus and the surrounding hypothalamic tissue. After two to three weeks, cultures were fixed, and three neuronal sub-populations were identified as vasopressinergic, vasoactive intestinal peptide-containing, or GABA-containing. The GABAergic component of the cultured suprachiasmatic nucleus was particularly profuse, projecting extensively into the hypothalamic slice. Unilateral ablation of the nucleus in the explant dramatically reduced ipsilateral GABA-immunoreactivity in the slice. Explants in which an incision separated the bilateral suprachiasmatic nucleus from the paraventricular nucleus, deprived the latter of its fine-caliber GABA-immunoreactive input. Extra- or intra-cellular electrophysiological recordings from the suprachiasmatic nucleus were obtained in 51 of 58 cultures. The electrical properties of the long-term cultured suprachiasmatic nucleus were similar to those recorded in acute slices from adult rats. In six cultures recordings were extended for up to 10-24 h. Within long-term stationary organotypic cultures of the suprachiasmatic nucleus, sub-populations of neurons, intrinsic to the nucleus in vivo, were identified immunocytochemically. Lesion studies supported the observation that the main source of the GABAergic innervation within the entire hypothalamic slice explant appeared to be the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Electrophysiological studies confirmed the viability of the long-term cultured nucleus and revealed changes in spontaneous electrical activity that may indicate circadian fluctuation.
Arginine vasopressin messenger RNA is axonally transported in the rat hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system [for review see Mohr et al. (1993) In Vasopressin (eds Gross P., Richter D. and Robertson C. L.), pp. 119-129, John Libbey Eurotext]. Upon chronic dehydration (2% saline-feeding for seven days), vasopressin messenger RNA within this axonal compartment is dramatically increased and appears aggregated in a selected subset of axonal swellings confined to the median eminence and posterior pituitary. In this study, we analysed the axonal distribution of the vasopressin messenger RNA within the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial tracts of control and saline-fed animals, and compared this distribution to that of the vasopressin peptide. Our data further support a selective aggregation of the vasopressin messenger RNA in a subset of distal axonal swellings and/or terminals of the median eminence and posterior pituitary. The selective aggregation is observed not only in saline-fed animals, but also in control animals. Although the osmotic stimulus dramatically enhances the axonal transport of vasopressin messenger RNA, the consequent general distribution pattern of the messenger RNA in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system is not changed. However, the physiological perturbation does increase the number of vasopressin messenger RNA-containing swellings within the median eminence and the posterior pituitary. In both saline-fed and control animals, the level of messenger RNA label within individual swellings appeared roughly similar to that found in the perikaryal cytoplasm of extra-hypothalamic vasopressinergic neurons. A detailed comparison of the axonal compartmentalization of vasopressin messenger RNA and vasopressin peptide demonstrates that the axonal distribution of vasopressin messenger RNA does not precisely overlap that of vasopressin peptide along the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial tract. In seven-day saline-fed animals, the majority of the messenger RNA-containing swellings of the median eminence also contain detectable vasopressin peptide; however in the same animals, nearly all the messenger RNA-containing swellings of the posterior pituitary appear devoid of vasopressin peptide. Therefore, our work strongly suggests that at least in the posterior pituitary, the vasopressin messenger RNA might be selectively targeted and aggregated in a selected subset of axonal swellings containing little if any vasopressin, and hence very few neurosecretory granules. Given this evidence that vasopressin messenger RNA and neuropeptide are differentially compartmentalized in axons of magnocellular neurons, we propose that vasopressin messenger RNA and peptide probably rely on different intracellular transport systems with respect to packaging, transport and/or aggregation within these selected axonal locations.
The aim of this study was to determine how GABA receptors in the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus in rats might contribute to the regulation of locomotor behavior. Microinjections of the GABAB and GABAA agonists, baclofen and muscimol, into the mediodorsal nucleus produced dose-dependent increases in locomotion that were blocked by co-administration of the GABAB antagonist, 2-hydroxysaclofen. Microinjection of baclofen along the midline, lateral into the ventrolateral thalamus or into the lateral ventricles produced significantly smaller dose-dependent increases in locomotion, indicating that the anatomical locus for baclofen-induced locomotion resides in the mediodorsal nucleus. The motor response elicited by microinjected baclofen was associated with a reduction in dopamine metabolism in the prefrontal cortex and an increase in metabolism in the core of the nucleus accumbens, but not in the accumbal shell or the dorsolateral striatum. These results suggest that GABAergic afferents to the mediodorsal nucleus may oppose a tonic inhibitory tone on locomotor activity. The data also suggest that the motor response produced by baclofen in the mediodorsal thalamus may arise by inhibiting the projections to the prefrontal cortex which modulate mesocorticolimbic dopamine transmission.
Learning deficits resulting from dopamine depletion suggest that striatal dopamine release is crucial for reinforcement. Recently described firing patterns of dopamine neurons in behaving monkeys show that transient increases in dopamine release are brought about by reinforcement. We describe an enduring change in the strength of synaptic transmission following pulsatile application of dopamine intended to mimic the transient increases associated with reinforcement. Intracellular records were made from neurons in slices of the rat corticostriatal system. Neurons having the properties of the medium-sized spiny neurons responded to cortical stimulation with depolarizing potentials (peak amplitude 12.0 +/- 1.3 mV; latency 9.2 +/- 0.1 ms; mean +/- S.D., n = 19), which had the properties of monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials. After trains of stimuli to the cortex had been applied in conjunction with intracellular depolarizing current, the size of these excitatory postsynaptic potentials was reduced (-27% at 20 min). Application of dopamine (approximately 30 microM) in a solution containing KCl concomitant with depolarization and presynaptic activation increased the subsequent excitatory postsynaptic potentials (+21% at 20 min) without significant lasting change in the membrane properties of the postsynaptic cell. This suggests that dopamine has an enduring, activity-dependent action on the efficacy of corticostriatal transmission, which may be a cellular basis for the learning-related effects of the nigrostriatal system.
The authors report 91 cases of solitary brain metastasis from non-oat cell lung cancer, 66 patients were males and 25 females; average age was 57 years (range 40-72 years). Surgical removal was total in 80 cases and partial in 11. All patients received postoperative radiotherapy and 40 chemotherapy. Histologically, the tumor was an adenocarcinoma in 51 cases (56%), a squamous cell carcinoma in 22 (24%), an undifferentiated carcinoma in 18 (20%). Median survival was 16 months and the main cause of death was progression of the primary cancer (59% of cases). Survival was influenced by staging of the primary tumor, while no prognostic significance was found regarding the type of clinical tumor onset, type of radiotherapy and the histotype of the lesion. Use of the &quot;no internal touch&quot; technique and brain radiotherapy reduced local brain relapse.
The effect of 20% mannitol on ischemic neuronal injury was examined in male Wistar rats (n = 80) that were randomly divided into forebrain and focal ischemia groups. The animals were further subdivided into control, treatment with mannitol before ischemia (1 g/kg of body weight, 12 min before ischemia), and treatment with mannitol after ischemia (0.25 g/kg of body weight, beginning 20 min after ischemia and then every 6 h for 48 h) groups. Physiological parameters were carefully monitored and maintained within normal limits. The administration of mannitol after ischemia was found to produce a statistically significant improvement in ischemic neocortical injury and selective neuronal necrosis in the neocortex in the forebrain and focal models, respectively. However, treatment with mannitol after ischemia was shown not to favorably alter histopathological outcome in hippocampal levels 2 through 7 in the forebrain model nor did not reduce infarct volume in the focal ischemia group. Treatment with mannitol before ischemia did not produce statistically significant reductions in neuronal injury in either model. These results do not support the findings of previous investigations, which have demonstrated that mannitol affords a significant degree of neuroprotection when administered either before or immediately after vessel occlusion in models of forebrain and focal cerebral ischemia. The neuroprotective effect of mannitol demonstrated in the neocortex of both forebrain and focally ischemic rats may support the theory that the main mechanisms responsible for neocortical injury in ischemia differ from those in the striatum hippocampus. Finally, mannitol's ability to reduce ischemic neuronal injury most effectively when administered after rather than before the production of ischemia is consistent with a possible beneficial influence on the development of delayed cerebral edema.
Quantifying standing steadiness may be a useful method of detecting neurotoxicity in epidemiological studies. Unfortunately, use of quantitative standing steadiness outcomes in epidemiologic studies has been limited by lack of standardization of methods, insufficient availability of normative data, and inadequately characterized effects of covariates. Additionally, the current gold standard method, the force platform (FP), has been expensive and unwieldy for use in field studies. A relatively inexpensive and portable head position monitor (HPM) has been introduced as an alternate method for measuring standing steadiness. In this study 211 subjects were tested with one or both devices using a common testing protocol. The correlations between measurements obtained with the FP and the HPM were high and similar to those obtained during repeated measurements with each device separately. The effects of potential covariates on outcome measures were investigated. There was significant age x sex interaction in the FP standing steadiness measurements in this population with decreased steadiness among older men but not older women. Information for estimating normal values for the outcome measures is provided. This study suggests that measures of standing steadiness obtained with the HPM are similar, but not identical, to measures obtained with a conventional FP and that the HPM may be useful in field studies of occupational exposure to neurotoxicants.




This chapter gives an overview of the utility of one type of transgenic mouse model for substance abuse research, the use of transgenes in which genomic regulatory sequences of interest are coupled to a reporter gene. Using this mouse model, exploration of the mechanisms regulating expression of the proenkephalin gene in the mouse hypothalamus have begun. The resulting information supplements experiments on gene regulation performed in cell lines with information about regulation by pharmacologic and physiologic stimuli of interest within the brain. With special reference to mechanisms of opioid dependence, the particular model that has been examined appears to be a useful tool to investigate mechanistic aspects of the regulation of endogenous opioid genes by exogenous opioids.

Cerebral cortical malformation is now diagnosed by neuroimagings, and important as a cause of developmental disorder or epilepsy. The classification of cortical malformations was tried from developmental aspect, and agyria in Miller-Dieker syndrome and polymicrogyria in Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy were compared on their pathogeneses. Unilateral hemimegalencephaly and focal cortical dysplasia were reviewed on literatures.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor is implicated in multiple aspects of pain processing by the central nervous system. However, the role of NMDA receptors in the endocrine and autonomic aspects of nociception remains uncertain. The present study examined the influence of the NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (0.02-2.0 mg/kg, intracarotid), on the adrenal and autonomic responses to corneal stimulation (mustard oil, 20% sol.) in barbiturate-anesthetized rats. Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) evoked by corneal stimulation was quantified within the spinal trigeminal nucleus (Vsp) of MK-801 pretreated animals to assess activation of central trigeminal neurons. Corneal stimulation-evoked increases in the plasma concentrations of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), epinephrine and norepinephrine were reduced dose-dependently by MK-801. Plasma ACTH also increased after moderate hemorrhage, a response that was not affected by MK-801. MK-801 did not reduce the magnitude of corneal stimulation-evoked increases in arterial pressure and heart rate; however, prestimulus arterial pressure was reduced by drug treatment. Fos-LI was distributed bimodally within the ipsilateral caudal Vsp: one peak of Fos-LI in the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition region and a second peak within the superficial laminae of the subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical cord transition region. The magnitude of both peaks of Fos-LI was reduced dose-dependently by MK-801. These results indicate a significant contribution from NMDA receptors in control of select endocrine and autonomic responses that accompany trigeminal nociception and in activation of central trigeminal neurons that process corneal nociceptive input.
The expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) was examined in infants with leukomalacia by means of immunohistochemical methods with an antihuman TNF alpha monoclonal antibody. We studied 23 patients with neonatal leukomalacia, classified as having &quot;focal,&quot; &quot;widespread,&quot; or &quot;diffuse&quot; disease according to the distribution of the lesions, and 18 age-matched controls. TNF alpha immunoreactivity was positive in 19 of the 23 (83%) patients with leukomalacia, and in 7 of the 18 (39%) controls. TNF alpha was expressed mainly in glial cells in the deep white matter in both groups, and was most abundant around the necrotic foci in the focal group. TNF alpha immunoreactivity appeared earlier in patients with leukomalacia than in controls, being first detected at 25 and 29 weeks gestation, respectively. Immunofluorescence double-labeling revealed the TNF alpha -immunoreactive cells were Ricinus communis agglutinin-1 (RCA-1)-positive microglial cells. Thus, our study revealed increasing expression of TNF alpha in the normally developing brain during the late fetal period, and overproduction of TNF alpha by microglial cells associated with the pathogenesis of neonatal leukomalacia.
A major clinical challenge in Gaucher disease is the early and presymptomatic discrimination of type 2 (acute neuronopathic) from milder type 1 and type 3 Gaucher patients to enable appropriate management and counseling. Although most patients with Gaucher disease do not have skin abnormalities, a subset of patients with severe type 2 Gaucher disease display ichthyosiform skin. Analogous findings occur in the skin of type 2 (null allele) Gaucher mice. Ultrastructural and functional studies of epidermis from these mice reveal that glucocerebrosidase is required to generate functionally competent membranes for normal epidermal barrier function. We have extended our studies by examining the epidermal lipid content and ultrastructure in all three types of Gaucher patients. Only the type 2 Gaucher patients, some of whom had clinical ichthyosis, demonstrated an increased ratio of epidermal glucosylceramide to ceramide as well as extensive ultrastructural abnormalities, including the persistence of incompletely processed lamellar body-derived contents throughout the stratum corneum interstices. These epidermal alterations may provide a means for early differentiation of type 2 Gaucher disease.
In vitro rat hypothalamic slices were used to examine the ability of neuropeptide Y (NPY), and the putative Y1 and Y2 receptor agonists [Pro34]NPY and [C2]NPY, to modify spontaneous single-neuron discharge in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN). NPY and [Pro34]NPY, at high concentrations (1500 nM), decreased discharge rates. At intermediate concentrations (150 nM) these peptides produced multiple effects, including increases, decreases, and biphasic changes. At lower concentrations (0.15-15 nM), they typically increased discharge rates. In contrast, [C2]NPY, at all concentrations (1.5-1500 nM), predominantly increased discharge rates. Thus, these NPY subtype agonists have multiple effects on discharge rate, which may be due to actions on multiple NPY receptor subtypes.
The peptide, Phe-Gly Phe-Thr-Gly-Ala-Arg-Lys-Ser-Ala-Arg-Lys-Leu-Ala-Asn-Gln-OH, recently isolated from rat brain, has been suggested to be an endogenous agonist for an orphan, opioid-like receptor (ORL1). This peptide, called &quot;nociceptin&quot; (or orphanin FQ), has been suggested to have pronociceptive, hyperalgesic functions. The present study examined the effects of nociceptin on aversive thermal (nociceptive) responses in an invertebrate, the land snail, Cepaea nemoralis. Nociceptin had significant, dose-related pro-nociceptive effects in Cepaea, whereas the opioid peptide, dynorphin A, which shares some sequence similarities with nociceptin, had significant antinociceptive effects. The effects of dynorphin were blocked by the kappa-opiate receptor antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine, whereas those of nociceptin were unaffected. Repeated daily administrations of nociceptin resulted in reduced pronociceptive effects, suggestive of the development of tolerance to the hyperalgesic actions of this opioid-related peptide. These findings suggest that the novel peptide, nociceptin, can influence nociceptive responses in the snail, Cepaea, in a manner similar to that indicated for rodents.
The penetration of four radioiodinated materials-Tyr-MIF-1, DAMGO, tyrosine, and albumin-into the periventricular tissue after ICV injection was studied in rats by film autoradiography. Rates of disappearance from the CNS for the injected compounds were also determined by computer-assisted image analysis of the autoradiographic images. The four materials showed distinct patterns of dispersion from the ventricular system, with Tyr-MIF-1 moving farthest into the parenchyma of the brain and albumin primarily restricted to the ventricular space. The other two compounds, tyrosine and DAMGO, had intermediate values. Tyr-MIF-1 also displayed the fastest rate of removal from the brain, which may represent the ability of the peptide to gain access to sites of saturable transport. By contrast, the exit from the brain of DAMGO was minimal, whereas the efflux of albumin and tyrosine was intermediate. These results show the utility of these methods in the simultaneous measurement of both the patterns of distribution within the CNS and the rates of removal from the CNS of compounds injected into the brain.
In the intermediate pituitary of the anuran amphibian, Bufo marinus, the N-acetylation of ACTH(1-13)-NH2 to yield alpha-MSH occurs as a cosecretory processing event, whereas the N-acetylation of beta-endorphin occurs as a posttranslational processing event. To understand how these two N-acetylation reactions are segregated, B. marinus intermediate pituitary cells were analyzed by immunogold labeling electron microscopy, and by using an ultracentrifugation procedure. The immunogold labeling studies indicated that ACTH(1-13)-NH2-related immunoreactivity was colocalized with N-acetylated beta-endorphin-related immunoreactivity in secretory granules. Furthermore, ACTH(1-13)-NH2-related immunoreactivity was not detected in either the ER or the Golgi. N-Acetylated beta-endorphin-related immunoreactivity, however, was detected in the Golgi. Ultracentrifugation analysis revealed that in an ER/microsomal fraction, beta-LPH-sized and nonacetylated beta-endorphin-sized immunoreactive material were present in a molar ratio of 1:2. No N-acetylated forms of beta-endorphin were detected in the ER/microsomal fraction. In a Golgi/secretory granule fraction, the molar ratio of beta-LPH to beta-endorphin was 1:9 with 58% of the beta-endorphin being N-acetylated. Collectively, these data support the following hypotheses. The proteolytic cleavage of ACTH (1-39) to yield ACTH (1-13)-NH2 is a late processing event occurring in secretory granules. The cleavage of beta-LPH to yield nonacetylated beta-endorphin is an early processing event that may occur in the ER or the Golgi. Because N-acetylated beta-endorphin and nonacetylated ACTH(1-13)-NH2 are colocalized in secretory granules, it appears, therefore, that the N-acetylation of beta-endorphin is completed prior to loading into secretory granules. Thus, there is a spatial and temporal separation of the posttranslational processing events associated with the beta-LPH portion and ACTH portion of the POMC biosynthetic pathway in amphibian intermediate pituitary cells.
Ten subjects served as their own controls in two conditions of continuous, centrifugally produced hypergravity (+2 Gz) and a 1-G control condition. Before and after exposure, open-loop measures were obtained of (1) motor control, (2) visual localization, and (3) hand-eye coordination. During exposure in the visual feedback/hypergravity condition, subjects received terminal visual error-corrective feedback from their target pointing, and in the no-visual feedback/hypergravity condition they pointed open loop. As expected, the motor control measures for both experimental conditions revealed very short lived underreaching (the muscle-loading effect) at the outset of hypergravity and an equally transient negative aftereffect on returning to 1 G. The substantial (approximately 17 degrees) initial elevator illusion experienced in both hypergravity conditions declined over the course of the exposure period, whether or not visual feedback was provided. This effect was tentatively attributed to habituation of the otoliths. Visual feedback produced a smaller additional decrement and a postexposure negative after-effect, possible evidence for visual recalibration. Surprisingly, the target-pointing error made during hypergravity in the no-visual-feedback condition was substantially less than that predicted by subjects' elevator illusion. This finding calls into question the neural outflow model as a complete explanation of this illusion.
The present study was aimed at analysing the effect of the lack of visual experience in the human subject in detecting the rearrangement of objects after a free exploration in the locomotor space. Exploratory patterns and performance levels were recorded. Distance processing was affected by early blindness. The early-blind group's patterns of exploration differed significantly from those of the visually experienced groups. Significant correlations were found between the performance level and the use of systematic patterns of exploration but not with individual features. These data are discussed in the light of the importance of early vision on the development of spatial cognition.

Visually perceived eye level (VPEL) was measured while subjects viewed two vertical lines which were either upright or pitched about the horizontal axis. In separate conditions, the display consisted of a relatively large pair of lines viewed at a distance of 1 m, or a display scaled to one third the dimensions and viewed at a distance of either 1 m or 33.3 cm. The small display viewed at 33.3 cm produced a retinal image the same size as that of the large display at 1 m. Pitch of all three displays top-toward and top-away from the observer caused upward and downward VPEL shifts, respectively. These effects were highly similar for the large display and the small display viewed at 33.3 cm (ie equal retinal size), but were significantly smaller for the small display viewed at 1 m. In a second experiment, perceived size of the three displays was measured and found to be highly accurate. The results of the two experiments indicate that the effect of optical pitch on VPEL depends on the retinal image size of stimuli rather than on perceived size.
Some current confusions in visual neuroscience and psychology over the use of the terms 'visual field', 'field of vision', 'stimulus field', and topographic 'brain maps' are reviewed. These are often used as synonyms, whereas they refer to quite different things. A plea is made that visual scientists should use these terms correctly to avoid conceptual and engineering confusion.
Human observers can correctly attribute changes in the appearance of a scene either to changes in the incident light or to changes in the spectral-reflectance properties of the scene. This ability was assessed as a function of the time course of illuminant and spectral-reflectance changes. Observers were presented with computer simulations of Mondrian patterns of 49 randomly selected Munsell papers. On each trial a Mondrian pattern was presented for 1 s; the pattern then changed either instantaneously or gradually into another Mondrian pattern, also presented for 1 s, which was related to the first either by an illuminant change or by an illuminant change accompanied by additional changes in the spectral-reflectance functions of the individual papers. Illuminant and spectral-reflectance change were applied linearly in time (with respect to CIE coordinates) over intervals ranging from 0 to 7 s. Observers indicated whether there was a spectral-reflectance change. They were able to make reliable discriminations between illuminant and spectral-reflectance changes both when the changes were applied instantaneously and when they were applied gradually over time, but performance worsened progressively as the duration of the changes increased, that is, as their rate decreased. It is suggested that discrimination in this task depends on the extraction of a low-level transient signal which is generated in response to rapid changes in scene appearance and which is progressively attenuated as changes occur more and more gradually.
An important factor in judging whether two retinal images arise from the same object viewed from different positions may be the presence of certain properties or cues that are 'qualitative invariants' with respect to the natural transformations, particularly affine transformations, associated with changes in viewpoint. To test whether observers use certain affine qualitative cues such as concavity, convexity, collinearity, and parallelism of the image elements, a 'same-different' discrimination experiment was carried out with planar patterns that were defined by four points either connected by straight line segments (line patterns) or marked by dots (dot patterns). The first three points of each pattern were generated randomly; the fourth point fell on their diagonal bisector. According to the position of that point, the patterns were concave, triangular (three points being collinear), convex, or parallel sided. In a 'same' trial, an affine transformation was applied to one of two identical patterns; in a 'different' trial, the affine transformation was applied after the point lying on the diagonal bisector was perturbed a short, fixed distance along the bisector, inwards for one pattern and outwards for the other. Observers' ability to discriminate 'same' from 'different' pairs of patterns depended strongly on the position of the fourth, displaced, point: performance varied rapidly when the position of the displaced point was such that the patterns were nearly triangular or nearly parallel sided, consistent with observers using the hypothesised qualitative cues. The experimental data were fitted with a simple probabilistic model of discrimination performance that used a combination of these qualitative cues and a single quantitative cue.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and growth promoting activity (GPA) are two members of a family of structurally and functionally related cytokines. Although the primary sequences of these proteins are only distantly related, many share striking functional similarities. The question of the potential existence of more, as yet undiscovered, members of this family, especially those most related to CNTF, is discussed. There are several biological systems which exhibit unexplained CNTF-like activities. This has led to speculation that there are indeed other CNTF-like proteins to be found. Because of the poor primary sequence conservation among known members of this family, even those sharing strong functional similarities, it is unlikely that a cloning approach based on sequence homology will find these putative new members of the family. Instead, a more biological approach, based on functional similarities, is more likely to succeed.
Adult peripheral neurons undergo dramatic shifts in gene expression following axotomy that are collectively referred to as the cell body reaction. Changes in neuropeptide expression are a prominent feature of these axotomized neurons. For example, while sympathetic, sensory, and motor neurons do not normally express the neuropeptides galanin and vasoactive intestinal peptide, they begin to do so within days after axotomy. In contrast, the expression of other peptides, which these neurons normally express, such as neuropeptide Y in sympathetic neurons and substance P in sensory neurons, is decreased. Recent studies in sympathetic neurons have demonstrated that leukemia inhibitory factor plays an important role in triggering these changes in neuropeptide phenotype in adult neurons. Future studies will be directed at determining to what extent LIF triggers the many other changes in gene expression after sympathetic axotomy and whether this cytokine plays a similar role in sensory and motor neurons.
The sympathetic neurons that innervate eccrine sweat glands undergo a phenotypic switch from noradrenergic to cholinergic and peptidergic. The changes in neurotransmitter choice are retrogradely specified by interactions with the target tissue that are mediated by a secreted differentiation factor. Production of the target-derived differentiation factor requires noradrenergic innervation. The switch from noradrenergic to cholinergic and peptidergic is reproduced in culture when neonatal sympathetic neurons are treated with members of the neuropoietic cytokine family, leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) or ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), suggesting that these cytokines might be responsible for the target-induced change in neurotransmitter properties. Analysis of transgenic mice that lack either LIF or CNTF or both, however, does not support their candidacy: the transmitter properties of the sweat gland innervation is indistinguishable from that of wild-type mice. It seems likely that another and novel member of the, family is responsible.
Axonogenesis is the earliest step in acquisition of neuronal polarity. The subcellular mechanisms underlying this pivotal event are unknown. Because of the abundant presence and functional necessity of microtubule-associated proteins in growing neurites, a large effort has been directed at characterizing their role in establishment and maintenance of neuronal polarity. One unsolved puzzle is how MAPs, most of which are unpolarized in early stages of development, can locally influence microdifferentiation of axons and dendrites. In this review, we discuss recent evidence suggesting that locally controlled phosphorylation of microtubule-associated proteins tau and MAP1B may play a role in establishment of polarity and early axonal outgrowth.
Retinal ganglion cell axons become reordered as they pass through the chiasmatic region of the optic pathway. Studies in carnivores and rodents show that the fiber order established in the optic tract is a chronological index of their arrival time during development and that the cause of the reordering may relate to the changing glial environment, as well as to the spatial and temporal distribution of proteoglycans within the developing pathway. Primate optic axons become similarly reordered, allowing one to predict a developmental sequence of ganglion cell genesis from fiber position within the mature optic tract. Fiber position within the tract also anticipates the pattern of geniculate innervation, but a prominent exception to this rule is found in the prosimian Galago. The chronotopic reordering is found in every mammalian species that has been examined, including eutherians and metatherians, suggesting that the mechanism producing it is evolutionarily conserved.
The ACTH(4-9) analog ORG2766 has been known to affect recovery of damaged functions resulting from injury to neural tissue. The peptides efficacy has often been ascribed to a facilitation of existing recovery, and immediate treatment seemed a prerequisite for efficacy. However, various results in other recovery paradigms do not refer to the neurotrophic properties of the peptide, but rather ascribe the effectiveness of ORG2766 to a general change in attention that indirectly affects functional recovery. Such a change in state is theoretically independent of the occurrence of spontaneous recovery, and, thus, treatment would not be required to coincide with recovery immediately after the damage. To see if ORG2766 can influence the recovery of function without the simultaneous occurrence of spontaneous recovery, this study employed a delay of 7 months after the occurrence of a fimbria lesion before ORG2766 was administered. The selective fimbria lesion produced an impairment in Morris maze performance, which could be attenuated by chronic treatment with ORG2766 immediately after the lesion as well as after 7 months. With respect to spatial orientation, no improvement is assessed in untreated lesioned rats, as the impairment of Morris maze performance in untreated fimbria-lesioned rats is as severe as right after the lesion. The data indicates that efficacy of the ACTH(4-9) analog does not rely on the acceleration of spontaneous recovery processes in this paradigm. The behavioral effects of ORG2766 are discussed in the context of a peptide-induced state of enhanced attention.
NMDA antagonists mimic the effects of clinically effective antidepressants in both preclinical tests predictive of antidepressant action and procedures designed to model aspects of depressive symptomatology. These findings led to experiments demonstrating that chronic administration of NMDA antagonists to rodents results in a downregulation of cortical beta-adrenoceptors, a phenomenon also observed following chronic treatment with many antidepressants. These neurochemical and behavioral similarities between antidepressants and NMDA antagonists prompted us to examine the impact of chronic antidepressant treatment on NMDA receptors. Chronic (14 days) but not acute (1 day) administration of seventeen different antidepressants to mice produced adaptive changes in radioligand binding to NMDA receptors. Detailed studies with three antidepressants (imipramine, citalopram, and electroconvulsive shock) show that these changes develop slowly, persist for some time after cessation of treatment, and (for imipramine and citalopram) are dose dependent. Moreover, following chronic treatment with imipramine, these changes in radioligand binding to NMDA receptors appear restricted to the cerebral cortex. Based on the consistency of these effects across antidepressant treatments, we propose that adaptive changes in NMDA receptors may be the final common pathway for antidepressant action. The recent demonstration (Nowak et al., 1995) that radioligand binding to NMDA receptors is altered in frontal cortex of suicide victims (compared to age and post-mortem interval matched controls) is consistent with the hypothesis (Trullas and Skolnick, 1990) that this family of ligand gated ion channels is involved in the pathophysiology of depression.








In the previous paper (Mano et al, 1991), we reported the discharge patterns of saccade-related Purkinje cells during visually guided saccade task, which were recorded from posterior cerebellar hemisphere, the Crus IIa. In the present study, we analysed these P-cell's simple spike activity during the spontaneous saccade in inter-trial intervals (ITI) of visually guided saccade task, comparing with the activity during the visually guided saccade. We found that the modulation of simple spike discharges during spontaneous saccade was weaker than the modulation during the visually triggered saccade. We recorded single unit discharges of Purkinje cells from cerebellar posterior hemisphere (Crus IIa) in awake Japanese monkeys (Macaca fuscata), trained to perform simple reaction time saccade task gazing at a small light rear-projected on to a tangent screen 54 cm in front of the monkey. Horizontal and vertical eye positions were measured by a corneal search coil method. Comparison of simple spike activity associated with spontaneous saccade during ITI to the activity during visually triggered saccade clarified that the discharge patterns of simple spikes are basically the same during both types of the saccades, but the amount of the phasic modulation (increase of decrease of discharge rate) were larger for all directions (up, down, left and right) during visually guided saccade than that during spontaneous saccade in all saccade-related Purkinje cells so far examined in two monkeys. The modulation, however, cannot be assumed to have been induced by the visual stimulus per se. Because, the maximum increase of simple spike discharge rate aligned at saccade onset is larger than that aligned at target jump. And, the half width of the change was wider when aligned at target light jump than when aligned at the onset of saccades, in all the four directions, indicating the changes of the firing rate were more time-locked to the onset of saccadic eye movements than to the triggering visual stimulus. The present findings suggest that the cerebellar hemisphere plays a more important role in the control of externally triggered voluntary eye movements than in the control of self-initiated, self-paced eye movements. We discussed these findings combining with previous findings on limb movement-related P-cells (Mano et al, 1980, 1986, 1989), from view point of the general role of the cerebellar hemisphere in the control of voluntary movements.
The activity of cerebellar Purkinje cells was recorded in the ventral paraflocculus (VPFL) of alert monkeys during ocular following responses induced by brief movements of the visual scene. The mossy fiber input evoked 'simple-spikes' which increased their activity during either ipsiversive or downward motion of the visual scene. On the other hand, the 'complex-spikes' evoked by the climbing fiber input increased their activity during either contraversive or upward movement. To further define the sources of the visual input to the VPFL, we recorded single units in the dorsolateral pontine nucleus (DLPN), which is known to project to the VPFL as mossy fibers, and in the pretectal nucleus of the optic tract (NOT), which is known to project to the inferior olive whose neurons project to the cerebellum as climbing fibers. In both areas, most neurons were directionally selective, and responded to the moving visual scene with very short latencies (approximately 40-60 ms). These results suggest that both DLPN and NOT neurons deliver information concerning movements of the visual scene to the VPFL through different pathways.
Residual vision was assessed in the blind hemifield of one hemispherectomized and one partially hemispherectomized patient, using an interval two alternative forced choice detection task. Fixation instabilities were controlled by retinal stabilization. In both patients, residual vision was found in the hemianopic field close to the vertical meridian. This residual vision is largely confined to a band not wider the 3 degrees, but there is a local region in each patient where it extends more than 3 degrees from the meridian. However, more than 6 degrees from the vertical meridian we found no indication of residual function in either patient. Within the band of spared vision, subjects are aware of stimuli and can perform simple shape discriminations. Visual acuity profiles argue against an explanation based on eccentric fixation. Explanations based on the retino-tectal pathway or on retinal naso-temporal overlap are possible.
We compared the effects of unilateral surgical aspiration and ibotenic acid produced lesions of the superior colliculus (SC) on visual orienting behavior in 20 cats. Four animals with aspiration lesions initially showed an hemianopia in the contralateral hemifield which recovered fully in 4.5 weeks or less. These lesions also destroyed axons in the commissure of the superior colliculus (CS). In 9 animals we produced complete loss of cells in one SC, with preservation of axons in the CSC, by injections of ibotenic acid. In these animals the contralateral hemianopia persisted for an average of 16.6 weeks, but may have persisted longer had we not intervened by either sacrificing the animal or ablating the visual cortex contralateral to the SC lesion. The cortical lesion produced an immediate hemianopia in the contralateral hemifield and a recovery in the previously hemianopic ('collicular') hemifield. In the remaining 7 animals with attempted ibotenic acid lesions, 5 had incomplete lesions and 2 others sustained major damage to the SC as well as the CSC. These 7 animals recovered visual orienting on an average of 3.0 weeks postoperatively. We conclude that unilateral loss of collicular cell function and the presence of fibers coursing through the commissure of the superior colliculus are both necessary for the prolonged deficit in visual orienting behavior. We suggest that competition between the two hemifields may play a role in the hemianopia caused by collicular manipulations and that the cholinergic pathway from the pedunculopontine nucleus to the contralateral SC via the CSC may be involved.
Cats were trained to fixate a center LED or light spot for 1-10 s and to orient to a target (LED or light spot), which appeared simultaneous with the disappearance of the fixation light. Firing characteristics of neurones in the superior colliculus (SC) and the pontomedullary reticular formation were examined systematically in cats performing the above orienting task. In the head-free condition, a majority of the superficial neurones in the SC was activated when a target appeared in a particular area in the visual field (receptive field) as in head fixed animals. We identified a new group of neurones in superficial layers of the SC, superficial fixation neurones, which fired tonically when fixated on a target light with little activity at fixating a center fixation light. In the intermediate and deep layers of the SC, many neurones fired when directed to a particular area in the visual field (movement field). In addition to these neurones, we found new groups of neurones fired tonically in a particular phase of orienting. These neurones were divided into three principal types, target activated, target suppressed and center fixation activated neurones. Target activated neurones fired tonically during the fixation of a target, but not during fixation of a center spot. Target suppressed neurones were characterized by a pause during fixation of targets irrespective of their location. They had clear phasic and tonic components. The phasic component was characterized by a movement field resembling that seen in a typical intermediate layer neurone. Center fixation activated neurones discharged during fixation of the center spot and exhibited suppression during fixation of the target. Many neurones in the pontomedullary reticular formation fired during orienting. Four major types of neurones, phasic, phasic sustained, pause and tonic neurones, were differentiated on the basis of their firing patterns. Phasic units were characterized by brief phasic firing during orienting and could be divided into four subtypes. Long lead phasic neurones began to fire 50-100 ms prior to the onset of a gaze shift and stopped well before the end of the gaze shift and the total number of firing was best correlated with the total angle of head rotation. Short lead phasic neurones started to fire 10-20 ms prior to a gaze shift and were further subdivided into decrement and plateau types. The decrement type exhibited a brief burst just prior to gaze shift and stopped discharging prior to the end of the gaze shift, while the plateau type fired tonically during the gaze shift and stopped firing after the gaze shift. Total number of discharges of both type was related to maximal angular velocity. The fourth type, gaze neurone, began firing coincident with the onset of the gaze shift and stopped firing at the completion of the gaze shift and the total number of discharges was closely related to total angle of head rotation Phasic sustained (PS) neurones fired 50-100 ms before the onset of a gaze shift and their discharges continued after the end of the gaze shift and were divided into three subtypes: augmenting, pause and plateau. The augmenting type was characterized by a transient increase of firing during the gaze shift and a maintained slow rate of firing following the gaze shift. Total number of discharges related to head movement amplitude and the sustained activity was correlated with head position. The pause type was suppressed during the gaze shift and was tonically active during a head movement. The plateau type had a weak phasic component and discharged at a fairly constant rate. The pause and plateau types appeared to be related to head amplitude and head position, respectively. Tonic units were classified into several types. Target fixation neurones exhibited sustained firing when the cat was fixating a target, irrespective of its location, but did not show sustained firing when the animal fixated the fixation light. Fixation neurones fired tonical

Many structural and functional properties of neuronal networks find their origin in the dynamic behavior of growth cones during development. The variation in dendritic morphologies can be traced back to random branching of growth cones. Segment length characteristics arise under random branching and steady growth cone propagation. Delayed outgrowth, as a result of competition between growth cones after splitting, is hypothesized to explain different lengths of paired terminal segments in Purkinje cells. The implications of activity-dependent neurite outgrowth were studied using an outgrowth function based on the theory of Kater et al. (1988, 1990). This theory embodies a homeostatic principle, according to which a neuron adapts its neuritic field so as to maintain a certain level bioelectric activity. It is shown that such homeostasis has many implications for neuromorphogenesis and network formation, as it may underlie phenomena such as overshoot during development, size differences among cells, differentiation between excitatory and inhibitory cells and compensatory sprouting. Finally, function-dependent regulation of development involves physiological as well as morphological variables. For instance, activity dependent regulation of ionic conductances such as to stabilize functional activity can result in a differentiation of certain neurons into, respectively, bursting and regular firing sub-types (Abbot et al., 1993; LeMasson et al., 1993). Similarly, the GABAergic phenotype comes fully to expression in hindbrain (cerebellar) and forebrain (neocortical) networks only if the level of ongoing excitatory activity during development is sufficiently high, whereas chronically intensified activity leads to a compensatory hypertrophy of inhibitory mechanisms (for review, see Corner 1994). Many of these results could only have been obtained by the use of mathematical models which allow rigorous analysis of the consequences of basic assumptions in the dynamics of neurite outgrowth. All in all, the findings further emphasize the role of spontaneous bioelectric activity during early development in neuronal network formation, the importance of which was first established in cultures of developing neural tissue.



The study of chimeric retinas has yielded insight on the early development of retina. The close match in chimerism ratios between right and left retinas is significant and supports the idea that both retinas originate from a common population of progenitors. We are able to estimate numbers of progenitor cells that contribute to the formation of the retina and the approximate time at which this small group is isolated from surrounding prosencephalic cell fields. These cells undergo at least five rounds of division before the first retinal neurons are generated. The mouse retina is not build from the center outward. There is simultaneous expansion and differentiation in all parts of the retina and as a result clones are not arranged in wedges. Instead the mouse retina is a patchwork of clones that do not differ greatly in size from center to periphery. The most consistent radial feature in mouse retina is a raphe left at the line of fusion of the margins of the ventral fissure. Processes that shape the clonal patchwork are both passive and active, intrinsic and extrinsic. Certain features of the clonal architecture of the retina, such as the size differences of clones are primarily passive responses to extrinsic forces on progenitor cells and their progeny. The fifteen-fold range in the size of cohorts is not due to intrinsic differences in the proliferative capacity of individual progenitor cells, but is due to the extent of cell movement and mixing at early stages of development. In contrast, active or intrinsic processes are illustrated by the partial (and still controversial) restriction of retinal progenitors, the possible clonal differences between ganglion cells with crossed and uncrossed projections, and the consistent differences in ratios of albino and pigmented genotypes in peripheral and central retina.





1. The authors have investigated the effect of citalopram, an effective antidepressant drug with selective serotonin (5-HT) uptake inhibition, on 5-HT-2A receptor-mediated intracellular calcium (Ca2+) rise in C6 cultured cells. 2. Citalopram, at concentrations of 10 and 30 mu M, did not significantly reduce the Ca2+ mobilization induced by 10 mu M 5-HT, indicating that citalopram has little affinity for 5-HT-2A receptors. 3. Citalopram did not alter a subsequent response to 5-HT after citalopram was pre-applied to the cells. 4. However, citalopram inhibited the desensitization of 5-HT-2A receptors. When the cells were pretreated with citalopram and 5-HT, the subsequent response to 5-HT was significantly greater than that obtained following pretreatment with 5-HT alone. 5. To investigate the mechanism of action of citalopram on the desensitization of 5-HT-2A receptors, NaF-induced cGMP generation was measured. Citalopram inhibited the generation of cGMP induced by NaF in C6 cells as well as W-7. 6. These results indicate that citalopram antagonized the desensitization of 5-HT-2A receptor-mediated Ca2+ mobilization and this antagonism may be mediated by a calmodulin-dependent pathway in C6 glioma cells.
1. Phorbol 12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA), a protein kinase C activator, elevated cyclic AMP accumulation in EBV-transformed human B-lymphocytes, and potentiated isoproterenol-, prostaglandin- (PGE1), cholera toxin-, and forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation. 2. The dopamine D1 receptor agonist, SKF38393 (10(-7) to 10(-5) MH, had no effect on cyclic AMP accumulation in transformed human B-lymphocytes. 3. The dopamine D2 receptor agonist, quinpirole (10(-7) to 10(-5) MH did not inhibit cyclic AMP accumulation even when cyclic AMP accumulation was maximized by the addition of PMA and forskolin. 4. These data suggest that dopamine D1- and D2-receptor coupling to a cyclic AMP generating system is not present at detectable levels in transformed human B-lymphocytes.
Our current treatments for schizophrenia are, at best, palliative. With the exception of counseling those families with a known high risk for having schizophrenic offspring, no preventive measures are currently available. The not too distant future, however, promises to bring improvements in somatic treatments as well as the possible introduction of preventive measures. We are fully aware that current biological treatments work best when they are combined with psychosocial intervention, and expect that future biological treatments and preventions will also involve appropriate nonbiological considerations. Psychosocial treatments are covered elsewhere in this issue. Here we look at how modern genetics, pre- and perinatal factors, early and sustained intervention, and new medications are likely to decrease both the number of individuals with schizophrenia and the severity of the illness.
There is increasing evidence to suggest basal ganglion involvement in the aetiopathogenesis of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Twenty subjects with rheumatic chorea were assessed for presence of OCD and evaluated on Leyton's Obsessional Inventory. Four subjects had OCD. The study group had markedly higher scores on all the scales of Leyton's Obsessional Inventory. The findings implicate that caudate dysfunction is not sufficient on its own to explain the presence of obsessive-compulsive behaviour and that additional basal ganglion regions/rostral connections also have to be involved to produce co-morbidity.
It has been well established that more than 40 percent of patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) do not improve after an adequate trial with serotonin uptake inhibitors (SUIs). The first purpose of this trial was to compare the short-term efficacy and safety of two different strategies in a sample of treatment-refractory OCD patients: dose increase of the ongoing treatment versus the addition of another SUI. The second purpose was to investigate the short-term efficacy and safety of adjunctive risperidone in SUI-refractory OCD patients. Thirty-three OCD patients who were unimproved after a short-term treatment with clomipramine (150 mg/day) were admitted to the study. In the first part of the study, the dose increase of clomipramine was compared with sertraline addition, in an open-label manner. The addition of sertraline to the ongoing treatment appeared to be more effective and tolerable than the clomipramine dose increase. Seven (50%) of the 14 patients who were considered nonresponders after the first part of the study, showed good clinical improvement and good tolerability after risperidone augmentation. These results suggest that risperidone addition to ongoing SUIs may be useful in augmenting pharmacologic response in OCD.
Venlafaxine, a member of a novel chemical class, phenethylamines, is a new antidepressant that inhibits neuronal uptake of serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine (in decreasing order of potency) at doses of 75 to 375 mg per day. Depression and antidepressant drugs are known to modify human sleep patterns. Our objective in this double-blind, placebo-controlled study was to assess the effects of venlafaxine on polysomnographic variables by comparing the effects of venlafaxine and placebo on sleep (hypnographic and all-night electroencephalographic [EEG] spectral analysis) and clinical measures (Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression [HAM-D], Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale [MADRS], and Clinical Global Impressions [CGI]) in inpatients with major depression (DSM-III-R). Following a 7- to 13-day placebo washout period, patients were randomly assigned to receive either placebo or venlafaxine (maximum dose 225 mg/day) for up to 29 days. Sleep evaluations took place at baseline (3 nights immediately before entering the double-blind phase), after 1 week of treatment, and after 1 month of treatment. Sleep stage parameters and all-night spectral parameters were first tested by analysis of variance for repeated measures and then, if indicated, by two-tailed Student t-test. The results on psychiatric rating scales showed improvement from baseline in both treatment groups at all time points, with improvement tending to be greater in the venlafaxine group. Venlafaxine induced a decrease of sleep continuity (decreased total sleep time and increased wake time), an important increase in the onset latency of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and a decrease in total REM sleep duration. All-night sleep EEG frequency structure was not modified significantly by venlafaxine treatment as compared with placebo. In conclusion, venlafaxine, despite its novel chemical structure, shows a sleep profile comparable with that of most classical antidepressants.
There is increased interest in the role that ethnicity, sociocultural factors, and gender play in research, health care delivery, and response to intervention. The impact of these factors on AIDS awareness programs, on the phenomenology of suicide and anorexia nervosa, and on clinical psychopharmacology in a homogeneous population is discussed. Risky sex practices can be related to cultural norms that stigmatize condom use and sex education; economic deprivation; and male dominance. Gender, cultural, and ethnic demographics can identify high-risk groups as well as influence effective interventions. Suicide rates and risk factors are compared in African-American, Canadian Native, and South Korean adolescents. Academic stress was a differential risk factor for the Koreans. Anorexia nervosa predominantly affects women and has cultural differences in prevalence. The homogeneous population in Hong Kong illustrates the impact of ethnicity, sociocultural factors, and gender on clinical psychopharmacology. Attention to ethnicity, sociocultural factors, and gender can individualize and improve the effectiveness of clinical psychopharmacology.
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors contain two highly conserved tyrosine residues that are located within or at the extracellular border of the second transmembrane domain and are unique to this subfamily of G protein-coupled receptors. These tyrosine residues are located at positions 82 and 85 of the sequence of the m1 subtype of muscarinic receptors. In this article, we studied the involvement of these two residues in ligand binding to and agonist-induced activation of this receptor subtype using site-directed mutagenesis. Our data suggest for the first time an important role of these two tyrosines in muscarinic receptor function. Evidence is also provided that although the aromatic moiety of these tyrosine residues plays a role in antagonist binding, both this moiety and the tyrosine phenolic hydroxyl group are involved in agonist binding and receptor activation. The results are discussed in terms of a possible relationship of these two tyrosine residues and other conserved tyrosine moieties located in different transmembrane segments. All of these residues might contribute in concert, albeit to different degrees, to the process of ligand binding and receptor activation. The present findings are expected to further our current understanding of the muscarinic receptor domains involved in these processes.
Correlated mutation analysis and molecular models of olfactory receptors have provided evidence that residues in the transmembrane domains form a binding pocket for odor ligands. As an independent test of these results, we have calculated positive selection moments for the alpha-helical sixth transmembrane domain (TM6) of human olfactory receptors. The moments can be used to identify residues that have been preferentially affected by positive selection and are thus likely to interact with odor ligands. The results suggest that residue 622, which is commonly a serine or threonine, could form critical H-bonds. In some receptors a dual-serine subsite, formed by residues 622 and 625, could bind hydroxyl determinants on odor ligands. The potential importance of these residues is further supported by site-directed mutagenesis in the beta-adrenergic receptor. The findings should be of practical value for future physiological studies, binding assays, and site-directed mutagenesis.
It is known that the rectification property of the inward rectifier K+ channel, IRK1, is caused by a block of outward current by cytoplasmic Mg2+ and polyamines, and that the voltage dependence of rectification shifts according to the equilibrium potential of K+. Here it is shown that extracellular K+ (K+ o) but not intracellular K+ (K+ i) affects the activation kinetics of IRK1. A mutant in which the conserved positively charged residue arginine was replaced by a tyrosine (R148Y) exhibited slower activation and a negative shift of the conductance-voltage relationship. In addition, the conductance did not saturate at negative potentials as was observed for the wild type. When using T1+o instead of K+ o as permeant ion, the differences between the wild type and the mutant were qualitatively similar but less prominent. These results suggest that extracellular cations (e.g., K+ o or T1+ o) play a role in the activation of IRK1. Since the effects of K+ o or T1+ o were altered in the mutant, the site R148 presumably is involved in channel regulation by extracellular cations.
We recently reported that the pineal hormone melatonin protected neuronal cultures from excitotoxicity mediated via kainate-sensitive glutamate receptors and from oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. It has been shown that in rats, a systemic administration of kainate induces apoptotic cell death in various brain regions. In this study, we assayed the extent of brain injury after intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of 10 mg/kg kainate to rats, using the quantitative TUNEL technique and Nissl staining. We examined the role of melatonin on kainate-induced brain injury by (a) injecting melatonin (4  2.5 mg/kg i.p.) prior to and after kainate injection and (b) injecting kainate at the time of low circulating melatonin levels (day/light), and high melatonin levels (night/dark). The extent of kainate-triggered DNA damage and the loss of Nissl staining were lower in animals treated with melatonin, or when kainate was injected at night, i.e. in the presence of high endogenous levels of melatonin. Our results suggest that both the pharmacological use of melatonin and the circadian secretion of endogenous melatonin during the night may reduce the extent of excitotoxic brain injury. Further studies are needed to fully characterize the relevance of our findings for the treatment of progressive neurodegenerative processes which involve excitotoxicity and apoptotic neuronal death.

The effect of moderate exercise training on acute and chronic neuropathy in two separate experiments was examined. Acute nerve dysfunction was induced by sciatic nerve crush lesion and chronic neuropathy by streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus (experimental diabetic neuropathy; EDN). Moderate exercise training was achieved by placing food and water, separately, at either end of a U-shaped tubular home cage (8 m). Recovery from the crush lesion and the development of EDN were monitored by evaluating the free walking pattern and nerve conduction velocity (NCV), respectively. In the acute neuropathy model, 24 days of exercise after the crush lesion resulted in an enhanced return of motor function in the early phase of recovery (P &lt; 0.01) and an increased sensory NCV after 250 days in the late phase (P &lt; 0.001). Diabetic rats benefited from this exercise training by showing fewer signs of EDN, as evidenced by a superior motor function (toespreading, calculated from the free walking pattern; P &lt; 0.05) and an improvement in both motor and sensory NCV (both P &lt; 0.05). We conclude that moderate exercise training is effective in enhancing recovery from acute peripheral neuropathy and in ameliorating the consequences of experimental chronic neuropathy in diabetic rats.
Isolectin B4 from Griffonia simplicifolia I (B4) has a high binding affinity to a large population of unmyelinated primary sensory neurons (Wang et al., Neuroscience 62 (1994) 539-551). Using immunohistochemical techniques, binding and transganglionic transport of B4 in the spinal cord was investigated, both at short and long survival times, after sciatic nerve transection and ligation or crush in the adult rat. Nerve transection and ligation resulted in nearly complete disappearance of B4 immunolabelling in the sciatic nerve territory of the superficial dorsal horn after B4 binding, as well as after transganglionic transport of B4 by 2 weeks postinjury. Partial recovery of both B4 binding and B4 transport was found by 8 months, and nearly complete recovery by 16 months, indicating that reappearance of B4 binding is not critically dependent on peripheral reinnervation. Crush injury made by jeweller's forceps resulted in partial depletion of binding and transport by 2 weeks and a nearly complete recovery by 10 weeks. The results show that binding and transganglionic transport of B4 can be used to label dorsal horn connections of unmyelinated primary afferents during the process of regeneration after crush injury. Furthermore, as B4 binding and transport recover at long survival times in the absence of reestablished peripheral connections, the same techniques can be used to study central primary afferent connections at long survival times after nerve transection. Binding and transganglionic transport of B4 offer alternatives to the use of previous techniques such as transganglionic transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) to study central connections of fine primary afferents after injury.

The purpose of this paper is to describe how relatives in the next generation to elderly patients in institutional care perceive the staff. The study was carried out using unstructured interviews lasting 60/90 min, followed by a semi-structured interview lasting about 30 min for each participant. The interviews were analysed by thematic content analysis. The findings gave a picture of how seven relatives perceived the staff. On the whole, they were content with the physical care given, but they had some doubts about the psychological care. Some were worried about what to do during visiting time. Communication between relatives and staff was on a superficial level and concerned mostly practical matters, and it was relative who had to take the initiative in interactions. The relatives found it very difficult to express criticism. The environment and the possibilities of being out of doors were of importance to the relatives, since they were aware that the nursing home was their parents' last home. The results of this study provide the impetus for further research on topics relating to relative/staff interaction.
The occurrence and distribution of adrenergic, peptidergic and nitrergic nerve fibers were investigated within the part of the rat urethra that corresponds to the external urethral sphincteric mechanism. At this level, the urethral wall was found to be composed of the following layers: mucosa/urothelium, lamina propria, smooth muscle, mixed smooth and striated muscle and striated muscle. Nerve fibers containing immunoreactivity against either nitric oxide synthase (NOS) or any of the following peptides were visualised in various amounts in all three muscle layers of rats of both sexes: neuropeptide Y (NPY), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP), substance P (SP), cholecystokinin (CCK), gastrin releasing peptide (GRP) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide. (PACAP) Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), marker for nonadrenergic nerves, was only found in nerve fibers of the smooth and mixed muscle layers, while enkephalin 8 (ENK-8) was only found in the striated muscle layer. The great number of putative neuromessengers and different nerve fiber populations suggest a complex innervation pattern of the sphincter area.
Biological membranes contain specialized protein macromolecules such as channels, pumps and receptors. Physiologically, membranes and their constituent macromolecules are the interface surfaces toward which most of the regulatory biochemical and other signals are directed. Yet very little is known about these surfaces. The structure of biological membranes has been analyzed primarily using imaging techniques that are limited in their resolution of surface topology. An atomic force microscope (AFM) developed by Binnig, Quate and Gerber, can image molecular structures on specimen surfaces with subnanometer resolution, under diverse environmental conditions. Also, AFM can manipulate surfaces with molecular precision: it can nanodissect, translocate, and reorganize molecules on surface. The surface topology has been imaged for several hydrated channels, pumps and receptors which were a) present in isolated native membranes, b) reconstituted in artificial membrane or, c) expressed in an appropriate expression system. These images, at molecular resolution, reveal exciting new findings about their architecture. AFM induced &quot;force dissection&quot; reveals surfaces which are commonly inaccessible. In whole cell studies, in addition to the molecular structure of membrane receptors and channels, correlative electrical and biochemical activities have been examined. Such study suggests a &quot;single cell&quot; experiment where the structure-function correlation of many cloned channels and receptors can be understood.
Simultaneous identification of messenger RNA (mRNA) and proteins in the same cells or tissues is a valuable tool to help the cell biologist evaluate the cell secretory cycle. Some cells may produce the mRNA and delay the production of the proteins. Alternatively, the proteins may be rapidly secreted. Other cells may produce both in sequence within the same time frame. Because of this difference, some cells can only be identified by their mRNA product. Others may have both products. This presentation describes a non-radioactive approach to the detection of both products with dual-peroxidase labeling protocols in use in this laboratory since 1983. The first detection system uses biotinylated cRNA probes or oligoprobes in in situ hybridization along with antisera to biotin to detect the hybrid. The detection system is amplified by 2-3 layers of anti-biotin, second antibody (made against the anti-biotin) and streptavidin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. After the mRNA is detected with a blue-black substrate (nickel intensified diaminobenzidine), the antigens are detected with immunoperoxidase techniques and orange-amber substrate. The in situ hybridization protocol can also be used at the electron microscopic level. Trouble shooting and control protocols are also described. This approach has been shown to be valuable for detection of pituitary hormones, growth factors mRNAs and antigens.
The Carmel Workshop on Cognitive Psychophysiology began in 1980, and the focus of the 1996 workshop was on schizophrenia. Research into schizophrenia is in the midst of a period of unparalleled advance, driven in large part, by improvements in neuroimaging technology that make detailed examination of in vivo brain structure and function possible. Neuroimaging studies may help provide a bridge between investigations demonstrating molecular and cellular abnormalities in schizophrenia and those demonstrating cognitive dysfunction. The workshop brought together experts in different neuroimaging modalities to present the strengths and advantages of each, as well as the insights each modality might bring into normal and schizophrenic cognitition. It began with a series of tutorials to inform participants of the state of the art in various disciplines. It then broke into four panels, each given a very specific topic assignment related to neuroimaging and/or the cognitive neuroscience of schizophrenia. After 1 1/2 days of discussion, each panel reported its conclusions to the workshop. Group I presented cellular models of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Group II examined experimental paradigms for studying cognitive function and schizophrenia. Group III examined technical issues in image processing and combining data across different modalities. Group IV sought to survey the current state of knowledge about the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. The conclusions of each of the groups are presented in this report.

The purpose of this study is to investigate the efficacy of short-term hospitalization on family care for patients with Pick's disease (PD). Subjects were 12 patients with clinical diagnosis of PD based on clinical and neuroimaging criteria. They were selected from 483 patients with cognitive disorders who had been admitted to our hospital from January, 1994 to September, 1995. During 1.5-month hospital stay, we gave therapeutic intervention to the patients and their care-givers. Ten patients completed the planned term (1.5 months) of hospitalization. After the discharge, 9 patients continued to visit regularly the outpatient clinic. One patient discontinued to visit us and 2 patients were admitted to psychiatric hospitals because of stereotypic thefts or disinhibitional behavior. The benefits of short-term hospitalization in family care for PD patients were; i) close observation and analysis of patients' behavior under hospitalization offering strategies of behavioral therapy; ii) adequate instruction to the care-givers for their preparation for patients' malbehavior decreasing their burden; and iii) patients' familiarization to the hospital helping for patients to maintain regular visit to the hospital and to utilize other medical and social resources.
A model has been developed to determine the effectiveness of topical antipruritics. It utilizes controlled, experimentally induced itch and has demonstrated the effectiveness of the direct action on cutaneous receptor sites of a topical anesthetic, benzocaine, in a topical antipruritic formulation, and has been used to differentiate between two effective topical antipruritics. Three studies are presented: The first study examined the reliability of the experimentally induced itch. Several indices of reliability were computed from the data of this first study. Cronbach's alpha was 0.92. Winer's theta also was 0.92. Simple test-retest reliability, computed at intervals of 29 min, 1 day, and 6-7 days, resulted in Pearson correlations of 0.84, 0.73, and 0.60, respectively. In the second study, the model differentiated statistically between the itch relief resulting from the topical application of a formulation with 6% benzocaine and the same formulation without benzocaine. The third study examined 2 known topical antipruritics: one containing 6% benzocaine and the other 1% hydrocortisone. Both topical antipruritics were found to relieve itch; however, the benzocaine antipruritic produced statistically significantly greater itch relief in more subjects than the hydrocortisone antipruritic at both 1 and 30 min after application. These results demonstrate that OTC antipruritics can be differentiated for effectiveness.
In this paper, we compare and analyze the results from automatic analysis and visual scoring of nocturnal sleep recordings. The validation is based on a sleep recording set of 60 subjects (33 males and 27 females), consisting of three groups: 20 normal controls subjects, 20 depressed patients and 20 insomniac patients treated with a benzodiazepine. The inter-expert variability estimated from these 60 recordings (61,949 epochs) indicated an average agreement rate of 87.5% between two experts on the basis of 30-second epochs. The automatic scoring system, compared in the same way with one expert, achieved an average agreement rate of 82.3%, without expert supervision. By adding expert supervision for ambiguous and unknown epochs, detected by computation of an uncertainty index and unknown rejection, the automatic/expert agreement grew from 82.3% to 90%, with supervision over only 20% of the night. Bearing in mind the composition and the size of the test sample, the automated sleep staging system achieved a satisfactory performance level and may be considered a useful alternative to visual sleep stage scoring for large-scale investigations of human sleep.

A total of 117 patients underwent 124 functional stereotactic procedures with the Leksell Gamma Knife to treat trigeminal neuralgia, movement disorders and chronic pain. Target identification was performed with stereotactic magnetic resonance imaging alone without electrophysiologic localization. Clinical observation of these patients over 1-41 months indicates that the efficacy of the procedure is comparable with that seen with open stereotactic procedures where electrophysiological localization is used. Using current techniques, the complications of functional neurosurgery with the Gamma Knife are nearly nonexistent. We believe that functional neurosurgery can be performed effectively and safely without electrophysiological localization, using the Leksell Gamma Knife.



The aim was to extend recent findings of suggested temperamental features in attempted suicide and to explore possible domains of vulnerability to suicide risk after attempted suicide. Fifty-four psychiatric inpatients hospitalized after a suicide attempt underwent lumbar puncture for analysis of CSF 5-HIAA concentration and also completed the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) before discharge from the hospital. Suicide attempters scored high on Somatic Anxiety, Psychic Anxiety, and Muscular Tension, and low on Socialization, findings that support recent findings in suicide attempters followed up after an emergency room visit. Five patients committed early suicide, i.e., within 3 years, and the overall long-term suicide mortality after attempted suicide was 13%. There were significant correlations between survival time among early suicides and CSF 5-HIAA (r = .87; p = .054), and the following KSP scale t scores: Somatic Anxiety (r = -.96; p &lt; .05), Impulsivity ( r = -.88; p &lt; .05), and Socialization (r = 90; p &lt; .05). KSP Socialization showed correlations with CSF 5-HIAA (r = .89; p = .046) among the early suicides. Features of temperamental vulnerability to suicide risk after attempted suicide might involve anxiety proneness, impulsivity, low socialization, and low CSF 5-HIAA.
In this study, we examined the effect of 5-HT depletion produced by the acute administration of para-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) on the number of spontaneously active dopamine (DA) cells in the ventral tegmental area (VTA or A10) and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNC or A9) in the rat. We also determined the effect of PCPA administration on the spike discharge pattern of midbrain DA cells. This was accomplished using standard extracellular single cell recording techniques. The administration of PCPA (400 mg/kg, i.p., 24 h before the experiment) produced a significant decrease in the number of spontaneously active DA cells in both the A9 (52%) and A10 (63%) areas compared to controls. The burst firing analysis indicated that there was a significant increase in the mean interspike interval of A9 and A10 DA neurons in PCPA treated animals compared to controls. Furthermore, a decrease in the percentage of A10 DA neurons exhibiting a burst firing pattern and the number of bursts was observed in the PCPA treated animals compared to controls. The intravenous (i.v.) administration of 5-hydroxytryptophan (40 mg/kg) and the peripheral aromatic acid decarboxylase inhibitor benserazide (10 mg/kg) which restores 5-HT content, reversed the decrease in the number of spontaneously active A9 and A10 DA neurons, as well as the decrease in the percentage of A10 DA neurons exhibiting a bursting pattern. In contrast, the i.v. administration of benserazide (10 mg/kg) and L-DOPA (40 mg/kg) did not reverse the decrease in the number of spontaneously active midbrain DA neurons produced by PCPA treatment. The pretreatment of animals with PCPA did not alter the sensitivity of spontaneously active A9 or A10 DA cells to the intravenous administration of (+)-apomorphine (1-32 micrograms/kg) compared to controls. Overall, our results indicate that the depletion of brain 5-HT by PCPA produces a decrease in the activity of midbrain DA cells, suggesting that endogenous 5-HT is required to maintain DA tone.
In this study, we examined the effect of acute and chronic administration of the selective neurokinin1 receptor antagonist CP 96,345 on the basal activity of spontaneously active dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNC) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA). This was accomplished using the technique of in vivo, extracellular single unit recording in anesthetized rats. The intravenous (i.v.) administration of CP 96,345 (0.01-1.28 mg/kg) did not significantly alter the firing rate of spontaneously active DA neurons in the SNC and VTA areas. The acute administration of 5 or 10 mg/kg, i.p., of CP 96,345 produced a significant decrease in the number of spontaneously active SNC and VTA dopamine cells compared to vehicle-treated rats. In contrast to its effect on the number of spontaneously active DA neurons, the administration of 5 mg/kg, i.p., of CP 96,345 did not significantly alter the basal firing pattern of either SNC or VTA DA neurons. The acute administration of CP 96,345 (10 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly potentiated the suppressant action of (+)-apomorphine on the basal firing rate of spontaneously active SNC and VTA DA cells. The chronic administration of CP 96,345 (5 or 10 mg/kg, i.p.) for 21 days also produced a significant decrease in the number of spontaneously active SNC and VTA DA cells compared to vehicle controls. This effect was not reversed by the systemic administration of (+)-apomorphine (50 micrograms/kg, i.v.), suggesting that the reduction in the number of spontaneously active DA cells produced by CP 96,345 is probably not the result of depolarization inactivation. Overall, our results indicate that the tonic activation of NK1 receptors by substance P may be necessary to maintain the spontaneous activity of a proportion of midbrain DA neurons.
We examined the ability of thalamic neurons in the ventrobasal complex to show adaptive changes in receptive field properties following the loss of projections from the nucleus cuneatus. Thalamic responses to air jet stimulation were tested at multiple peripheral sites before and after making discrete microlesions in topographically-matched regions of the nucleus cuneatus. Prior to making a lesion, crosscorrelation analysis and orthodromic microstimulation were used to confirm the source of cuneate neurons projecting to the thalamic recording site. A total of 69 thalamic neurons were recorded from 29 rats. Following placement of a microlesion (100-200 microns diameter) in the nucleus cuneatus, 34 thalamic neurons did not show significant changes in stimulus-induced responses, possibly because the lesion was too small or because critical sites in the receptive field were not tested. The remaining 35 neurons were affected by cuneate microlesions, but the change in responsiveness varied according to stimulation site. When the most responsive site in the receptive field was examined, 24 neurons exhibited significant decreases and three neurons showed significant increases in responsiveness. Cuneate microlesions produced decreases at moderately responsive sites, but the reduction in response magnitude was smaller than at the most responsive site. When responses near the receptive field boundary were examined, 11 neurons displayed significant increases and only four neurons showed significant decreases. For two neurons without well-defined receptive field boundaries, cuneate microlesions caused new excitatory responses to emerge from sites that had formerly caused a slight inhibition of spontaneous activity. In all cases of increased responsiveness, the changes appeared on only one side of a neuron's receptive field. This asymmetry may account for the fact that the probability of detecting receptive field expansion increased from 27% (six of 22 experiments) to 71% (five of seven experiments) when the number of stimulation sites located throughout the receptive field was increased. These results indicate that the receptive field structure of individual neurons shows adaptive properties immediately after loss of the predominant ascending inputs.
During development, neuronal growth cones encounter a variety of guidance cues while mediating axon path finding, target recognition and synapse formation. It is clear that repulsive guidance mechanisms play an essential role in these processes. The semaphorin gene family, which is conserved from invertebrates to mammals, includes members that mediate repulsive guidance. Molecular and cellular analysis of this gene family is providing insight into how inhibitory cues function during neurodevelopment.

Male horseshoe crabs, Limulus polyphemus, use their eyes to locate mates day and night. We investigated their ability to detect targets of different size and contrast in a mating area of Buzzards Bay, Cape Cod, MA. We found that males can see large, high-contrast targets better than small, low-contrast ones. For targets of the same size, animals must be about 0.1 m closer to a low-contrast target to see it as well as a high-contrast one. For targets of the same contrast, animals must be approximately 0.2 m closer to a small target to see it as well as one twice as large. A decrease of 0.05 steradians in the size of the retinal image of a target can be compensated by a four-fold increase in contrast. About 60% of the animals detect black targets subtending 0.110 steradians (equivalent to an adult female viewed from about 0.56 m), while only 20% detect targets subtending 0.039 steradians. This study shows that horseshoe crabs maintain about constant contrast sensitivity under diurnal changes in light intensity in their natural environment. As a consequence of circadian and adaptive mechanisms in the retina, male horseshoe crabs can detect female-size objects about equally well day and night.
In this study 15 (4 males, 11 females) depressive patients (according to DSM-III-R criteria), who were refractory to psychopharmacological treatment were referred for electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). Six ECTs were administered within a period of 3 weeks. Before the first, third and fifth ECT and 15, 30, and 60 minutes after each of these 3 treatments serum levels of prolactin were determined. After six ECTs eight patients showed significant symptomatic improvement, whilst the depressive symptoms in the other seven patients remained more or less unchanged. There was no statistically significant difference with respect to prolactin response following the three ECTs between the symptomatically improved and the unchanged group. There was no correlation of severity of depression and prolactin baseline levels before the first ECT. Neither baseline prolactin levels prior to the first ECT nor prolactin response predicted therapeutic outcome. From this point of view changes in serum prolactin levels do not reflect therapeutic pathways in depression or mechanisms of action of ECT.
The proto-oncogene ras is an essential gene for the growth and the differentiation for various types of cells. Ras, ras gene product, is a GTP binding protein which controls the signal transduction by GTP hydrolysis. The ras gene is frequently activated by point mutations in various types of human cancers, which results in a decrease in the GTPase activity of its product. A GTPase-activating protein p120 (p120GAP) was identified as a factor which stimulates the GTPase of normal ras gene product p21 but not of the mutated. An NF1 gene was identified as a gene whose loss of function causes an onset of human disorder, neurofibromatosis type I. The NF1 gene encodes a protein which contains a region with a similarity to the catalytic domain of p120GAP. We recently purified a novel Ras GAP whose molecular weight and immunogenecity are different from those of p120GAP and NF1. We named the novel mammalian Ras GAP as Gap1m. Isolation and sequencing of Gap1m cDNA revealed that Gap1m is indeed a novel Ras GAP. We also succeeded in isolation of another novel Ras GAP gene, GapIII/Gap1IP4BP, which is closely related to Gap1m. Recently, it is shown that GapIII/Gap1IP4BP binds inositol-tetrakis phosphate compounds. The overview of these Ras GAP molecules is described.
Neurobiology seems to be a great challenge for recent psychosomatic medicine. The rise of neurobiology through fascinating findings characterizes our &quot;decade of the brain&quot;. Psychosomatic medicine tries to integrate biological, psychological and social factors of disease and health. Therefore brain research is essential for psychosomatic medicine. This paper gives a review of two psychiatric disorders which show close neurobiologic connections: bulimia nervosa (BN) and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Both disease are characterized by an increase in prevalence and have been interpreted as modern epidemic diseases. Neurobiological and psychodynamic connections will be discussed.
This article presents a neurobiological hypothesis of experience- and learning dependent synaptic reorganization processes in the juvenile brain and their influence on the normal development of intellectual, emotional and social abilities. Based on experimental data we offer the theory that during early learning events (also termed as imprinting) the initially relatively unspecifically organized synaptic network in the higher associative brain areas undergoes an experience- and learning-dependent reorganization. This process involves synaptic sprouting as well as synaptic pruning of redundant synaptic connections and results in a more specific and efficient neuronal network, which provide the basis for learning processes during later life. Sensory or social deprivation during early childhood impairs this synaptic reorganization of the brain and thereby prevents the normal development of intellectual, emotional and social abilities. Under adverse environmental and familial circumstances these deficits may eventually lead to mental disorders such as neuroses. Since early learning and the underlying synaptic reorganization processes are restricted to specific sensitive phases during brain development the resulting mental and social deficits are remarkably stable, which may be one explanation of the resistance of certain mental disorders to psychotherapy. The intention of this provocative hypothesis is to stimulate future research initiatives using an interactive neurobiological and neuropsychological approach to gain more insight into these cellular mechanisms and to develop innovative therapeutical strategies.
The currently most important forms of psychotherapy, these are behavioral therapy and psychoanalysis, are based on theories created around the turn of the century. During that time little was known on neurobiological aspects of brain plasticity, that is regarded here as prerequisition for any long lasting change in behavior, cognition and emotions and, thus, for all real psychotherapeutic effects. In the last decades, research of structural and functional plasticity has made dramatic progresses; this research may enhance our understanding of what is feasible and what can be achieved by the various forms of psychotherapy. After considering epistemiological problems, principles of cerebral information processing, brain plasticity and analogies between brain physiology and psychoanalytical theories are discussed. The article tries to bridge the gap between neurobiology and psychotherapy.
The peculiarities of the investigation of cerebrovascular diseases in Institute of Neurology of Rus. Acad. Med. Sci. for the last 50 years on the background of world achievements in this field are outlined. The very term &quot;angioneurology&quot; arose in the process of researches development in Institute of Neurology. The thesis was postulated that the achievements in development of clinical angioneurology were mainly determined as well as will be determined in future by the progress in fundamental investigations in medicine, biology and neurosciences.

This study deals with a novel role of morphine in the modulation of cellular responsiveness to immunostimulatory substances that, at first glance, appears to be in contrast to the well documented immunoinhibitory short-term effects of opiate alkaloids on cells simultaneously exposed to stimulatory molecules. Vertebrate and invertebrate immunocytes pre-exposed to morphine (10(-6) M) in vitro for at least 24 h prior to the administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 1.0 micrograms/ml) or other immunoactivating substances have revealed a distinct enhancement of their responsiveness to these signals, e.g. monocytes exposed to LPS alone resulted in 21% activation, whereas the morphine pretreated level was at 40% (P &lt; 0.01). Prolonged pretreatment with morphine of naive human monocytes had the same effect on their sensitivity to plasma from patients having undergone cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) operations followed by a diffuse inflammatory response. These results suggest that endogenous opiates may participate, in more than one way, in re-establishing an organism's readiness to meet a new demand on its immune system. Additional support for the concept of a role of endogenous opiates in immunomodulation was obtained by the results of in vivo tests with experimentally induced stress in Mytilus. Following their stress-induced stimulation, these animals' immunocytes could be shown to become exposed for some time to a measurable rise in endogenous morphine-like material (9 pmol/ml increasing to 59). These immunocytes, like those preincubated with exogenous morphine, displayed a heightened sensitivity to stimulation by LPS (control 21.3 +/- 3.1% activation compared to 47.2 +/- 5.1) when the morphine levels dropped. The mechanism of this enhancement of responsiveness to immunostimulation following the prolonged exposure of immunocytes to morphine, and its relationship with the known short-term immunoinhibitory opiate effects on the immune system, remains to be ascertained.
In this study, we investigated the capacity of murine cortical neurons to express interleukin-6 (IL-6) mRNA and protein in culture. Using in situ hybridization techniques, IL-6 mRNA was localized to neuronal cells in these cultures. Moreover, IL-6 mRNA expression as measured by in situ and PCR was shown to be upregulated by the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). This was consistent with the dose and time-dependent increases in IL-6 secreted protein observed from cultures stimulated with IL-1 beta and TNF-alpha. Taken together, the data suggest that neurons are capable of participating more directly in the CNS cytokine network than previously thought and may play an important role in the inflammatory response activities in the brain.


1. The precise physical definitions of stress as a force per unit area and of strain as the deformation of a solid subjected to that force are conceptually similar to the demands placed upon living organisms and the responses of organisms to those demands. 2. Cannon recognized that a &quot;breaking strain&quot; at a &quot;critical stress&quot; level can overwhelm homeostatic mechanisms and suggested that such a state is signaled by appearance of &quot;secondary, irrelevant effects.&quot; The primary mechanisms of maintaining homeostasis are highly specific; and compensatory responses are mediated by the autonomic nervous system, and the less specific responses are mediated by the adrenal medullary hormone, epinephrine. 3. Selye extended this concept to include other hormonal responses, particularly of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, as components of a stereotypic response common to all stresses. He redefined stress as a state in which this stereospecific response has been evoked and popularized the notion that a variety of diseases are produced as a result of excessive or deficient adaptive processes during the stress response. 4. Both Cannon and Selye recognized that the responses to stresses differ among individuals and that such differences are due to genetic differences as modified by experience (Selye called these &quot;conditioning factors&quot;). Both attributed highly specific homeostatic responses to nervous control and both recognized that hormonal responses are necessarily less specific than neuronal responses. 5. Selye's concept of a single stereotypic syndrome that results from any demand upon the body, however, needs to be modified to reflect differences in the pattern of responses to various stresses. Data on responses to several stresses show that when homeostatic mechanisms do not predominate, the pattern of nonspecific, particularly hormonal, responses may differ among stresses. The essential fact, however, that most demands upon the body, when exceeding a critical level, elicit an array of complex neuroendocrine responses, and that these responses may have harmful effects, remains a landmark contribution.
The hypothalamic-pituitary adrenocortical (HPA) system and sympathoneural and adrenomedullary systems are major effector systems that serve to maintain homeostasis during stress. Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus, a determinant of both HPA and autonomic responses to stress, is under the control of many neurotransmitters and neuropeptides. Norepinephrine (NE) potently stimulates CRH neurons in the PVN; however, the physiologic role of NE in stress-induced activation of the HPA is unknown. In the present study we exposed animals to various stressors (immobilization (IMMO), cold (COLD), hemorrhage (HEM), hypoglycemia elicited by insulin administration (INS), pain and tissue damage caused by formalin injection (FORM) and sc injection of physiological saline (SAL), all of which are known to activate the HPA axis. Injection of physiological saline iv was used as a control. In vivo microdialysis was used to assess stressor- and intensity-specific activation of the PVN noradrenergic system, based on measurements of NE, its intraneuronal metabolite dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), and the dopamine metabolite, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC). Simultaneously with microdialysate collections, blood samples were obtained via catheters in the femoral artery to measure plasma ACTH and corticosterone (CORT) levels as dependent measures, to assess stress-induced activation of the HPA axis. At their highest intensities, all the stressors significantly increased levels of PVN microdialysate NE, DHPG, and DOPAC, and plasma ACTH and CORT. PVN NE levels varied across stressors, with IMMO and FORM more potent than INS, COLD, or HEM. INS and HEM evoked proportionately larger plasma ACTH responses than did IMMO, FORM, and COLD. Plasma CORT responses were largest during IMMO, FORM, and HEM. Except for COLD and HEM, there was a strong correlation of plasma ACTH levels with levels of NE, DHPG, and DOPAC in PVN microdialysate. The data suggest that, except for COLD or HEM, there is a strong positive correlation of PVN noradrenergic activation and activity of the HPA axis. With stressors such as IMMO and FORM, NE synthesis, reflected by DOPAC changes, is strongly positively correlated with activity of the HPA axis. Furthermore, the results indicate substantial stressor specificity of PVN catecholaminergic and of HPA responses to different stressors and are inconsistent with a founding tenet of Selye's stress theory, the doctrine of nonspecificity, which defines stress as the nonspecific response of the body to any demand.

Intravenous administration of gamma2-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (gamma2-MSH) to conscious rats causes a dose-dependent increase in blood pressure and heart rate, while the structurally related peptide adrenocorticotropic hormone-(4-10) (ACTH-(4-10)) is 5-10 times less potent in this respect. This prompted us to investigate which amino acid sequence is determinant for the cardiovascular selectivity of peptides of the gamma-MSH family. Lys-gamma2-MSH, most likely the endogenously occurring gamma-MSH analog, was as potent as gamma2-MSH in inducing increases in blood pressure and heart rate. Removal of C-terminal amino acids resulted in gamma-MSH-fragments which were devoid of cardiovascular activities. Removal of amino acids from the N-terminal side of gamma2-MSH resulted in fragments which were less potent, but had an intrinsic activity not different from that of gamma-MSH. Surprisingly, gamma-MSH-(6-12) was more potent than gamma2-MSH. The shortest fragment which displayed pressor and tachycardiac responses was the MSH 'core', His-Phe-Arg-Trp (= gamma-MSH-(5-8)), which is identical to ACTH-(6-9). This was corroborated by testing fragments of ACTH-(4-10). We conclude that the message essential for cardiovascular effects resides in the gamma-MSH-(5-8)/ACTH-(6-9) sequence. Proper C-terminal elongation is required for full expression of cardiovascular activity of gamma2-MSH, as the sequence of Asp9-Arg10-Phe11 appears to play an important role in establishing intrinsic activity. The amino acids N-terminal to the MSH 'core' sequence appear to be essential for the potency of the peptides.
3 weeks following cessation of intermittent morphine administration (10 mg/kg, s.c., once daily for 14 days), [3H]dopamine and [14C]acetylcholine release induced by 10 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) from superfused rat striatal slices appeared to be significantly higher than the release from striatal slices from saline-treated rats. A similar adaptive increase of the NMDA-evoked release of these neurotransmitters was observed in slices of the nucleus accumbens, whereas that of [3H]noradrenaline from hippocampal slices remained unchanged. Blockade of dopamine D2 receptors by 10 microM (--)-sulpiride enhanced NMDA-induced [3H]dopamine and [14C]acetylcholine release from striatal slices from saline-treated animals, but was found to be ineffective in this respect following intermittent morphine treatment. Moreover, morphine administration appeared to cause a profound decrease in the apparent affinity of the full dopamine D2 receptor agonist LY171555 (quinpirole) for these release-inhibitory dopamine D2 receptors, indicating the occurrence of dopamine D2 receptor desensitization. It is suggested that such a desensitization of dopamine D2 receptors on dopaminergic nerve terminals as well as on cholinergic interneurons may play a pivotal role in the long-lasting nature of behavioural sensitization upon cessation of treatment with morphine and possibly other drugs of abuse.
We studied the effects of chronic forced swim stress on 5-HT2 receptors and beta-adrenoceptors in the rat frontal cortex. The number of 5-HT2 receptors was increased immediately after the last chronic stress, but not after an acute stress. In vivo, the number of wet-dog shakes induced by a 5-HT2 receptor agonist, (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI), was increased 24 h after the last chronic stress. However, the concentrations of 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA), measured by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC), were not altered by this stress. Binding sites for [3H]CGP-12177, i.e., beta-adrenoceptor sites, were unchanged after both the acute and the chronic stress. These results suggest that, in the rat, the chronic forced swim stress increases the number of frontal cortical 5-HT2 receptors and the number of wet-dog shakes mediated by these receptors, while the number of frontal cortical beta-adrenoceptors is not increased by this treatment.
The sequence upstream from the first exon in the rat mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptor-encoding gene (MBR) was analyzed for transcriptional promoter activity by three techniques: promoter deletion analysis in vectors containing the gene cat encoding chloramphenicol acetyltransferase, electrophoretic mobility shift analysis (EMSA) and DNase I protection assay. All three methods are in uniformity with the identification of at least three regulatory elements corresponding to locations -51/-33, -267/-249 and -555/-526. The most distal and proximal domains are positive-acting, whereas the element at -267/-249 acts in a negative manner. The positive-acting -51/-33 element contains the middle of three consensus Sp1-recognition sequences found in this region of the gene. Binding of Y1 cell nuclear protein to a DNA fragment corresponding to this region of the gene is competed by a synthetic oligodeoxyribonucleotide bearing the consensus Sp1-binding site sequence. These studies provide the first reported functional evidence localizing transcriptional elements of MBR.
Human astrocytoma cells were studied using whole-cell patch-clamp recording. Voltage-dependent outwardly-rectifying anion currents were identified in primary cultures of six freshly resected human brain tumors and in seven established anaplastic astrocytoma/glioblastoma cell lines (U251MG, CH235MG, U373MG, U105MG, D54MG, SK-MG-1, and STTG1). Anion currents were not observed in normal, non-neoplastic glial cells, nor in human tumor-derived cells of non-glial origin (melanoma, breast cancer, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma). Currents activated at potentials &gt; 50 mV and showed large transients upon termination of voltage steps. Currents reversed at the predicted equilibrium potential for chloride ions and could also be recorded when Cl- was replaced by F-, Br- or I-. Currents were inhibited by the Cl- channel blockers chlorotoxin, DIDS, and DNDS. These Cl- currents may play a role in the growth control of astrocytoma cells.
There is increasing evidence that oxygen free radicals (OFR) are involved in cerebral ischaemia-reperfusion injury, possibly via a modulation of Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity, one of the major membrane pumps responsible for ionic homeostasis. We measured OFR-mediated modulation of this enzymatic activity and examined the roles of lipid and/or protein alterations. Using mouse brain microsomes exposed to UV-C irradiation, our results show a good correlation between activity inhibition and lipoperoxidation estimated by PUFA loss as well as malondialdehyde production. The protective effect of thiourea (OH scavenger) and the lack of effect noted with DTT (thiol protector) suggest that the functionality of the Na+,K(+)-ATPase is altered by perturbation of membrane integrity rather than by a structural alteration of the protein itself.
Polyclonal and monoclonal anti-homocysteate antibodies were used with a postembedding immunohistochemical method for light microscopy to localize homocysteate-like immunoreactivity in human primary visual cortex. Densely accumulated dots of diverse size resembling astrocytic processes were labelled in supragranular layers, mainly in layers I and II. Some glial elements intermingled with fibre bundles in the white matter, and astrocytic endfeet in the vicinity of capillaries were also stained. In addition, very few round or elongated neuronal cell bodies in layer IVc were intensely homocysteate immunoreactive. These observations extend to human primary visual cortex previous studies on the preferential localization of L-homocysteate in glia.
Single units were recorded in the prefrontal cortex of two monkeys performing a simple visual detection task. Task difficulty was manipulated in consecutive blocks of trials to increase the degree of attention towards the stimulus. Fifteen percent of the neurones sampled exhibited a systematic change in the average preparatory discharge rate in relation to task difficulty. Behavioural data (changes in reaction time and error ratios, 'difficult' probe trials presented in the 'easy' context) suggested that increased attention was actually induced. These results show the sensitivity of a population of prefrontal neurones to the behavioural context which determine the level of attention. The preparatory nature of the observed changes may be of special functional significance for the control of effortful attention.
It has been reported that frontal lobe structures are critical for the generation of P300 activity in the human event-related potential (ERP) evoked by novel events. In this study spatial-temporal dipole model analyses were employed to obtain further evidence on the temporal dynamics and the approximate location of neuronal activity involved in P300 generation for target and novel events. A triple dipole configuration was found to describe the scalp recorded P300 activity for novel and target events with less than 2.5% residual variance. For the novel, but not the target dipole configuration a frontally oriented dipole was obtained whose temporal activity function suggests that the brain areas involved in the processing of novel events are engaged about 70 ms earlier than those relevant for target processing.
To investigate the role of activity-dependent mechanisms in sensory transmitter development, we examined the effect of depolarizing stimuli on tyrosine hydroxylase expression and dopamine synthesis in cells of the fetal rat petrosal ganglion, a model of catecholaminergic sensory neurons. Although dopaminergic traits are normally detectable in only 10-20% of ganglion neurones, exposure to depolarizing concentrations of potassium chloride (40 mM) or veratridine (10 microM) in culture induced tyrosine hydroxylase expression in 100% of petrosal neurons and a 10-fold increase in dopamine content. Tyrosine hydroxylase expression remained elevated in a subset of neurons following return to control conditions, suggesting that chronic depolarization elicits a phenotypic switch in some cells. These data show for the first time that transmitter expression in developing sensory neurons can be regulated by activity-related cues.
Most early-onset familial Alzheimer disease is associated with missense mutations in S182, a membrane protein on chromosome 14. We investigated amyloid-beta protein (A beta) precursor (A beta PP) metabolism in skin fibroblasts from S182 (Glu246)-affected individuals and unaffected family members. Steady-state A beta PP levels were similar among all lines as was the degree of increase in soluble A beta PP released upon stimulation of cells with either phorbol ester or serum. Among all lines studied, A beta levels were consistently detectable only in the medium of a single line of S182 (Glu246) cells, consistent with the conclusion that some S182 mutant lines may accumulate A beta in their conditioned media. Studies of cells from additional individuals and under other conditions will be required to establish this association of elevated A beta levels with S182 mutations.
In situ hybridization was used to localize mRNA encoding two cooperative serine/threonine kinase receptors. Activin receptor IIA mRNA in the adult rat brain is highly expressed in the dentate gyrus, in the pyramidal neurones of CA3 and CA1, in the entorhinal cortex, in the cortical amygdaloid nucleus and in the amygdalohippocampal area. In the E16 rat embryo, labelling was found in the dorsal root ganglion neurones and in the spinal cord. Activin type I receptor (ALK-2/R-1) labelling was also localized to the hippocampal formation but with an even distribution over the granular cells of the dentate gyrus, the CA3 and CA1 pyramidal neurones, while no labelling was found in the entorhinal or amygdaloid areas. In the E16 rat no neuronal labelling was found. The incomplete overlap of these two expression patterns suggests that these receptors may locally have other partners for forming signalling receptor complexes.
Using positron emission tomography (PET) and [15O]butanol we studied regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) to a visual snake stimulus before and after classical conditioning with an unconditioned electric shock delivered to the right hand. Measures of heart rate, electrodermal activity, state anxiety and subjective distress confirmed classical conditioning of physiological and subjective responses. Subcortically, conditioning increased rCBF bilaterally in the ventromedial thalamus, the posterior hypothalamus and the central grey of the midbrain. Cortically, rCBF increased in the left anterior and posterior cingulate gyrus, the left primary somatosensory cortex, the left premotor cortex and bilaterally in parietal areas. Thus, the functional organization of classical conditioning in humans involves autonomic, affective and attentive brain mechanisms.
Agents that interfere with the toxic effects of beta-amyloid protein may be therapeutically useful against Alzheimer's disease. We reported recently that several sulphated glycosaminoglycans and sulphonated dyes attenuate the toxic effects of beta-amyloid fragments beta 25-35 and beta 1-40 in two clonal cell lines. We now demonstrate that this protective effect is due to interference with beta-amyloid cell association rather than effects on beta-amyloid structure. Using an enzyme-linked immunoabsorbance assay to detect cell-associated beta 1-40, we found in a range of compounds a strong correlation between inhibition of HeLa cell association of beta 1-40 and attenuation of cellular toxicity as measured by inhibition of 3-[4,5-dimethylthia-zol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction. In contrast, effects on peptide structure, as measured by Congo red binding, were generally inconsistent with the attenuating effects of the compounds on cellular toxicity. These results suggest that by binding beta-amyloid these agents prevent its interaction with cells.
Sympathetic neurons innervating sweat glands undergo a target-directed switch in neurotransmitter properties. Although the factor responsible for inducing this switch has not been identified, it appears to be a member of the neuropoietic cytokine family. Cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1), a new family member, was analyzed to determine whether it was a relevant factor. CT-1 induced choline acetyl-transferase and vasoactive intestinal peptide in cultured sympathetic neurons, and RT/PCR amplified CT-1 mRNA from footpad total RNA. The differentiation activity of CT-1 was blocked by CT-1 antiserum. The activity in sweat gland extracts and cultures was not, however, suggesting that CT-1 is not the sweat gland-derived factor.
Little is known about the neural substrates of indirect forms of memory such as priming. Electrophysiological (ERP) and behavioral data were recorded from controls and three patients with damage in the right parahippocampal and lingual gyri, with variable extension into posterior hippocampus and striate/extrastriate cortex. Visually presented words and non-words were repeated after one of three delays in a lexical decision task. The late positive ERP deflection related to stimulus repetition was diminished at all scalp sites, suggesting dysfunction in a neural system associated with priming. The patients also failed to show significant reaction time priming at intermediate and long delays. These results demonstrate the importance of right inferior temporal-occipital cortex for ERP and behavioral manifestations of verbal priming.
Prefrontal projections to the magnocellular basal amygdaloid nucleus (Bmg) of the rat were investigated using Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) as an anterograde tracer. Electron microscopic examination revealed that most axon terminals in Bmg labeled by PHA-L injections into the prelimbic area contained round synaptic vesicles and made asymmetric synapses. The great majority of labeled terminals (93%) made synaptic contact with dendritic spines; a few contacts (7%) were seen with thin dendrites. These findings indicate that the main postsynaptic targets of PFC afferents to Bmg are spiny pyramidal neurons, the projection neurons of the basolateral amygdala. The morphology of the synapses suggests that they are excitatory.
Measurements were made of human observers' performance both in segmenting regions of line-elements and in detecting line-element targets in stimuli containing several orientations. Performance was modelled by four artificial neural networks constructed from processing units trained to mimic the gross functionality of certain loosely defined classes of cortical cells. Model 1 contained modules sensitive to absolute orientation only, and it provided a poor fit to the human-performance data. Model 2 contained modules sensitive to orientation contrast: the outputs of these modules could be suppressed with fields of uniformly oriented line-elements. Model 3 contained orientation-contrast-sensitive modules of a different type: their outputs could be suppressed with fields of randomly oriented line-elements. Models 2 and 3 both successfully processed line-element arrays with orientation heterogeneities, but these models still provided inadequate fits to the human-performance data. Model 4 contained both types of orientation-contrast-sensitive modules; this model was able to account for human performance in the segmentation and detection tasks, both qualitatively and quantitatively.
Three days after long-term potentiation (LTP) there is a decrease in the gene expression of protein F1 (GAP-43) and gamma-PKC in CA3 pyramidal cells that is correlated with the magnitude of LTP. We predicted these decreases would be preceded by an increment in gene expression. At 1 h, but not at 2 h after LTP, F1/GAP-43 and gamma-PKC mRNA hybridization were increased, but increases were also observed after control stimulation. At both 1 and 2 h after LTP, changes in F1/GAP-43 hybridization were positively correlated with gamma-PKC hybridization and negatively correlated with LTP magnitude. These data indicate that correlated alterations in F1/GAP-43 gene expression and synaptic efficacy can occur as early as 1 h after LTP and persist for days.
Transient transfection experiments indicate that a 5'-flanking upstream domain, residing between -437 and -262 bp of the human dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) gene, has a cell type-specific silencer function. This domain contains a putative silencer motif (which we designate DBH negative regulatory element, DNRE), showing sequence homology with the neural-restrictive silencer element (NRSE or RE-1) recently characterized in type II sodium channel, SCG10 and synapsin I genes. When the DNRE was placed at the proximal 262 bp of the homologous (DBH) promoter, it exhibited strong silencer activity both in DBH-expressing SK-N-BE(2)C as well as in DBH-nonexpressing HeLa cells. In addition, the DNRE also exhibited modest silencer activity upon a heterologous tk (herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase) promoter in both cell lines. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay demonstrated that nuclear extracts from both SK-N-BE(2)C and HeLa cells contain protein(s) that specifically bind to the DNRE. Formation of this DNRE/protein complex was specifically inhibited by an excess of unlabeled DNRE or NRSE. Finally, a similar sequence motif residing in the corresponding upstream area of the rat DBH gene also had a negative regulatory function, indicating that the silencer function of the DNRE is conserved in human and rat DBH genes.
A number of volatile organic solvents have been shown to be ototoxic to rats, but there is little information regarding how solvents might act in this way when encountered in combination. To examine this issue, male Long Evans rats were exposed by inhalation to pairs of solvents known to be ototoxic when administered individually; those reported on here are trichloroethylene+toluene, mixed xylenes+trichloroethylene, xylenes+chlorobenzene, and chlorobenzene+toluene. Rats were exposed 8 h/day for 5 consecutive days, using complementary proportions of isoeffective concentrations of the solvents alone. Hearing was assessed by brainstem-evoked response audiometry. The effects were as predicted by a linear dose-addition model, indicating additive rather than synergistic or antagonistic interactions at the concentrations studied.
The effects of tacrine (5 mg/kg i.p.) in lithium chloride (LiCl; 12 mEq/kg i.p.)-pretreated (24 h beforehand) animals and of kainate (10 mg/kg i.p.) on brain citrulline, the co-product of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis, were studied in rats. High performance liquid chromatography analysis of whole brain tissue homogenates from rats treated with LiCl and tacrine revealed a significant increase in citrulline content before the onset of seizures. This effect was prevented in a stereoselective manner by N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10 mg/kg i.p., given 20 min before tacrine), an inhibitor of NO synthase. By contrast, kainic acid (10 mg/kg i.p.) did not affect significantly brain citrulline during the pre-convulsive period. In conclusion, our data indicate that in rats seizures induced by LiCl and tacrine but not kainic acid are triggered by excessive NO production in the brain.
(-)-Pentazocine is active in the tailflick assay in CD-1 mice, although it shows a biphasic dose-response curve with a peak effect of only 30%. Co-administration of haloperidol shifts the dose-response curve to the left and elevates the maximal response to 70% through a blockade of sigma 1 receptors, but the curve remains biphasic. (+)-Pentazocine is inactive in all antinociceptive assays, either alone or with haloperidol. The analgesic actions of (-)-pentazocine are readily reversed by nor-binaltorphimine, but not by the mu-selective opioid receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine, implying a kappa 1-opioid receptor mechanism of action. This conclusion is supported by the ability of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides directed against the KOR-1 clone, which encodes the kappa 1-opioid receptor, to block (-)-pentazocine analgesia.
Rats pretreated with an intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of 10 pmol of vasopressin or vasopressin analogs, including deamino-D-vasopressin, [pGlu4,Cyt6]vasopressin, [pGlu-Asn-Cys(Cys)]Pro-Leu-Gly-NH2, des-Gly-NH9(2)-vasopressin, Pro-Leu-Gly-NH2, Pro-Arg-Gly-NH2, became markedly hyper-responsive to the motor effects, 24 h later, to a subsequent challenge dose of vasopressin, but not vasopressin-related peptides. A vasopressin V1 receptor antagonist, [d(CH2)1(5),Tyr(Me)2]vasopressin, but not the vasopressin V2 receptor antagonist, [d(CH2)1(5),Tyr(Et)2,Val4]vasopressin, or a more selective vasopressin V2 receptor antagonist, [d(CH2)1(5),D-Ile2,Ile4]vasopressin, or the oxytocin receptor antagonist, [d(CH2)1(5),Tyr(Me)2,Thr4,Orn8,Tyr-NH9(2)]vasotocin ([d(CH2)1(5),Tyr(Me)2,Thr4,Tyr-NH9(2)]OVT), blocked vasopressin and vasopressin analog-induced sensitization. Furthermore, both vasopressin V2 receptor antagonists were found to sensitize the brain to a subsequent vasopressin injection. This vasopressin V2 receptor antagonist-induced sensitization was also blocked by the vasopressin V1 receptor antagonist. Next, we wanted to determine if this sensitization process could involve the release of endogenous vasopressin in the brain as reflected in an amplification of vasopressin mRNA expression. However pretreatment of rats with an i.c.v. vasopressin injection was not associated with an increase in vasopressin mRNA expression in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial amygdala or the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus when measured 0, 1, 3, 7, 12, or 24 h after the first vasopressin injection. As many vasopressin analogs can induce sensitization, we suggest that a novel type of receptor may be involved in the sensitization process.
2',4'-dimethylbenzamilamiloride (DMB), a somewhat selective inhibitor of the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchanger, in concentrations of 10, 30 and 100 microM did not produce any significant effect on baseline prolactin release from anterior pituitary cells in primary culture. When prolactin secretion was stimulated by the inhibitor of the Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase, ouabain, that activates the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchanger as a Ca(2+)-influx pathway, DMB was able to produce inhibition of prolactin secretion. 5-(N,N-hexamethylene) amiloride (HMA), another amiloride analog which specifically inhibits the Na(+)-H+ antiporter and has no inhibitory activity on the Na(+)-Ca2+ exchanger, at the concentrations of 0.1, 1 and 10 microM, did not affect basal prolactin release whereas it significantly reduced prolactin release stimulated by thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) (1 microM). These results suggest that the Na(+)-Ca2+ antiporter is involved in the process of prolactin release elicited by the inhibition of the Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase whereas the Na(+)-H+ antiporter is involved in the prolactin secretion elicited by TRH.
In order to provide further support for a role of central nitric oxide as a mediator of penile erection and yawning, the nitric oxide donors sodium nitroprusside, hydroxylamine, isoamyl nitrite and S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine were injected into the lateral ventricles (i.c.v.) or into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of male rats. Of the above compounds injected i.c.v., only isoamyl nitrite (10-100 micrograms) induced penile erection and yawning, while the others induced dramatic behavioral changes, such as motor hyperactivity and convulsions, that masked the above responses. Nevertheless, nitric oxide donors in doses ranging from 10 to 50 micrograms, for except S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine that was injected only at the dose of 10 micrograms and isoamyl nitrite that was not injected at all because of poor solubility, induced penile erection and yawning when injected in the paraventricular nucleus. Nitric oxide donor-induced responses were prevented by methylene blue and LY 83583, inhibitors of guanylate cyclase, the best known target of nitric oxide, given i.c.v. but not in the paraventricular nucleus. However, 8-bromo-guanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-Br-cGMP), a stable cGMP analog, and hemoglobin, a nitric oxide scavenger, were ineffective in inducing and preventing, respectively, penile erection and yawning when injected either i.c.v. or in the paraventricular nucleus. Nitric oxide donor-induced responses were also prevented by the nonapeptide oxytocin receptor antagonist d(CH2)5-Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin given i.c.v. but not in the paraventricular nucleus. The present results suggest that nitric oxide donors induce penile erection and yawning by activating central oxytocinergic transmission in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus via a cGMP-independent mechanism.
The sequences of coiled coils are characterized by a repeating heptad of amino acids, abcdefg, in which the a and d residues are generally hydrophobic and form the interface between the two alpha-helices. In this study, rat and chicken alpha-tropomyosins (alpha-TMs) have been used as models to determine whether the effects of mutations on the stability of two-stranded coiled coils can be predicted by a simple algorithm. The thermal stabilities of three wild-type muscle alpha-TMs and nine chimeras, in which the second and/or sixth or ninth coding exons of one alpha-TM cDNA were replaced with exons from other alpha-TM cDNAs, with a sequence encoding the GCN4 leucine zipper or a random coil sequence, have been obtained using circular dichroism spectroscopy. Tropomyosin is almost completely helical along its entire length, but there is no correlation of the thermal stability of the alpha-TMs with the helical propensity of their component amino acids. The stability can be predicted (P = 0.90), however, by assigning a weight to every amino acid residue in each sequence, depending on its frequency of occurrence at the abcdef or g position in a data base of coiled-coil fibrous proteins, and summing all the weights. The correlation improves if only the residues at the a and d interface are counted (P = 0.94). The major factor modulating the thermal stability appears to be the hydrophobicity of the residues at the coiled-coil interface, since there is a high correlation (P = 0.91) of the TM values with the sum of the hydrophobic moments of the residues found at the a and d positions.
The two globular Ca(2+)-binding domains of troponin C are connected by a three-turn, exposed central helix. The requirements of this helical linker for regulatory function are not fully understood. In the present work we investigated the structural requirement of the linker using a series of insertion mutations that differ in predicted flexibility. TnCinrc has a nine-residue flexible random coil insert, TnCinpp has a nine-residue rigid polyproline insert (three turns), and TnCin alpha h has a seven-residue insert with high potential of forming alpha-helix. TnCinrc and TnCinpp were defective in the activation of the regulated actomyosin ATPase activity in the presence of Ca2+ when compared to wild type or TnCin alpha h, suggesting that altering the flexibility of the central helix impairs the regulatory function of troponin C. TnCin alpha h, TnCinrc, and TnCinpp had 87% +/- 3, 62% +/- 3, and 58% +/- 2 of the wild type activity, respectively (n = 6). All insertions in the central helix resulted in elongation of molecule compared to wild type TnC as determined by Stokes' radius. The Ca(2+)-affinity, the Ca(2+)-dependence of the actomyosin ATPase, and the stability of the insertion mutants were similar to wild type. Deletions of up to two turns of the central helix have little effect on troponin C function [Dobrowolski, Z., Xu, G-Q., &amp; Hitchcock-DeGregori, S. E. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 5703-5710]. In another mutant (TnCd11) the entire central helix, 87KEDAKGKSEEE97, was deleted. With TnCd11, activation of the actomyosin ATPase activity in the presence of Ca2+ was normal, but inhibition in the absence of Ca2+ was less effective. Interaction of TnCd11 with TnI was altered. There was a 2-fold excess of TnCd11 in reconstituted Tn complex, consistent with another report [Babu, A., Rao, V. G, Su, H., &amp; Gulati, J. (1993) J. Biol. Chem. 268, 19232-19238]. Our results suggest that the native length and structure of the central helix are optimal for normal regulatory function and that connectivity alone is insufficient for TnC function.
Microinjection of L-glutamate into a restricted area of the medullary gigantocellular reticular formation, the gigantocellular depressor area (GiDA), lowers arterial pressure. Unlike the nuclei tractus solitarii and the caudal ventrolateral medulla, the two principle medullary vasodepressor areas, the GiDA projects directly to the spinal cord and not to the rostral ventrolateral medulla (Aicher et al. [1994] Neuroscience 60:761-779). We investigated whether neurons within GiDA directly innervate autonomic areas of the thoracic spinal cord. Fluoro-Gold injected into the thoracic spinal cord labeled neurons within functionally defined vasodepressor sites in the GiDA in the same animal. To examine the morphology of GiDA efferents to the spinal cord, the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin was iontophoresed into the GiDA, and efferent processes in the intermediolateral cell column and nucleus intercalatus spinalis were examined by electron microscopy. Labeling was confined to axons and axon terminals (n = 144) that usually contained primarily small clear vesicles, contacted large and small dendrites, and formed symmetric (inhibitory) synapses. To determine whether some of the postsynaptic targets of GiDA efferent terminals in the thoracic spinal cord were sympathoadrenal preganglionic neurons, these neurons were retrogradely labeled from the adrenal gland with Fluoro-Gold in rats that had deposits of the anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextran amine (BDA), in the GiDA. Some BDA-containing terminals formed symmetric synapses with dendrites containing Fluoro-Gold. We conclude that a population of neurons in the GiDA monosynaptically innervates some sympathetic preganglionic neurons. The findings suggest the presence of a novel reticulospinal sympathoinhibitory projection originating in the GiDA.
The architecture of the pulvinar of rhesus monkeys was investigated by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry, and by immunocytochemistry for calbindin-D28k and the SMI-32 antibody. The presence of four inferior subdivisions, comparable to those found in architectonic-connectional studies in squirrel monkeys (C.G. Cusick, J.L. Scripter, J.G. Darensbourg, and J.T. Weber, 1993, J. Comp. Neurol. 336:1-30), provided a basis for a proposed revised terminology for visual sectors of the macaque pulvinar. In the present study, the inferior pulvinar (PI) was identified as a neurochemically distinct region that included the traditional cytoarchitectonic nucleus PI and adjacent portions of the lateral and medial pulvinar nuclei, PL and PM. In calbindin-D28k stains, the lateral subdivision of the inferior pulvinar (PIL) had less intense neuropil staining than the adjacent central division, PIC. The PIL was characterized by large, intensely immunopositive neurons seldom found within PIC. PIL occupied the traditional PL and PI and exhibited a narrow shell zone, PIL-S, restricted to PL. The medial division of the inferior pulvinar (PIM) was in a location previously shown to be strongly connected with the middle temporal visual area (MT) in macaques. PIM was found in the medial one-half of the traditional PI and extended into adjacent portions of the traditional PM and PL. PIM was distinguished by less intense neuropil staining for calbindin and many cells stained with the SMI-32 antibody for neurofilament protein. In AChE stains, PIL was moderately dark, PIC appeared lighter, and PIM was characterized by small, intensely stained patches. The small posterior division (PIP) stained darkly for calbindin, lightly for AChE, and was unstained with the SMI-32 antibody. Thus, neurochemical, and perhaps connectional, subdivisions exist within PI, the region of the pulvinar that relays information to striate, &quot;lower order&quot; extrastriate, and inferotemporal visual cortex.
The transfer of adult male hamsters from long days (LD) to short days (SD) (i.e. &lt; 12 h of light per day) typically results in marked testicular regression and a decline in plasma testosterone concentrations. To help disclose key brain regions responsible for mediating this photoperiodic response male hamsters received either chemical (i.e. N-methyl-D-aspartate; NMDA) or radiofrequency current lesions in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), and were then exposed to SD for 15 or 12 weeks, respectively. Although body weights were similar between sham-lesioned controls and the NMDA-lesioned hamsters, the latter showed a significant attenuation of testicular regression; additionally, their plasma testosterone concentrations remained at typical LD levels. When radiofrequency current-lesioned hamsters were transferred from LD to SD they also failed to show significant signs of testicular regression, nor a decline in plasma testosterone concentrations, nor a complete arrest of spermatogenesis. In contrast, sham-lesioned controls or hamsters that were lesioned dorsally to the BNST at a site primarily involving the lateral septum all showed the expected degree of testicular regression, a decline in plasma testosterone concentrations, and complete arrest of spermatogenesis; body weights were similar in all of the experimental group. Taken together, these findings suggest that the BNST, a brain area traditionally not associated with reproductive function, may play an important role in mediating photoperiodic information to the neural circuits that control the reproductive axis.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) has recently been demonstrated in sensory neurons. In the present study on rat 17.5% of all neurons, mainly of small size, contained PACAP in normal dorsal root ganglia (DRGs). Transection of the sciatic nerve induced a rapid and strong upregulation in PACAP peptide and mRNA levels which could be seen already after 15 h. After 3 days more than 51.5% of neurons of different sizes expressed PACAP. However, the intensity of PACAP-LI in the DRG neurons declined after 10 days. Thirty days after axotomy, 56.7% of the DRG neurons still expressed PACAP, but with a low intensity, in fact even lower than in normal controls. No VIP- or NPY-positive neurons were observed in normal or axotomized DRGs at 15 h. However a distinct increase in VIP and NPY levels were seen 3 days after the lesion, and their levels were considerably higher after 30 days. PACAP was often present in neurons expressing VIP, NPY and/or galanin. Thus, 3 days after injury, PACAP was present in 84.4%, 95.7%, and 76.8% of the VIP-, NPY-, and galanin-positive neurons, respectively. PACAP was also found in nerve fibers in control sciatic nerves. After nerve ligation, accumulation of PACAP was seen mainly proximal to the injury but also distally, suggesting both anterograde and retrograde transport of the peptide. Also a moderate increase (about 20%) in PACAP levels was found in the superficial spinal dorsal horn 3 days after nerve transection. Taken together, our results suggest that PACAP is involved in the response to nerve injury. The very high levels of expression in different populations of DRG neurons after axotomy, and its different time course as compared to galanin, NPY and VIP indicate that it may play a complementary and/or different role than these peptides in the adaptation to nerve injury, especially in its early phase.
To define DNA regions involved in the neuron-specific expression of the neurofilament light (NF-L) gene, we generated transgenic mice bearing different NF-L constructs. A 4.9-kilobase human NF-L fragment including -292 base pairs of 5'-flanking sequences contained sufficient elements for nervous system expression in transgenic mice. Deletion of introns 1 and 2 from this 4.9-kilobase DNA fragment resulted in reduced levels of transgene expression in the cortex, while deletion of intron 3 had little effect. Both introns 1 and 2 could act independently as enhancers to confer neuronal expression of the basal heat shock promoter (hsp68) fused to lacZ in transgenic mice. The hNF-L basal promoter (-292 base pairs) was found to contain elements for directing neuronal expression of either the lacZ reporter gene or an intronless hNF-L construct. Sequence comparison revealed that intron 1, intron 2, and the basal human NF-L promoter all contain an ETS-like motif, CAGGA, present in a variety of genes expressed in the nervous system.
The cerebellar cortex is implicated in the learning of complex motor skills. This learning may require synaptic remodeling of Purkinje cell inputs. An extracellular serine protease, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), is involved in remodeling various nonneural tissues and is associated with developing and regenerating neurons. In situ hybridization showed that expression of tPA messenger RNA was increased in the Purkinje neurons of rats within an hour of their being trained for a complex motor task. Antibody to tPA also showed the induction of tPA protein associated with cerebellar Purkinje cells. Thus, the induction of tPA during motor learning may play a role in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity.
The neuropeptide oxytocin (OT) has been shown to function as a neurotransmitter and/or neuromodulator in addition to its hormonal function in the periphery in the adult central nervous system (CNS). Previously, we have studied the postnatal neurogenesis of the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei and ontogeny of arginine vasopressin-like immunoreactivity in the Brazilian opossum brain, Monodelphis domestica. In this study, we have described the ontogeny of oxytocin-like immunoreactivity (OT-IR) in the opossum brain. As a marsupial, opossum pups are in an extremely immature state, with neurogenesis and morphogenesis continuing into the second week of postnatal life. Thus, opossum pups are a good model for developmental studies. In the adult opossum brain, OT-IR was localized in regions as reported for the adult rat and other species, except for a few differences. These findings suggest similar functional roles for OT in the adult opossum brain as in other mammals. Unlike the prenatal expression of arginine vasopressin, OT-IR was first detected in the forming median eminence on day 1 of postnatal life (1 PN). Between 3 and 5 PN, OT-IR was present in the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei and posterior pituitary. At this time, neurogenesis of these nuclei is not completed. By 10 to 15 PN, OT-IR was seen in several brain areas, and begins to resemble that of the adult between 45 and 60 PN. These results indicate that the time course of appearance of the OTnergic system does not directly parallel the early expression of the vasopressinergic system. However, the expression of OT-IR in the opossum brain before neurogenesis and morphogenesis is completed suggests a potential role for OT in developmental events. Similar to arginine vasopressin, oxytocin may also be involved in the regulation of autonomic functions that are essential for the opossum's adaptation to an ex utero environment. Future studies utilizing experimental manipulations of the OTnergic system will help determine the significance of this peptide in the neonatal opossum.
Formation of the pineal gland hormone melatonin increases markedly at night in response to light-dark environmental alterations. Melatonin is synthesized from serotonin by an initial N-acetylation followed by methylation of the 5-hydroxy moiety by hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase. Serotonin N-acetyltransferase (NAT; EC2.3.1.87), which catalyses the first reaction, is the rate-limiting enzyme in this process, and its activity increases dramatically with the onset of darkness. Because melatonin may play important biological roles in reproduction, ageing and sleep, understanding the molecular factors that regulate NAT is of particular importance. To identify proteins that regulate light-dark variations in pineal function, we used a subtractive hybridization technique based on the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to isolate rat pineal gland messages that are differentially expressed by day and night. Here we report the molecular cloning of NAT and dramatic diurnal variations in its transcription. Independently, Klein and associates have cloned NAT from sheep pineal glands.
MUC1 is a mucin-type glycoprotein that is integrally disposed in the apical plasma membrane of the lactating epithelial cell and protrudes from the cell surface into the alveolar lumen where milk is stored. Envelopment of milk fat globules by this membrane accomplishes their secretion and conveys MUC1 into milk. The human form of this mucin has been detected in many other organs, tissues and body fluids. It projects from the cell surface as long filaments. In the human and a number of other species, MUC1 is polymorphic due to variable numbers of a tandemly repeated segment 20 amino acids in length. The individual codominantly expresses two alleles for the mucin so that differences in its size among individuals and between the two forms of an individual are observed. The tandem repeats are rich in serines and threonines which serve as O-glycosylation sites. Carbohydrate content of MUC1, as isolated from milk of human, bovine and guinea pig, is approximately 50%. The oligosaccharides carry substantial sialic acid at their termini and this accounts for two putative functions of this mucin, i.e., to keep ducts and lumens open by creating a strong negative charge on the surface of epithelial cells which would repel opposite sides of a vessel, and to bind certain pathogenic microorganisms. MUC1 is protease resistant (trypsin, chymotrypsin and pepsin) and large fragments of it can be found in the feces of some but not all breast-fed infants. MUC1 has a highly varied structure because of its polymorphism, qualitative and quantitative variations in its glycosylation between tissues, individuals and species, and differences due to divergence in the nucleotide sequences among species. Sequencing of the MUC1 gene for various species is showing promise of revealing unique evolutionary relationships and has already indicated conserved aspects of the molecule that may be functionally important. Among these are positions of serine, threonine and proline in the tandem repeats and a high degree of homology in the transmembrane and cytoplasmic segments of the molecule.

A central theme of cognitive neuroscience is that different parts of the brain perform different functions. Recent evidence from neuropsychology suggests that even the processing of arbitrary stimulus categories that are defined solely by cultural conventions (e.g., letters versus digits) can become spatially segregated in the cerebral cortex. How could the processing of stimulus categories that are not innate and that have no inherent structural differences become segregated? We propose that the temporal clustering of stimuli from a given category interacts with Hebbian learning to lead to functional localization. Neural network simulations bear out this hypothesis.
Autism is a heterogeneous neuropsychiatric syndrome of unknown etiology. There is evidence that a deficiency in the enzyme adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL), essential for de novo purine biosynthesis, could be involved in the pathogenesis of certain cases. A point mutation in the ADSL gene, resulting in a predicted serine-to-proline substitution and conferring structural instability to the mutant enzyme, has been reported previously in 3 affected siblings. In order to determine the prevalence of the mutation, we PCR-amplified the exon spanning the site of this mutation from the genomic DNA of patients fulfilling DSM-III-R criteria for autistic disorder. None of the 119 patients tested were found to have this mutation. Furthermore, on preliminary screening using singlestrand conformation polymorphism (SSCP), no novel mutations were detected in the coding sequence of four ADSL exons, spanning approximately 50% of the cDNA. In light of these findings, it appears that mutations in the ADSL gene represent a distinctly uncommon cause of autism.
Adult Long-Evans female rats sustained electrolytic fimbria-fornix lesions and, two weeks later, received intrahippocampal suspension grafts of fetal septal tissue. Sham-operated and lesion-only rats served as controls. Between 6.5 and 8 months after grafting, both the [3H]choline accumulation and the electrically evoked [3H]acetylcholine ([3H]ACh) release were assessed in hippocampal slices. The release of [3H]ACh was measured in presence of atropine (muscarinic antagonist, 1 microM), physostigmine (acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, 0.1 microM), oxotremorine (muscarinic agonist, 0.01 microM-10 microM), mecamylamine (nicotinic antagonist, 10 microM), methiothepin (mixed 5-HT1/5-HT2 antagonist, 10 microM), 8-OH-DPAT (5-HT1A agonist, 1 microM), 2-methyl-serotonin (5-HT3 agonist, 1 microM) and CP 93129 (5-HT1B agonist, 0.1 microM-100 microM), or without any drug application as a control. In lesion-only rats, the specific accumulation of [3H]choline was reduced to 46% of normal and the release of [3H]ACh to 32% (nCi) and 43% (% of tissue tritium content). In the grafted rats, these parameters were significantly increased to 63%, 98% and 116% of control, respectively. Physostigmine reduced the evoked [3H]ACh release and was significantly more effective in grafted (-70%) than in sham-operated (-56%) or lesion-only (-54%) rats. When physostigmine was superfused throughout, mecamylamine had no effect. Conversely, atropine induced a significant increase of [3H]ACh release in all groups, but this increase was significantly larger in sham-operated rats (+209%) than in the other groups (lesioned: +80%; grafted: +117%). Oxotremorine dose-dependently decreased the [3H]ACh release, but in lesion-only rats, this effect was significantly lower than in sham-operated rats. Whatever group was considered, 8-OH-DPAT, methiothepin and 2-methyl-serotonin failed to induce any significant effect on [3H]ACh release. In contrast, CP 93129 dose-dependently decreased [3H]ACh release. This effect was significantly weaker in grafted rats than in the rats of the two other groups. Our data confirm that cholinergic terminals in the intact hippocampus possess inhibitory muscarinic autoreceptors and serotonin heteroreceptors of the 5-HT1B subtype. They also show that both types of receptors are still operative in the cholinergic terminals which survived the lesions and in the grafted cholinergic neurons. However, the muscarinic receptors in both lesioned and grafted rats, as well as the 5-HT1B receptors in grafted rats show a sensitivity which seems to be downregulated in comparison to that found in sham-operated rats. In the grafted rats, both types of downregulations might contribute to (or reflect) an increased cholinergic function that results from a reduction of the inhibitory tonus which ACh and serotonin exert at the level of the cholinergic terminal.
Physiological and anatomical studies have suggested that the endogenous opioid peptide, methionine-enkephalin (ENK), may directly modulate noradrenergic neurons. Additionally, chronic opiate administration has been shown to increase the levels of a number of G-proteins and phosphoproteins including the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). We combined immunogold-silver localization of tyrosine hydroxylase and immunoperoxidase labeling for ENK in single sections through the nucleus locus coeruleus (LC) in the rostral pons to determine potential substrates for the divergent actions of this opioid peptide. Light microscopic analysis of ENK immunoreactivity in the LC area indicated that ENK fibers are dense and highly varicose. In coronal sections, ENK-immunoreactive processes were punctate and appeared to envelop LC-cell bodies. More rostrally, in the region of catecholamine-immunoreactive extranuclear dendrites, ENK-immunoreactive varicose processes were interdigitated with TH-labeled processes. Electron microscopy of this rostral region revealed that ENK-immunoreactive axon terminals contained small clear as well as large dense core vesicles. The large dense core vesicles (1-10/terminal) were consistently the most immunoreactive and were identified toward the periphery of the axon terminal distal to the active zone of the synapse. Unlabeled axon terminals and glial processes were the most commonly observed elements located adjacent to the plasmalemma of axons containing the labeled dense core vesicles. Axon terminals containing ENK immunoreactivity varied in size (0.3 micron to 2.0 microns) as well as formation of synaptic specializations (i.e., asymmetric versus symmetric). The ENK-labeled terminals formed synapses with dendrites with and without detectable TH immunoreactivity. These results provide the first direct ultrastructural evidence that morphologically heterogeneous terminals containing ENK immunoreactivity form synapses with catecholamine dendrites within the LC. The formation of asymmetric and symmetric synaptic specializations suggests that the opioid peptide, ENK, may be colocalized with other neurotransmitters. Furthermore, the distribution of ENK immunoreactivity in axon terminals apposed to other unlabeled afferents or astrocytic processes suggests that actions of ENK may also include presynaptic modulation of other transmitters and/or effects on astrocytes.


Dopaminergic neurotoxicities of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) were compared in rat mesencephalic cultures plated on poly-L-lysine or on glial monolayers. In the neuron-enriched cultures plated on polylysine, 6-OHDA killed 89% of the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunopositive neurons, but LPS was not neurotoxic. Conversely, in mixed neuron/glial cultures, 6-OHDA killed only 27% of the TH-immunopositive neurons while LPS killed 70%. The mixed neuronal/glial mesencephalic culture offers a better in vitro model for studying possible mechanisms involved in Parkinson's disease.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) is a bifunctional enzyme that catalyzes the COOH-terminal alpha-amidation of neural and endocrine peptides through a two-step reaction carried out sequentially by its monooxygenase and lyase domains. PAM occurs in soluble and integral membrane forms. Metabolic labeling of stably transfected hEK-293 and AtT-20 cells showed that [32P]PO4(3-) was efficiently incorporated into Ser and Thr residues of membrane PAM but not into soluble PAM. Truncation of integral membrane PAM proteins (which terminate with Ser976) at Tyr936 eliminated their phosphorylation, suggesting that the COOH-terminal region of the protein was the site of phosphorylation. Recombinant PAM COOH-terminal domain was phosphorylated on Ser932 and Ser937 by protein kinase C (PKC). PAM-1 protein recovered from different subcellular fractions of stably transfected AtT-20 cells was differentially susceptible to calcium-dependent, staurosporine-inhibitable phosphorylation catalyzed by endogenous cytosolic protein kinase(s). Although phorbol ester treatment of hEK-293 cells expressing PAM-1 stimulated the cleavage/release of a bifunctional 105-kDa PAM protein, the effect was an indirect one since it was also observed in hEK-293 cells expressing a truncated PAM-1 protein that was not phosphorylated. AtT-20 cells expressing PAM-1 lacking one of the PKC sites (PAM-1/Ser937--&gt;Ala) exhibited an altered pattern of PAM.PAM antibody internalization, with the mutant protein targeted to lysosomes upon internalization. Thus, phosphorylation of Ser937 in the COOH-terminal cytosolic domain of membrane PAM plays a role in a specific step in the targeting of this protein.
Previously, we reported the presence of multiple neurotransmitters in subclones of SN6, a septal cholinergic hybrid cell line. To obtain information concerning the functionality of these transmitters, we measured transmitter contents, activities of transmitter-producing enzymes, and the effect of serum-free culture medium in two different batches (SN6.1.6 and SN6.10.2.2) and two subclones of the SN6 cell line (SN6.2a and SN6.1b). Except for SN6.1b, SN6 cell lines and subclones had basically the same neurotransmitter characteristics. Among the transmitters, only acetylcholine seemed to be functional. Monoamine oxidase was missing and activity of aromatic amino acid decarboxylase was diminished in SN6 cell lines. Even in serum-containing medium, SN6.1b had a more mature morphology than the other cell lines, and it contained choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholine but not tyrosine hydroxylase or catecholamines. Similar characteristics were acquired by the mother cell line in response to serum-free conditions. Thus, SN6.1b is the most mature of these central cholinergic neuronal cell lines, at least with regard to neurotransmitter profiles.
1. Intracellular recordings were obtained from supraoptic magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus. Application of ATP and UTP, but not adenosine, produced TTX-insensitive depolarizations accompanied by increases of input conductance. 2. The P2X agonists alpha,beta-methylene ATP, beta,gamma-methylene ATP and 2-methylthio ATP mimicked the effects of ATP in &gt; 77% of the cells tested. Depolarizing responses to ATP were reversibly inhibited by PPADS (pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'- disulphonic acid; IC50 approximately 0.5 microM), a selective P2X antagonist. 3. The reversal potential of responses to ATP (-37 mV) was not strongly affected by intracellular Cl- injection or by removal of Cl- from the external solution. The reversal potential of responses to the most potent P2X agonist, alpha,beta-methylene ATP, was -29 mV. These values suggest the involvement of non-selective cationic channels, a finding which is consistent with the ionotropic cationic channel structure of cloned P2X purinoceptors. 4. The reversal potential of UTP-mediated responses (-33 mV) was also consistent with the involvement of non-selective cationic channels. Since cloned P2U receptors display homology with G-protein-coupled receptors, cationic channels modulated by UTP are probably different from those mediating P2X responses.
1. The properties of a recently identified isoform of the human muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) alpha subunit (alpha +), which in muscle is expressed at similar levels to the alpha subunit, were investigated by both electrophysiological and biochemical approaches following expression in Xenopus laevis oocytes. The single-channel properties of adult (alpha 2 beta delta epsilon) and fetal (alpha 2 beta delta gamma) forms of the human AChR were also investigated. 2. The mean burst duration of adult channels (4.1 +/- 0.3 ms, mean +/- S.E.M., n = 5) is half that of fetal channels (7.9 +/- 0.6 ms, n = 4), while the single-channel conductance is larger (62.2 +/- 0.8 and 37.9 +/- 1.6 pS for adult and fetal channels, respectively), comparable to the developmental changes in single-channel properties observed for other mammalian species. 3. In contrast to the alpha isoform, the alpha + subunit does not bind 125I-labelled alpha-bungarotoxin or monoclonal antibodies directed against the AChR 'main immunogenic region' (MIR), illustrating why the alpha + subunit was first detected through screening of cDNA libraries. 4. By using site-directed mutagenesis to produce subunits that conferred different single-channel conductances on the AChR, we demonstrate that the alpha + isoform is not integrated into functional AChRs. 5. The mutagenesis experiments also revealed that the two alpha subunits within an AChR pentamer are not equivalent within the pore lining region.
Vestibular compensation, i.e. recovery after unilateral labyrinthectomy (UL) in the lamprey (a lower vertebrate, Cyclostome), as well as different means of promoting the compensation, is described. UL results in a loss of equilibrium and rotation during swimming which is compensated in about 60 days. The deficit can, however, be immediately abolished by applying asymmetrical tonic visual or vestibular input (electrical stimulation of the optic or vestibular nerve, illumination of one eye, removal of one eye). In addition, asymmetrical visual input promotes plastic changes underlying the vestibular compensation. The compensation is discussed in relation to the neuronal network responsible for postural control in the lamprey and identified in our previous studies.
Growth associated protein 43 (GAP43) mRNA was found in scattered groups of chromaffin cells prenatally, and in chromaffin noradrenaline cells from postnatal day 6 (P6). The distinct adult distribution of GAP43 mRNA in chromaffin cells appeared between P10 and P16. High levels of GAP43 mRNA were found in intra-adrenal ganglion neurons also expressing neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY) mRNA (type I ganglion neurons), and at prenatal and early postnatal stages in large medullarly clusters of NPY mRNA containing cells, probably representing type I ganglion neurons precursors. The expression of GAP43 mRNA in noradrenaline-producing chromaffin cells and type I ganglion neurons suggests an important role for GAP43 in these cells both during development and in adult life.
Using a monoclonal antibody against rat brain choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) the cholinergic innervation of the adult rat adrenal gland was visualized. Almost all ChAT-positive fibres contained nitric oxide synthase (NOS), whereas enkephalin (ENK) was exclusively found in ChAT fibres among adrenaline chromaffin cells. The ChAT/NOS/ENK fibres disappeared after immunological sympathectomy, indicating a preganglionic origin. ChAT was not found in the superficial peptide- and NOS containing fibre plexus in the adrenal cortex or in small or large intra-adrenal ganglion neurones under control conditions. Even after colchicine treatment only one single ChAT-positive small ganglion neurone was found. It is possible, therefore that some small intra-adrenal ganglion neurones, which express NOS- and VIP-like immunoreactivities, are noncholinergic, nonadrenergic neurones.
The beta spectrin genes each produce two alternate transcripts the longer of which has a approximately 210 amino acid C-terminal extension including a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain and also an uncharacterized membrane binding site. GST constructs including the entire or the N-terminal segment of the beta I sigma II spectrin PH domain bind to crude and extracted brain membranes, to protein free brain lipid and to vesicles containing phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate. This PH domain also binds radiolabelled inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) and preincubation with IP3 inhibits binding to extracted brain membranes. We conclude that membrane binding of the beta I sigma II spectrin C-terminal region is by means of a direct interaction between the N-terminal region of the PH domain and membrane lipids and does not require membrane protein. The PH domain of the beta-adrenergic receptor kinase showed different binding properties in every assay employed, showing that different PH domains may have different membrane binding specificity.
The effect of the neuropeptides substance P (SP), neurokinin A (NKA), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) on DNA synthesis of dental pulp cells was investigated in cells grown from molar tooth bud explants from 4-6 days old rat pups. A concentration response-assay of the proliferative response of pulpal cells was performed with SP, NPY, NKA, CGRP and VIP (0.01 to 1 nM) in the presence of EGF (10 ng/ml), hydrocortisone (0.4 microgram/ml) and 3% FCS, using [3H]thymidine incorporation. The results showed that SP, NKA and CGRP, but not NPY and VIP, increased the cell number in a concentration-dependent manner, with maxima at 10(-10)-10(-9) M (SP, NKA) and 10(-7) M (CGRP). No potentiating effect was noted when cells were simultaneously stimulated with SP and CGRP. The finding that SP, NKA and CGRP have growth regulatory properties on pulpal cells in vitro suggests that sensory neuropeptides may be involved during pulpal development or in wound healing after pulpal injury.
An in vitro brain slice preparation was used to determine whether facilitatory effects of systemically administered oxytocin on hypothalamic norepinephrine release result from direct action of the neuropeptide on noradrenergic terminals. When oxytocin was superfused onto hypothalamic slices from ovariectomized control and ovariectomized, hormone-treated female rats, the neuropeptide failed to influence either basal or electrically evoked release of 3H-norepinephrine. Thus, it is likely that oxytocin facilitates hypothalamic norepinephrine release by a peripheral mechanism, perhaps vaginocervical contraction.
Androgens are involved in a variety of centrally mediated functions after binding to their intracellular receptors. In the present report, we have employed the androgen receptor antibody, PG-21, and indirect immunohistochemistry to examine the distribution of cells containing androgen receptor-like immunoreactivity (AR-IR) in the intact adult male Brazilian opossum brain and pituitary. Additional adult males were castrated to examine the effects of withdrawal of circulating androgens and testosterone replacement on AR-IR. Immunoblots and immunohistochemical controls demonstrated that the androgen receptor in the opossum brain and peripheral tissues are of a similar molecular mass as to has been reported for the rat. Cells containing AR-IR were widely distributed throughout the brain of intact adult males. The highest number of immunoreactive cells were present in the dorsal and ventral nuclei of the lateral septum, medial division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial preoptic area, median preoptic nucleus, nucleus of the lateral olfactory tubercle, central amygdaloid nucleus, anterior cortical amygdaloid nucleus, posterior amygdaloid nucleus, subiculum, ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, arcuate-median eminence region, and ventral premammillary nucleus. The anterior pituitary gland also contained a high number of cells containing AR-IR. The general distribution of AR-IR both in the brain and anterior pituitary gland resembled that reported for other mammalian species. Castration of the adult males four days prior to perfusion eliminated androgen receptor immunostaining throughout the brain except for a few lightly immunostained cells in the ventral nucleus of the lateral septum and stria terminalis. Androgen receptor immunostaining was decreased in the anterior pituitary gland following castration and became cytoplasmic. Testosterone administration 2 h before perfusion restored AR-IR both in the brain and anterior pituitary gland. These data suggested that immunohistochemical detection of bound (nuclear) androgen receptors as seen with PG-21 antibody in the brain and anterior pituitary gland of the opossum is dependent upon circulating androgens. Further, the wide distribution and similarity in localization of androgen receptors in the opossum brain and anterior pituitary gland to that of other species suggests that androgen receptors might be involved in similar functions in the opossum as has been reported for other species.
Systemic pretreatment with the adenosine receptor antagonist theophylline significantly decreases contralateral rotation induced by unilateral intrastriatal 1-aminocyclopentane-1S,3R-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD). Intrastriatal or intrasubthalamic nucleus coadministration of theophylline and 1S,3R-ACPD significantly decreases contralateral rotation suggesting that metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors and adenosine receptors interact locally. These appear to be adenosine A2 receptor effects as the adenosine A2 receptor antagonist 8-(3-chlorostyryl)caffeine (CSC) also decreases contralateral rotation induced by unilateral intrastriatal and intrasubthalamic nucleus administration of 1S,3R-ACPD, while the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX) has no effect. Pretreatment with the adenosine A2 receptor agonist 2-p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamido adenosine hydrochloride (CGS 21680) potentiates contralateral rotation induced by unilateral striatal 1S,3R-ACPD, whereas pretreatment with the adenosine A1 receptor agonist N6-cyclopentyl-adenosine (CPA) has no effect. These results suggest that mGlu receptor effects may be due, in part, to modulation of adenosine action.
After the discovery of X-rays by Roentgen exactly 100 years ago, neurosurgeons and neurologists have been promoting an imaging diagnosis of the central nervous system around the turn of the century with methods like pneumencephalography and angiography. With the induction of computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the last two decades, seemingly simple examination methods became available which led to a temporary separation of neuroradiology from its parent fields. Further development of MRI with methods that allow to measure brain perfusion and to visualize brain function has led this diagnostic modality back to its origin, neurology: adequate evaluation of such multimodality imaging is only possible in the context of all neurosciences. On the other hand, interventional neuroradiology with endovascular procedures in the brain has evolved to an operative field that is only feasible in close cooperation with neurosurgery. This also applies to MRI, where the 'open magnets' require close cooperation between neuroradiologist and neurosurgeon to perform image guided procedures online.
The history of clinical application of electromyographic and electroneurographic techniques is not even 60 years old. For a long time the clinicians' need could not be fulfilled, due to the imperfection of the electronic equipment. Nowadays, electromyography and electroneurography are established methods not only for the diagnosis of neuromuscular disorders, but since the recording of cortical and spinal evoked potentials has been introduced, diseases of the central nervous system lie also within its scope.
Dopamine afferents to the cortex regulate the excitability of pyramidal neurons via a direct synaptic input. However, it has not been established whether dopamine also modulates pyramidal cell activity indirectly through synapses on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) interneurons, and whether such inputs differ across cortical regions and species. We sought to address these issues by an immunocytochemical electron microscopic approach that combined peroxidase staining for dopamine or tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) with a pre-embedding gold-silver marker for GABA. In the deep layers of the rat prefrontal cortex and in the superficial layers of the monkey prefrontal and primary motor cortices, terminal varicosities immunoreactive for dopamine or TH formed primarily thin, symmetric synapses on distal dendrites. Both GABA-immunoreactive dendrites as well as unlabeled spines and dendrites were contacted by dopamine- or TH-immunoreactive terminals. Synaptic specializations were detected at some, but not all of these contacts. The relative frequency of these appositional and synaptic contacts did not appear to differ between the rat and monkey prefrontal cortex, or between the monkey prefrontal and motor cortices. Across regions and species, labeled and unlabeled targets of dopamine- or TH-positive terminals received additional synaptic input from unlabeled, and occasionally GABA-immunoreactive terminals. Close appositions between dopamine- or TH-immunoreactive and GABA-positive terminals were observed only rarely. These findings indicate that dopamine afferents provide direct synaptic inputs to GABA local circuit neurons in a consistent fashion across cortical regions and species. Thus, dopamine's cellular actions involve direct as well as modulatory effects on both GABA interneurons and pyramidal projection neurons.
Abnormalities involving chromosome 13 have been reported as the only cytogenetic change in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (BCLL). Deletions are the most common cytogenetic abnormality and always involve 13q14, but when translocations are seen, the consistent breakpoint is always in 13q14. It is now established that deletions, distal to the RB1 gene in 13q14, are invariably associated with these translocations. We have recently described the smallest such deletion from a series of rearrangements from these tumors isolated in somatic cell hybrids, which spans approximately 1 Mb. In this report, we present the results of a series of a chromosome walking experiments using YACs and have been able to span this small deletion, which must contain the gene that is frequently deleted in BCLL. Four probes from 13q14 (RB1-mgg15-D13S25-D13S31) were used to isolate corresponding YACs for each of the markers. The chromosomal location of these YACs was verified using FISH, which also demonstrated their nonchimeric nature. Vectorette end rescue was then used to demonstrate the overlap of the YACs and to isolate new clones to complete the contig. The extremes of the contig were shown to cross the chromosome 13 translocation breakpoints isolated in somatic cell hybrids that carry the derivatives of chromosome 13 involved in the smallest BCLL deletion. This YAC contig covers the entire deletion and will prove a valuable resource to begin isolating genes from this region. In addition, we have isolated YACs corresponding to the RB1 locus, which extends the contig over a 3.8-cM distance on the chromosome.

The present study characterizes axonal pathology associated with traumatic compression injuries of the spinal cord and quantitatively assesses subtypes of axonal pathology in the acute, post-injury period. Eighteen adult female Wistar rats underwent spinal cord compression injury with a 53 g modified aneurysm clip at the C8-T1 segment. Six additional rats served as sham controls. Six experimental animals were sacrificed at each of the three post-injury time points: 15 min, 2 h and 24 h. From all animals, the C8-T1 spinal cord was dissected and processed for both light and electron microscopy. Axonal pathology included periaxonal swelling, organelle accumulation, vesicular myelin, myelin invagination, myelin rupture, and giant axons. Early myelin rupture and the ultrastructural features of giant axons are described here for the first time in the context of spinal cord compression injury. The quantitative analysis characterizes the prevalence of types of axonal pathology over the acute post-injury period and provides evidence for the secondary injury hypothesis regarding the evolution of axonal pathophysiology following trauma.
A series of N,N'-substituted piperazine and homopiperazine derivatives have been synthesized with the objective of producing compounds that interact with polyamine modulatory sites on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. These novel compounds exhibited polyamine-like actions, enhancing [3H]MK-801 binding to NMDA receptors in rat forebrain membranes. The potencies of N,N'-bis(2-aminoacetyl)homopiperazine (15), N,N'-bis(N-methyl-4-aminobutyl)-piperazine (7), and N,N'-bis(3-aminopropyl)homopiperazine (11) (EC50 18.0, 21.3, and 24.4 microM, respectively) to enhance [3H]MK-801 binding were comparable to that of spermine (EC50 5.2 microM). However, the efficacies of 15, 7, and 11 in this measure were lower (by approximately 40%, 32%, and 24%, respectively) than spermine, which may be indicative of partial agonist actions. Like spermine, the ability of these piperazine and homopiperazine derivatives to enhance [3H]MK-801 binding could be inhibited by both a competitive polyamine antagonist (arcaine) and a specific, noncompetitive polyamine antagonist (conantokin-G). However, unlike endogenous polyamines, high concentrations (up to 1 mM) of these novel polyamine-like compounds did not inhibit [3H]MK-801 binding. N,N'-Aminoalkylated and aminoacylated piperazine and homopiperazine derivatives may prove useful for studying polyamine recognition sites associated with NMDA receptors.
Using microdialysis, the glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) was perfused for 20 min through the medial prefrontal cortex of freely moving rats, and its effects on extracellular concentrations of dopamine (DA) were determined. NMDA (1 mM) increased DA to 170-1500%, depending on the intensity and duration of the clonic forelimb jerks and convulsions that were induced. NMDA (0.1 mM), however, decreased DA to 61%. Metabolites of DA were decreased after both concentrations of NMDA. The effects of both 0.1 mM and 1 mM NMDA were blocked by 0.5 mM of the competitive NMDA-antagonist D-AP-5. The NMDA-induced decrease in release and metabolism possibly results from an indirect action via an inhibitory local interneuron or polysynaptic circuit.
The pretectal nucleus of the optic tract is involved in optokinetic nystagmus. Albino animals suffer from inverse optokinetic nystagmus, possibly due to a smaller number of ipsilateral projections. Animals with laterally placed eyes have an asymmetric nystagmus, attributed to a presumed lack of binocular cortical input to the nucleus of the optic tract. Moreover, a direct input from the ipsilateral retina is controversial. We investigated the retinal and central afferents to the nucleus of the optic tract in the rat by retrograde tracing using fluorescent latex microspheres. Ipsilaterally projecting retinal ganglion cells were observed in pigmented and also in albino rats. Projections from the visual cortex and primary visual nuclei were demonstrated.
Interleukin-3 (IL-3), interleukin-5 (IL-5), and granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) are cytokines that bind to receptor complexes comprised of unique alpha-receptor subunits specific for each ligand and a commonly shared beta-receptor subunit. Previous studies have shown that IL-3 and GM-CSF induce mitosis in microglia and macrophage cells, indicating the functional presence of their cognate receptors. In this study, it is shown that the third member of this cytokine group, IL-5, also serves as a microglia mitogen. Proliferative effects were seen in culture on both murine microglia and a murine macrophage cell line, RAW 264.7. Since IL-5 is known to be secreted by both microglia and astrocytes in response to inflammatory stimuli, these results indicate that IL-5 may be involved in the cytokine-immune cascades leading to microglia proliferation in areas affected by disease and tissue damage.
We examined age-related changes in composition of transcription factor, activator protein-1 (AP-1) which binds to TPA responsive element (TRE) in the non-stimulated rat brain, using electrophoretic mobility-shift assay with immunodepletion/supershift assay. The total TRE-binding activity in the frontal cortex and the hippocampus of the aged rats markedly decreased to 66% and 43%, respectively, and TRE-bindings of AP-1 in both regions also decreased to 82% and 66%, respectively, with aging. Jun-Jun dimers accounted for approximately half of the total TRE-bindings and 80-90% of the AP-1 bindings, while there were fewer Fos-Jun dimers, in both examined regions of the non-stimulated adult. The proportion of active Fos-Jun heterodimers in the frontal cortex increased to up to half of the AP-1 bindings in the aged rats, indicating that cortical AP-1-related transcription may increase with aging even under the non-stimulated condition. In the hippocampus, inactive Jun-Jun homodimers became predominant in AP-1 with aging. This regional diversity of age-related changes in the composition of AP-1 in the brain may be related to changes or dysfunction in neuronal signal transduction in the aged.

Indirect immunofluorescence methods using a mouse monoclonal antibody raised to rat choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) revealed dense networks of ChAT-immunoreactive fibers in the superior cervical ganglion, the stellate ganglion, and the celiac superior mesenteric ganglion of the rat. Numerous and single ChAT-immunoreactive cell bodies were observed in the stellate and superior cervical ganglia, respectively. The majority of ChAT-immunoreactive fibers in the stellate and superior cervical ganglia were nitric oxide synthase (NOS) positive. Some ChAT-immunoreactive fibers contained enkephalin-like immunoreactivity. Virtually all ChAT-positive cell bodies in the stellate ganglion were vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-positive, and some were calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-positive. After transection of the cervical sympathetic trunk almost all ChAT- and NOS-positive fibers and most enkephalin- and CGRP-positive fibers disappeared in the superior cervical ganglion. The results suggest that most preganglionic fibers are cholinergic and that the majority of these in addition can release nitric oxide, some enkephalin, and a few CGRP. Acetylcholine, VIP, and CGRP are coexisting messenger molecules in some postganglionic sympathetic neurons.
Ionotropic receptors for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) are important to inhibitory neurotransmission in the mammalian retina, mediating GABAA and GABAC responses. In many species, these responses are blocked by the convulsant picrotoxinin (PTX), although the mechanism of block is not fully understood. In contrast, GABAC responses in the rat retina are extremely resistant to PTX. We hypothesized that this difference could be explained by molecular characterization of the receptors underlying the GABAC response. Here we report the cloning of two rat GABA receptor subunits, designated r rho 1 and r rho 2 after their previously identified human homologues. When coexpressed in Xenopus oocytes, r rho 1/r rho 2 heteromeric receptors mimicked PTX-resistant GABAC responses of the rat retina. PTX resistance is apparently conferred in native heteromeric receptors by r rho 2 subunits since homomeric r rho 1 receptors were sensitive to PTX; r rho 2 subunits alone were unable to form functional homomeric receptors. Site-directed mutagenesis confirmed that a single amino acid residue in the second membrane-spanning region (a methionine in r rho 2 in place of a threonine in r rho 1) is the predominant determinant of PTX resistance in the rat receptor. This study reveals not only the molecular mechanism underlying PTX blockade of GABA receptors but also the heteromeric nature of native receptors in the rat retina that underlie the PTX-resistant GABAC response.
As a measure of dynamical structure, short-term fluctuations of coherence between 0.3 and 100 Hz in the electroencephalogram (EEG) of humans were studied from recordings made by chronic subdural macroelectrodes 5-10 mm apart, on temporal, frontal, and parietal lobes, and from intracranial probes deep in the temporal lobe, including the hippocampus, during sleep, alert, and seizure states. The time series of coherence between adjacent sites calculated every second or less often varies widely in stability over time; sometimes it is stable for half a minute or more. Within 2-min samples, coherence commonly fluctuates by a factor up to 2-3, in all bands, within the time scale of seconds to tens of seconds. The power spectrum of the time series of these fluctuations is broad, extending to 0.02 Hz or slower, and is weighted toward the slower frequencies; little power is faster than 0.5 Hz. Some records show conspicuous swings with a preferred duration of 5-15s, either irregularly or quasirhythmically with a broad peak around 0.1 Hz. Periodicity is not statistically significant in most records. In our sampling, we have not found a consistent difference between lobes of the brain, subdural and depth electrodes, or sleeping and waking states. Seizures generally raise the mean coherence in all frequencies and may reduce the fluctuations by a ceiling effect. The coherence time series of different bands is positively correlated (0.45 overall); significant nonindependence extends for at least two octaves. Coherence fluctuations are quite local; the time series of adjacent electrodes is correlated with that of the nearest neighbor pairs (10 mm) to a coefficient averaging approximately 0.4, falling to approximately 0.2 for neighbors-but-one (20 mm) and to &lt; 0.1 for neighbors-but-two (30 mm). The evidence indicates fine structure in time and space, a dynamic and local determination of this measure of cooperativity. Widely separated frequencies tending to fluctuate together exclude independent oscillators as the general or usual basis of the EEG, although a few rhythms are well known under special conditions. Broad-band events may be the more usual generators. Loci only a few millimeters apart can fluctuate widely in seconds, either in parallel or independently. Scalp EEG coherence cannot be predicted from subdural or deep recordings, or vice versa, and intracortical microelectrodes show still greater coherence fluctuation in space and time. Widely used computations of chaos and dimensionality made upon data from scalp or even subdural or depth electrodes, even when reproducible in successive samples, cannot be considered representative of the brain or the given structure or brain state but only of the scale or view (receptive field) of the electrodes used. Relevant to the evolution of more complex brains, which is an outstanding fact of animal evolution, we believe that measures of cooperativity are likely to be among the dynamic features by which major evolutionary grades of brains differ.
Sensory neurons can be classified into subpopulations based on a variety of characteristics, including their morphology and physiological modalities. Whether any of these classifications correlates with neurotrophic sensitivities has not been determined. We have recently reported that a subpopulation of large diameter sensory neurons of the rat contain neurotrophin 3-like immunoreactivity (NT3-ir). In this study, we have further characterised NT3-ir sensory neurons by their size, segmental localization, and peripheral projections by combined techniques of retrograde tracing and immunohistochemistry. The size distribution showed that NT3-ir was localised to a subpopulation of large-diameter neurons ranging from 560 to 3,120 microns2. Greater numbers of NT3-ir neurons reside in trigeminal (43% of total), cervical (36%), and lumbar (39%) than in thoracic spinal ganglia (13-17%). In combination with Fluoro-Gold retrograde tracing, it was found that about 30% of sensory neurons projecting to the tibial muscle were NT3-ir, compared with 39% for tendon, 50% for whisker hair follicles, 17% for subdermis or epidermis, and only 1% for kidney or adrenal gland. These studies indicate that NT3-ir sensory neurons mainly project to skin and muscles but not viscera. Thus, the characterization of NT3-ir spinal sensory neurons suggests that large sensory neurons subserving proprioception and mechanoception require NT3 for the maintenance of normal function.
The practice of psychiatry is undergoing rapid and radical changes because of health care reorganization and the advances in basic science. Therefore, psychiatric educators must confront the redefinition of the role of the psychiatrist in the health care system. The model of the psychiatrist who primarily provides office-based psychotherapy is outmoded. Rather, the psychiatrist must become a clinical expert in brain and behavioral sciences, with mastery over an expanding array of diagnostic techniques and responsibility for directing integrated multidisciplinary treatment and rehabilitative services. To ensure this expertise, students must receive a firm grounding in neuroscience, molecular genetics, and brain imaging in addition to the traditional curriculum.
Since abnormalities of brain development play a role in the aetiology of schizophrenia, growth factors, known to play a role in neurodevelopment, such as neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), are therefore candidate genes for this disorder. The A3/147 bp allele of a dinucleotide repeat polymorphism in the promoter region of the NT-3 gene has been reported as occurring more frequently in a sample of Japanese schizophrenics compared to controls. We have determined the frequency of alleles of this polymorphism in 175 Caucasian schizophrenic patients and 147 control subjects. The patient and control samples showed no significant deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium and, in a test of allalleles, the patients and controls did not differ significantly in allele frequencies. However, the male schizophrenics were more likely than male controls to have the A3/147 bp allele (P = 0.029).
The first laboratory of neurophysiology was installed in the medical school of the University of Honduras during the 1992-1993 academic year. The goal of the project was to improve the teaching of physiology in the medical curriculum and to establish a neuroscience research laboratory able to address Honduran needs. In addition to a computer learning facility and wet labs in neurophysiology for medical students, an independent research program that focused on social problems in the country (for example, the effects of malnutrition on the developing central nervous system) was developed, paving the way for the first graduate program in physiology in Honduras. Funded by a Fulbright Lectureship Grant, the shoe-string budget was augmented by donations of equipment by colleagues. This first-hand account describes the planning and implementation of the project, covering both expected and unexpected problems and successes. An update on the progress of the lab after two years of independent operation is also described.



Moruzzi pioneered the notion of ascending activating systems that were responsible for the electrophysiological activation characterizing the transition from sleep to waking. This paper proposes to extend the notion of electrophysiological activation to the domain of gene expression. Evidence is reviewed indicating that in the transition between sleep and waking there is, together with a change in neuronal firing patterns, a change in patterns of gene expression in widespread regions of the brain. The hypothesis is presented that changes in the activity of neuromodulatory systems with diffuse projections may subserve the diffuse, tonic and phasic activation of both neuronal responses and of gene expression. Finally, the paper discusses the possibility that such changes in gene expression may be of importance for plastic phenomena and for the functional consequences of sleep.


We have previously shown that the GTP-binding protein, Gi2 of mouse Balb/c3T3 cells is linked to a serine kinase which phosphorylates the alpha-subunit of Gi itself. In this report we show that Gi is coupled to a second protein kinase. This kinase does not phosphorylate G but phosphorylates another protein bound non-covalently to G. Phosphorylation of the Gi-linked protein induces its release from Gi. Kinase activity is slightly enhanced by GTPyS, suggesting that this kinase may be physiologically regulated by Gi. In an attempt to identify the kinase we have examined the effect of peptide substrates and inhibitors on kinase activity. We found that the protein kinase A inhibitory peptide, PK1 5-24, inhibited the kinase activity, but at concentrations above those usually required to block protein kinase A. The protein kinase A substrate peptide, kemptide, acted as a substrate of the kinase, and was an inhibitor of the phosphorylation of the Gi-linked protein. However, a protein kinase A, catalytic subunit antibody failed to react with any proteins linked to Gi., A protein kinase C inhibitory peptide had no effect on phosphorylation of the Gi-linked protein. Thus, the identity of this kinase has not been resolved, but it may form part of the signalling system of activated Gi in fibroblasts.
The immediate purposes of this study are (a) to indicate the I.C.U. and hospital length of stay in elective craniotomy patients with brain tumour, and (b) to identify the clinical indicators that contribute to the I.C.U. length of stay. The ultimate purpose is to contribute to a growing body of knowledge in providing quality and cost effective patient outcomes by creating appropriate vehicles for further research in the field of neuroscience. The following clinical indicators are identified: pre-op patient admission to ward or same day admit unit, O.R. cancellations, type of tumour, nursing staff availability, intubation on admission, I.C.U. length of stay, and post-op complications. The results of this pilot study, with sample size of 55 patients, could assist us in the nursing profession to develop an appropriate Care Map for craniotomy patients with brain tumour.
Conditioned eyeblink responses are presumably learned in the cerebellum and relayed to motoneurons by way of the red nucleus. Projections from the red nucleus to cerebellar cortex (Larsell's lobule HVI) could be important for shaping temporally adaptive features of the conditioned response. Rabbits that had pipettes containing wheat germ agglutinated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) implanted unilaterally into HVI showed retrograde labeling of neurons within subregions of the contralateral red nucleus implicated in eyeblink conditioning by lesioning and recording studies. Retrogradely labeled neurons were also observed in the pontine nuclei, inferior olive, and spinal trigeminal nucleus pars oralis. Projections to HVI provide a possible neural substrate for implementing time-derivative computational models of learning in the cerebellum. Time-derivative models are capable of describing the timing and topography of conditioned responses.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle response is used as a measure of sensorimotor inhibitory processes. Deficits in PPI have been found in patients with schizophrenia, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and Huntington's disease. PPI can also be disrupted in animals through manipulations that augment serotonergic activity, such as administration of the serotonin (5-HT) agonists 8-OH-DPAT, RU 24969 and DOI. In the present experiment the identity of the 5-HT receptor subtype that mediates the DOI-induced disruption of PPI was examined. Dose-response studies revealed that the novel 5-HT(2A) antagonist, MDL 100,907 (0.01, 0.1 and 1.0mg/kg, s.c.), but not the new 5-HT(2C) antagonist SDZ SER 082 (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5mg/kg, s.c.), prevented the loss of PPI induced by DOI (0.25 or 0.5mg/kg, s.c.). The results support the hypothesis that the 5-HT(2A) receptor is involved in the modulation of sensorimotor gating. Because deficits in PPI are used as a model of sensorimotor gating abnormalities found in schizophrenia, the present study supports the view that MDL 100,907 may be a novel atypical antipsychotic. Studies of the serotonergic substrates of PPI may provide a model of the possible serotonergic role in the sensorimotor gating abnormalities in schizophrenia and OCD patients.
Sensorimotor gating deficits characterize several neuropsychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) and latent inhibition (LI) are measures that are used to assess sensorimotor gating and have been found to be reduced in schizophrenia patients. In PPI, a weak stimulus presented immediately prior to a startling stimulus attenuates the startle response. In LI, pre-exposure to a stimulus retards the subsequent association of that stimulus with a consequence (e.g. footshock). In rats, indirect dopamine (DA) agonists such as amphetamine disrupt both PPI and LI. Amphetamine has also been reported to increase exploratory locomotion at doses that decrease PPI and LI. Such behavioral activation might complicate the interpretation of amphetamine-induced changes in measures of sensorimotor gating. The present study was conducted in order to compare the effects of three behaviorally activating drugs on PPI, LI and locomotor activity. Separate groups of rats were treated with either vehicle, the DA releaser amphetamine (1.5mg/kg), the glycine antagonist strychnine (0.75mg/kg), or the adenosine receptor antagonist caffeine (10mg/kg) and then tested in either startle chambers (for PPI) or an active avoidance chamber (for LI). Locomotion was measured by inter-trial crossing in the avoidance chamber. Amphetamine stimulated locomotion and disrupted both PPI and LI, but did not elevate startle amplitude. In contrast, caffeine increased locomotion, but had no effect on PPI or LI. Strychnine did not increase locomotion significantly, but did increase startle amplitude and disrupt PPI and LI. Hence, neither increased startle amplitude nor locomotor activation are necessary or sufficient conditions for disruption of sensorimotor gating as measured by PPI and LI.
In the natural setting, cognitive processes direct behavioural adjustments and sometimes result in behavioural novelties which allow the organism to cope with environmental pressures. The resulting behavioural changes exhibit various forms which are dependent upon different causal factors and cognitive processes. Under long-lasting environmental changes, these behavioural adaptations can become hereditary either through the process of cultural transmission or through genetic mechanisms sensitive to selective forces acting on genotypes. In the last few years, neuroethology and behavioural neurosciences have produced an increasing amount of precise knowledge about brain-behaviour relationships, neurobiological bases of cognitive processes and their development. Unfortunately, the approach to these phenomena is basically normative and does not tell us much about non-pathological determinants of individual variation in cognitive and behavioural competences. In contrast, the differential approach has provided some cases of structural variations in the brain which are under genetic control and thus liable to evolve under selective pressures. Brain size, the ratio of various brain structures to the total brain, the number and density of neurons in various parts of the brain and the variations of neuronal circuitry are potential candidates. This paper reviews them and examines their possible behavioural and cognitive outcomes. The issue here is to examine if and where in the brain potential conditions occur that would allow the genetic evolution of cognitive processes.
Modern spreadsheet programs are inexpensive, easy to use and have a host of powerful mathematical and graphical capabilities. Here I show how such programs can be used in the interpretation of protein sequences. The methods described allow researchers to produce many types of sequence interpretation plots, which can then be printed out or conveniently incorporated into documents. It is also easy to manipulate the parameters used in sequence interpretation without any knowledge of computer programming.
We have previously shown that conditioned medium from cultured human keratinocytes stimulates proliferation of a variety of cell types involved in wound healing, as well as re-epithelialization of wounds in human skin in vitro. We now present evidence for an autocrine/paracrine control of the synthesis of type IV collagenases in human keratinocytes and fibroblasts. During wound healing, keratinocytes migrate over the wound bed, an activity coupled with lysis of basement membranes, and hence requiring the presence of collagenases. Collagenases are also needed for the production and remodelling of the granulation tissue. In order to study the autocrine/paracrine control of collagenase production in keratinocytes and fibroblasts, we stimulated these cells in culture with conditioned medium from cultured keratinocytes. Protease synthesis was determined by affinity labelling with 3H-diisopropylfluorophosphoridate (DFP) and by zymography. Keratinocyte-conditioned medium was found to increase the expression of 72 and 92 kDa type IV collagenase in human keratinocytes, and the 72 kDa collagenase in human fibroblasts, indicating that an autocrine/paracrine control mechanism is involved in collagenase production in these cell types during wound healing. This increased expression of collagenases could be partly responsible for the stimulated healing seen in wounds treated with sheets of cultured keratinocytes.
1. Astrocytes from the dorsal spinal cord express P2-purinoceptors which, when stimulated, produce a rise in the intracellular level of free Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i). Previously we have found that the P2Y class of receptor is expressed by nearly all astrocytes from the dorsal horn. To determine whether other metabotropic P2-purinoceptor classes are also present, in this study we investigated the effects of UTP. 2. Application of UTP (1-500 microM, 5-20 s) produced a transient rise in [Ca2+]i in a subpopulation of astrocytes. The magnitude of the peak increase in [Ca2+]i was dependent upon UTP concentration and the EC50 was found to be 5.2 +/- 0.2 microM. Ca2+ responses were maximum at 100 microM UTP. 3. The rise in [Ca2+]i in response to UTP was not affected by removal of extracellular Ca2+. On the other hand, application of the sarcoplasmic-endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase inhibitor, thapsigargin, abolished responses to UTP. These findings indicate that UTP stimulates the release of Ca2+ from a thapsigargin-sensitive intracellular pool. 4. The Ca2+ response to UTP was unaffected by treatment with pertussis toxin, suggesting that UTP responses may be mediated via a pertussis toxin-insensitive G protein. 5. While all cells tested (n = 52) responded to the P2Y-purinoceptor agonist, 2-methylthio-ATP, only a subpopulation of astrocytes (n = 67/93) was responsive to UTP. The presence of UTP-sensitive and UTP-insensitive cells requires the existence of two discrete types of receptor. One receptor, expressed by UTP-insensitive cells, appears to be activated selectively by 2-methylthio-ATP. 6. To investigate whether UTP and 2-methylthio-ATP activate a common type of receptor in UTP-responsive cells, a cross-desensitization strategy was used. Desensitization with prolonged exposure to a high concentration of 2-methylthio-ATP failed to affect responses to UTP and vice versa, indicating that receptors activated by UTP are distinct from those activated by 2-methylthio-ATP. 7. The P2-purinoceptor antagonist, suramin (100 microM), blocked Ca2+ responses to UTP and to 2-methylthio-ATP. 8. Pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS), has been reported to block responses mediated by P2X- and P2Y-purinoceptors in other systems and therefore we investigated its effects on responses to 2-methylthio-ATP and to UTP. PPADS was found to block Ca2+ responses to 2-methylthio-ATP in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC50 of 0.92 +/- 0.1 microM. PPADS also blocked UTP-evoked responses and the IC50 was 7.2 +/- 1.9 microM. At a concentration of 10 microM, PPADS produced a rightward shift in the dose-response curve for UTP and did not affect the maximum response. 9. Calcium responses evoked by the muscarinic agonist, carbachol, were unaffected either by suramin (100 microM) or by PPADS (50 microM). 10. The present results indicate the presence of a novel class of metabotropic P2U-purinoceptor in dorsal spinal astrocytes. In contrast to P2Y-purinoceptors, the P2U-purinoceptor is expressed only by a subpopulation of astrocytes and its sensitivity to suramin and PPADS distinguish this receptor from P2U-purinoceptors found in other tissues.
1. The hyperpolarization of the resting membrane potential, Vm, induced by isoprenaline in the lumbrical muscle fibres of the mouse, was investigated by use of intracellular microelectrodes. 2. In normal Krebs-Henseleit solution (potassium concentration: K+o = 5.7 mM, 'control'), Vm was -7.40 +/- 0.2 mV; lowering K+o to 0.76 mM ('low K+o') resulted in either a hyperpolarization (Vm = -95.7 +/- 2.9 mV), or a depolarization (Vm = -52.0 +/- 0.3 mV). 3. Isoprenaline (&gt; or = 200 nM) induced a hyperpolarization of Vm by delta Vm = -5.6 +/- 0.4 mV in control solution. 4. When Vm hyperpolarized after switching to low K+o, the addition of isoprenaline resulted in increased hyperpolarization Vm: delta Vm = -16.3 +/- 3.2 mV to a final Vm = -110.1 +/- 3.4 mV. Adding iso-prenaline when Vm depolarized in low K+o, leads to a hyperpolarization of either by -11.6 +/- 0.5 mV to -63.6 +/- 0.8 mV or by -51.7 +/- 2.7 mV to -106.9 +/- 3.9 mV. 5. Ouabain (0.1 to 1 mM) did not suppress the hyperpolarization by isoprenaline in 5.7 mM K+o (delta Vm = -6.7 +/- 0.4 mV) or the hyperpolarization of the depolarized cells in low K+- (delta Vm = -9.7 +/- 1.5 mV). 6. The hyperpolarization is a logarithmically decreasing function of K+o in the range between 2 and 20 mM (12 mV/decade). 7.IBMX and 8Br-cyclic AMP mimicked the response to isoprenaline whereas forskolin (FSK) induced in low K+o a hyperpolarization of -7.0 +/- 0.7 mV that could be augmented by addition of isoprenaline (delta Vm = -8.2 +/- 1.8 mV). 8. In control and low K+o, Ba2+ (0.6 mM) inhibited the hyperpolarization induced by isoprenaline, IBMX or 8Br-cyclic AMP. Other blockers of the potassium conductance such as TEA (5 mM) and apamin (0.4 microM) had no effect. 9. We conclude that in the lumbrical muscle of the mouse the isoprenaline-induced hyperpolarization is primarily due to an increase in potassium permeability.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is elevated in brain tissue of individuals who died with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and other diseases where this cytokine likely stimulates reactive astrocytosis. IL-1 stimulates, among others, production of interleukin-6 (IL-6), granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in cultured astrocytes and astrocytoma cell lines. These and other cytokines may contribute to the neuropathogenesis after infection by human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1). For example, concentration of TNF-alpha is increased in brain tissue of individuals who died with AIDS and correlates with the severity of AIDS Dementia Complex (ADC). TNF-alpha and IL-6 have been immunocytochemically detected in brain tissue but they have not been localized to astrocytes. We, therefore, examined the expression of IL-6, GM-CSF, and TNF-alpha in human primary astrocytes and astrocytoma cell lines U251 and 253 exposed to IL-1 in serum-free medium. In addition, we immunocytochemically assayed GM-CSF expression by astrocytes in brain tissue (n = 8). The three cytokines were differentially induced in cultured astrocytes by IL-1. The astrocytoma cell lines recapitulated cytokine-specific patterns of expression in astrocytes. The patterns were characterized by amounts produced, compartmentalization (intra- and/or extracellular), time courses, and optimal doses of IL-1 for induction. GM-SCF-like immunoreactivity was detected in some but not all, GFAP+ cells. GM-CSF+/GFAP+ cells were detected in only three of seven cases containing GM-CSF immunoreactivity. Thus, a discrepancy may exist between human astrocytic cytokine expression in vitro and in tissue. Novel methods therefore may need to be developed to recapitulate in vitro the heterogeneity of astrocytic cytokine expression in AIDS and other brain tissue.
We examined the electrophysiological properties of neurons cultured from the septum of the trisomy 16 mouse fetus, an animal model for Down's syndrome. The passive membrane properties were not different between trisomic and diploid septal neurons. We distinguished low-firing and high-firing populations of neurons based on differences in the firing rate evoked during current injection. Low-firing neurons fired three or fewer action potentials, high-firing neurons fired four or more. The membrane currents of low-firing trisomic neurons were not different from those of low-firing diploid neurons. However, high-firing trisomic neurons had an increased inward current and conductance, and a greater inward-to-outward conductance ratio. The increased current and conductance were independent of the passive electrical properties. The increased inward current in high-firing trisomic neurons was correlated with action potentials having faster depolarization rates. This greater excitability among this population of trisomic septal neurons, coupled with a reduced excitation in hippocampal neurons, may compromise septohippocampal and memory function.
Ethanol and nerve growth factor (NGF) affect the survival of cholinergic neurons in the rat medial septum. To investigate whether calcium (Ca2+) homeostasis in these neurons is affected by ethanol or NGF treatment, changes in intracellular free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) were studied in embryonic (E21) cultured medial septal neurons before stimulation (basal) and during stimulation with high potassium (K+). Changes in [Ca2+]i across time were measured in cultures of neurons treated without ethanol or with 100, 200, 400, or 800 mg% ethanol with NGF (+NGF) or without NGF (-NGF). Changes in [Ca2+]i were analyzed from fluorescence images, using indo-1. The effect of ethanol or NGF treatment was to reduce the rise in basal [Ca2+]i. The combination of ethanol and NGF treatment in +NGF neurons led to increases in basal [Ca2+]i with the greatest increase in basal [Ca2+]i occurring with 200 mg% ethanol. The effect of ethanol or NGF was to increase [Ca2+]i during stimulation with high K+. The greatest increases in [Ca2+]i occurred with 100 and 800 mg% ethanol. Together, ethanol and NGF treatment in +NGF-treated neurons led to significantly greater increases or decreases in K+ stimulated changes in [Ca2+]i compared to similarly treated -NGF neurons. We conclude that in medial septal neurons (before and during depolarization) changes in Ca2+ homeostasis occur in the presence of ethanol or NGF. The changes in [Ca2+]i following ethanol treatment are greater when NGF is present.
Vasopressin (VP) is axonally distributed in many brain structures, including the ventral hippocampus. Picogram quantities of VP injected into the hippocampus improve the passive avoidance response of rats, presumably by enhancing memory processes. Vasopressin is metabolized by the brain tissue into shorter peptides, such as [pGlu4,Cyt6]VP(4-9) and [pGlu4,Cyt6]VP(4-8), which preserve the behavioral activity but lose the peripheral activities of the parent hormone. Using brain slices, we investigated whether VP or VP(4-8) affects excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and/or membrane responses to depolarization in neurons of the CA1/subiculum of the ventral hippocampus. The EPSPs were evoked by stimulating the striatum radiatum of the CA1 field; the membrane responses were elicited by current injections. Exposure of slices for 15 min to 0.1 nM solution of these peptides resulted in an increase in the amplitude and slope of the EPSPs in 21 neurons (67%) tested. No consistent change in either the resting membrane potential or the input resistance of the neurons was observed. The peptide-induced increase in EPSPs reached a maximum 30-45 min after peptide application. In 14 of these neurons (66%), the peptide-induced increase in EPSPs remained throughout the entire 60-120 min washout period. In the remaining 7 neurons (33%), the initial increase in EPSPs amplitude was followed by a gradual decline to the pre-administration level. The increase in EPSP amplitude was often, but not always, associated with a decrease in the threshold and increase in the number of action potentials in response to depolarizing current injection. Suppression of GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitation did not prevent the effects of VP and VP(4-8) on the EPSP amplitude or the threshold for action potentials. The results demonstrate that 0.1 nM concentrations of these neuropeptides can elicit a long-lasting enhancement of the excitability of CA1/subiculum neurons of the ventral hippocampus to excitatory, glutamatergic synaptic input. This novel action of VP and its metabolite in the ventral hippocampus may be the physiological action, mediating the memory-enhancing effect of these peptides.
The mechanism of action of the dimeric enkephalin peptide, biphalin (Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-Phe-NH2)2, which was previously shown to have remarkable high antinociceptive potency and low dependence liability in vivo, has now been studied by electrophysiologic analyses of its effects on the action potential duration (APD) of nociceptive types of sensory dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in culture. Acute application of biphalin (pM-microM) elicited only dose-dependent, naloxone-reversible inhibitory (APD-shortening) effects on DRG neurons. Furthermore, at pM concentrations that evoked little or no alteration of the APD of DRG neurons biphalin selectively antagonized excitatory (APD-prolonging) effects of low (fM-nM) concentrations of bimodally-acting mu and delta opioid agonists and unmasked potent inhibitory effects of these opioids. This dual opioid inhibitory-agonist/excitatory-antagonist property of biphalin is remarkably similar to that previously observed in studies of the ultra-potent opioid analgesic, etorphine on DRG neurons and in sharp contrast to the excitatory agonist action of most mu, delta and kappa opioid alkaloids and peptides when tested at low (pM-nM) concentrations. Chronic treatment of DRG neurons with high (microM) concentrations of biphalin did not result in supersensitivity to the excitatory effects of naloxone nor in tolerance to opioid inhibition effects, in contrast to the excitatory opioid supersensitivity and tolerance that develop in chronic morphine- or DADLE-treated, but not chronic etorphine-treated, neurons. These studies on DRG neurons in vitro may help to account for the unexpectedly high antinociceptive potency and low dependence liability of biphalin as well as etorphine in vivo.
Recently, there have been a number of reports showing a long-term increased expression of fos-related antigens (fra), molecular weight of 35 kDa, after brain injury or chronic treatment of rats with various drugs. We report elevated basal levels of this transcription factor in the olfactory bulb relative to other brain regions. The expression of this protein is further enhanced in the olfactory bulb as long as 3 months after a single injection of kainate, an effect similar to that we previously observed in the hippocampus. The AP-1 DNA binding activity in olfactory bulb from kainate-treated rats contains fra and jun immunoreactivity suggesting that the 35 kDa fra dimerizes with jun protein, probably junD, to bind to AP-1 sites. Elevated basal levels of this transcription factor in the olfactory bulb appear to be related to the constant reinnervation and synaptogenesis which occurs in this brain region. The 35 kDa fra may be involved in long-term genomic program changes required to adapt to an altered biochemical environment.
In the course of studies to identify new members of the eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases, MDK1 and one of its splicing variants lacking a kinase domain, MDK1-T1, were identified. To gain insight into the functions of these subtypes, expression patterns of their mRNAs in the developing mouse nervous system were examined by Northern blotting and in situ hybridization histochemistry. Colocalization of their mRNAs was observed, but the levels of expression of each mRNA were developmentally regulated. These findings suggest functional differences between full-length and truncated forms of MDK1 receptor tyrosine kinase.
S100 beta, a calcium-binding protein synthesized by CNS astrocytes, has trophic effects in vitro (neurite extension and glial proliferation). In Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome, severely afflicted brain regions exhibit up to 20-fold higher levels of S100 beta protein, and astrocytes surrounding neuritic plaques exhibit highly elevated levels of S100 beta immunostaining. A major constituent of plaques, beta-amyloid, has been reported to have neurotoxic and neurotrophic effects in vitro. In our study we examined the responses of CNS glia to beta-amyloid. C6 glioma cells and primary rat astrocyte cultures were treated with beta A(1-40) peptide at doses up to 1 microM. Weak mitogenic activity, measured by [3H]thymidine incorporation, was observed. Northern blot analysis revealed increases of S100 beta mRNA within 24 h in a dose-dependent manner. Nuclear run-off transcription assays showed that beta A(1-40) specifically induced new synthesis of S100 beta mRNA in cells maintained in serum, but under serum-free conditions, there was a general elevation of several mRNA species. Corresponding increases of S100 beta protein synthesis were observed by immunoprecipitation of 35S-labeled cellular proteins. To evaluate whether this effect of beta-amyloid was mediated via neurokinin receptors or by calcium fluxes, various agonists and antagonists were tested and found to be ineffective at stimulating S100 beta synthesis. In sum, these in vitro data suggest that in neuropathological conditions, beta-amyloid itself is an agent which may provoke chronic gliosis and the production of trophic substances by astrocytes.
Pyramidal neurons in affected regions of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain contain neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), aggregates of paired helical filaments (PHF) composed mainly of phosphorylated microtubule-associated protein tau. To explore the role of tau phosphorylation in the aggregation of tau into PHF, we constructed mammalian cell culture systems producing high levels of intracellular phosphorylated tau. COS-1 fibroblast-like cells were transiently transfected to simultaneously express tau, MAP kinase (MAPK), and MAP kinase kinase (MAPKK), or alternatively to express tau and glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3). B103 neuron-like cells (which contain MAPK but little tau or GSK3) were stably transfected to express tau or tau and GSK3. In both systems, GSK3-transfected cells contained tau AT8/M (defined by AT8 staining and tau PHF-like mobility), but MAPK-transfected cells required phosphatase inhibitors, such as okadaic acid (OKA) or calyculin (CAL), to produce tau AT8/M. In vitro, the same concentrations of CAL and OKA inhibit phosphatases 1 and 2A (PP1 and PP2A), except that 100-1000 times as much OKA is needed to inhibit PP1. Inducing tau phosphorylation at the AT8 site in MAPK-transfected cells required 2-10 times more OKA than CAL, suggesting both PP1 and PP2A helped block the phosphorylation. Though levels of tau AT8/M reached 2-8% of total cellular proteins in COS-1 cells, the ratio of particulate to supernatant tau levels did not increase, and no tangles were observed; perhaps post-translational modifications or co-aggregating proteins are needed to induce PHF.
The aim of this study was to find culture conditions that optimize the proliferation of human endothelial cells (ECs). The effects of different sera, growth factors and other additives on ECs derived from the adult human great saphenous or the umbilical vein were studied. Human serum (HS) at 10 and 40% was significantly more effective than fetal calf serum at 10 and 30%, respectively. The addition of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) increased proliferation alone and in combination with heparin. Heparin alone increased EC growth only in medium containing 40% HS. The addition of cholera toxin (CT) and a phosphodiesterase inhibitor (IBMX) to raise cAMP-levels, stimulated proliferation of both cell types but was more pronounced on the ECs from the saphenous vein. The cAMP-levels were elevated equally in both cell types. However, db-cAMP stimulated proliferation only of the ECs from the saphenous vein. An additive stimulatory effect was observed when bFGF and CT/IBMX were combined. For saphenous vein ECs, a medium containing HS (40%), bFGF, heparin, CT and IBMX was found optimal for proliferation. We conclude that these compounds may be used to increase EC growth and that, even a limited number of donor ECs may be sufficient starting material for in vitro studies on the human endothelium.
The effect of adenosine and related compounds on the proliferation of cultured TM4 cells, a Sertoli-like cell line, has been examined. Adenosine, as well as A1 and A2 adenosine receptor agonists (cyclohexyladenosine and N6-[2-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-(2-methylphenyl)ethyl]adenosine) inhibited cell proliferation. These effects were prevented by 8-cyclopentyl theophylline, 1,3-dimethyl-propargylxanthine and caffeine, antagonists at the A1, A2 and both receptors, respectively. The xanthines had no effect by themselves and, consistent with this, the bathing medium was found not to contain detectable levels of adenosine. It is concluded that TM4 cell proliferation can be regulated by receptors for adenosine.
A novel series of 1-aroylmethyl-1,3-dihydro-2H-1,4-benzodiazepin-2-one derivatives was prepared and evaluated for activity as gastrin/cholecystokinin (CCK)-B receptor antagonists. In vitro binding studies showed that some derivatives exhibited potent affinity for gastrin CCK-B receptor and high selectivity over peripheral CCK(CCK-A) receptor. Furthermore these compounds potently inhibited pentagastrin-induced gastric acid secretion upon intravenous administration in an in vivo model in rats. Structure-activity relationship studies of this series suggested that 1-[(R)-2,3-dihydro-1-(2,3-dihydro-1-(2-methylphenacyl)-2-oxo-5-phe nyl-1H-1,4-benzodiazepin-3-yl]-3-(3-methylphenyl)urea (35b, YM022) was the optimal compound with IC50 values of 0.17, 0.11 and 150 nM for gastrin, CCK-B and CCK-A receptors, respectively, and an ED50 value of 9.5 nmol/kg (i.v.) in rats. The absolute configuration of the precursor of YM022, an (R)-3-amino-1,3-dihydro-2H-1,4-benzodiazepin-2-one derivative ((R)-25), was determined by X-ray crystallographic analysis of its (S) mandelate. It would be expected that YM022, a potent and selective gastrin CCK-B receptor antagonist, inhibits gastric acid secretion without inducing gastrin-mediated side effects such as hypergastrinemia and hyperplasia of oxyntic mucosa.
Evidence of potentially neurotoxic exposures may be obtained in peripheral indicator media, but molecular or cellular evidence of neurotoxic effects has not been as readily available, primarily because the nervous system of living humans is beyond the reach of direct measures. Although there is limited evidence that molecular changes in the blood can provide information about neurotoxicity, several new approaches are being investigated. One is that the immune system may preserve evidence of damage to the nervous system. Debris from damaged cells in the nervous system may present as antigens, giving rise to autoantibodies, which may be detectable in blood for a long time after injury. Progress will depend on more control experiments and clarification of confounding variables. Validation of new molecular markers must go hand in hand with documentation of impaired function, most commonly measured as behavioral or neurophysiological changes. These noninvasive markers will be measured with greater sensitivity and precision, thanks to innovative computer technology. The practical advantages of the new markers may be as important as their contribution to our understanding of the mechanisms by which the nervous system defends against chemical insult.
We aimed to determine whether the angiographic characteristics of recently symptomatic carotid stenosis predict risk of subsequent ischaemic stroke independently of the degree of stenosis. First, two observers compared the angiographic characteristics of patients who subsequently suffered a carotid distribution ischaemic stroke ipsilateral to the stenosis (n = 50) with those of stroke-free controls (n = 100) matched for the degree of stenosis of the symptomatic internal carotid artery. No significant differences were found. Secondly, seven independent observers attempted to identify the angiograms of 50 patients who subsequently suffered a stroke from those of 50 stroke-free controls matched for degree of stenosis, age and sex. None of the observers identified the stroke case more often than was expected by chance alone. We conclude that clinicians cannot differentiate between 'high risk' and 'low risk' carotid stenoses on the basis of angiographic characteristics other than the degree of stenosis.
The physiological basis of mental states can be effectively studied by combining cognitive psychology with human neuroscience. Recent research has employed mental motor imagery in normal and brain-damaged subjects to decipher the content and the structure of covert processes preceding the execution of action. The mapping of brain activity during motor imagery discloses a pattern of activation similar to that of an executed action.
In recent years, there has been a flurry of activity directed towards identifying the molecular basis of circadian (approximately 24 h) rhythms. The past year has seen the isolation of the first clock mutations in a number of organisms (mice, Arabidopsis, cyanobacteria), the identification of a new circadian rhythm gene in Drosophila that interacts with the well known period gene, and considerable progress in the analysis of the 'clock genes', period and frequency. A combination of genetic, molecular and biochemical approaches is leading to an emerging picture of how molecular events enable organisms to keep time.
Recent advances in understanding effects of steroid hormones at the level of individual neurons have been achieved using model systems. Steroid hormone effects on dendritic morphology, synaptic function and ionic conductances have been implicated in the regulation of behavior in both vertebrates and invertebrates. Particularly exciting are studies demonstrating steroid hormone effects on specific synaptic connections and ionic currents. There also has been important progress in understanding the diversity of sites and mechanisms of hormone action, encompassing both genomic and non-genomic effects of steroids on neuronal properties.
Plasticity of sensory and motor cortical and subcortical representations in the adult brain appears to be a general phenomenon in animals that has now been extended to humans. There is a growing understanding of the mechanisms and rules that regulate the form and extent of reorganization; these appear to include activity-dependent control of synaptic efficacy, details of circuit arrangements, and growth of new axonal arbors. Of particular relevance to plasticity of cerebral cortical sensorimotor representations is recent evidence for the participation of intracortical horizontal pathways. These fibers provide a substrate for reorganization and contain mechanisms for increases or decreases in synaptic efficacy that depend on particular spatiotemporal activation patterns.
Most patients with malignant glioma fare no better in 1995 than they did 30 years ago. However, high quality precision stereotactic biopsy is available in most centres, tumour resection is safer and more thorough than ever, focused radiation methods are achieving similar rates of tumour control while exposing normal tissues to lower doses of radiation, novel systems for regional drug delivery are being developed, and the chemosensitive nature of oligodendrogliomas has been firmly established. Clinical investigators are now willing to look more critically at methodological issues and address shortcomings in the design and conduct of future phase II and III trials. These advances, although modest, set the stage for a careful and critical evaluation of the first generation of molecular therapies for malignant glioma in adults.
Soon after they segregate from the neural tube, trunk neural crest cells disperse on two spatially and temporally distinct pathways. Only crest cells that migrate early and ventromedially give rise to neurons of the peripheral nervous system. It is also known that neural crest cell-derived populations require appropriate environmental cues early in development in order to generate neurons, and for the subsequent survival of differentiated neurons. We examined whether neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), a survival factor for subsets of peripheral neurons, is also involved in the regulation of neurogenesis by neural crest cells. First, we found that premigratory and migrating neural crest cells on the medial migration pathway of Embryonic Day 2.5 (E 2.5) embryos express mRNAs encoding multiple isoforms of the NT-3 receptor, trkC, as do cells in the neural tube and epithelial dermamyotome. On E4, a subpopulation of neurons in nascent sensory ganglia express trkC message. Second, we demonstrate that trkC mRNA is only expressed in neural crest cell populations that possess neurogenic potential. Third, we show that the presence of NT-3, during the initial development of cultured neural crest cells, is required for neurogenesis by a subpopulation of neurogenic neural crest-derived cells. These results suggest that a subpopulation of neurogenic neural crest cells expresses functional trkC receptors and requires the timely availability of NT-3 for their development before reaching their final embryonic locations. We suggest that developmental heterogeneity exists in the identity and requirements of neural crest cell subsets that harbor neurogenic potential. We also suggest that the &quot;paradoxical&quot; expression of trkC receptors by the somitic dermamyotome may, in fact, play a role in the exclusive development of crest-derived neurogenic precursors on the medial pathway by limiting the availability of NT-3 on the lateral pathway.
The purpose of this study was to ascertain whether parental age and parental pre-conceptional exposure to various agents differentiated children with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) from obese children without PWS. Two groups of patients under 25 years of age were studied, 15 persons with PWS, and 13 with PWS-like symptoms. In the PWS group deletions were detected on chromosome 15q11-q13 and parents were older. The parents' occupational and recreational exposure to environmental toxins was recorded and correlated to the clinical diagnosis, genetics and behaviour characteristics. Paternal exposure to gasoline/petrol was significantly higher in the PWS group and is suggested as a possible important factor in the aetiology of PWS.


Zebrafish floating head mutant embryos lack notochord and develop somitic muscle in its place. This may result from incorrect specification of the notochord domain at gastrulation, or from respecification of notochord progenitors to form muscle. In genetic mosaics, floating head acts cell autonomously. Transplanted wild-type cells differentiate into notochord in mutant hosts; however, cells from floating head mutant donors produce muscle rather than notochord in wild-type hosts. Consistent with respecification, markers of axial mesoderm are initially expressed in floating head mutant gastrulas, but expression does not persist. Axial cells also inappropriately express markers of paraxial mesoderm. Thus, single cells in the mutant midline transiently co-express genes that are normally specific to either axial or paraxial mesoderm. Since floating head mutants produce some floor plate in the ventral neural tube, midline mesoderm may also retain early signaling capabilities. Our results suggest that wild-type floating head provides an essential step in maintaining, rather than initiating, development of notochord-forming axial mesoderm.
In zebrafish, individual primary motoneurons can be uniquely identified by their characteristic cell body positions and axonal projection patterns. The fate of individual primary motoneurons remains plastic until just prior to axogenesis when they become committed to particular identities. We find that distinct primary motoneurons express particular combinations of LIM homeobox genes. Expression precedes axogenesis as well as commitment, suggesting that LIM homeobox genes may contribute to the specification of motoneuronal fates. By transplanting them to new spinal cord positions, we demonstrate that primary motoneurons can initiate a new program of LIM homeobox gene expression, as well as the morphological features appropriate for the new position. We conclude that the patterned distribution of different primary motoneuronal types within the zebrafish spinal cord follows the patterned expression of LIM homeobox genes, and that this reflects a highly resolved system of positional information controlling gene transcription.
Extinction of the soleus H reflex at higher stimulus intensities is commonly attributed to retrograde conduction of action potentials in motor axons. This study was designed to gain further insight into the mechanisms underlying the extinction. The decrease of the H reflex was quantified in a group of controls and spastic patients, with and without depression of the H response by continuous tendon vibration. Response amplitudes were normalized as a percentage of the maximal M wave amplitude. Stimuli were normalized as a multiple of the M wave threshold. After normalization, the mean M recruitment curves, and similarly the fractions of motor axons activated, were equal in each group. In contrast, the mean H reflex amplitudes at the M threshold were different. The mean H reflex decrease, between 1.0 and 1.5 times the M threshold, was found to be the same fraction of the maximal H reflex amplitude in each group. The largest motor fibres, belonging to the largest motoneurones, are traditionally thought to have the lowest threshold for electrical excitation. Collision or retrograde inactivation should therefore preferentially affect the largest motoneurones, employed in only the largest H reflexes, at the lowest stimulus intensities. Our results are contrary to this hypothesis. Renshaw and/or Ib inhibition is likely to play a role in the initial decrease of the H reflex at higher stimulus intensities.
It has been recently recognized that a distinct signaling pathway in the hypothalamus is involved in the stimulation of feeding in mammals. Neuropeptide Y (NPY), a member of the pancreatic polypeptide family, is the most potent orexigenic signal, and its secretion in discrete hypothalamic sites increases in response to insulinopenia produced by food deprivation or experimental diabetes. To establish the site of interaction between the hypothalamus and the pancreas, we examined the effects of insulin on NPY release in vivo and in vitro from hypothalamic sites known to be involved in feeding behavior. In the first study we evaluated the effects of peripheral insulin injections (1 U/kg.day, sc) on NPY levels in seven hypothalamic nuclei in food-deprived (FD) and ad libitum-fed rats. Whereas food deprivation for 3 days increased NPY levels in the medial preoptic area, paraventricular nucleus (PVN), and arcuate nucleus, insulin injections, which did not alter blood glucose levels, returned NPY levels to the control range selectively in the PVN. NPY levels in the hypothalamic nuclei remained unchanged after insulin injections in ad libitum-fed rats. The in vivo NPY release in the PVN of FD rats, evaluated by the push-pull cannula technique, also decreased in response to peripheral insulin injections. Finally, the effects of insulin, insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I), and IGF-II on NPY release in vitro from the microdissected PVN and two central neighboring sites, the ventromedial nucleus and the median eminence-arcuate nucleus, of FD rats were evaluated. Both insulin (0.67 or 6.7 nM) and IGF-II (0.7 or 7.0 nM) decreased the release of NPY in a dose-dependent manner only from the PVN. On the other hand, IGF-I (0.07 or 7.0 nM) failed to alter the basal PVN NPY efflux. As the PVN is richly innervated by NPY-containing nerve terminals, the results of these in vivo and in vitro studies suggest that the site of insulin action on the hypothalamic NPY network may reside at the level of PVN nerve terminals or at the interneurons in contact with NPY nerve terminals. Although insulin may have a direct effect in reducing NPY release from the PVN, the effectiveness of IGF-II in decreasing NPY release from the PVN raises the possibility that insulin's action may also be mediated via hypothalamic IGF-II neuronal pathways.
Presently available noninvasive methods correctly localize epileptogenic regions in only approximately 50% of patients with frontal lobe epilepsy (FLE). Earlier studies have shown that temporal lobe epileptogenic regions may be identified readily by positron emission tomography (PET) measurements of regional benzodiazepine (BZD) receptor binding. We tested the specific applicability of this method in patients with FLE. Six patients with frontal partial seizures and 7 healthy men were investigated with PET and the BZD receptor ligand [11C]flumazenil. All patients had magnetic resonance (MR) brain scans. The independent assessment of seizure-onset region was based on seizure semiology, intra- and extracranial EEG and, in 4 cases, also on [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET. The epileptic focus/seizure-generating region was correctly identified by [11C]flumazenil PET in all patients. This region was characterized by a significant reduction in BZD receptor density. The area with reduced BZD receptor density was better delimited than the corresponding hypometabolic region, which was observed in 50% of patients investigated with [18F]FDG-PET. MRI was normal in 5 patients. Visualization of BZD receptors with [11C]flumazenil PET appears to be a promising approach for noninvasive identification of frontal lobe epileptogenic regions.
Clinical decision analysis can be a useful scientific tool for individual patient management, for planning of clinical research and for reaching consensus about clinical problems. We systematically reviewed the decision analytic studies in the clinical neurosciences that were published between 1975 and July 1994. All studies were assessed on aspects of clinical applicability: presence of case and context description, completeness of the analysed strategies from a clinical point of view, extendibility of the analyses to different patient profiles, and up-to-date-ness. Fifty-nine decision analyses of twenty-eight different clinical problems were identified. Twenty-eight analyses were based on the theory of subjective expected utility, twelve on cost-effectiveness analysis. Four studies used ROC analysis, and fifteen were risk-, or risk-benefit analyses. At least six studies could have been improved by more elaborately disclosing the context of the clinical problem that was addressed. In eleven studies, the effect of different, yet plausible assumptions was not explored, and in eighteen studies the reader was not informed how to extend the results of the analysis to patients with (slightly) different clinical characterisitics. All studies had, by nature, the potential to promote insight into the clinical problem and focus the discussion on clinically important aspects, and gave clinically useful advice. We conclude that clinical decision analysis, as an explicit, quantitative approach to uncertainty in decision making in the clinical neurosciences will fulfill a growing need in the near future.
Using quantitative in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry the expression of acidic and basic fibroblast growth factors (aFGF, bFGF) in dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) was examined. Around 5% of the small neurons expressed bFGF mRNA in normal DRGs. Nerve injury induced a very dramatic and rapid up-regulation in bFGF mRNA levels, and around 80% of all DRG neurons expressed bFGF mRNA 3 days after axotomy. A distinct increase in bFGF-like immunoreactivity (LI) was also detected as early as 15 h after axotomy. The elevation of bFGF mRNA and protein levels declined after 1 week. bFGF mRNA was also up-regulated in non-neuronal cells following axotomy. Normally bFGF-LI was mainly localized in the nuclei of DRG neurons and in some non-neuronal cells. After nerve section, bFGF-LI was in addition found in the cytoplasm, and many more bFGF-positive non-neuronal cells were observed. By means of confocal microscopy analysis of axotomized DRGs, some bFGF-LI could be detected in vesicle-like structures in the cytoplasm as well as in the nucleoli, in addition to the nuclear location. Application of leukaemia inhibitory factor to the transected sciatic nerve significantly increased the number of bFGF-positive neurons, whereas the bFGF-LI in non-neuronal cells was strongly suppressed. About 70% of the normal DRG neurons expressed aFGF mRNA and aFGF-LI. Axotomy produced a moderate increase in aFGF mRNA levels, but no detectable effect on protein levels. Taken together, the results show that bFGF may be involved in the neuronal response to injury and suggest a role in neuronal survival and regeneration in axotomized DRG neurons.
Merkel cells (MCs) are specialized sensory cells widely distributed in the epithelia of vertebrates. A variable immunohistochemical pattern of neuronal and neurotransmitter markers has been demonstrated in MCs of several species including man. In the present study, we investigated the expression of neurochemical markers in a selected population of human cutaneous MCs by immunofluorescence. The structural neural proteins protein gene product 9.5 and neuron-specific enolase were found to be the most reliable markers for MC identification. Moreover, neurofilament immunoreactivity was shown in a small subset of epidermal MCs. Among the neurotransmitter markers, evidence for expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, peptide histidine isoleucine amide, neuropeptide Y, neurokinin A, galanin, substance P, somatostatin and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase was found. These immunoreactivities were highly variable as far as number of positive cells and staining intensity were concerned. The results indicate that a complex and heterogeneous immunophenotype can be expressed even within a homogeneous population of human MCs.
Previous studies of feline taurine deficiency retinopathy have established that the retinopathy begins as a focal lesion at the area centralis (feline central retinal degeneration) and progresses to form a horizontal band of retinal degeneration which, in some cases, eventually involves the whole retina. Several theories have been proposed to account for the strikingly unusual geographic distribution of lesions in this disease, including a preferential cone photoreceptor effect, and damage by exposure to light. In this paper evidence is provided that the regional lesions in advanced cases of taurine deficiency retinopathy extend circumferentially to form a peripheral annular band-like arrangement around the retinal extremity. The circumferential annulus is confluent with both temporal and nasal extremes of the horizontal band-shaped lesion. The topographic arrangement of the advanced lesion thus approximates the shape of the Greek letter theta, theta. A previously unreported sclerad displacement of photoreceptor cells into the subretinal space was commonly observed histologically. Radially sectioned material also revealed pathological changes in photoreceptors over a much more widespread region than the focal lesions observable ophthalmoscopically and in whole-mounts of the retina. The issue is therefore to account for the advanced photoreceptor cell loss in the focal lesions. A preferential effect on cone photoreceptors is insufficient to explain the lesion distribution, and unilateral tarsorrhaphy experiments exclude light damage as a major factor. Some other factor, or combination of factors, is most likely involved in determining the unique geographic distribution of lesions in feline taurine deficiency retinopathy.
The impact of early neonatal isolation on measures of hippocampal neuronal plasticity was examined in freely moving male rats at 30 days of age. Beginning on Postnatal (PN) Day 2, one-half of pups from each experimental litter were individually isolated from the nest, dam, and siblings for a period of 1 h per day over PN Days 2-9, while their siblings remained in the nest. In addition, randomly selected litters served as unhandled controls. On PN Day 26 all pups were weaned and chronically implanted for recording of evoked field potentials and induction of hippocampal longterm potentiation. At 30 days of age, pups from the three treatment groups (isolated, nonisolated siblings, and unhandled controls) were tested for their ability to establish and maintain long-term potentiation across the perforant path/hippocampal dentate granule cell synapse. Changes in population EPSP slope and population spike amplitude (PSA) recorded following tetanization were used to assess the effects of neonatal isolation of hippocampal response measures. No significant between-group differences were obtained for input/output response curves constructed prior to tetanization. All three groups showed immediate and significant enhancement of the PSA measure at 15 min posttetanization. The level of PSA enhancement obtained from previously isolated pups was significantly greater than that obtained from both the nonisolated sibling and unhandled control groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rats with bilateral lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) produced by ibotenic acid (IBO), quisqualic acid (QUIS), and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) received either human recombinant nerve growth factor (NGF) (5.0 micrograms/day) or cytochrome c (cc) (0.3 microgram/day) treatment. Spatial memory impairments in the Morris water maze differed for the three toxins in the following order: IBO-cc &gt; AMPA-cc &gt; QUIS-cc. Treatment with NGF resulted in behavioral improvement for only the IBO-lesioned rats. Body weight was not affected by the different lesions before treatment; however, administration of NGF resulted in a decreased rate of body weight gain independent of the excitotoxin used. Reduction in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity differed in the neocortex for the three toxins, whereas the hippocampus was unaffected. The cortical ChAT depletion was greatest for AMPA, intermediate for QUIS, and least for IBO. Restoration of ChAT activity by NGF differed for the three toxins (QUIS-NGF &gt; IBO-NGF &gt; AMPA-NGF), whereas ChAT activity in the hippocampus was increased equally. The loss of low-affinity NGF-receptor (p75NGFr)-immunoreactive neurons differed for the toxins (AMPA-cc &gt; QUIS-cc &gt; IBO-cc), whereas treatment with NGF increased the size of the remaining neurons independently of the used toxin. NGF induced a p75NGFr-immunoreactive thickening around intracerebral arteries for all three toxins. Lesions of the NBM produced by IBO, QUIS, and AMPA resulted in a quantitatively different pattern of behavioral, biochemical, and histological deficits. The quantitatively different pattern of recovery after administration of NGF may be determined by the responsivity of the remaining neurons. Intracerebroventricular administration of NGF affected noncholinergic systems as well, resulting in decreased food intake and cerebrovascular hyperinnervation.
Neurotrophins such as NT-3 are subject to complex regulation during epileptic seizures. Pilocarpine at a dose of 250 mg/kg induced either limbic seizures (LS) or limbic motor status epilepticus (LMSE) in adult rats. In situ hybridization signals for NT-3 mRNA declined moderately after LS and were nearly lost in LMSE at 3-4 h. Loss of NT-3 mRNA expression does not correlate with cell death and may reflect a functional down-regulation in certain hippocampal neurons.
Shortening of the spinal column has been regarded as one possible method to obtain cord-to-cord apposition after total transection of the spinal column. However, to further improve regenerative possibilities, the problems of inconstant bony fusion and cyst formations within the junctions must be resolved. Modifying the method of de Medinaceli on the rat thoracic spine, we attempted several fixation devices to achieve better interspinal fixation after spondylectomy and transection, including transpedicular miniscrews, wiring of the transverse processes, and wiring of the posterior spinal processes. A dynamic model, based on retracting and compressing the cut ends of the spinal cord by means of adjustable fixation devices to allow swelling and shrinking of the stumps was also attempted to better compensate pathophysiologic changes of the transected cord. The best regeneration, as indicated by regrowth of 5-HT fibers below the level of transection, was obtained following application of fibrin glue and compressive wiring of posterior spinal processes. In this group, the distance between proximal and distal GFAP-rich spinal cord tissue (gap consisting of GFAP-poor components such as cysts, phagocytic cells, and scar tissue) of the two spinal cord stumps was also the shortest. With better approximation, the numbers of regenerated 5-HT fibers improved remarkably, suggesting that this descending fiber system is able to bridge the transection under these conditions.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) is involved in the development and regeneration of the central nervous system (CNS). ApoE may also be necessary to maintain the integrity of the synapto-dendritic complexity. We analyzed the synaptic alterations in the CNS of apoE-deficient (knockout) mice during the aging process. In apoE-deficient homozygous mice, there was an age-dependent 15 to 40% loss of synaptophysin-immunoreactive nerve terminals and microtubule-associated protein 2-immunoreactive dendrites in the neocortex and hippocampus, when compared to controls. Dendritic alterations were observed as early as 4 months of age. Ultrastructural analysis revealed extensive dendritic vacuolization and disruption of the endomembrane system and cytoskeleton in apoE-deficient homozygous mice. Further immunocytochemical studies of the neuronal cytoskeleton showed that in apoE-deficient mice there was a decrease in the immunoreactivity of alpha and beta tubulin (but not kinesin) in the cell bodies and processes. These results support the contention that apoE might play an important role in maintaining the stability of the synapto-dendritic apparatus and that altered or deficient functioning of this molecule could underlie the synaptic and cytoskeletal alterations in Alzheimer's disease.
The calcium-independent nitric oxide synthase, known as NOS-II or inducible NOS, is only present in adult brain during pathologies that involve inflammatory events. We sought to establish whether NOS-II was also expressed in the course of normal brain development. NOS-II mRNA, measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction, appeared during the perinatal period in different brain areas. It was detected on embryonic day 14, the earliest time analyzed, and then levels decayed until the first postnatal week when a second, more robust phase of expression arose to peak around postnatal day 7. Expression then declined to negligible levels in adulthood. Immunohistology revealed translation of the NOS-II protein in both embryonic and postnatal animals, localized to parenchymal blood vessels, whereas no vessel staining was detected in adults. Furthermore, NOS-II mRNA and enzymatic activities were present in isolated brain microvessels from developing animals but not from adults, and P7 vessels contained a 125 kDa protein band detected with a monoclonal antibody raised against rat NOS-II protein. These results indicate that the calcium-independent NOS mRNA and functional protein are transiently expressed in vessels throughout the brain in the course of normal development.
When amputated, the fins of adult zebrafish rapidly regenerate the missing tissue. Fin regeneration proceeds through several stages, including wound healing, establishment of the wound epithelium, recruitment of the blastema from mesenchymal cells underlying the wound epithelium, and differentiation and outgrowth of the regenerate. We screened for temperature-sensitive mutations that affect the regeneration of the fin. Seven mutations were identified, including five that fail to regenerate their fins, one that causes slow growth during regeneration, and one that causes dysmorphic bumps or tumors to develop in the regenerating fin. reg5 mutants fail to regenerate their caudal fins, whereas reg6 mutants develop dysmorphic bumps in their regenerates at the restrictive temperature. Temperature-shift experiments indicate that reg5 and reg6 affect different stages of regeneration. The critical period for reg5 occurs during the early stages of regeneration before or during establishment of the blastema, resulting in defects in subsequent growth of the blastema and failure to differentiate bone-forming cells. The critical period for reg6 occurs after the onset of bone differentiation and during early stages of regenerative outgrowth. Both reg5 and reg6 also show temperature-sensitive defects in embryonic development or in ontogenetic outgrowth of the juvenile fin.
Otoconia are calcified protein matrices within the gravity-sensing organs of the vertebrate vestibular system. These protein matrices are thought to originate from the supporting or hair cells in the macula during development. Previous studies of mammalian calcitic, barrel-shaped otoconia revealed an organized protein matrix consisting of a thin peripheral layer, a well-defined organic core and a flocculent matrix inbetween. No studies have reported the microscopic organization of the aragonitic otoconial matrix, despite its protein characterization. Pote et al. (1993b) used densitometric methods and inferred that prismatic (aragonitic) otoconia have a peripheral protein distribution, compared to that described for the barrel-shaped, calcitic otoconia of birds, mammals, and the amphibian utricle. By using tannic acid as a negative stain, we observed three kinds of organic matrices in preparations of fixed, decalcified saccular otoconia from the adult newt: (1) fusiform shapes with a homogenous electron-dense matrix; (2) singular and multiple strands of matrix; and (3) more significantly, prismatic shapes outlined by a peripheral organic matrix. These prismatic shapes remain following removal of the gelatinous matrix, revealing an internal array of organic matter. We conclude that prismatic otoconia have a largely peripheral otoconial matrix, as inferred by densitometry.

In this study we investigated the intra-arterial delivery of viral and nonviral particles to experimental brain tumors. A herpes simplex virus (HSV) vector and monocrystalline iron oxide nanoparticles (MION) were injected into the internal carotid artery of Fisher 344 rats harboring intracerebral 9L gliosarcomas, using bradykinin to disrupt the blood-tumor barrier. Brain and internal organs were stained both for virus-mediated gene expression and for iron. Quantitative comparisons of gene expression and MION uptake with and without blood-tumor barrier disruption were performed in the center and at the periphery of the tumor mass, as well as in normal brain. In addition, MION distribution was traced in vivo by MR imaging. Delivery of HSV into 9L gliosarcoma cells was greatly enhanced by intra-carotid bradykinin infusion. Virus-mediated expression of the HSV-thymidine kinase (TK) and beta-galactosidase gene products was highest at the tumor periphery as compared to the tumor center. Selective HSV infection of multiple tumor foci was achieved in both hemispheres without affecting normal brain. MION uptake was high at the tumor periphery even without blood-tumor barrier disruption. Bradykinin increased MION uptake predominantly in the center of the tumor with virtually no effect at the periphery. These findings show that selective blood-tumor barrier disruption by bradykinin can be used to enhance HSV-mediated gene delivery to tumor cells in the periphery of brain tumors. A crucial aspect in the treatment of malignant brain tumors is the eradication of tumor cells infiltrating the brain; bradykinin may facilitate access of vectors to these areas by selective disruption of their neovasculature.
Several ontogenetic studies have been devoted to the structural organization of the developing tectum opticum. They disagree in many respects because they are based on histological preparations performed with differently oriented planes of section. According to our results the differences found in the literature mainly result from the fact that the developmental gradient axis undergoes remarkable positional changes with respect to both optic lobe and neural tube longitudinal anatomical axes during the early stages of development. The present work is a dynamic description of the tectum opticum lamination based on sections coinciding with the developmental gradient. Since this latter displays a curved disposition, several slightly modified planes of section had to be used to obtain a complete picture along the developmental gradient. The development of the tectal architecture proceeds from a relatively simple organization through increasingly complex multilaminated patterns. A dynamic interpretation of successive images of a particular region observed at increasing developmental stages or of images observed at a particular stage along the entire length of the developmental gradient axis, allows us to propose that embryonic laminae are only transient spatial arrangements of cells actively migrating from the sites where they were generated to those where they will definitively reside. These considerations led us to define a nomenclature that establishes clear correlations between the early transient organizations and the definitive one of the fully developed optic tectum. This type of nomenclature could be usefully applied to describe dynamically the development of structures displaying multilaminated patterns such as other cortical zones of the central nervous system.
This paper describes the development of the serotonergic innervation of the chick tectum opticum as revealed by an immunohistochemical methodology. The development of this innervation was previously described simply as the formation of an irregular network of serotonergic fibers that gradually invades the organ and increases in density. Our results show that the developmental pattern of serotonergic innervation differs significantly through the distinct tectal layers and that it progresses through a characteristic temporospatial pattern related to the lamination process. These findings support the idea that the concept of laminar segregation can be applied to describe the development of the serotonergic innervation. On the other hand, it is clear that the existence of a typical ordered developmental pattern of innervation makes it possible to detect embryonic or post-hatching alterations. Thus, the tectal serotonergic innervation could be used as a suitable model to investigate possible plastic changes in experimental conditions.
The present investigation was undertaken to study the effect of cysteamine on experimental dyskinesia in rats. The movement disorders were produced by intraperitoneal administration of iminodipropionitrile (IDPN) in the dose of 100 mg/kg per day for 11 days. Cysteamine was administered (i.p.), daily 30 minutes before IDPN in the doses of 25 mg/kg, 50 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg bodyweight in three different groups of rats. Twenty four hours after the last dose of IDPN, animals were observed for neurobehavioural changes including vertical and horizontal head weaving, circling, backwalking, grip strength and righting reflex. Immediately after behavioural studies brain specimens were collected for analysis of vitamin E and total glutathione levels. The results of behavioural studies showed that co-treatment with cysteamine protected rats against IDPN-induced dyskinesia. Our biochemical studies showed that IDPN produced a depletion of vitamin E in cerebrum, cerebellum and brain stem. Concomitant treatment with cysteamine in doses of 50 and 100 mg/kg attenuated IDPN-induced decrease in vitamin E in cerebrum and cerebellum. There was a significant decrease in cerebral glutathione in IDPN treated rats, which was attenuated by cysteamine. No significant change was observed in the glutathione levels in cerebellum and brain stem. Further studies are deemed necessary to elucidate the mode of action of cysteamine and to determine therapeutic and/or prophylactic value of this drug in the treatment of movement disorders.


This study examined how patient autonomy is associated with the organizational environment in nursing homes, particularly the organizational climate, organization of work and selected staff characteristics, such as age and experience of health care. Staff from 13 nursing homes in the county of Stockholm, Sweden, were included. The organizational climate was described by staff from two of the nursing homes that, on the basis of staff judgement, were rated as creative, and from two of the nursing homes that were rated as lacking innovation. Regarding organization of work, which included the number of patients who required to be fed, together with the incidence of pressure sores and indwelling urinary catheters, there appeared to be no difference in care from both types of nursing home. The statistical analyses showed that nursing homes characterized as significantly creative supported patient autonomy to a high degree, and that the staff's experience with health care was associated with the organizational climate.
alpha 4 beta 1 integrin (VLA-4) appears to be unique among the leukocyte integrins in that it can initiate the adhesion of circulating lymphocytes without cellular activation. It is not known how lymphocytes or other cell types maintain constitutive levels of alpha 4 beta 1 integrin activity. The current report describes a monoclonal antibody, 15/7, that recognizes a high affinity or ligand-occupied conformation of beta 1 integrin. Studies with 15/7 revealed that alpha 4 beta 1 integrin-dependent adhesion of leukocytic cell lines is mediated by a population of low affinity receptors that is conformationally responsive to ligand; the 15/7 epitope could be induced by nanomolar concentrations of soluble VCAM-1 or by micromolar concentrations of a peptide derived from the type III connecting segment domain of fibronectin (as ligands for alpha 4 beta 1 integrin). The same receptors were also responsive to adhesion activating reagents, such as Mn2+, activating anti-beta 1 integrin antibodies, and phorbol myristate acetate, which induced the 15/7 epitope directly and/or decreased the concentration of ligand required for epitope induction. In addition to the responsive receptor pool, cells expressed a second population of alpha 4 beta 1 integrin that was conformationally restrained, failing to respond to ligand or to any of the activating reagents. The relative size of the responsive and inactive receptor pools, as well as the affinity of the responsive receptors, represented a stable phenotype of different cell types and played important roles in defining the cells' adhesive capacity and ligand specificity. Similar receptor populations were measured on lymphocyte subsets in whole blood. These studies provide insight into how cells maintain different constitutive levels of alpha 4 beta 1 integrin activity, and how the activity of beta 1 integrin can be modulated by activators of cell adhesion.
The potassium channel T1 domain plays an important role in the regulated assembly of subunit proteins. We have examined the assembly properties of the Shaker channel T1 domain to determine if the domain can self-assemble, the number of subunits in a multimer, Ns and the mechanism of assembly. High pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) size exclusion chromotography (SEC) separates T1 domain proteins into two peaks. By co-assembly assays, these peaks are identified to be a high molecular weight assembled form and a low molecular weight monomeric form. To determine the Ns of the assembled protein peak on HPLC SEC, we first cross-linked the T1 domain proteins and then separated them on HPLC. Four evenly spaced bands co-migrate with the assembled protein peak; thus, the T1 domain assembles to form a tetramer. The absence of separate dimeric and trimeric peaks of assembled T1 domain protein suggests that the tetramer is the stable assembled state, most probably a closed ring structure.
Quaking is an autosomal recessive hypo/dysmyelinating mutant mouse which has a 1-Mbp deletion on chromosome 17. The mutation exhibits pleiotrophy and does not include genes encoding characterized myelin proteins. The levels of the 67-kD isoform of the myelin-associated glycoprotein (S-MAG) relative to those of the 72-kD isoform (L-MAG) are increased in the quaking CNS, but not in other dysmyelinating mutants. Abnormal expression of MAG isoforms in quaking may result from altered transcription of the MAG gene or from abnormal sorting, transport, or targeting of L-MAG or S-MAG. To test these hypotheses, we have determined the distribution of L-MAG and S-MAG in cervical spinal cord of 7-, 14-, 21-, 28-, and 35-d-old quaking mice. In 7-d-old quaking and control spinal cord, L- and S-MAG was detectable in periaxonal regions of myelinated fibers and in the perinuclear cytoplasm of oligodendrocytes. Between 7 and 35 d, L-MAG was removed from the periaxonal membrane of quaking but not control mice. Compared to control mice, a significant increase in MAG labeling of endosomes occurred within oligodendrocyte cytoplasm of 35-d-old quaking mice. S-MAG remained in periaxonal membranes of both quaking and control mice. Analysis of the cytoplasmic domain of L-MAG identifies amino acid motifs at tyrosine 35 and tyrosine 65 which meet the criteria for &quot;tyrosine internalization signals&quot; that direct transmembrane glycoproteins into the endocytic pathway. These results establish that L-MAG is selectively removed from the periaxonal membrane of CNS-myelinated fibers by receptor-mediated endocytosis. The loss of L-MAG from quaking periaxonal membranes results from increased endocytosis of L-MAG and possibly a decrease in L-MAG production.
Caveolin is a protein associated with the characteristic coats that decorate the cytoplasmic face of plasma membrane caveolae. Recently it was found that exposure of human fibroblasts to cholesterol oxidase (CO) rapidly induces caveolin to redistribute to the ER and then to the Golgi complex, and that subsequent removal of CO allows caveolin to return to the plasma membrane (Smart, E. J., Y.-S. Ying, P. A. Conrad, R. G. W. Anderson, J. Cell Biol. 1994, 127:1185-1197). We now present evidence that caveolin normally undergoes microtubule-dependent cycling between the plasma membrane and the Golgi. In cells that were treated briefly with nocodazole and then with a mixture of nocodazole plus CO, caveolin relocated from the plasma membrane to the ER and then to the ER/Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), but subsequent movement to the Golgi was not observed. Even in the absence of CO, nocodazole caused caveolin to accumulate in the ERGIC. Nocodazole did not retard the movement of caveolin from the Golgi to the plasma membrane after removal of CO. Incubation of cells at 15 degrees followed by elevation of the temperature to 37 degrees caused caveolin to accumulate first in the ERGIC and then in the Golgi, before finally reestablishing its normal steady state distribution predominantly in plasma membrane caveolae. In cells released from a 15 degrees block, movement of caveolin from the Golgi to the plasma membrane was not inhibited by nocodazole. Taken together, these results imply that caveolin cycles constitutively between the plasma membrane and the Golgi by a multi-step process, one of which, ERGIC-to-Golgi transport, requires microtubules. This novel, bidirectional pathway may indicate roles for microtubules in the maintenance of caveolae, and for caveolin in shuttling fatty acids and cholesterol between the plasma membrane and the ER/Golgi system.
A postembedding immunoperoxidase method for light microscopy was used to localize glutamate-like immunoreactivity in the rabbit basilar pontine nuclei. Labelled fibre bundles, neuronal cell bodies and numerous puncta of diverse size were heavily glutamate immunoreactive throughout all subdivisions of the pontine nuclei. To determine whether some of the glutamate-immunoreactive puncta were synaptic terminals of posterior cingulate cortical neurons, a double-labelling technique involving an anterograde tract-tracing method and a postembedding immunogold procedure for electron microscopy was used. A quantitative evaluation of gold particle densities revealed that anterogradely labelled cingulopontine synaptic terminals were about twice as immunoreactive as their postsynaptic dendrites, perikaryal and glial profiles and about three times more than symmetric synaptic terminals. The present results indicate that the posterior cingulopontine projection contains high levels of glutamate at its synaptic terminals. This observation provides further support to the role for glutamate as a neurotransmitter in the corticopontine pathway.



Observers require less time to identify a visual target when its location is cued in advance than when it is not cued, and the magnitude of the improvement depends on the validity of the cue. According to J. Jonides's (1983) 2-process model, there exist 2 possible modes of attentional readiness: a focused-attention mode and a diffuse-attention mode. Observers are assumed to enter the focused-attention mode on a proportion of trials that matches the validity of the cue and to enter the diffuse-attention mode on the remaining trials. The present experiment tested and rejected the response time mixture prediction of the 2-process model. An instance of the class of 1-process models in which perceptual objects are sampled in parallel according to the validity of the cue was evaluated. A stochastic simulation of the model yielded results that paralleled those of the experiment.

The location of porin-type 1 proteins in mammalian striated muscle has been assessed using immunogold electron microscopy with an anti-porin 31HL monoclonal antibody as the primary antibody. Gold particles were found on the mitochondrial outer membrane, the sarcoplasmic reticulum and plasmalemma in longitudinal sections of rat and rabbit skeletal muscle and rabbit and sheep cardiac muscle. The relative densities of gold particles in the mitochondrial outer membrane, sarcoplasmic reticulum and plasmalemma were 7:3:1 in white sternomastoid muscle, for example. Skeletal and cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles, which had been fractionated by discontinuous sucrose density centrifugation, were subjected to SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western blotting. The anti-porin 31HL monoclonal antibody detected a band of relative molecular mass (M(r)) 31,000 in all muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicle fractions and also in liver mitochondria. The intensity of immunostaining of the sarcoplasmic reticulum fractions was 2.5-10% that of mitochondrial outer membranes per microgram of membrane protein blotted. Contamination of the sarcoplasmic reticulum fractions by mitochondrial outer membrane was &lt; 0.75% as determined from the specific activity of monoamine oxidase. Thus, only a small part of the porin detected in sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles can be attributed to mitochondrial contamination. These results show that porin-type1 immunoreactivity is not restricted to mitochondria but found in the sarcoplasmic reticulum and plasmalemma of both mammalian skeletal and cardiac muscle.
beta-Amyloid cores contain considerable amounts of D-Ser and D-Asp residues in Alzheimer's disease. We investigated the cytotoxic effects of various synthetic beta-amyloids, including D-Ser-substituted derivatives, on primary cultured neurons and nonneuronal HeLa cells. beta 25-35, its D-Ser26-substituted derivative, and beta 1-40 in 10-100 nM specifically suppressed mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase activity [MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5- diphenyltetrazolium bromide] reduction] in HeLa cells, which are dependent on ATP production mainly from glycolysis, but did not exert detectable cytotoxicity, assessed by dye exclusion test, NADH levels, and uptake of [3H]Leu and [3H]Tdr. The beta-amyloids, on the other hand, did exert neurodegenerative effects on rat hippocampal cultured neurons in which ATP is mostly synthesized by the mitochondrion. The activities of beta 25-35 and [D-Ser26] beta 25-35 are dependent on their having beta-structures and not random forms. Although beta 25-35 was degraded rapidly by proteinase(s) in brain extract or leucine aminopeptidase, [D-Ser26] beta 25-35 is fairly resistant. These results indicate that one of the primary targets of beta-amyloids is suppression of mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase, and the vulnerability of the brain of beta-amyloids can be explained by its large dependence on mitochondrial energy production. Moreover, racemization of serine residues of beta-amyloids may be involved in neurodegeneration and formation of senile plaques through escaping from the degradation process by brain proteinases.
We have investigated the roles of tyrosine kinase and protein kinase C activity in interleukin-1 beta-induced interleukin-6 production, using the U373 human astrocytoma cell line as a model system for astrocytes. Compounds known to inhibit tyrosine kinases were tested for effects on interleukin-6 production in U373 cells stimulated with interleukin-1 beta. Complete to nearly complete inhibition of interleukin-1 beta-induced interleukin-6 production was observed with the flavonoids genistein and quercetin, the bisindole alkaloids staurosporine and K-252a, or the tyrphostin AG879. Herbimycin A was a potent inhibitor but did not induce complete inhibition at saturating dose. Calphostin C, an inhibitor of protein kinase C, also completely inhibited interleukin-6 production. The phorbol ester 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate induced interleukin-6 production, and treatment with a combination of this phorbol ester and interleukin-1 produced synergistic stimulation. Prolonged exposure to phorbol ester eliminated subsequent stimulation by phorbol ester but only partially decreased interleukin-1-induced interleukin-6 and had no effect on the activities of selected inhibitors including calphostin C. We conclude that tyrosine kinase activity is essential for interleukin-1-induced interleukin-6 production in U373 astrocytoma cells and that activity of a phorbol ester-insensitive, atypical protein kinase C isozyme may also be involved.
The distribution of lymphocyte subpopulations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and their phenotypic characteristics were extensively investigated in a group of 18 healthy individuals using two- and three-color flow cytometry. Generally, CD3+ T lymphocytes constituted the vast majority of CSF lymphocytes while the number of B lymphocytes and NK cells were low. Most T lymphocytes exhibited the phenotype of memory/primed cells in both the CD4+ and CD8+ subpopulations. Two markers for recent activation, HLA-DR and interleukin-2 receptor (CD25) were not upregulated when compared with peripheral blood (PB) in the majority of CSF T lymphocytes. However, a fraction of T lymphocytes co-expressing the NK cells markers CD56 and/or CD16 showed a pronounced upregulation of HLA-DR in CSF as compared with PB. This study documents that the cellular composition of the normal CSF differs profoundly from PB regarding all major lymphocyte subpopulations. This has to be taken into account in studies addressing questions regarding cellular immune reactions in the central nervous system under pathological conditions.
A patient was seen with secondary cluster headache whose acute pain responded promptly to sumatriptan. The headaches started after injury to the vertebral artery. This finding provides clinical affirmation of the existence of the trigeminal/cervical nuclear overlap that is central to this condition.

In order to determine whether iron sequestered by the rat brain during the third week of postnatal life could be mobilized by subsequent dietary iron deficiency (ID), iron-59 (59Fe) was administered to rats at 2 weeks of age. The animals were placed on an ID or a control diet from age 4 through 8 weeks and killed by perfusion. Brain radioactivity was identical for both groups, and autoradiography revealed no differences in the distribution of radioactivity. Thus, neither the sequestration of cerebral iron acquired at age 2 weeks nor its subsequent redistribution was affected by ID. Since ID beginning after age 3 weeks reportedly produces a cerebral iron deficit that is in part reversible, an attempt was made to determine whether 59Fe administered after ID was preferentially delivered to any brain region. Rats were placed on an ID or a control diet from age 3 through 7 weeks and then injected with 59Fe, placed on a normal diet, and killed 2 weeks later. Thre was no difference between groups in amount or distribution of brain 59Fe, except in the choroid plexus, which was more radioactive in the ID rats than in the controls. This finding may represent a mechanism by which the choroid plexus buffers the brain against rapid rises in plasma iron content.
All organs including the brain contain iron, and the proteins involved in iron uptake (transferrin and transferrin receptor) and intracellular storage (ferritin). However, because the brain resides behind a barrier and has a heterogeneous population of cells, there are aspects of its iron management that are unique. Iron management, the timely delivery of appropriate amounts of iron, is crucial to normal brain development and function. Mismanagement of cellular iron can result not only in decreased metabolic activity but increased vulnerability to oxidative damage. There is regional specificity in cell deposition of iron and the iron regulatory proteins. However, the sequestration of iron in the brain seems primarily the responsibility of oligodendrocytes, as these cells contain most of the stainable iron in the brain. Transferrin, the iron-mobilizing protein, is also found predominantly in these cells. The transferrin receptor is abundantly expressed on blood vessels, large neurons in the cortex, striatum, and hippocampus, and is also present on oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. Ferritin, the intracellular iron storage protein, consists of 2 subunits which are functionally distinct, and we provide evidence in this report that the cellular distribution of the ferritin subunits is also distinct. In addition, changes in the cellular distribution of iron and its associated regulatory proteins occur in Alzheimer's disease. Neuritic plaques contain relatively large amounts of stainable iron, and the surrounding cells robustly immunostain for ferritin and the transferrin receptor. Analysis of the cellular distribution of iron indicates the different levels of requirement of iron in the brain by different cell types and should ultimately elucidate how cells acquire and maintain this essential component of oxidative metabolism. In addition, changes in the ability of cells to deliver and manage iron may provide insight into altered metabolic activity with age and disease as well as identify cell populations at risk for iron-induced oxidative stress.
1. Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a member of a family of molecules (the neurotrophins) that can regulate the survival and/or outgrowth of many vertebrate cells. NGF also induces outgrowth from Lymnaea neurons under experimental conditions. Recent studies have shown that the neurotrophins can also acutely modulate some physiological properties of adult neurons. Here we examined the actions of NGF on high-voltage-activated (HVA) Ca2+ currents in Lymnaea motoneurons. 2. NGF induced a dose-dependent and reversible increase in HVA Ca2+ currents within 2 min. 3. The threshold dose of the NGF-induced enhancement of HVA Ca2+ currents ranged between 1 and 1,000 pg/ml. In the most sensitive cells, the response saturated at doses higher than 1 ng/ml. 4. The results indicate that neurotrophins acutely modulate voltage-gated Ca2+ currents in molluscan neurons through a high affinity signal transduction pathway. The data support the existence of neurotrophins in invertebrates. Moreover, this property of NGF may explain the neuromodulatory actions of neurotrophins observed in various preparations.
1. Habituation is the declining responsiveness of a neural circuit (or behavior) to repetitive stimulation. Dishabituation (or arousal) can be brought about by the sudden presentation of an additional, novel stimulus. A clear example of arousal in the locust is provided by the visual system: the habituated response of the descending contralateral movement detector (DCMD) interneuron to repetitive visual stimuli can be dishabituated by a variety of other visual and tactile stimuli. 2. Application of octopamine to the locust brain and optic lobes dishabituates the DCMD in a manner similar to the effect of visual and tactile stimulation. 3. The locust CNS contains two pairs of octopamine-immunoreactive cells, the protocerebral medulla 4 (PM4) neurons, that could potentially mediate this dishabituation effect; PM4 neurons arborize in the optic lobe, they contain octopamine, and they respond to the same visual and tactile stimuli that dishabituate the DCMD. 4. To investigate whether PM4 activity dishabituates the DCMD, we recorded intracellularly from one of the PM4 neurons while recording extracellularly from the DCMD. When the PM4 neuron is injected with hyperpolarizing current to render it completely inactive, the DCMD exhibits its characteristic habituation to a moving visual stimulus. However, depolarizing the PM4 neuron, to produce action potentials at approximately 20 Hz, significantly increases the number of DCMD action potentials per stimulus. 5. The PM4 neurons may therefore play an important role in dishabituating the DCMD to novel stimuli. This effect is presumably mediated by PM4 neurons releasing endogenous octopamine within the optic lobe.
1. The effects of oxygenated and hypoxic bicarbonate/CO2, 10 and 25 mM N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES)-buffered artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) have been studied in a rat brain slice preparation. Double-barreled pH-selective microelectrodes were used to measure intracellular pH (pHi) and membrane potential in dorsal vagal motoneurons (DVMs) and to measure extracellular pH (pHe) in the dorsal vagal motonucleus. 2. In bicarbonate ACSF, pHi averaged 7.24 +/- 0.05 (mean +/- SE, n = 21) and ranged from 6.86 to 7.79 pH units. pHe averaged 7.13 +/- 0.08 (n = 10). 3. On changing from oxygenated bicarbonate ACSF to either 10 or 25 mM HEPES ACSF, pHi decreased by 0.13-0.15 units, and the membrane depolarized by 10-11 mV. pHe also decreased in 10 mM HEPES ACSF (pHe 6.89 +/- 0.02, n = 8) but not in 25 mM HEPES ACSF (pHe 7.15 +/- 0.06, n = 3). In most neurons changes in pHi preceded changes in membrane potential. 4. In bicarbonate ACSF and in 25 mM HEPES ACSF, there was a significant linear relationship between prehypoxic pHi and the direction and amplitude of the hypoxia-induced membrane potential change (either an hyperpolarization or a depolarization). 5. In 10 mM HEPES ACSF, hypoxia always induced a depolarization; there was no correlation between prehypoxic pHi and the membrane potential response. 6. In bicarbonate ACSF and in 10 and 25 mM HEPES ACSF, hypoxia resulted in intracellular and extracellular acidification. However, the extracellular acidification in hypoxic 10 mM HEPES buffer was most pronounced (pH 6.40 +/- 0.11, n = 8), reflecting a preexisting extracellular acidification in oxygenated 10 mM HEPES buffer. 7. Various hypotheses that could give rise to a relationship between changes in membrane potential and pH are discussed; arguments are presented in favor of the concept that modulation of ion channels by either pHi or pHe, or both, is responsible for the observed correlations.
1. We made extracellular recordings from neurons in the abducens nuclei of alert rhesus monkeys during electrical stimulation of the vestibular labyrinths with brief current pulses and during smooth pursuit, steady fixation, and the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) evoked by passive head turns. The responses to electrical stimuli were compared with quantitative measures of the sensitivity of each neuron to eye position and eye velocity. We also compared the strengths of the vestibular inputs from the labyrinths ipsilateral and contralateral to the side of recording. 2. Abducens neurons showed transient excitation after a current pulse was applied to the contralateral labyrinth and transient inhibition after stimulation of the ipsilateral labyrinth. The latency of excitation had a mean value of 1.7 ms and a median value of 1.5 ms. Latency was unimodally distributed with little variation among neurons. Neurons with large responses showed a second phase of excitation that started 2.5 ms after the stimulus. 3. In two of three monkeys, the excitatory responses of abducens neurons to electrical stimulation of the contralateral labyrinth were approximately 3 times as large as their inhibitory responses to stimulation of the ipsilateral labyrinth. The difference in response size was not observed in the third monkey. The asymmetry in the size of the electrically evoked inputs from the two labyrinths was associated with a smaller asymmetry in responses of abducens neurons during the VOR evoked by passive head turns. The increase in firing rate during head rotation away from the side of the recording was almost always larger than the decrease in firing rate during head rotation toward the side of the recording. 4. The size of the neuronal response to electrical stimulation was correlated with the magnitude of the change in discharge rate during eye movements. Single or multiple regression of measures of response amplitude against eye position threshold, sensitivity to eye position, sensitivity to eye velocity, and baseline discharge rate yielded correlation coefficients that ranged from 0.26 to 0.92 in different monkeys. The existence of positive correlations is consistent with a role of the intrinsic properties of abducens neurons in determining recruitment order. However, the existence of large amounts of variability within most of the samples suggests that the recruitment order of abducens neurons also depends on the discharge properties of the afferents to each abducens neuron.
1. In hippocampal CA1 neurons of rat brain slices, a Ca(2+)-dependent slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) and underlying K+ current (IsAHP) are activated by Ca2+ influx and presumably reflect the time course of the intracellular Ca2+ signal produced by neuronal stimulation. We tested the hypothesis that when exogenous Ca2+ chelators become the predominant mobile Ca2+ buffer in the neuron, they alter the shape of intracellular Ca2+ signals responsible for IsAHP. The nature of this alteration provides insight into the mechanism of IsAHP generation. 2. Derivatives of 1,2-bis-[2-amino phenoxy] ethane N,N,N',N' tetraacetic acid (BAPTA) with different dissociation constants (KDS) for Ca2+ ranging from 0.15 to 7,000 microM were used to test this hypothesis. We also examined the effects of ethylene glycolbis (beta-aminoethyl either)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA), which has a KD similar to that of BAPTA for Ca2+, but which binds and releases Ca2+ 100 times more slowly. When delivered to the cytoplasm by dialysis from a patch pipette, these chelators potentiated, inhibited, or had no effect on IsAHP depending on their concentration, affinity, and binding kinetics. 3. IsAHP decayed exponentially over much of its time course, with a half-decay time of 0.9 +/- 0.1 s (mean +/- SE, n = 22). Immediately after breakthrough into the whole cell configuration, there was an initial period of approximately 5 min during which IsAHP magnitude increased approximately 3.5-fold with no change in time course. Thereafter, the time course and amplitude of IsAHP were stable for &gt; 45 min. 4. Addition of 1 mM of the high-affinity chelators 5,5'-dimethyl BAPTA or BAPTA to the pipette solution first increased the decay time of IsAHP 1.5-fold. However, within 10-15 min after break-through, the current was abolished. Addition of Ca2+ (0.1-1.0 mM) to the patch pipette containing the BAPTA derivatives reduced the ability of a given concentration of high-affinity chelator to inhibit IsAHP and also prolonged the period of IsAHP enhancement. A similar prolongation of the period of enhancement with even less attenuation of IsAHP was apparent with 0.1 mM 5,5'-dimethyl BAPTA and 0.1 mM Ca2+. 5. The intermediate-affinity chelator 4.4'-difluoro BAPTA (1 mM) prolonged the decay phase of the sAHP/IsAHP without attenuating the current. A twofold prolongation of IsAHP also was observed in neurons dialyzed with internal solution containing 3 mM EGTA and 0.3 mM Ca2+. Dialysis with 1 mM of the low-affinity chelators 2-amino-5-fluorophenol-N,N,O-triacetic acid (5-fluoro APTRA) or 5,5'-dinitro BAPTA had no apparent effect on IsAHP. All of the chelators that prolonged the decay phase of IsAHP also induced a rising phase such that a well-defined peak of IsAHP could be discerned at approximately 0.6 s after the end of the stimulus used to evoke the current. 6. Weak stimulation of muscarinic receptors selectively inhibits IsAHP. Thus the uncontaminated time course of IsAHP can be deduced by subtracting currents recorded before and after such muscarinic stimulation. With minimal exogenous buffer in the pipette (0.1 mM EGTA), the muscarinic-receptor-sensitive current exhibited a rising phase lasting approximately 300 ms and then decayed with a half-time of approximately 1 s. Both the rising and decay phases of the muscarinic-receptor-sensitive current were prolonged at least twofold by dialysis with BAPTA or 4,4'-difluoro BAPTA. Thus the effect of the chelators on the time course of IsAHP is not simply and artifact of inhibition of early components of the outward current. 7. The effects of BAPTA analogues on the time course of IsAHP are not due to changes in mobilization of intracellular Ca2+. External application of caffeine (10 mM), ryanodine (20 microM), dantrolene (20 microM), or thapsigargin (100 microM) had no effect on IsAHP recorded with the standard pipette solution or
Microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs), such as tau, modulate neuronal shape and process outgrowth by influencing the stability and organization of microtubules. The dynamic nature of MAP-microtubule interactions in vivo, however, is poorly understood. Here, we have assessed the stability of these interactions by investigating the synthesis and axoplasmic transport of tau in relation to that of tubulin and other MAPs within retinal ganglion cells of normal adult mice in vivo. Using immunoprecipitation and Western blot analysis with anti-tau monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies, we unequivocally identified in optic axons a family of 50-60 kDa tau isoforms and a second 90-95 KDa tau family, the members of which were shown to contain the domain of tau encoded by exon 4A. To measure the rates of translocation of tau proteins in vivo, we injected mice with 35S-methionine intravitreously and, after 6-30 d, quantitated the radiolabeled tau isoforms immunoprecipitated from eight consecutive 1.1 mm segments of the nerve and optic tract and separated by electrophoresis. Linear regression analysis of protein transport along optic axons showed that the tau isoforms advanced at a rate of 0.2-0.4 mm/d, and other radiolabeled MAPs, identified by their association with taxol-stabilized microtubules, moved three- to fivefold more rapidly. By contrast, tubulins advanced at 0.1-0.2 mm/d, significantly more slowly than tau or other MAPs. These studies establish that tau is not cotransported with tubulin or microtubules, indicating that associations of tau with microtubules within axons are not as stable as previously believed. Our findings also reveal differences among various MAPs in their interactions with microtubules and provide evidence that assembly and reorganization of the microtubule network is an active process even after axons establish connections and fully mature.
Recent evidence suggests that, like nitric oxide (NO), carbon monoxide (CO), another activator of soluble guanylyl cyclase, may serve as an intercellular messenger in the brain. Heme oxygenase, which converts heme to biliverdin and CO, is abundantly expressed in the brain and is localized to discrete neuronal populations. However, evidence for the actual generation of CO by neurons is lacking. Heme oxygenase-2 immunoreactivity is abundantly present in olfactory receptor neurons where it essentially colocalizes with immunoreactivity to soluble guanylyl cyclase, the target of CO action. To examine the generation of CO by neurons, we measured CO production directly and determined its relationship to cyclic GMP levels in cultured rat olfactory receptor neurons. This system has the advantage of not having measurable NO production, which could confound results since NO is a more potent activator of guanylyl cyclase than CO. Metabolic labeling experiments permitted the direct measurement of 14CO production by neurons in vitro. CO release parallels endogenous cyclic GMP concentrations with its peak at the immature stage of neuronal differentiation in culture. Cyclic GMP production is inhibited by zinc protoporphyrin-9 and zinc deuteroporphyrin IX 2,4-bis glycol, inhibitors of heme oxygenase, indicating that CO is an endogenous regulator of soluble guanylyl cyclase activities in these cells. Transforming growth factor-beta 2, an olfactory neurogenic factor, specifically shows a negative effect on CO release in olfactory receptor neurons. These results indicate that CO may serve as a gaseous neuronal messenger linked to cyclic GMP production and suggests its involvement in developmental processes of the olfactory receptor neuron.
Recently, antisera that recognize unique epitopes of the cloned mu-, delta-, and kappa-opioid, receptors (MOR, DOR, KOR, respectively) have been developed. In the present study MOR-, DOR-, and KOR-like immunoreactivities (LIs) were examined in rat dorsal root ganglia (DRGs, L4-5) after injection of carrageenan (CAR) into the hindpaw. In normal control rats 20.9%, 13.5%, and 9% of the DRG neurons contained MOR-, DOR-, KOR-LI, respectively. A marked upregulation in MOR-LI was observed in DRG neurons 1 and 3 d after inflammation. In contrast, CAR induced a distinct downregulation in DOR- and KOR-LIs. MOR-, DOR-, and KOR-LIs were preferentially localized in small DRG neurons. MOR-LI was often located in patches in the cytoplasm, and in some cells close to the somatic plasmalemma. However, DOR- and KOR-LIs mainly showed a diffuse staining pattern within cytoplasm. Two or even all three receptors could sometimes be found to coexist in DRG neurons. In the spinal cord, these receptors were mainly confined to the superficial dorsal horn, with a somewhat diffuse staining which was strong for MOR-LI, and weak for KOR-LI. DOR-LI had distinctly punctate, varicose distribution. CAG induced-alterations in opioid receptor staining in spinal cord were much less pronounced than those in the DRGs with a small increase in MOR-LI and a slight decrease in DOR-LI ipsilaterally. There was an accumulation of all three types of receptors in the sciatic nerve both proximal and distal to the ligation site as early as 2 hr, indicating both antero- and retrograde transport of multiple opioid receptors. However, DOR-LI accumulation was stronger than that of MOR- and KOR-LIs. Taken together, these results suggest that all three opioid receptors are involved in the response to inflammation and that they may play different roles in this pathological state. The coexistence of MOR, DOR, and KOR in at least some primary sensory neurons provides a substrate for functional interactions between these receptors.
Laminin-1 is found at the end-feet of neuroepithelial cells along the outer margin of the optic pathway during early stages of development. Prior to the establishment of most retinal projections in vivo, laminin-1 expression becomes restricted to basement membranes associated with the eye and optic pathway. We report that, in contrast to the alpha 1, beta 1, and gamma 1 chains of laminin-1, laminin alpha 2 chain (formerly laminin M chain) is expressed within the pathway of avian and murine retinal ganglion cell (RGC) growth cones as they extend into the optic nerve, across the optic chiasm and into the brain. Expression of laminin alpha 2 chain is reduced soon after formation of the visual projections but nevertheless maintained at non-basal lamina sites within the adult optic nerve. Laminin alpha 2 chain, in contrast to laminin-1 chains, is also highly expressed in the developing avian tectobulbar pathway. Chick optic nerve derived type-1 astrocytes in culture express laminin alpha 2 chains as extracellular fibrils on their surface. Laminin alpha 2 chain was also detected on the surface of cultured embryonic retinal neurons and developing RGCs. These results suggest that astrocytes and/or RGCS may synthesize laminin alpha 2 chain along the developing optic pathway, and imply that laminin alpha2--in a complex with non-beta1 and non-gamma1 laminin chains-may serve as an adhesive substrate and possibly as a guidance cue for elongating RGC growth cones in vivo.
Work is currently being done by a number of groups to investigate the possibility of creating one or more neuroscience databases. These databases could provide: (1) a means for conveying complete descriptions of experiments; (2) a platform for virtual experiments; (3) and an interface where modeling and experimental results could be exchanged. This paper describes work towards creating a local database with these capabilities by creating a set of experimental neurophysiology software tools that are tied to a database of experiment descriptions via external scripting mechanisms. These tools provide a means of exploring results and data that can lead to insights into the data that suggest new avenues of research. Because the scriptability of the tools allows for automation of re-analysis of the data, virtual experiments for testing new hypotheses over large datasets becomes possible. Such virtual experiments are particularly relevant to computational neuroscience, as they allow hypotheses generated by models to be immediately tested without further collection of experimental data.
The majority of techniques for separating multiple single-unit spike trains from a multi-unit recording rely on the assumption that different cells exhibit action potentials having unique amplitudes and waveforms. When this assumption fails, due to the similarity of spike shape among different cells or to the presence of complex spikes with declining intra-burst amplitude, these methods lead to errors in classification. In an effort to avoid these errors, the stereotrode (McNaughton et al., 1983) and later the tetrode (O'Keefe and Reece, 1993; Wilson and McNaughton, 1993) recording techniques were developed. Because the latter technique has been applied primarily to the hippocampus, we sought to evaluate its performance in the neocortex. Multi-unit recordings, using single tetrodes, were made at 28 sites in area 17 of 3 anesthetized cats. Neurons were activated with moving bars and square wave gratings. Single units were separated by identification of clusters in 2-D projections of either peak-to-peak amplitude, spike width, spike area, or the 1st versus 2nd principal components of the waveforms recorded on each channel. Using tetrodes, we recorded a total of 154 single cells (mean = 5.4, max = 9). By cross-checking the performance of the tetrode with the stereotrode and electrode, we found that the best of the 6 possible stereotrode pairs and the best of 4 possible electrodes from each tetrode yielded 102 (mean = 3.6, max = 7) and 95 (mean = 3.4, max = 6) cells, respectively. Moreover, we found that the number of cells isolated at each site by the tetrode was greater than the stereotrode or electrode in 16/28 and 28/28 cases, respectively. Thus, both stereotrodes, and particularly electrodes, often lumped 2 or more cells in a single cluster that could be easily separated by the tetrode. We conclude that tetrode recording currently provides the best and most reliable method for the isolation of multiple single units in the neocortex using a single probe.
The primary goal of medical and nursing management in the traumatic brain-injured patient is to decrease intracranial pressure (ICP) and maintain adequate cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP). Little is known about what effect, if any, auditory stimulation has on these parameters. Therefore, an experimental study was conducted to examine the effects of various auditory stimuli on intracranial pressure (ICP) and cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) in traumatic brain-injured patients. A convenience sample of fifteen participants with admitting Glasgow Coma Scale scores between 3 and 8 was studied. Three types of auditory stimuli: earplugs, a music tape and a tape of ICU environmental noise were applied to patients in a computer-generated random order. The tapes delivered sound at 70 decibels. Each intervention lasted 15 minutes. ICP and CPP were recorded at a 30 second resolution time through a bedside computer. Data were analyzed using analysis of variance for a cross over design. Results showed no statistically significant change in ICP or CPP during the study period. Further studies are needed to examine the effects of auditory stimuli on ICP and CPP in traumatic brain-injured patients.
Doctor Walker died on January 1, 1995, at the age of 87 years. His contributions to neuroscience and neurosurgery are presented and discussed, together with his impact on national and international organizations of neurosurgery. A short account of his background and professional career is given, with emphasis on his 25 years at The Johns Hopkins Hospital as Chief of Neurosurgery.
We have used northern blot analysis and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to determine the postinjury expression profile of the transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) gene in the contused rat spinal cord. Spectrophotometric estimates of total sample RNA and quantitative analyses of cyclophilin mRNA using RT-PCR served as controls for comparisons between samples. No changes in cyclophilin gene expression were found at any postinjury survival times. The results of the TGF-beta 1 analyses, which were carried out on spinal cord samples taken at postinjury intervals ranging from 6 h to 10 days, show that the amount of TGF-beta 1 mRNA present in spinal cord increases rapidly following injury, reaching maximum levels 7 days postinjury. Unoperated control samples contained approximately 2 x 10(8) molecules of TGF-beta 1 mRNA/0.5 microgram total RNA. By 1 day postinjury, the amount of TGF-beta 1 mRNA in the cord had increased by a factor of 2.5 to 5 x 10(8) molecules/0.5 microgram total RNA. At 7 days postinjury, there were approximately 15 x 10(8) molecules of TGF-beta 1 mRNA/0.5 microgram total RNA. By 10 days postinjury the amount of TGF-beta 1 mRNA present in the spinal cord had declined to 8 x 10(8) molecules of TGF-beta 1 mRNA/0.5 microgram total RNA, a value similar to that observed at 3 days postinjury. The roles that TGF-beta 1 might play in modifying cellular responses in injured spinal cord are discussed.
Pseudorabies virus (PRV) is a neurotropic swine alpha herpesvirus that characteristically invades the nervous system and replicates within synaptically-linked populations of neurons. The invasive characteristics and ability of this family of viruses to replicate in neurons of the central nervous system (CNS) have been exploited to map functionally related populations of neurons in a variety of systems. In this report, we examined the effects of strain and concentration on the ability of PRV to infect retinal ganglion cells and pass transneuronally through central visual circuits. We find that the ability of virulent (PRV-Becker) and attenuated (PRV-Bartha) strains of PRV to produce a productive infection of visual circuitry is directly dependent upon the infectious of the injected virus. Injections of at least 10(5) total plaque forming units produce 100% infectivity, whereas lower infectious doses substantially reduce the percentage of animals exhibiting productive infection via this route of inoculation. Furthermore, the virulent strain of PRV consistently infects a higher percentage of animals across a broader range of titers than attenuated virus. These data demonstrate that viral titer and strain are important variables that should be considered in the design of studies and interpretation of data derived from investigations employing this pathogen for circuit analysis.



A number of recent investigations have proposed the existence of two pharmacologically distinct delta opioid receptor subtypes, named delta 1 and delta 2. In the present study, we have investigated the involvement of the two delta receptors in the opioid stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity in rat olfactory bulb. In addition, we have conducted a similar investigation in rat striatum, where delta agonists are known to inhibit cyclic AMP formation. Both (D-Ala2, Glu4) deltorphin (DELT), a delta 2 agonist, and [D-Pen2, D-Pen5] enkephalin (DPDPE), a delta 1 agonist, stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity in rat olfactory bulb in a concentration-dependent manner, DELT being 25-fold more potent than DPDPE. The selective delta 2 antagonist naltriben counteracted the stimulatory effects of both agonists with a potency about 10-fold higher than that of the selective delta 1 antagonist 7-benzylidenenaltrexone. Moreover, pretreatment of olfactory bulb membranes with the nonequilibrium antagonist naltrindole 5'-isothiocyanate, which irreversibly blocks the delta 2 subtype, reduced the stimulatory effects of both DELT and DPDPE, whereas pretreatment with [D-Ala2, Leu5, Cys6]enkephalin, which binds covalently to delta 1 receptors, failed to affect the response to the agonists. Similar results were obtained in rat striatum. These data indicate that delta opioid receptors coupled to either stimulation or inhibition of adenylyl cyclase in two different brain areas predominantly belong to the delta 2 subtype.
Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) is reported to antagonize the analgesic effect produced by mu- and kappa- but not delta-opioid agonist in spinal cord. However, the mechanisms of interaction remain obscure. In the present study, whole-cell patch-clamp recording was performed on acutely isolated rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons to evaluate the effects of the highly specific mu-opioid agonist ohmefentanyl and the delta-opioid agonist DPDPE on voltage-gated calcium channels and the possible interaction between CCK-8 receptor and mu- or delta-opioid receptor. The results indicated that ohmefentanyl, but not DPDPE, can suppress the voltage-gated calcium currents elicited in DRG neurons, an effect readily reversed by naloxone or by the antiopioid peptide CCK-8. The effect of CCK-8 can in turn be abolished by the CCK-B receptor antagonist L365,260. CCK-8 used by itself has no enhancing effect, but rather a depressant effect, on calcium currents. However, used simultaneously with ohmefentanyl, CCK-8 shows a clear-cut reversal of depression of the mu-opioid. We conclude that the depressant effect produced by mu-opioid on voltage-gated calcium current in DRG neurons can be antagonized by CCK-8 through CCK-B receptor located in the same neuron. The delta-opioid DPDPE has no direct effect on the voltage-gated calcium current in DRG neurons.
1. The effects of osmotic or electrical stimulation of the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT) were examined during intracellular recordings (32 degrees C) obtained from ninety-five supraoptic nucleus magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus. 2. Brief (10-20 s) applications of hypertonic and hypotonic solutions to the area of the OVLT caused prolonged (&gt; 1 min) increases and decreases, respectively, in electrical activity in seventy of seventy-four trials performed on neurones with membrane potentials near spike threshold (approximately -55 mV). Changes in firing frequency were related to changes in external osmolality in a dose-dependent manner between 275 and 355 mosmol kg-1. 3. When 30 s periods recorded immediately before, and 30 s following, the application of an osmotic stimulus were examined, the frequency of spontaneous EPSPs (sEPSPs) was related in a dose-dependent manner to the osmolality of the solution superfusing the OVLT region. The increased EPSP frequency was maintained and did not adapt if the osmolality of the medium was raised for periods of &gt; 10 min. In contrast, the frequency of spontaneous IPSPs (sIPSPs) was virtually unaffected by changes in external osmotic pressure. 4. Osmotically evoked changes in MNC firing were strongly correlated with accompanying changes in the frequency of sEPSPs (slope, 0.9; correlation coefficient (r) = 0.7), but not sIPSPs (r = 0.2), suggesting that changes in firing rate following osmotic stimulation of the OVLT are selectively mediated by changes in synaptic excitation. 5. In the presence of bicuculline (5-10 microM), electrical stimulation of the OVLT evoked fast EPSPs in forty-seven of forty-eight MNCs tested. These responses were reversibly reduced by application of 20-40 microM kynurenic acid (n = 3) or 20-40 microM 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX; n = 11). Similarly, bath application of CNQX (n = 3) or kynurenic acid (n = 4) reversibly abolished the excitatory response of supraoptic neurones following hypertonic stimulation of the OVLT. 6. Brief (10-15 s) applications of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) over the OVLT reversibly abolished increases in sEPSP frequency and action potential firing rate evoked by hyperosmotic stimulation of the OVLT. In the presence of GABA, the rates of sEPSP and sIPSP frequency were reduced to 37 +/- 10 and 44 +/- 13% (means +/- S.E.M.), respectively, of those observed under isotonic conditions (295 mosmol kg-1). 7. These results suggest that inhibitory and excitatory pathways originating from neurones located within the OVLT are tonically active under resting osmotic conditions in rat hypothalamic explants. Osmotically evoked changes in MNC firing, however, are selectively mediated through increases or decreases in the intensity of the excitatory component of OVLT-derived inputs.
1. Voltage-dependent calcium currents were measured at room temperature using whole-cell patch clamp in acutely isolated somata and axon terminals of the magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) from the rat supraoptic nucleus. 2. Administration of omega-agatoxin IVA (omega-Aga IVA) blocked a high-threshold non-inactivating current. This current has an IC50 for omega-Aga IVA of 3 nM; no other types of currents were blocked at doses of up to 500 nM. 3. In the axon terminals omega-Aga IVA blocked a high-threshold current that inactivates markedly (tau approximately 448 ms), and has a much lower sensitivity to the toxin, with an IC50 of 270 nM. Unlike the somatic current, the effect of omega-Aga IVA in the terminals is largely prevented by omega-conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTX). 4. These data suggest that MNC somata express a single type of omega-Aga IVA-sensitive calcium current similar to the P-type calcium current described in other cells. However, the omega-Aga IVA-sensitive current in axon terminals differs from both the P-type and the recently identified Q-type current in that it is also sensitive to omega-CgTX. The distinct biophysical properties of the currents in somata and axon terminals may have important physiological implications.

This review summarizes the effects on sleep duration and sleepiness of (1) the timing of shifts (start and finishing times) and (2) the scheduling of free time between shifts. The results from the few studies available show that sleep duration is clearly determined by the change over time between the night and the morning shift-no more than 5 or 6 hours of sleep is obtained before the morning shift if the shift starts at 06.00 hours or earlier. Therefore, it is suggested that the morning shift should not start before 07.00 hours. A late start of the morning shift will however, increase the sleepiness at the end of the night shift, as well as decrease the duration of the daysleep after the night shift. On the other hand, one may argue that the short daysleep after a night shift may be compensated for by an evening nap, whereas a short night sleep before a morning shift cannot (no time for nap). The review of studies concerning free time between shifts suggests that at least 16 hours is needed and that quick change-overs should be avoided. The free time after a spell of night shifts should be at least 48 hours since the shiftworker needs two main sleep episodes to recover from night work.
This review of experimental studies focuses on the disturbances of sleep that may occur in connection with irregular work hours and their relation to ensuing alertness. Three aspects of sleep are covered: the duration of sleep, the stages of sleep, and the continuity of sleep. A sleep curtailment as small as 2 h has clear negative effects on alertness. Sleep disturbed as frequently as every minute clearly affects alertness, but such procedures also affect the stages of sleep and decrease total sleep time. However, fragmentation rates of one per 10 minutes also induce sleepiness without affecting sleep content or duration. There is no clear evidence for slow-wave sleep (SWS) being more important than other stages, but designs may not have been sensitive enough. In connection with fragmentation studies it is suggested, however, that the effects are stronger if more SWS is lost. In summary, the review suggests that the relatively mild disturbances of sleep in shift work may contribute to reduced alertness although there are probably other, more potent, factors.
Severe subjective and physiological sleepiness occur in night work, afflict almost all individuals and are associated with a performance impairment severe enough to explain night-work accident data. The alertness deficit is caused by the displacement of work to the circadian phase which is least conducive to alert behaviour, by extension of the time spent awake and by the reduction of sleep length (due to circadian interference with sleep). Sleepiness will be extreme when the three causes are operative simultaneously. The three factors may be used quantitatively to predict sleepiness.
Mood changes following ingestion of dextroamphetamine (D-AMP) or methylphenidate (MPH) were examined in 40 narcoleptic patients. The Profile of Mood Status (POMS) and eight additional adjectives describing feelings were used to quantify changes in mood before taking stimulant medication and approximately 90 minutes after ingestion of medication. No significant differences were found between the effects of the two stimulants. When the data from D-AMP and MPH were combined, significantly higher ratings on the POMS factor of Vigour-Activity and the adjectives of 'confident', 'talkative' and 'competitive' were found. Lower ratings after medication were noted for the POMS factors of Fatigue-Inertia, Depression-Dejection and Confusion-Bewilderment (all P &lt; 0.001). These effects are similar to those previously reported in normal subjects as well as in certain other patient populations. The findings indicate a possible therapeutic role of stimulant medication not only for the treatment of excessive sleepiness but also for improving affect, motor and mental vigour, and aspects of cognition.
Great interest has been shown for the seeding of autologous endothelial cells on prosthetic materials. We investigated the inflammatory and immunogenic properties of xenogeneic tissue before and after seeding with cultured human great saphenous vein endothelial cells in vitro. Adhesion of monocytes to xenogeneic tissue with or without endothelium and the endothelial cell expression of E-selectin, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, vascular adhesion molecule 1, and major histocompatibility complex class II antigens were investigated 1, 3, and 7 days after seeding. Both monocyte adhesion and endothelial adhesion molecule expression were relatively high 1 day after seeding and were significantly lowered after 3 to 7 days. There was no difference between monocyte adhesion and adhesion molecule expression on viable or nonviable xenogeneic tissue. Monocyte adhesion and adhesion molecule expression increased after interleukin-1 beta or interferon-gamma stimulation of the endothelial cells. The results suggest that human endothelial cells exhibit an early proinflammatory and immunogenic activity immediately after seeding. Three and 7 days after seeding, the endothelialized surface is less adhesive for monocytes as compared with nonendothelialized tissue. These findings have implications when cultured or intraoperatively recruited endothelial cells are used clinically.
We evaluated the inhibitory effects of YM060 [(R)-5-[(1-methyl-1H-indol- 3-yl)carbonyl]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazole monohydrochloride] and YM114 (KAE-393) [(R)-5-[(1-indolinyl)carbonyl]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H- benzimidazole monohydrochloride] on the von Bezold-Jarisch reflex (BJR) induced by 2-methyl-5-HT, a selective serotonin (5-HT)3-receptor agonist; veratridine, which stimulates chemoreceptors and baroreceptors; and electrical stimulation of vagal efferent nerves in anesthetized rats. Results were compared with those of ondansetron and granisetron. 2-Methyl- 5-HT (5-160 micrograms/kg, i.v.) and veratridine (100-200 micrograms/kg, i.v.) dose-dependently decreased the heart rate (BJR). YM060, YM114, ondansetron and granisetron dose-dependently inhibited 2-methyl-5-HT (40 micrograms/kg, i.v.)-induced BJR, with ID50 values of 0.012, 0.060, 0.97 and 0.15 microgram/kg, i.v., respectively. Their 5-HT3 receptor blocking potencies against 2-methyl-5-HT-induced BJR were largely consistent with those against 5-HT-induced BJR. In contrast, higher doses (100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) of YM060, YM114, ondansetron and granisetron did not inhibit veratridine (150 micrograms/kg, i.v.)-induced BJR. Atropine (300 micrograms/kg, i.v.) abolished bradycardia induced by electrical stimulation of vagal efferent nerves, whereas YM060, YM114, ondansetron and granisetron had no effect at a dose of 1000 micrograms/kg, i.v. 5-HT (0.625-5.0 micrograms) injected into the left ventricle also caused a dose-dependent decrease in heart rate, an effect that was abolished by YM060 (0.1 microgram/kg, i.v.), atropine (100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) and vagotomy. These results suggest that YM060 and YM114 are highly potent and selective 5-HT3-receptor antagonists that do not affect veratridine- or electrical stimulation-induced bradycardia in anesthetized rats. They also suggest that 5-HT-induced BJR in anesthetized rats originates from 5-HT3 receptors located on the endings of vagal afferent nerves in the heart.

Patients with chronic liver disease manifest a high incidence (&gt; 75%) of pallidal signal hyperintensity on T1-weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), the intensity of which correlates with blood manganese levels and the presence of extrapyramidal symptoms. A major cause of pallidal hyperintensity on T1-weighted MRI is manganese deposition; chronic manganese intoxication in the absence of liver disease results in pallidal MR signal hyperintensity, in extrapyramidal symptoms and in selective effects on the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system in basal ganglia. Direct measurements in globus pallidus obtained at autopsy from patients with chronic liver disease who died in hepatic coma reveal 2 to 7-fold increases of pallidal manganese and a concomitant loss of dopamine D2 binding sites. Liver transplantation results in normalization of pallidal MR signals and of blood manganese levels. These findings suggest that (1) pallidal MR signal hyperintensity in patients with chronic liver disease is the result of manganese deposition and (2) alterations of dopaminergic function due to the toxic effects of manganese may contribute to the extrapyramidal symptoms in these patients.
C3G, which was identified as a Crk SH3 domain-binding guanine nucleotide-releasing factor, shows sequence similarity to CDC25 and Sos family proteins (S. Tanaka, T. Morishita, Y. Hashimoto, S. Hattori, S. Nakamura, M. Shibuya, K. Matuoka, T. Takenawa, T. Kurata, K. Nagashima, and M. Matsuda, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91:3443-3447, 1994). The substrate specificity of C3G was examined by in vitro and in vivo experiments. C3G markedly stimulated dissociation of bound GDP from Rap1B but marginally affected the same reaction of other Ras family proteins (Ha-Ras, N-Ras, and RalA). C3G also stimulated binding of GTP-gamma S [guanosine 5'-3-O-(thio)triphosphate] to Rap1B. When C3G and Rap1A were expressed in COS7 cells, marked accumulation of the active GTP-bound form of Rap1A was observed, while Sos was not effective in the activation of Rap1A. These results clearly show that C3G is an activator for Rap1. Furthermore, expression of C3G with a membrane localization signal in a v-Ki-ras transformant, DT, induced a reversion of the cells to the flat form, possibly through the activation of endogenous Rap1.
The effects of the intracerebroventricular (icv) and the intrahippocampal (ih) microinjection of the inorganic dye Ruthenium red (RuR) on motor activity, and the protective action of excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists and of GABAergic drugs, were studied in the rat. When administered icv, RuR produced intense tonic-clonic convulsions which were refractory to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists and to diphenylhydantoin, whereas aminooxyacetic acid (AOA) and valproate only partially protected against seizure activity. The most notable motor effect of the ih RuR administration was the appearance of intense wet-dog shakes (WDS) behavior, which was remarkably attenuated by the icv or intraperitoneal (ip) administration of the NMDA receptor antagonists (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP), CGP-37849, and MK-801, but not by their ih coinjection with RuR. Systemic AOA and valproate were also effective in reducing the number of WDS, whereas the non-NMDA receptor antagonist CNQX was ineffective. Light and electron microscopic observations of the RuR-injected brains revealed that the dye was highly concentrated in neuronal somas located in or near the injected areas. In the case of the CA1 region, remarkable damage of the pyramidal neurons was manifested by vacuolization, and 5-9 d after the injection notable cell loss and disruption of the CA1 cell layer organization was apparent. The results indicate that RuR penetrates selectively neuronal bodies and damage them, and suggest that the resulting motor alterations involve hyperactivity of glutamatergic neurotransmission.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biochemical markers for Alzheimer disease (AD) would be of great value to improve the clinical diagnostic accuracy of the disorder. As abnormally phosphorylated forms of the microtubule-associated protein tau have been consistently found in the brains of AD patients, and since tau can be detected in CSF, two assays based on several well-defined monoclonal tau antibodies were used to study these proteins in CSF. One assay detects most normal and abnormal forms of tau (CSF-tau), while the other is highly specific for phosphorylated tau (CSF-PHFtau). A marked increase in CSF-PHFtau was found in AD (2230 +/- 930 pg/mL), as compared with controls (640 +/- 230 pg/mL; p &lt; 0.0001), vascular dementia, VAD (1610 +/- 840 pg/mL; p &lt; 0.05), frontal lobe dementia, FLD (1530 +/- 1000 pg/mL; p &lt; 0.05), Parkinson disease, PD (720 +/- 590 pg/mL; p &lt; 0.0001), and patients with major depression (230 +/- 130 pg/mL; p &lt; 0.0001). Parallel results were obtained for CSF-tau. No less than 35/40 (88%) of AD patients had a CSF-PHFtau value higher than the cutoff level of 1140 pg/mL in controls. The present study demonstrates that elevated tau/PHFtau levels are consistently found in CSF of AD patients. However, a considerable overlap is still present with other forms of dementia, both VAD and FLD. CSF-tau and CSF-PHFtau may therefore be useful as a positive biochemical marker, to discriminate AD from normal aging, PD, and depressive pseudodementia. Further studies are needed to clarify the sensitivity and specificity of these assays, including follow-up studies with neuropathological examinations.
Partial agonists at the strychnine-insensitive glycine sites coupled to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors reduce both glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in vitro and ischemia-induced neurodegeneration in vivo. Paradoxically, sustained exposure of cultured cerebellar granule cell neurons to glycinergic ligands, including glycine and the glycine partial agonists (+/-)-3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidone, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC), and D-cycloserine, attenuates the neuroprotective effects of (+/-)-3-amino-1-hydroxy-2-pyrrolidone and ACPC. In the present study, we investigated the mechanisms responsible for this attenuated neuroprotection. Three NMDA receptor-mediated responses were examined after sustained exposure to ACPC: glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, NMDA-stimulated increases in cGMP levels, and NMDA-stimulated increases in [Ca+2]i. Consistent with previous findings, coincubation with ACPC blocked glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, whereas sustained (24 hr) exposure to ACPC attenuated its protective effects. Moreover, sustained exposure to ACPC caused an apparent approximately 2-fold increase in the potency of both glutamate to act as neurotoxin and NMDA to stimulate cGMP formation. Sustained exposure to ACPC also increased NMDA-stimulated [Ca+2]i approximately 3-fold compared with control granule cell cultures but did not affect basal [Ca+2]i. This apparent increase in glutamate sensitivity may be attributable to a change in NMDA receptor subunit composition as sustained ACPC exposure resulted in a approximately 2.5-fold increase in NMDA receptor 2C RNA levels, without concomitant changes in the amounts of RNA encoding the NMDA receptor 2A, 2B, or 1 subunit. This is the first demonstration that sustained exposure to a glycinergic ligand can alter the expression of RNAs encoding NMDA receptor subunits. Because glycinergic ligands are potential clinical candidates, these results may have important implications for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.

The influence of lipid peroxidation on 5-HT2 receptor binding was examined in prefrontal cortex membranes from sheep brain. Lipid peroxidation was induced with ascorbic acid and ferrous sulphate and measured by the thiobarbituric acid method. In lipid-peroxidized membranes, [3H]ketanserin specific binding was inhibited. The Bmax values decreased by 80%, from 50.1 +/- 3.5 fmol/mg protein in control membranes to 10.1 +/- 2.0 fmol/mg protein in peroxidized membranes, indicating a decrease in the number of 5-HT2 binding sites. However, the KD values for the [3H]ketanserin specific binding did not significantly change. In order to further characterize [3H]ketanserin binding, the inhibition potency (IC50 values) of antagonists or agonists of serotonin and dopamine receptors for [3H]ketanserin specific binding was determined. In control membranes, the order of inhibition potency of the drugs tested was the following: ketanserin (-log[IC50]=8.56 +/- 0.70] &gt; ritanserin (-log [IC50]=8.13 +/- 0.30)&gt;methysergide (-log[IC50]= 7.42 +/- 0.50)&gt; spiperone (-log[IC50]=7.23 +/- 0.18 &gt; serotonin (-log [IC50] = 6.99 +/- 0.65)&gt; haloperidol (-log[IC50]= 6.95 +/- 0.65) &gt; dopamine (-log [IC50] = 5.82 +/- 0.76). After membrane lipid peroxidation, the IC50 value for ritanserin was significantly increased, suggesting a decreased capacity for displacing [3H]ketanserin specific binding. Other antagonists of 5-HT2 receptors showed apparent increases in IC50 values upon peroxidation, whereas spiperone was shown to be the most potent drug (-log[IC50]= 7.19 +/- 1.06) in inhibiting [3H]ketanserin specific binding. A decrease in polyunsaturated fatty acids, namely docosahexaenoic acid (22:6) was also observed in peroxidized membranes. These results indicate a modulating role of the surrounding lipids and of the physical properties of the membranes on the binding activity of 5-HT2 receptors upon the lipid peroxidation process, which can be involved in the tissue impairment that occurs during the aging process and in post-ischemic situations.
The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of normal aging on somatostatin neurotransmission. Somatostatin gene expression was analysed in several regions of the cerebral cortex and hippocampus in 3, 7 and 21 month-old Sprague-Dawley rats using quantitative in situ hybridization with a 48mer oligodeoxynucleotide antisense probe. Furthermore the distribution of 125I-Tyr11 somatostatin receptor binding sites was studied using quantitative receptor autoradiography. The results demonstrated a significant reduction of preprosomatostatin-mRNA in the frontal cortex of the aged (21 month) group compared with the young (3 month) and the middle-aged (7 month) groups. The receptor binding densities of the aged (21 month) group tended to be lower, compared to the other groups although no significant region-specific changes were evident. These results indicate neurochemical changes in somatostatin-containing neurons in the frontal cortex during aging.
In order to investigate changes in levels of monoamines and their related substances together with those of other neurotransmitters (acetylcholine and GABA), choline and substances related to energy metabolism (ATP, lactate and glucose) accompanying incomplete cerebral ischemia, a bilateral common carotid artery occlusion model of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) was utilized. Animals were subjected to 1 or 2 h ischemia. Then the concentrations of substances were measured in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and striatum and compared with control values. Due to the incomplete ischemia, ATP showed a moderate decrease, while lactate and choline increased remarkably, and GABA underwent a moderate increase. With regard to monoamines, both noradrenaline and serotonin levels were reduced in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, whereas dopamine levels increased in the hippocampus. All monoamine metabolites, i.e. metabolites by monoamine oxidase (MAO), metabolites by catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), and metabolites by both MAO and COMT, underwent increases. The 3-methoxytyramine level in particular showed marked increases. Furthermore levels of precursor amino acids as well as 5-hydroxytryptophan rose. Acetylcholine decreased moderately only in the cerebral cortex. Among these changes, sustained increases in all the monoamine metabolites were characteristic of changes in the incompletely ischemic brain, suggesting that both COMT and MAO retain their activities in the incompletely ischemic brain.
