The present study investigated age invariance for naming pictures and whether implicit memory is spared in Alzheimer's disease (AD). During the study phase, young adults, AD patients, and older controls were shown outlines of familiar pictures. After a distracter task, implicit memory was assessed incidentally. The results showed similar visual priming for the three groups, although young adults responded faster than the two older groups. Moreover, the number of errors was smaller for studied than for non-studied pictures. This pattern of results was repeated across the three groups, although AD patients produced more errors than young adults and older controls, and there were no differences between these latter groups. These results confirmed previous visual and haptic findings showing unimpaired perceptual priming in normal aging and AD patients when implicit memory is assessed using identification tasks. These results are interpreted from a cognitive neuroscience perspective.
The authors propose a heuristic model of the social outcomes of childhood brain disorder that draws on models and methods from both the emerging field of social cognitive neuroscience and the study of social competence in developmental psychology/psychopathology. The heuristic model characterizes the relationships between social adjustment, peer interactions and relationships, social problem solving and communication, social-affective and cognitive-executive processes, and their neural substrates. The model is illustrated by research on a specific form of childhood brain disorder, traumatic brain injury. The heuristic model may promote research regarding the neural and cognitive-affective substrates of children's social development. It also may engender more precise methods of measuring impairments and disabilities in children with brain disorder and suggest ways to promote their social adaptation.
Nightmares are common, occurring weekly in 4%-10% of the population, and are associated with female gender, younger age, increased stress, psychopathology, and dispositional traits. Nightmare pathogenesis remains unexplained, as do differences between nontraumatic and posttraumatic nightmares (for those with or without posttraumatic stress disorder) and relations with waking functioning. No models adequately explain nightmares nor have they been reconciled with recent developments in cognitive neuroscience, fear acquisition, and emotional memory. The authors review the recent literature and propose a conceptual framework for understanding a spectrum of dysphoric dreaming. Central to this is the notion that variations in nightmare prevalence, frequency, severity, and psychopathological comorbidity reflect the influence of both affect load, a consequence of daily variations in emotional pressure, and affect distress, a disposition to experience events with distressing, highly reactive emotions. In a cross-state, multilevel model of dream function and nightmare production, the authors integrate findings on emotional memory structures and the brain correlates of emotion.
The goals of this article are to elucidate trends and perspectives in the field of cognitive style research and to propose an integrated framework to guide future research. This is accomplished by means of a comprehensive literature review of the major advances and the theoretical and experimental problems that have accumulated over the years and by a discussion of the promising theoretical models that can be further developed, in part, with modern neuroscience techniques and with research from different psychological fields. On the basis of the research reviewed in this article, the author suggests that cognitive styles represent heuristics that individuals use to process information about their environment. These heuristics can be identified at multiple levels of information processing, from perceptual to metacognitive, and they can be grouped according to the type of regulatory function they exert on processes ranging from automatic data encoding to conscious executive allocation of cognitive resources.

Psychological stress can upregulate basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) expression. Because glucocorticoids can also upregulate FGF-2 expression, the present studies investigated whether stress-induced glucocorticoids mediate the effects of stress on FGF-2. FGF-2 is regulated by an FGF-2 antisense (AS) molecular mechanism and so the present experiments also, for the first time, assessed the effects of stress on FGF-2-AS mRNA, as well as the mediating role of glucocorticoids. The effects of either escapable shock (ES) or yoked-inescapable tail shock (IS) on FGF-2 and FGF-2-AS were determined. To test whether glucocorticoids mediate the effect of stress on FGF-2 and FGF-2-AS, animals were pretreated with temporary corticosterone (CORT) synthesis inhibitors and exposed to IS. To test whether glucocorticoids are sufficient to modulate FGF-2 and FGF-2-AS mRNA, animals were injected with CORT and mRNA measured. ES and IS similarly downregulated FGF-2-AS mRNA at 0 h post-stress and upregulated FGF-2 mRNA 2 h post-stress. Inhibition of CORT synthesis abrogated the effect of IS on both FGF-2-AS and FGF-2 mRNA. Exogenous CORT mimicked the effects of ES and IS on FGF-2, but not FGF-2-AS mRNA. The present study demonstrates that glucocorticoids mediate the effects of stress on FGF-2 and FGF-2-AS.
Patients undergoing cancer treatment (e.g., interferon or IL-2 treatment) develop depression, and there is a positive relationship between their depression and circulating levels of proinflammatory cytokines. Depressed patients who are medically healthy also show increases in circulating markers of inflammation. The present study characterized baseline levels of inflammatory cytokine activity in 18 pairs of depressed and non-depressed persons at high risk for cancer and matched for age, ethnicity and all unaffected by a personal history of cancer. Circulating levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), soluble IL-6 receptor (sIL-6R), tumor necrosis factor-alpha-receptor (TNF-RII), and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule (sICAM) did not differ between those with and without depression. The present data are important for characterizing persons at high risk for cancer who may later acquire knowledge of further increased risk through genetic testing.



Functional differentiation of dorsal (dACC) and rostral (rACC) anterior cingulate cortex for cognitive and emotional function has received considerable indirect support. Using fMRI, parallel tasks, and within-subject analysis, the present study directly tested the proposed specialization of ACC subdivisions. A Task x Region interaction confirmed more dACC activation during color-word distractors and more rACC activation during emotion-word distractors. Activity in ACC subdivisions differentially predicted behavioral performance. Connectivity with prefrontal and limbic regions also supported distinct dACC and rACC roles. Findings provide direct evidence for differential engagement of ACC subdivisions in cognitive and emotional processing and for differential functional connectivity in the implementation of cognitive control and emotion regulation. Results point to an anatomical and functional continuum rather than segregated operations.
To elucidate the relationships between alexithymia, fear of bodily sensations, and somatosensory amplification in young patients with panic disorder (PD), authors evaluated 84 patients. Measures were the Panic Attack and Anticipatory Anxiety Scale, the Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20), the Body Sensations Questionnaire (BSQ), the Somatosensory Amplification Scale, the Agoraphobic Cognitions Questionnaire (ACQ), and the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression. Alexithymic patients showed higher scores on all rating scales. Higher BSQ and ACQ scores, together with the Difficulty in Identifying Feelings and Difficulty in Describing Feelings subscales of the TAS-20 were predictors of severity of PD. Results of the present study do not support a direct role of somatosensory amplification in PD. Authors discuss study limitations and future research needs.
With the present contribution, we attempt to merge the work of several generations of physiology and psychosomatics. The common denominator in an array of observation levels appear in these works as the relationship between irreversible-structural and dynamic-functional couplings and synchronisations. In this context, studies on the level of the common brainstem system appear to be the base for a neuro-bio-psychic self-organisation. Studies culled from psychosomatics of Heidelberg, notably the Gestaltkreis theory, the Methodenkreis (methodological loop), the Bipersonalitt (bipersonality), and the Simultandiagnostik (simultaneous diagnostics) exhibit the origin of complex functions which have been analyzed and quantified employing nonlinear methods developed in synergetics. Relevance of coupling and synchronisation, desynchronisation, resp., is, however, not limited to the scope of psychosomatic medicine. Fixed or functional, they are essential constituents to neurophysiological processes, such as association, dissociation, resp. This equally holds for evidence based medicine which is to benefit from any dynamic process analysis.
Childhood abuse is linked to a variety of maladaptive outcomes that can extend far into adulthood. Two of the most significant are alcohol use disorders and suicidal ideation/behaviour. This article explores the pathway from childhood abuse to suicidal behaviour through the development of alcohol use disorders, and examines the significance of a familial history of alcohol misuse in exacerbating suicidal behaviour in adults who were abused as children. It discusses the implications of this pathway, and describes areas of focus for those who work with child abuse victims and/or patients experiencing alcohol use disorders. Practitioners working with children or adolescents who have experienced or are experiencing abuse should take a preventative approach, identifying and treating those at risk for alcohol misuse and/or suicide. Practitioners working with adults who are already abusing alcohol and/or are suicidal should work with the adult to identify and examine life events such as abuse that may be responsible. By identifying factors that have led to the misuse of alcohol and/or suicidal ideation, adults can obtain appropriate psychotherapy and deal in a more productive and beneficial manner with the pain that underlies their self-destructive impulses.

Apathy is usually defined as a lack of motivation leading to reduced interest and participation in various activities. From a pathophysiological viewpoint, the most common cause of apathy is dysfunction of the frontal lobes, following either direct lesion of the frontal cortex or damage to regions tightly connected to the latter (such as the basal ganglia). The frontal-subcortical circuits often seem to be involved. Apathy is a common behavioral consequence of neurodegenerative disorders (Alzheimer's disease, parkinsonian syndromes, fronto-temporal dementia). The methods for detecting apathy and assessing its severity are various, the main difficulty being to disentangle apathy and depression. The treatment of apathy per se remains anecdotal and, to date, little research into the efficacy of medication therapy has been performed.
We report an 84-year-old woman who suffered from acute fentanyl intoxication followed by delayed encephalopathy. She used fentanyl patch at her ached knee joint and stayed in the covered table with a heat source underneath. Serum concentration of fentanyl suddenly elevated and she developed coma due to acute fentanyl intoxication. She gradually recovered, however, she showed consciousness disturbance again at 15th day and developed neurological symptoms including mutism, pyramidal tract signs, frontal lobe signs and parkinsonism. These symptoms also steadily improved without specific treatment, and became able to talk with colleagues and walk with assistance at 90th day. We considered that delayed encephalopathy due to periodic anoxia caused by fentanyl intoxication occurred in the present patient; however, the neurological sequelae were relatively mild as compared with reported cases of carbon monoxide intoxication. Neuroprotective effect of fentanyl may have contributed to the better prognosis in the present patient.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, progressive disease of the central nervous system (CNS) characterized by consistent myelin injury. Antibody-mediated death of oligodendrocytes is a pathological feature in a subset of MS patients and may be of relevance to disease pathogenesis. In myasthenia gravis (MG), acetylcholine receptors (AChR) situated at the neuromuscular endplate are destroyed by autoreactive antibodies. B-cell activating factor of the tumour necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily (BAFF) is essential for B-cell survival. Using flow cytometry, we evaluated the expression of three BAFF-binding receptors, namely, BAFF-receptor (BAFF-R), B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA), and transmembrane activator and calcium modulating and cyclophilin ligand interactor (TACI) in peripheral-blood lymphocytes. Nearly all CD19(+) B cells and CD19(+)CD27(+) memory B cells expressed BAFF-R. The intensity of BAFF-R expression was not statistically different in MS or MG compared with healthy controls. Very few T cells expressed BAFF-R. BCMA expression was strictly limited to B cells. Although both B and T cells expressed TACI, levels were much higher on B cells compared with levels on T cells. The percentages of B and T cells expressing BCMA and TACI did not differ significantly in MS or MG versus controls. We conclude that the expression of BAFF-binding receptors is not appreciably altered in MS or MG.
Addiction is a frequent comorbid disorder in schizophrenia related to dopaminergic dysfunction in fronto-subcortical circuits. These brain networks are relevant for both (executive) cognition and the neuropathology of schizophrenia. The aim of the present study was to elucidate whether response inhibition and cognitive flexibility - executive abilities relevant for achieving and maintaining abstinence - are differentially impaired in schizophrenia patients with or without comorbid substance use disorder. Patients suffering from major depression or alcoholism as well as healthy controls served as comparison groups. The ability to inhibit predominant response tendencies during response conflict and to efficiently shift the focus of attention between different task requirements was assessed by verbal and non-verbal cognitive tasks. Contrary to expectation, non-addicted schizophrenia patients showed the most pronounced executive function impairments relative to the control groups, affecting both response suppression and cognitive flexibility. Dual diagnosis patients did not differ significantly from non-addicted schizophrenia patients or from the alcoholic group, but were impaired at cognitive flexibility relative to the depression subgroup and healthy controls. Whether the relative preservation of response inhibition and cognitive flexibility in the dual disorder patients is due to high premorbid functioning, beneficial self-medication effects or compensatory brain activation remains to be elucidated. The relatively intact executive abilities in young, addicted schizophrenia patients might represent a beneficial resource for treatment strategies.
Schizophrenia is characterized by deficits in cognition as well as visual perception. There have, however, been few magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies of the occipital lobe as an anatomically defined region of interest in schizophrenia. To examine whether or not patients with chronic schizophrenia show occipital lobe volume abnormalities, we measured gray matter volumes for both the primary visual area (PVA) and the visual association areas (VAA) using MRI based neuroanatomical landmarks and three-dimensional information. PVA and VAA gray matter volumes were measured using high-spatial resolution MRI in 25 male patients diagnosed with chronic schizophrenia and in 28 male normal controls. Chronic schizophrenia patients showed reduced bilateral VAA gray matter volume (11%), compared with normal controls, whereas patients showed no group difference in PVA gray matter volume. These results suggest that reduced bilateral VAA may be a neurobiological substrate of some of the deficits observed in early visual processing in schizophrenia.

The objective of this study was to examine the effect of antipsychotics on pituitary volume in schizophrenic subjects. Pituitary volumes were measured in 16 patients with schizophrenia at baseline and 12 months after treatment with an antipsychotic medication using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A group of 12 healthy controls was evaluated at baseline and after 12 months. Pituitary volume significantly increased in the schizophrenic subjects after treatment (12% increase). This appeared to be specific to the prolactin-elevating drugs. In controls, pituitary volume did not change significantly (3% decrease). Pituitary volume may be a useful biomarker for treatments that affect neuroendocrine function.
We describe a 72-year-old man who developed akinetic mutism following a cerebrovascular accident involving his right internal watershed area and responded well to dopaminergic agonists. We discuss this rare condition and the unusual unilateral location of the lesion.






Although recent results suggest roles for NMDA and AMPA receptors in odor encoding, little is known about kainate receptors (KARs) in the olfactory bulb (OB). Molecular, immunological, and electrophysiological techniques were used to provide a functional analysis of KARs in the OB. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction revealed that the relative level of expression of KAR subunits was GluR5 approximately GluR6 approximately KA2 &gt; KA1 &gt; GluR7. In situ hybridization data imply that mitral/tufted cells express mostly GluR5 and KA2, whereas interneurons express mostly GluR6 and KA2. Immunohistochemical double-labeling experiments (GluR5/6/7 or GluR5 + synapsin) suggest that KARs are expressed at both synaptic and extrasynaptic loci. This heterogeneous expression of KAR subunits suggests that KARs may play a multitude of roles in odor processing, each tailored to the function of specific OB circuits. A functional analysis, using whole-cell electrophysiology, suggests that one such role is to increase the frequency of glutamate transmission while attenuating the amplitude of individual events, likely via a presynaptic depolarizing mechanism. Such effects would be important to odor processing particularly by OB glomeruli. In these highly compartmentalized structures, an increase in the frequency of glutamate release and the high density of extrasynaptic KARs, activated by spillover, could enhance glomerular synchronization and thus the transfer of more specific sensory information to cortical structures.
Transmission in the &quot;direct&quot; pathway through the basal ganglia, which has an important role in the control of motor movement, is markedly facilitated by the concurrent activation of dopamine D(1) receptors. Consistent with this, Ca(2+)-dependent, depolarization-induced release of [(3)H]-GABA from striatal slices from rats pretreated with reserpine was greatly increased in the presence of 1 microM SKF 38393, a dopamine D(1)-like receptor agonist. The effect of SKF 38393 was mimicked by 1 mM 8-bromo-cyclic AMP (Br-cAMP) and inhibited by the protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor H-89, mean inhibition 92% +/- 4% with 10 microM H-89 (n = 3). The effects of SKF 38393 and Br-cAMP were not additive. The stimulatory effects of SKF 38393 and Br-cAMP were practically abolished in the presence of the histamine H(3) receptor agonist immepip (1 microM). The depolarization-induced release of [(3)H]-GABA in the presence of SKF 38393 was not significantly inhibited by 5 microM nimodipine, an L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker, or by 0.3 microM omega-conotoxin MVIIA, a selective blocker of N-type channels. However, preincubation of the slices with 0.95 microM omega-agatoxin TK, a P/Q-type channel blocker, followed by washing before changing to a depolarizing medium containing SKF 38393, resulted in a marked inhibition of the stimulated release of [(3)H]-GABA, mean 68% +/- 4% (n = 3). These observations provide evidence that dopamine D(1) agonist facilitation of the depolarization-induced release of GABA from striatal terminals is mediated by the cAMP/PKA pathway and involves mainly P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels.
In male and female rats, high androgen levels can increase blood pressure. The C1 area of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), which is crucial for blood pressure regulation, contains estrogen receptors (ERs) in pre- and postsynaptic neuronal compartments and is modulated by estrogens (Wang et al. [2006] Brain Res 1094:163-178). In this study, the cellular and subcellular localization of androgen receptors (ARs) in the C1 area was examined in sections from male, proestrus (high estrogen) and diestrus (low estrogen) female rat brains that were immunocytochemically labeled for AR and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). By light and electron microscopy, AR-labeled nuclei were scattered among TH-labeled somata in the RVLM; significantly more AR-labeled nuclei were seen males compared to females. Electron microscopy revealed that extranuclear AR-immunoreactivity (ir) was in similar profile types in male and female rats. AR-ir was almost exclusively in myelinated and unmyelinated axons and in glia. Rarely, AR-ir was in axon terminals that contacted TH-containing dendrites. AR-labeled axon terminals had large diameters and contained numerous dense-core vesicles, resembling peptide-containing hypothalamic or solitary tract inputs. No nuclear or extranuclear AR-ir was found in TH-labeled perikarya and dendrites although a few non-TH- labeled dendrites contained AR-ir. Qualitatively, more axonal profiles appeared to be present in males compared to females. These studies suggest that, unlike ERs, ARs in male and female rats are almost exclusively positioned on afferents and glia, suggesting that androgens modulate RVLM C1 neurons, and thus blood pressure, through presynaptic and glial signaling.
Functional neuroimaging studies of autobiographical memory have grown dramatically in recent years. These studies are important because they can investigate the neural correlates of processes that are difficult to study using laboratory stimuli, including: (i) complex constructive processes, (ii) recollective qualities of emotion and vividness, and (iii) remote memory retrieval. Constructing autobiographical memories involves search, monitoring and self-referential processes that are associated with activity in separable prefrontal regions. The contributions of emotion and vividness have been linked to the amygdala and visual cortex respectively. Finally, there is evidence that recent and remote autobiographical memories might activate the hippocampus equally, which has implications for memory-consolidation theories. The rapid development of innovative methods for eliciting personal memories in the scanner provides the opportunity to delve into the functional neuroanatomy of our personal past.
Comparative studies in voles have suggested that a polymorphic microsatellite upstream of the Avpr1a locus contributes to the evolution of monogamy. A recent study challenged this hypothesis by reporting that there is no relationship between microsatellite structure and monogamy in 21 vole species. Although the study demonstrates that the microsatellite is not a universal genetic switch that determines mating strategy, the findings do not preclude a substantial role for Avpr1a in regulating social behaviors associated with monogamy.
In vitro-generated mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) initially attracted interest for their ability to undergo differentiation toward cells of different lineages. More recently, a major breakthrough was the discovery that MSCs exert a profound inhibitory effect on T cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Subsequently, MSCs were shown also to exert similar effects on B cells, dendritic cells and natural killer cells. These results suggested that MSCs could be used to dampen immune-mediated diseases and transplant rejection. It is possible that some of the beneficial effects of MSCs might reflect, in part, the trophic and protective activities they exert on injured cells and tissues, rather than resulting from a true transdifferentiation. In immune-mediated diseases, the protective effects might function in concert with the immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory activities.
The basic organization of the catecholamine-containing neuronal systems and their axonal projections in the brain was initially worked out using classical histofluorescence techniques during the 1960s and 1970s. The introduction of more versatile immunohistochemical methods, along with a range of highly sensitive tract-tracing techniques, has provided a progressively more detailed picture, making the dopamine system one of the best known, and most completely mapped, neurotransmitter systems in the brain. The purpose of the present review is to summarize our current knowledge of the diversity and neurochemical features of the nine dopamine-containing neuronal cell groups in the mammalian brain, their distinctive cellular properties, and their ability to regulate their dopaminergic transmitter machinery in response to altered functional demands and aging.
Lesioning and psychopharmacological studies suggest a wide range of behavioral functions for ascending midbrain dopaminergic systems. However, electrophysiological and neurochemical studies during specific behavioral tasks demonstrate a more restricted spectrum of dopamine-mediated changes. Substantial increases in dopamine-mediated activity, as measured by electrophysiology or voltammetry, are related to rewards and reward-predicting stimuli. A somewhat slower, distinct electrophysiological response encodes the uncertainty associated with rewards. Aversive events produce different, mostly slower, electrophysiological dopamine responses that consist predominantly of depressions. Additionally, more modest dopamine concentration fluctuations, related to punishment and movement, are seen at 200-18,000 times longer time courses using voltammetry and microdialysis in vivo. Using these responses, dopamine neurotransmission provides differential and heterogeneous information to subcortical and cortical brain structures about essential outcome components for approach behavior, learning and economic decision-making.
There are several brain regions that have been implicated in the control of motivated behavior and whose disruption leads to the pathophysiology observed in major psychiatric disorders. These systems include the ventral hippocampus, which is involved in context and focus on tasks, the amygdala, which mediates emotional behavior, and the prefrontal cortex, which modulates activity throughout the limbic system to enable behavioral flexibility. Each of these systems has overlapping projections to the nucleus accumbens, where these inputs are integrated under the modulatory influence of dopamine. Here, we provide a systems-oriented approach to interpreting the function of the dopamine system, its modulation of limbic-cortical interactions and how disruptions within this system might underlie the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and drug abuse.
In this review, we examine what is known about the mechanism of action of the auxiliary alpha2delta subunits of voltage-gated Ca(2+) (Ca(v)) channels. First, to provide some background on the alpha2delta proteins, we discuss the genes encoding these channels, in addition to the topology and predicted structure of the alpha2delta subunits. We then describe the effects of alpha2delta subunits on the biophysical properties of Ca(v) channels and their physiological function. All alpha2delta subunits increase the density at the plasma membrane of Ca(2+) channels activated by high voltage, and we discuss what is known about the mechanism underlying this trafficking. Finally, we consider the link between alpha2delta subunits and disease, both in terms of spontaneous and engineered mouse mutants that show cerebellar ataxia and spike-wave epilepsy, and in terms of neuropathic pain and the mechanism of action of the gabapentinoid drugs - small-molecule ligands of the alpha2delta-1 and alpha2delta-2 subunits.
Fish can regenerate retinal neurons following ocular injury. Evidence is mounting that astrocytic glia function as inducible, regenerative stem cells in this process, but the underlying molecular events that enable neuronal regeneration are comparatively unclear. In the current study gene array, quantitative real-time PCR, in situ hybridization, and immunohistochemical approaches were used to identify, in the damaged retina of adult zebrafish, correlations between transcriptional events and entry into the cell cycle by Mller cells, a type of astrocytic cell present in all vertebrate retinas that is a candidate 'stem cell' of regenerated neurons. A proneural gene (achaete-scute homolog 1a, ash1a) and neurogenic components of the Notch signaling pathway, including notch3 and deltaA, were implicated. An injury-induced, enhanced expression of ash1a was observed in Mller cells, which is hypothesized to contribute to the transition of these cells, or their cellular progeny, into a notch3-expressing, regenerative progenitor. A model of vertebrate retinal repair is suggested in which damage-induced expression of proneural genes, plus canonical Notch-Delta signaling, could contribute to retinal stem cell promotion and subsequent regenerative neurogenesis.
The exposure of the developing human embryo to ethanol results in a spectrum of disorders involving multiple organ systems, including the visual system. One common phenotype seen in humans exposed to ethanol in utero is microphthalmia. The objective of this study was to describe the effects of ethanol during retinal neurogenesis in a model organism, the zebrafish, and to pursue the potential mechanisms by which ethanol causes microphthalmia. Zebrafish embryos were exposed to 1% or 1.5% ethanol from 24 to 48 h after fertilization, a period during which the retinal neuroepithelium undergoes rapid proliferation and differentiation to form a laminated structure composed of different retinal cell types. Ethanol exposure resulted in significantly reduced eye size immediately following the treatment, and this microphthalmia persisted through larval development. This reduced eye size could not entirely be accounted for by the accompanying general delay in embryonic development. Retinal cell death was only slightly higher in ethanol-exposed embryos, although cell death in the lens was extensive in some of these embryos, and lenses were significantly reduced in size as compared to those of control embryos. The initiation of retinal neurogenesis was not affected, but the subsequent waves of cell differentiation were markedly reduced. Even cells that were likely generated after ethanol exposure--rod and cone photoreceptors and Mller glia--were delayed in their expression of cell-specific markers by at least 24 h. We conclude that ethanol exposure over the time of retinal neurogenesis resulted in persistent microphthalmia due to a combination of an overall developmental delay, lens abnormalities, and reduced retinal cell differentiation.
Horizontal cells are second order neurons that receive direct synaptic input from photoreceptors. In teleosts horizontal cells can be divided into two categories, cone-connected and rod-connected. Although the anatomy and physiology of fish cone horizontal cells have been extensively investigated, less is known about rod horizontal cells. This study was undertaken to determine whether light and/or the circadian clock regulate gap junctional coupling between goldfish rod horizontal cells. We used fine-tipped, microelectrode intracellular recording to monitor rod horizontal cells under various visual stimulation conditions, and tracer (biocytin) iontophoresis to visualize their morphology and evaluate the extent of coupling. Under dark-adapted conditions, rod horizontal cells were extensively coupled to cells of like-type (homologous coupling) with an average of approximately 120 cells coupled. Under these conditions, no differences were observed between day, night, the subjective day, and subjective night. In addition, under dark-adapted conditions, application of the dopamine D2-like agonist quinpirole (1 microM), the D2-like antagonist spiperone (10 microM), or the D1-like antagonist SCH23390 (10 microM) had no effect on rod horizontal cell tracer coupling. In contrast, the extent of tracer coupling was reduced by approximately 90% following repetitive light (photopic range) stimulation of the retina or application of the D1-agonist SKF38393 (10 microM) during the subjective day and night. We conclude that similarly to cone horizontal cells, rod horizontal cells are extensively coupled to one another in darkness and that the extent of coupling is dramatically reduced by bright light stimulation or dopamine D1-receptor activation. However, in contrast to cone horizontal cells whose light responses are under the control of the retinal clock, the light responses of rod horizontal cells under dark-adapted conditions were similar during the day, night, subjective day, and subjective night thus demonstrating that they are not under the influence of the circadian clock.
Color constancy is one of the most impressive features of color vision systems. Although the phenomenon has been studied for decades, its underlying neuronal mechanism remains unresolved. Literature indicates an early, possibly retinal mechanism and a late, possibly cortical mechanism. The early mechanism seems to involve chromatic spatial integration and performs the critical calculations for color constancy. The late mechanism seems to make the color manifest. We briefly review the current evidence for each mechanism. We discuss in more detail a model for the early mechanism that is based on direct measurements of goldfish outer retinal processing and induces color constancy and color contrast. In this study we extrapolate this model to primate retina, illustrating that it is highly likely that a similar mechanism is also present in primates. The logical consequence of our experimental work in goldfish and our model is that the wiring of the cone/horizontal cell system sets the reference point for color vision (i.e., it sets the white point for that animal).
The isolated retina of the goldfish has proven a valuable resource for studying the variability of firing of retinal ganglion cells. Three major areas of study are considered here: the variability of maintained discharges, the correlated firing of neighboring ganglion cells, and the variability of responses to light. The sources of variability, its relationship to retinal processing, and its possible functional role in perception are examined through these three aspects of variability. The results are related to similar studies in mammals (mainly cats). This retrospective is biased toward my studies over 30 years.
Target detection during active visual search was examined. The chance corrected spatial distribution of target detection was found to be symmetrically distributed around the point of fixation and, unexpectedly, was independent of the proximity of fixations to the display boundaries. Memory was found to play a very limited role in target detection, but a significant role in the guidance of eye movements. A model of covert shifts was used to estimate the number and spatial distribution of shifts required to explain observed performance. An increase from one to five shifts per fixation across increasing array set size as estimated by two different methods was inconsistent with unchanging fixation durations, suggesting that multiple covert shifts are not occurring during the fixations in active search.
Infants show spontaneous looking preferences among isoluminant chromatic stimuli [Adams, R. J. (1987). An evaluation of color preferences in early infancy. Infant Behavior and Development, 10, 143-150; Bornstein, M. H. (1975). Qualities of color vision in infancy. Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, 19 (3), 401-419.]. These differences in preference have often been called &quot;hue&quot; or &quot;color&quot; preferences, and attributed to differences in hue, but there are alternative explanations. Spontaneous preference variations remain after stimuli are equated for adult brightness, and thus cannot be attributed to adult-like brightness differences [Teller, D. Y., Civan, A., &amp; Bronson-Castain, K. (2004). Infants' spontaneous color preferences are not due to adult-like brightness variations. Visual Neuroscience, 21 (3), 397-401]. In the present paper, we address three more alternative explanations: colorimetric purity; infant detection thresholds; and adult-like variations in saturation. Three experiments were conducted. In Experiment 1 we measured infants' spontaneous preferences for each of 22 different chromatic stimuli of varying dominant wavelength and colorimetric purity, each paired against the same white standard. In Experiment 2, we measured infants' chromatic detection thresholds. In Experiment 3, adult subjects made saturation matches between a blue-green standard and each of five other chromatic stimuli. Infant detection thresholds accounted for 34% of the variance in infant &quot;hue&quot; preferences, much more than colorimetric purity (2.4%) or adult saturation judgments (3%), but none of the three variables accounted for the majority of the variance. In our view, the most likely remaining option is that infants' spontaneous &quot;hue&quot; preferences indeed arise from preferences for the hues of stimuli that adults see as blue, purple and red.



Chloride secretion is important because it is the driving force for fluid movement into the intestinal lumen. The flow of accumulated fluid flushes out invading micro-organisms in defense of the host. Chloride secretion is regulated by neurons in the submucosal plexus of the enteric nervous system. Mechanosensitive enterochromaffin cells that release 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and activate intrinsic afferent neurons in the submucosal plexus and initiate chloride secretion. Mechanical stimulation by distention may also trigger reflexes by a direct action on intrinsic afferent neurons. Dysregulation of 5-HT release or altered activity of intrinsic afferents is likely to occur in states of inflammation and other disorders.

The pathomechanisms involved in the neuronal dysfunction in Huntington disease (HD) are still unresolved and may be heterogeneous. One potential mechanism might be related to the induction of mitochondrial dysfunction in the CNS. This might lead firstly to neuronal dysfunction and finally to the activation of apoptotic pathways. Several compounds, which should alleviate mitochondrial dysfunction, have been tested in preclinical models as well as in clinical trials of different scale. Recently we reported the efficacy of Ethyl-eicosapentaenoic acid (Ethyl-EPA) in patients with HD. Ethyl-EPA is a polyunsaturated fatty acid from the n-3 group, which is in clinical development for HD and melancholic depression. In our trial with Ethyl-EPA in HD responding patients could be characterized by either a lower CAG repeat number or a chorea-predominant clinical expression of the disease. Here we would like to describe some evidence on the potential mechanism of action of Ethyl-EPA in HD. We specifically focus on pathways, which are known to be influenced in HD and are modified by Ethyl-EPA and which points to an involvement of mitochondrial function as a common target. Some attention is given to the NF-kappa B pathway and the c-Jun amino-terminal kinases (JNK) pathway, which both may lead to an activation of the antiproliferative factor p53 and consequently mitochondrial dysfunction. Further the effects of EPA or Ethyl-EPA in preclinical models of HD are described. The evidence from these studies led to the design of phase III clinical trials, which are ongoing.
Activated microglia have been proposed to play a major role in the pathogenesis of Huntington's Disease (HD). PK11195 is a ligand which binds selectively to peripheral benzodiazepine binding sites, a type of receptor selectively expressed by activated microglia in the central nervous system. Using (11)C-(R)-PK11195 positron emission tomography (PET), we have recently shown in vivo evidence of increased microglial activation in both symptomatic and presymptomatic HD gene carriers and that the degree of microglial activation in the striatum correlates with the severity of striatal dopamine D2 receptor dysfunction measured with (11)C-raclopride PET. Our findings indicate that microglial activation is an early process in the HD pathology, occurring before the onset of symptoms. The close spatial and temporal relationship between microglial activation and neuronal dysfunction lends further support to the pathogenic link between the two processes in HD. Further longitudinal studies are needed to fully elucidate this link.
Most cortical visual neurons do not respond linearly with contrast. Generally, they show saturated responses to stimuli of high contrast, a feature often characterized by a divisive normalization function. This nonlinearity is generally thought to be useful in focusing the dynamic response range of the neuron on a particular region of contrast space, optimizing contrast gain. Some neurons not only saturate but also supersaturate; at high contrast, the response of the neuron decreases rather than plateaus. Under the contrast gain control theory, these cells would seem to reflect a nonoptimal normalization pool that provides excessive inhibition to the neurons. Since very few data on supersaturation are available, this article examines the frequency with which such neurons occur in macaque visual cortex by considering an extension of the Naka-Rushton equation with the capacity to represent nonmonotonic functions. The prevalence of gain-control theories for saturation has occluded an additional computational function for saturation, namely, in detecting the conjunction of certain features. A saturating nonlinearity is a critical part of the selective detection of compound stimuli over their components. In this role, the existence of saturating contrast response functions might be considered necessary rather than simply optimal.
A critical issue in understanding Huntington's disease (HD) pathogenesis is how the ubiquitously expressed mutant huntingtin (mhtt) with an expanded polyglutamine repeat can cause selective toxicity of striatal and cortical neurons. Two potential cellular models may contribute to such specificity: expression of mhtt in these vulnerable neurons alone may be sufficient to result in their dysfunction and/or degeneration (cell-autonomous model); or mhtt in other cell types can elicit pathological cell-cell interactions to cause the vulnerable neurons to become dysfunctional and be at risk for degeneration (cell-cell interaction model). To distinguish between these two models, we have selectively expressed a neuropathogenic fragment of mhtt-exon1 in striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) by crossing a conditional mouse model of HD with a striatal-specific Cre mouse line. In this striatal model of HD, we observed progressive and cell-autonomous nuclear accumulation of mhtt aggregates in MSNs. Surprisingly, unlike the mouse model expressing mhtt-exon1 in all the neurons in the brain, the striatal model lacks significant locomotor deficits and striatal neuropathology including gliosis and dark degenerating neurons. Electrophysiological findings from acutely dissociated MSNs revealed a cell-autonomous deficit in N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor sensitivity to Mg2+, a deficit also present in other mouse models of HD. In conclusion, this study provides the first in vivo genetic evidence that pathological cell-cell interactions are necessary for striatal pathogenesis in a conditional mouse model of HD, and suggests a ''two-hit'' hypothesis in which both cell-autonomous toxicity and pathological cell-cell interactions are critical to HD pathogenesis.
Primary cervical dystonia is typically an adult onset condition with symptom onset usually in the fifth and sixth decade. Young onset (&lt;28 years) is uncommon. We report 76 patients with cervical dystonia as a presenting or predominant feature, with disease onset before the age of 28. Male to female ratio was 1.24:1 and the mean onset age was 21 (3-28) years. A family history of tremor and/or dystonia was noted in 26.3%. Depression and anxiety attacks were present in 23.7%. Prior injury or surgery involving the neck was noted in 17.1%. 23 (30.3%) experienced spontaneous partial or complete remissions within the first 5 years of onset, but all relapsed. Cervical dystonia was predominantly rotational torticollis. 30% developed extra-nuchal dystonia and tremor affecting contiguous parts but in only one there was spread to affect the legs. All 15 patients tested for the DYT1 gene were negative. 74% responded favorably to botulinum toxin injections, whereas none of the 13 patients treated with L-Dopa preparations had a beneficial response. The distinctive features of this entity are discussed.
Autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxias (AD-SCAs) form a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders. Recently, a single nucleotide substitution in the 5'-untranslated region of the puratrophin-1 gene was found to be associated with one type of AD-SCA linked to chromosome 16q (16q-SCA). To obtain further insight into the contribution of the C-to-T substitution in the puratrophin-1 gene to the clinical and genetic characteristics of patients with 16q-SCA, we analyzed 686 families with 719 individuals diagnosed with progressive ataxia. We found C-to-T substitution in the puratrophin-1 gene in 57 unrelated families with 65 affected individuals. The mean age at onset in the patients with 16q-SCA was 59.1 (range, 46-77). Ataxia is the most common initial symptom. The elderly patients over 65 occasionally showed other accompanying clinical features including abnormalities in tendon reflexes, involuntary movements, and reduced vibration sense. We also examined the frequency of the AD-SCA subtype, considering the effects of age at onset. In the 686 AD-SCA families, SCA6 and Machado-Joseph disease/SCA3 are frequent subtypes, followed by dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy and 16q-SCA. 16q-SCA is not a rare subtype of Japanese AD-SCA, particularly in patients with ages at onset over 60.

The automatic translation of folk psychology into newly formed brain modules specifically dedicated to mind-reading and other social cognitive abilities should be carefully scrutinized. Searching for the brain location of intentions, beliefs and desires-as such-might not be the best epistemic strategy to disclose what social cognition really is. The results of neurocognitive research suggest that in the brain of primates, mirror neurons, and more generally the premotor system, play a major role in several aspects of social cognition, from action and intention understanding to language processing. This evidence is presented and discussed within the theoretical frame of an embodied simulation account of social cognition. Embodied simulation and the mirror neuron system underpinning it provide the means to share communicative intentions, meaning and reference, thus granting the parity requirements of social communication.
The notion that there is a 'social brain' in humans specialized for social interactions has received considerable support from brain imaging and, to a lesser extent, from lesion studies. Specific roles for the various components of the social brain are beginning to emerge. For example, the amygdala attaches emotional value to faces, enabling us to recognize expressions such as fear and trustworthiness, while the posterior superior temporal sulcus predicts the end point of the complex trajectories created when agents act upon the world. It has proved more difficult to assign a role to medial prefrontal cortex, which is consistently activated when people think about mental states. I suggest that this region may have a special role in the second-order representations needed for communicative acts when we have to represent someone else's representation of our own mental state. These cognitive processes are not specifically social, since they can be applied in other domains. However, these cognitive processes have been driven to ever higher levels of sophistication by the complexities of social interaction.

Neuritic dystrophy, loss of synapses and neuronal death in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus are hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. The aim of the present study was to investigate the differential susceptibility of cortical and hippocampal neurons to amyloid-beta (Abeta)-induced toxicity. For that, we have used primary neuronal cultures prepared from rat brain cortex and hippocampus which were treated with the synthetic peptides Abeta25-35 or Abeta1-40. Abeta-induced apoptotic cell death was analyzed by determining caspase-3-like activity. Neuritic dystrophy was evaluated by cobalt staining and MAP2 immunoreactivity. Perturbation of Ca(2+) homeostasis caused by exposure to Abeta was evaluated by determining basal cytosolic calcium levels in the whole neuronal population and by single cell calcium imaging under basal and KCl-depolarization conditions. Finally, levels of GluR2 subunit of glutamate AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-proprionate) receptors were quantified by western blotting. Our results demonstrated that hippocampal neurons in culture are more susceptible than cortical neurons to Abeta-induced apoptosis and also that this mechanism involves the perturbation of Ca(2+) homeostasis. Accordingly, the exposure of hippocampal neurons to Abeta peptides decreases the protein levels of the GluR2 subunit of glutamate AMPA receptors that may be associated with a significant rise of cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration, leading to dendritic dystrophy and activation of apoptotic neuronal death.
The transcription factor DeltaFosB, a truncated splice isoform of FosB, accumulates in brain after several types of chronic stimulation. This accumulation is thought to be mediated by the unique stability of DeltaFosB compared to all other Fos family proteins. The goal of the present study was to determine if the relative expression of the two fosB isoforms is also regulated at the mRNA level, thereby further contributing to the selective accumulation of DeltaFosB after chronic stimulation. First, unlike the protein, the half-life of DeltafosB mRNA is only slightly longer than that of full-length fosB mRNA both in cultured cells in vitro and in the brain in vivo. Additionally, similar to c-fos, both fosB isoforms are induced abundantly in striatum after acute administration of amphetamine or stress, and partially desensitize after chronic exposures. Surprisingly, the relative ratio of DeltafosB to fosB mRNA increases most significantly after acute, not chronic, stimulation. Finally, overexpression of polypyrimidine tract binding protein (PTB1), which regulates RNA splicing, in cultured cells decreases the relative expression of DeltafosB compared to fosB mRNA. Together, these findings suggest that splicing of fosB pre-mRNA is regulated by the quantity of unspliced transcript available to the splicing machinery. These data provide fundamental information concerning the generation of DeltafosB mRNA, and indicate that the selective accumulation of DeltaFosB protein with chronic stimulation does not involve its preferential generation by RNA splicing.
Effects of extended cocaine self-administration and its withdrawal have been studied on A(2A) and D(2) receptor binding characteristics and expression in the nucleus accumbens and the anterior and posterior dorsal striatum of the rat (Rattus norvegicus). Biochemical binding techniques have been used with the D(2)-like receptor antagonist radioligand [(3)H]-Raclopride and the A(2A) receptor antagonist radioligand [(3)H]-ZM 241385 and immunoblots to study their expression. A substantial and significant increase in functional A(2A), but not in functional D(2) receptors, was observed in the nucleus accumbens immediately following 10 days of cocaine self-administration which returned to normal levels after 7 days of drug withdrawal. In contrast, in the posterior dorsal striatum significant reductions in A(2A) expression were observed immediately after cocaine self-administration which was associated with a trend for a reduction of the A(2A) receptor antagonist binding sites. In cocaine withdrawal groups, significant increases in the density and K(d) value of D(2)-like antagonist binding sites were observed in the nucleus accumbens in the absence of changes in D(2) expression, suggesting an up-regulation of D(3) receptors in this region after cocaine withdrawal. A(2A) receptor increases in the nucleus accumbens induced by cocaine may represent a compensatory up-regulation to counteract cocaine-induced increases in D(2) signaling and D(3) signaling which is in line with its disappearance in the 7-day withdrawal group displaying increased reinforcing efficacy of cocaine. A(2A) agonists may therefore represent cocaine antagonist drugs to be used in treatment of cocaine addiction acting inter alia by antagonizing signaling in accumbens A(2A)/D(2) and A(2A)/D(3) heteromers.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus, but the mechanisms involved are not fully understood. The neurotrophin couples synaptic activation to changes in gene expression underlying long term potentiation and short term plasticity. Here we show that BDNF acutely up-regulates GluR1, GluR2, and GluR3 alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunits in 7-day in vitro cultured hippocampal neurons. The increase in GluR1 and GluR2 protein levels in developing cultures was impaired by K252a, a tropomyosin-related [corrected] kinase (Trk) inhibitor, and by translation (emetine and anisomycin) and transcription (alpha-amanitine and actinomycin D) inhibitors [corrected] The increase in GluR1 and GluR2 protein levels in developing cultures was impaired by K252a, a Trk inhibitor, and by translation (emetine and anisomycin) and transcription (alpha-amanitine and actinomycin D) inhibitors. Accordingly, BDNF increased the mRNA levels for GluR1 and GluR2 subunits. Biotinylation studies showed that stimulation with BDNF for 30 min selectively increased the amount of GluR1 associated with the plasma membrane, and this effect was abrogated by emetine. Under the same conditions, BDNF induced GluR1 phosphorylation on Ser-831 through activation of protein kinase C and Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. Chelation of endogenous extracellular BDNF with TrkB-IgG selectively decreased GluR1 protein levels in 14-day in vitro cultures of hippocampal neurons. Moreover, BDNF promoted synaptic delivery of homomeric GluR1 AMPA receptors in cultured organotypic slices, by a mechanism independent of NMDA receptor activation. Taken together, the results indicate that BDNF up-regulates the protein levels of AMPA receptor subunits in hippocampal neurons and induces the delivery of AMPA receptors to the synapse.
Plasma membrane proteins such as receptors and ion channels allow a cell to communicate with its environment and regulate many intracellular activities. Thus, the proper control of the surface number of these proteins is essential for maintaining the structural and functional homeostasis of a cell. Internalization and recycling plays a key role in determining the surface density of receptors and channels. Whereas the clathrin-mediated internalization and its associated recycling have been the focus of research in this field, recent studies have revealed that an increasing number of receptors and channels enter a cell via clathrin-independent pathways. However, little is known about the trafficking motifs involved in controlling clathrin-independent internalization and various associated recycling pathways. By using a potassium channel as a model system, we identified a class of trafficking motifs that function along a clathrin-independent pathway to increase the surface density of a membrane protein by preventing its rapid internalization and/or facilitating its recycling via the ADP-ribosylation factor 6-dependent recycling pathway. Moreover our data suggest that these motifs may enhance the association of membrane proteins with the EFA6 family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors for ADP-ribosylation factor 6.
gamma-Secretase is an atypical aspartyl protease that cleaves amyloid beta-precursor protein to generate Abeta peptides that are causative for Alzheimer disease. gamma-Secretase is a multimeric membrane protein complex composed of presenilin (PS), nicastrin, Aph-1, and Pen-2. Pen-2 directly binds to transmembrane domain 4 of PS and confers proteolytic activity on gamma-secretase, although the mechanism of activation and its role in catalysis remain unknown. Here we show that an addition of amino acid residues to the N terminus of Pen-2 specifically increases the generation of Abeta42, the longer and more aggregable species of Abeta. The effect of the N-terminal elongation of Pen-2 on Abeta42 generation was independent of the amino acid sequences, the expression system and the presenilin species. In vitro gamma-secretase assay revealed that Pen-2 directly affects the Abeta42-generating activity of gamma-secretase. The elongation of Pen-2 N terminus caused a reduction in the water accessibility of the luminal side of the catalytic pore of PS1 in a similar manner to that caused by an Abeta42-raising gamma-secretase modulator, fenofibrate, as determined by substituted cysteine accessibility method. These data suggest a unique mechanism of Abeta42 overproduction associated with structural changes in the catalytic pore of presenilins caused commonly by the N-terminal elongation of Pen-2 and fenofibrate.
Most plasma membrane proteins are capable of sensing multiple cell-cell and cell-ligand interactions, but the extent to which this functional versatility is founded on their modular design is less clear. We have identified the third immunoglobulin domain of the Neural Cell Adhesion Molecule (NCAM) as the necessary and sufficient determinant for its interaction with Glial Cell Line-derived Neurotrophic Factor (GDNF). Four charged contacts were identified by molecular modeling as the main contributors to binding energy. Their mutation abolished GDNF binding to NCAM but left intact the ability of NCAM to mediate cell adhesion, indicating that the two functions are genetically separable. The GDNF-NCAM interface allows complex formation with the GDNF family receptor alpha1, shedding light on the molecular architecture of a multicomponent GDNF receptor.
Drug addicts make poor decisions. These decision-making deficits have been modeled in addicts and laboratory animals using reversal-learning tasks. However, persistent reversal-learning impairments have been shown in rats and monkeys only after noncontingent cocaine injections. Current thinking holds that to represent the human condition effectively, animal models of addiction must utilize self-administration procedures in which drug is earned contingently; thus, it remains unclear whether reversal-learning deficits caused by noncontingent cocaine exposure are relevant to addiction. To test whether reversal learning deficits are caused by contingent cocaine exposure, we trained rats to self-administer cocaine, assessed cue-induced cocaine seeking in extinction tests after 1 and 30 d of withdrawal, and then tested for reversal learning more than a month later. We found robust time-dependent increases in cue-induced cocaine seeking in the two extinction tests (incubation of craving) and severe reversal-learning impairments.
Dynamin 1 is a neuron-specific guanosine triphosphatase thought to be critically required for the fission reaction of synaptic vesicle endocytosis. Unexpectedly, mice lacking dynamin 1 were able to form functional synapses, even though their postnatal viability was limited. However, during spontaneous network activity, branched, tubular plasma membrane invaginations accumulated, capped by clathrin-coated pits, in synapses of dynamin 1-knockout mice. Synaptic vesicle endocytosis was severely impaired during strong exogenous stimulation but resumed efficiently when the stimulus was terminated. Thus, dynamin 1-independent mechanisms can support limited synaptic vesicle endocytosis, but dynamin 1 is needed during high levels of neuronal activity.




Ca2+ signals associated with action potentials (APs) and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation exert distinct influences on neuronal activity and synaptic plasticity. However, it is not clear how these two types of Ca2+ signals are differentially regulated by neurotransmitter inputs in a single neuron. We investigated this issue in dopaminergic neurons of the ventral midbrain using brain slices. Intracellular Ca2+ was assessed by measuring Ca2+-sensitive K+ currents or imaging the fluorescence of Ca2+ indicator dyes. Tonic activation of metabotropic neurotransmitter receptors (mGluRs, alpha1 adrenergic receptors, and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors), attained by superfusion of agonists or weak, sustained (approximately 1 s) synaptic stimulation, augmented AP-induced Ca2+ transients. In contrast, Ca2+ signals elicited by strong, transient (50-200 ms) activation of mGluRs with aspartate iontophoresis were suppressed by superfusion of agonists. These opposing effects on Ca2+ signals were both mediated by an increase in intracellular inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) levels, because they were blocked by heparin, an IP3 receptor antagonist, and reproduced by photolytic application of IP3. Evoking APs repetitively at low frequency (2 Hz) caused inactivation of IP3 receptors and abolished IP3 facilitation of single AP-induced Ca2+ signals, whereas facilitation of Ca2+ signals triggered by bursts of APs (five at 20 Hz) was attenuated by less than half. We further obtained evidence suggesting that the psychostimulant amphetamine may augment burst-induced Ca2+ signals via both depression of basal firing and production of IP3. We propose that intracellular IP3 tone provides a mechanism to selectively amplify burst-induced Ca2+ signals in dopaminergic neurons.
Cognitive functions supported by neurons in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) are disrupted by acute and chronic exposure to alcohol, yet little is known about the mechanisms that underlie these effects. In the present study, in vivo and in vitro electrophysiology was used to determine the effects of ethanol on neuronal firing and network patterns of persistent activity in PFC neurons. In vivo, ethanol (0.375-3.5 g/kg) dose-dependently reduced spike activity in the PFC measured with multielectrode extracellular recording in the anesthetized rat. In an in vitro coculture system containing slices of PFC, hippocampus, and ventral tegmental area (VTA), ethanol (25-100 mM) decreased persistent activity of PFC neurons, but had little effect on firing evoked by direct current injection. Persistent activity was often enhanced after ethanol washout and this effect was maintained in cultures lacking the VTA. A low concentration of the NMDA antagonist APV (5 microM) mimicked the inhibition of ethanol of persistent activity with no change in activity after washout. Ethanol inhibition of spontaneous and VTA-evoked persistent activity was enhanced by the D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH23390 [R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride]. The results of this study show that ethanol inhibits persistent activity and spike firing of PFC neurons and that the degree of ethanol inhibition may be influenced by D1 receptor tone. Ethanol-induced alterations in the activity of deep-layer cortical neurons may underlie some of the behavioral effects associated with ethanol intake.
Behavioral flexibility, in the form of strategy switching or set shifting, helps animals cope with changing contingencies in familiar environments. The prelimbic (PL) and infralimbic (IL) regions of the rat prefrontal cortex (PFC) contribute to this ability so that rats trained to use one strategy have difficulty learning a new one if the PL/IL is inactivated. Thus, the PL/IL mediates learning new tasks in place of old ones, but it may also be required to switch between familiar tasks. To test this hypothesis, we trained rats to perform multiple task switches on a plus-shaped maze, alternating between two familiar tasks. Muscimol inactivation of the PL/IL never impaired switch acquisition, but did impair memory for the recently acquired switch 24 h later. Additional experiments determined that control rats continued to perform the new task 24 h after a switch, but rats with PL/IL inactivation had impaired memory and performed the same task that was learned before inactivation. This impairment was observed in multiple switches, demonstrating that PL/IL activity was required to remember which of two familiar tasks was most recently successful. After many switches, however, muscimol no longer impaired performance, and both saline- and muscimol-infused rats appeared to use immediate task contingencies rather than memory to select among familiar tasks. This strategy may account for the decreased effect of PL/IL inactivation observed after extensive training. Thus, although PL/IL activity contributed to memory for multiple task switches, it was not required for flexibly selecting among highly familiar tasks.
Filamentous actin binding protein neurabin I (NrbI) targets protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) to specific postsynaptic microdomains, exerting critical control over AMPA receptor (AMPAR)-mediated synaptic transmission. NrbI-targeted synaptic PP1, which promotes synaptic depression upon long-term depression (LTD) stimuli, serves to prevent synaptic depression under basal conditions. The present studies investigate this opposite regulation of AMPAR trafficking during basal synaptic transmission and LTD by expressing NrbI or NrbI mutant, which is defective in PP1 binding, in hippocampal slice or neuron cultures. We find that expression of the NrbI mutant to interfere with PP1 targeting dramatically reduces basal synaptic transmission, which is correlated with the reduction in surface expression of AMPA subtype glutamate receptor (GluR) 1 and GluR2 subunits. Biochemical analysis demonstrates that the NrbI mutant selectively increases the phosphorylation of GluR2 at C-terminal consensus PKC site, serine 880, which is known to favor GluR2 interaction with PDZ (postsynaptic density 95/Discs large/zona occludens 1) protein PICK1 (protein interacting with C kinase-1). Inhibition of PKC activity or GluR2-PICK1 interaction completely reverses the synaptic depression in neurons expressing the NrbI mutant, suggesting that NrbI-targeted synaptic PP1 stabilizes the basal transmission by negatively controlling PKC phosphorylation of GluR2 and the subsequent PICK1-mediated decrease in GluR2-containing AMPAR surface expression. Distinct from basal transmission, blocking GluR2-PICK1 interaction or PKC activity produces minimal effects on LTD in NrbI-expressing neurons. Instead, NrbI-targeted PP1 facilitates LTD by dephosphorylating GluR1 at both serine 845 and serine 831, with GluR2 serine 880 phosphorylation unaltered. Our studies thus elucidate that NrbI-targeted PP1, in response to distinct synaptic activities, regulates the synaptic trafficking of specific AMPAR subunits.
The respiratory system is highly pliable in its adaptation to low-oxygen (hypoxic) environments. After chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH), alterations in the regulation of cardiorespiratory system become persistent because of changes in the peripheral chemoreceptor reflex. We present evidence for the induction of a novel form of homeostatic plasticity in this reflex pathway in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), the site of termination of the chemosensory afferent fibers. CIH induces an increase in NTS postsynaptic cell activity initiated by spontaneous presynaptic transmitter release that is counterbalanced by a reduction in evoked synaptic transmission between sensory afferents and NTS second-order cells. This is accomplished via presynaptic mechanisms involving changes in neurotransmitter release and calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II activation.
Two models of spine formation have been proposed. Spines can derive from emerging dendritic filopodia that have encountered presynaptic partners, or presynaptic molecules may induce the spine maturation event directly from the dendritic shaft. The first model applies better to the Purkinje cell (PC), because numerous free spines have been described in several conditions, particularly when granule cells degenerate before parallel fiber (PF) synapses are formed. A large number of new spines, many of them being free, appear in the proximal dendritic domain after blockage of electrical activity by tetrodotoxin (TTX). A complete blockage of the AMPA receptors by NBQX (2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzoquinoxaline-7-sulfonamide), leading to a complete absence of PF- and climbing fiber (CF)-evoked EPSCs and of spontaneous glutamatergic quantal events, mimics the TTX effect. In contrast, metabotropic glutamate receptor blockage by MCPG [(S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine] is ineffective. In normal conditions, in the proximal dendritic domain of the PC, clusters of a few spines are present only under each CF varicosity. It has been proposed that the active CF is responsible for spine pruning in the territory surrounding the CF synapses. Here, we show that such a pruning is mediated by AMPA but not by metabotropic receptors. Finally, after AMPA receptor blockage, there is a reduced number of spines in each spine cluster underlying CF varicosity. In conclusion, PCs tend to express spines over the entire dendritic territory. CF activity reinforces the CF synaptic contacts and actively suppresses spines in the surrounding territory, which is an effect mediated by AMPA receptors.

Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) are widely expressed in the CNS and peripheral nervous system and play an important role in modulating the cell activity and function. We have shown that the cholinergic agonist carbachol reduces the pigeon's inwardly rectifying potassium channel (pKir2.1) ionic currents in native vestibular hair cells. We have cloned and sequenced pigeon mAChR subtypes M2-M5 and we have studied the expression of all five mAChR subtypes (M1-M5) in the pigeon vestibular end organs (semicircular canal ampullary cristae and utricular maculae), vestibular nerve fibers and the vestibular (Scarpa's) ganglion using tissue immunohistochemistry (IH), dissociated single cell immunocytochemistry (IC) and Western blotting (WB). We found that vestibular hair cells, nerve fibers and ganglion cells each expressed all five (M1-M5) mAChR subtypes. Two of the three odd-numbered mAChRs (M1, M5) were present on the hair cell cilia, supporting cells and nerve terminals. And all three odd numbered mAChRs (M1, M3 and M5) were expressed on cuticular plates, myelin sheaths and Schwann cells. Even-numbered mAChRs were seen on the nerve terminals. M2 was also shown on the cuticular plates and supporting cells. Vestibular efferent fibers and terminals were not identified in our studies. Results from WB of the dissociated vestibular epithelia, nerve fibers and vestibular ganglia were consistent with the results from IH and IC. Our findings suggest that there is considerable co-expression of the subtypes on the neural elements of the labyrinth. Further electrophysiological and pharmacological studies should delineate the mechanisms of action of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors on structures in the labyrinth.
Pannexins (Panx) constitute a new family of gap junction type proteins. Functional expression in paired Xenopus oocytes indicated that pannexins are capable of forming communicating junctions but also proved to be active in forming of unopposed hemichannels. In the vertebrate brain pannexins have been found in neurons. However, the subcellular cerebral localization of pannexin proteins which could gain first clues on their putative function is essentially unknown. Here we demonstrate by light and electron microscopical immunohistochemistry that Panx1 reveals postsynaptic localization in rodent hippocampal and cortical principal neurons accumulating at postsynaptic densities. The postsynaptic localization was corroborated by co-localization of Panx1 with postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95), a prominent postsynaptic scaffolding protein, in hippocampal neurons expressing tagged versions of these proteins. The asymmetric synaptic distribution of Panx1 suggests that it may function in neurons as non-junctional channels (pannexons) at postsynaptic sites and comprises a novel component of the postsynaptic protein complex.
As part of our effort to study the role of reactive species in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the goal of this work is to explore the correlation between nitration and oxidation of proteins and mutation of Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) in ALS. Transgenic mice overexpressing the mutant Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase (mSOD1) gene from humans with familial ALS, wild-type mice overexpressing the normal human SOD1 gene and normal mice without gene overexpression were used. Brain sections from different regions of three groups of mice were double immunohistochemically stained with anti-neurofilament plus anti-nitrotyrosine or treated with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine to label protein carbonyls, then double stained with anti-neurofilament plus anti-2,4-dinitrophenyl (anti-DNP). Neurons containing nitrated and oxidized proteins were visualized only in mSOD1 mice in the motor cortex, the cerebellar cortex and nucleus of hypoglossal nerves (regions related with movement). This correlates mutation of SOD1 to nitration and oxidation of neurons in the movement regions. By counting double-stained neurons, we demonstrated that the number of nitrotyrosine- and DNP-positive neurons was significantly higher in the brain sections of both motor and sensory cortex in mSOD1 mice than in the corresponding regions of control mice (P=0.005 to &lt;0.001), further correlating nitration and oxidation of proteins to SOD1 mutation. Neurons underwent significantly more nitration and oxidation in the motor cortex than in the sensory cortex in mSOD1 mice (P=0.002 and 0.02 respectively), indicating enhanced susceptibility of the motor cortex to nitration and oxidation of proteins and thereby targeting oxidation and nitration of proteins in neurons of the motor cortex in ALS. Significantly elevated protein nitration and nitric oxide synthesis were also demonstrated biochemically in the brain tissues and in cerebrospinal fluid of mutant SOD1 mice. Our in vivo evidence correlates mutation of the SOD1 gene to increased nitric oxide, nitration and oxidation of proteins in ALS.
Serotonin 2C receptors (5-HT2CR) appear to exert tonic inhibitory influence over dopamine (DA) neurotransmission in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), the origin of the mesolimbic DA system, thought to be important in psychiatric disorders including addiction and schizophrenia. Current literature suggests that the inhibitory influence of 5-HT2CR on DA neurotransmission occurs via indirect activation of GABA inhibitory neurons, rather than via a direct action of 5-HT2CR on DA neurons. The present experiments were performed to establish the distribution of 5-HT2CR protein on DA and GABA neurons in the VTA of male rats via double-label immunofluorescence techniques. The 5-HT2CR protein was found to be co-localized with the GABA synthetic enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), confirming the presence of the 5-HT2CR on GABA neurons within the VTA. The 5-HT2CR immunoreactivity was also present in cells that contained immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the DA synthetic enzyme, validating the localization of 5-HT2CR to DA neurons in the VTA. While the degree of 5-HT2CR+GAD co-localization was similar across the rostro-caudal levels of VTA subnuclei, 5-HT2CR+TH co-localization was highest in the middle relative to rostral and caudal levels of the VTA, particularly in the paranigral, parabrachial, and interfascicular subnuclei. The present results suggest that the inhibitory influence of the 5-HT2CR over DA neurotransmission in the VTA is a multifaceted and complex interplay of 5-HT2CR control of the output of both GABA and DA neurons within this region.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is an organelle in which secretory and transmembrane proteins are folded or processed, and is susceptible to various stresses that provoke the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER lumen. Recently, ER stress has been reported to be linked to neuronal death in various neurodegenerative diseases. Neurons contain the ER not only in the soma, but also in the dendrites, thus presenting a different case to non-neuronal cells. The ER in the dendrites has potential functions in local protein synthesis and sorting of synthesized proteins to postsynaptic membranes. It raises the possibility that ER stress could occur locally in the dendrites. Here we showed that ER stress sensors, inositol-requiring 1 (IRE1), PKR-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK), and activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6) exist in the ER of both soma and dendrites in primary mouse neurons, and that under ER stress conditions, GRP78/BiP and phosphorylated eIF2alpha are induced. Furthermore, XBP1 mRNA was localized in the proximal dendrites where IRE1 was rapidly phosphorylated in response to ER stress. These results indicate that the ER in dendrites could respond to ER stress and retain the capacity of protein quality control.
P2X3 purinoceptors are involved in fast, excitatory neurotransmission in the nervous system, and are expressed predominantly within sensory neurons. In this study, we examined the cellular and synaptic localization of the P2X3 receptor subunit in the retina of the rat using immunofluorescence immunohistochemistry and pre-embedding immunoelectron microscopy. In addition, we investigated the activity of ecto-ATPases in the inner retina using an enzyme cytochemical method. The P2X3 receptor subunit was expressed in the soma of a subset of GABA immunoreactive amacrine cells, some of which also expressed protein kinase C-alpha. In addition, punctate immunoreactivity was observed within both the inner and outer plexiform layers of the retina. Double labeling studies showed that P2X3 receptor puncta were associated with both rod and cone bipolar cell axon terminals in the inner plexiform layer. Ultrastructural studies indicated that P2X3 receptor subunits were expressed on putative A17 amacrine cells at sites of reciprocal synaptic input to the rod bipolar cell axon terminal. Moreover, we observed P2X3 immunolabeling on amacrine cell processes that were associated with cone bipolar cell axon terminals and other conventional synapses. In the outer retina, P2X3 immunoreactivity was observed on specialized junctions made by putative interplexiform cells. Ecto-ATPase activity was localized to the inner plexiform layer on the extracellular side of all plasma membranes, but was not apparent in the ganglion cell layer or the inner nuclear layer, suggesting that ATP dephosphorylation occurs exclusively in synaptic regions of the inner retina. These data provide further evidence that purines participate in retinal transmission, particularly within the rod pathway.
Adenosine promotes cytoprotection under conditions of infection, ischemic preconditioning and oxidative stress. Previous studies from our laboratory indicate that the expression of the adenosine A1 receptor (A1AR) is induced by oxidative stress via activation of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB. The prototypic transcription factor is composed of homo- or heterodimers of p50 and p65 subunits. To determine the role of NF-kappaB in the regulation of the A1AR in vivo, we compared the A1AR RNA and protein levels in the brains of mice lacking the p50 subunit of NF-kappaB (p50-/- mice) and age-matched B6129PF2/J (F2) controls. Radioligand binding assays in the cortex revealed a significantly lower number of A(1)AR (maximal binding capacity, Bmax) in the cortex of p50-/- mice (151+/-62 fmol/mg protein) versus 479+/-181 fmol/mg protein in the F2 (N=5 per strain, P&lt;0.05), but no change in the equilibrium dissociation constant. Similar reductions in A1AR were measured in the hippocampus, brain stem and hypothalamus and in peripheral tissues, such as the adrenal gland, kidney and spleen. Estimation of the A1AR following purification by antibody affinity columns also indicated reduced A1AR in the p50-/- mice cortex, as compared with the F2 mice. A1AR immunocytochemistry indicates distinct neuronal labeling in the F2 cortex, which was substantially reduced in similar sections obtained from p50-/- mice. The p50-/- mice expressed lower levels of A1AR mRNA than F2 mice, as determined by real time PCR. Quantitation of the A1AR transducing G proteins by Western blotting show significantly less Galphai3, no change in Galphai1, but higher levels of Galphao and Gbeta in the cortices of p50-/-, as compared with F2 mice. Administration of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), an activator of NF-kappaB, increased A1AR expression in the cortices of F2 mice but not p50-/- mice. Cortical neurons cultures prepared from p50-/- mice showed a greater degree of apoptosis, compared with neurons from F2 mice. Activation of the A1AR reduced apoptosis with greater efficacy in cultures from F2 than p50-/- mice. Taken together, these data support a role for NF-kappaB in determining both the basal and LPS-stimulated A1AR expression in vivo which could contribute to neuronal survival.
Cerebellar Purkinje neurons have intracellular regulatory systems including Ca2+-binding proteins, intracellular Ca2+ stores, Ca2+-ATPase and Na+-Ca2+ exchanger (NCX) that keep intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in physiological range. Among these, NCX interacts with AMPA receptors, activation of which induces cerebellar synaptic plasticity. And the activation of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1) is also involved in the induction of cerebellar long-term depression. The interaction of NCX with mGluR1 is not known yet. Thus, in this study, the functional relationship between NCX and mGluR1 in modulating the [Ca2+]i in rat Purkinje neurons was investigated. The interaction between NCX and mGluR1 in Purkinje neurons was studied by measuring intracellular Ca2+ transients induced by an agonist of group I mGluRs, 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG). The DHPG-induced Ca2+ transient was significantly reduced by treatments of NCX inhibitors, bepridil and KB-R7943. When cells were pretreated with antisense oligodeoxynucleotides of NCX, the DHPG-induced Ca2+ transient was also inhibited. These results suggest that NCX modulates the activity of mGluR1 in cerebellar Purkinje neurons. Therefore, NCX appears to play an important role in the physiological function of cerebellar Purkinje neurons such as synaptic plasticity.
Both spinal hemisection (SH) at C2 and tetrodotoxin (TTX) phrenic nerve blockade result in diaphragm muscle paralysis and inactivity of the phrenic axon terminals. However, phrenic motoneuron somata are inactive with SH but remain active with TTX phrenic nerve blockade. Neuromuscular transmission failure with repeated activation decreases following SH and increases following TTX phrenic nerve blockade, suggesting that matching (or mismatching) of somal and synaptic inactivities of phrenic motoneurons differentially regulates synaptic vesicle pools at diaphragm neuromuscular junctions. At individual type-identified rat diaphragm presynaptic terminals, the size of the releasable pool of synaptic vesicles was analyzed by fluorescence confocal microscopy of N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(6-(4-(diethylamino)phenyl)hexatrienyl) pyridinium dibromide (FM4-64) uptake and synaptic vesicle density at active zones was determined using transmission electron microscopy. After 14 days of SH and TTX-induced diaphragm muscle inactivity, neuromuscular junction size was not different at type I or IIa fibers, but increased at type IIx and/or IIb fibers (by 51% in SH and 35% in TTX) compared with control. With SH, synaptic vesicle pool size and density increased at presynaptic terminals innervating type I or IIa fibers (17 and 63%, respectively; P&lt;0.001) and type IIx and/or IIb fibers (41 and 31%, respectively; P&lt;0.001) when compared with controls. Following TTX, synaptic vesicle pool size and density decreased by 64 and 17%, respectively, at presynaptic terminals innervating type I or IIa fibers, and by 50 and 36%, respectively, at type IIx and/or IIb fibers (P&lt;0.001, for all comparisons). Thus, matching motoneuron soma and axon terminal inactivity (SH) increases the size and density of releasable synaptic vesicle pools at adult rat diaphragm neuromuscular junctions. Mismatching motoneuron soma and axon terminal inactivities (TTX) results in converse presynaptic adaptations. Inactivity-induced neuromuscular plasticity reflects specific adaptations in the size and density of synaptic vesicle pools that depend on motoneuron soma rather than axon terminal (or muscle fiber) inactivity.
Reaching for food, or skilled reaching, is used as a test of basal ganglia function in preclinical studies as well as studies of human neurological conditions. Although changes in the end-point measure of success document the effects of neurotoxic cellular damage to the caudate-putamen and its treatment in rodents, there has been no examination of the cause of change in success after neurotoxic lesions of the striatum. This objective was addressed in the present study, in which rats trained to reach for single food pellets with one forelimb, received contralateral quinolinic acid or ibotenic acid lesions of the medial and lateral caudate-putamen. Over 21 postsurgical days, reaching performance was scored for success and qualitative changes in movement elements were examined using frame-by-frame video analysis. In the acute postoperative period, extending over 3 to 4 days, the rats with lateral lesions transported their forelimb and grasped the food, but then ignored the food and did not withdraw their limb to their mouth. After recovery of the withdrawal movement, the rats displayed chronic qualitative impairments in the rotatory movements of aiming, pronating, and supinating the forepaw. Medial quinolinic lesions improved success relative to control rats and did not change qualitative aspects of limb movement. The acute dissociation between transport and withdrawal, the chronic qualitative changes in movement elements, and the differential effect of medial and lateral injury on success, support a complex contribution of the caudate-putamen to skilled reaching that includes sensorimotor neglect, and quantitative and qualitative motoric changes.
Visual mechanisms in primary visual cortex are suppressed by the superposition of gratings perpendicular to their preferred orientations. A clear picture of this process is needed to (i) inform functional architecture of image-processing models, (ii) identify the pathways available to support binocular rivalry, and (iii) generally advance our understanding of early vision. Here we use monoptic sine-wave gratings and cross-orientation masking (XOM) to reveal two cross-oriented suppressive pathways in humans, both of which occur before full binocular summation of signals. One is a within-eye (ipsiocular) pathway that is spatially broadband, immune to contrast adaptation and has a suppressive weight that tends to decrease with stimulus duration. The other pathway operates between the eyes (interocular), is spatially tuned, desensitizes with contrast adaptation and has a suppressive weight that increases with stimulus duration. When cross-oriented masks are presented to both eyes, masking is enhanced or diminished for conditions in which either ipsiocular or interocular pathways dominate masking, respectively. We propose that ipsiocular suppression precedes the influence of interocular suppression and tentatively associate the two effects with the lateral geniculate nucleus (or retina) and the visual cortex respectively. The interocular route is a good candidate for the initial pathway involved in binocular rivalry and predicts that interocular cross-orientation suppression should be found in cortical cells with predominantly ipsiocular drive.
Group II metabotropic (mGlu) receptors are known to play an important role in regulating the release of excitatory transmitter in a number of brain areas. Previous experiments demonstrated that (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD) depressed excitatory transmission in the adult rat barrel cortex. Here we show, using in vivo extracellular single unit recordings and iontophoretic application of drugs, that selective activation of Group II mGlu receptors depresses excitatory but not inhibitory transmission. The selective Group II receptor agonist (2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (2R,4R-APDC) had similar depressant effects to 1S,3R-ACPD on tactile evoked responses of rapidly adapting neurons. The depressant effects were seen on shorter latency (&lt;12 ms) responses, were most pronounced in layers 3-4 (and 5b for 2R,4R-APDC only), and were reversibly antagonized by the Group II receptor antagonist (2S)-alpha-ethylglutamic acid (EGLU) relative to depressions produced by iontophoretic GABA. Where 1S,3R-ACPD and 2R,4R-APDC depressed excitatory transmission, there was little or no effect on postsynaptic excitations produced by iontophoretic AMPA--a result that supports a presynaptic location of Group II receptors on excitatory terminals. To assess the possible involvement of Group II mGlu receptors in the modulation of inhibition, we studied the effect of iontophoretic 1S,3R-ACPD in a condition-test protocol. The results contrasted markedly from those previously observed using the Group III agonist L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid in that activation of Group II receptors using 1S,3R-ACPD did not modulate inhibition. Therefore our results show that Group II mGlu receptors play an important role in modulating excitatory, but not inhibitory, transmission. We propose that the Group II mGlu receptors are located on excitatory terminals, and act as autoreceptors. Their role appears to be important in the early stages of cortical processing, by keeping excitatory inputs within specified physiological limits, and possibly by mediating depression evidenced during synaptic plasticity.
Using immunocytochemical and whole cell recording techniques, we examined expression of glycine receptors on bullfrog retinal cone photoreceptors. Immunofluorescence double labeling experiments conducted on retinal sections and isolated cell preparations showed that terminals and inner segments of cones were immunoreactive to both alpha1 and beta subunits of glycine receptors. Moreover, application of glycine induced a sustained inward current from isolated cones, which increased in amplitude in a dose-dependent manner, with an EC50 (concentration of glycine producing half-maximal response) of 67.3+/-4.9 microM, and the current was blocked by the glycine receptor antagonist strychnine, but not 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid (DCKA) of 200 microM, a blocker of the glycine recognition site at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. The glycine-induced current reversed in polarity at a potential close to the calculated chloride equilibrium potential, and the reversal potential was changed as a function of the extracellular chloride concentration. These results suggest that strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors are functionally expressed in bullfrog cones, which may mediate signal feedback from glycinergic interplexiform cells to cones in the outer retina.
To determine how acute ethanol intoxication may alter memory processing, we examined the effects of stepwise increases in ethanol on long-term potentiation (LTP) in rat hippocampal slices. LTP was inhibited by acute administration of 60 mM ethanol, but was readily induced if ethanol was increased gradually to 60 mM over 75 min. Administration of 2-amino-5 phosphonovalerate (APV), an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, during the stepwise increase in ethanol inhibited LTP, suggesting involvement of NMDARs in the development of tolerance. However, APV and nifedipine, an inhibitor of L-type calcium channels, failed to inhibit LTP when administered following the slow increase in ethanol. Ethanol-tolerant LTP was inhibited by thapsigargin, suggesting a major role for intracellular calcium release in this form of plasticity. The unique properties of ethanol-tolerant LTP suggest that memories formed during binge drinking are not acquired by standard synaptic mechanisms and that acute tolerance may involve the induction of novel mechanisms to maintain function.
The biochemical pathways involved in neuronal cell death in Parkinson's disease are not completely characterized. Mitochondrial dysfunction, specifically alteration of the mitochondrial complex I, is the primary target of the parkinsonian neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) induced apoptosis in neurons. In the present study, we examine the role of caspase-dependent and -independent routes in MPP+-induced apoptosis in rat cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). We show a distinct increase in the expression of the cell cycle proteins cyclin D, cyclin E, cdk2, cdk4 and the transcription factor E2F-1 following a MPP+ treatment of CGNs. Flavopiridol (FLAV), a broad inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), attenuated the neurotoxic effects of MPP+ and significantly attenuates apoptosis mediated by MPP+ 200 microM. Likewise, the antioxidant vitamin E (vit E) increases neuronal cell viability and attenuates apoptosis induced by MPP+. Moreover, the expression levels of cyclin D and E2F-1 induced by this parkinsonian neurotoxin were also attenuated by vit E. Since, the broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor zVAD-fmk did not attenuate MPP+-induced apoptosis in CGNs, our data provide a caspase-independent mechanism mediated by neuronal reentry in the cell cycle and increased expression of the pro-apoptotic transcription factor E2F-1. Our results also suggest a potential role of oxidative stress in neuronal reentry in the cell cycle mediated by MPP+. Finally, our data further support the therapeutic potential of flavopiridol, for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Beta-adrenoceptors (ARs) in the hippocampus play an important role in regulating synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation. However, little is known about the distributions of beta-ARs in the hippocampus, especially in the cornu ammonis (CA)1 and CA3 regions of Sprague-Dawley rats. Here, we report that beta1- and beta2-ARs in the CA1 and CA3 regions have differential subcellular distributions. Using double immunofluorescence labeling and confocal laser scanning microscopy, we found that almost all of the neuronal nuclei positive cells express beta1- and beta2-ARs, while few glial fibrillary acidic protein positive cells express them. Interestingly, beta1-ARs are predominantly distributed in the cell membrane and cytoplasm, whereas beta2-ARs are predominantly distributed not only in the membrane and cytoplasm, but also in the nucleus. The differential subcellular distribution of beta1- and beta2-ARs may have functional significance.
Although it is well established that there are alterations in type 2A 5-HT receptors (5-HT2ARs) in the basolateral nuclear complex of the amygdala (BLC) in several neuropsychiatric disorders, very little is known about the neuronal localization of these receptors in this brain region. Single-labeling and dual-labeling immunohistochemical techniques were utilized in the rat to address this question. Three different 5-HT2AR antibodies were used, each producing distinct but overlapping patterns of immunostaining. Two of three 5-HT2AR antibodies mainly stained pyramidal projection neurons in the BLC. The third antibody only stained pyramidal cells in the dorsolateral subdivision of the lateral amygdalar nucleus. With one of the antibodies, the most intensely stained neurons were a population of large nonpyramidal neurons whose morphology and distribution closely resembled those shown in previous studies to project to the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus (MD). This was confirmed in the present study using a technique that combined 5-HT2AR immunohistochemistry with fluorogold retrograde tract-tracing. Two of three 5-HT2AR antibodies stained large numbers of parvalbumin-containing interneurons in the BLC. One of these two antibodies also stained a subpopulation of somatostatin-containing neurons. None of the 5-HT2AR antibodies stained significant numbers of the other two main interneuronal subpopulations, the large cholecystokinin-positive neurons or the small interneurons that exhibit extensive colocalization of calretinin and cholecystokinin. Since each of the three antibodies was raised against a distinct immunizing antigen, they may recognize different conformations of 5-HT2AR in different neuronal domains. The expression of 5-HT2ARs in pyramidal cells and parvalbumin-positive interneurons in the BLC is consistent with the results of previous electrophysiological studies, and suggests that 5-HT may produce excitation of several neuronal populations in the BLC via 5-HT2ARs.
Aristaless-related homeobox gene (ARX) is an important paired-type homeobox gene involved in the development of human brain. The ARX gene mutations are a significant contributor to various forms of X-chromosome-linked mental retardation with and without additional features including epilepsy, lissencephaly with abnormal genitalia, hand dystonia or autism. Here we demonstrate that the human ARX protein is a potent transcriptional repressor, which binds to Groucho/transducin-like enhancer of split (TLE) co-factor proteins and the TLE1 in particular through its octapeptide (Engrailed homology repressor domain (eh-1) homology) domain. We show that the transcription repression activity of ARX is modulated by two strong repression domains, one located within the octapeptide domain and the second in the region of the polyalanine tract 4, and one activator domain, the aristaless domain. Importantly, we show that the transcription repression activity of ARX is affected by various naturally occurring mutations. The introduction of the c.98T&gt;C (p.L33P) mutation results in the lack of binding to TLE1 protein and relaxed transcription repression. The introduction of the two most frequent ARX polyalanine tract expansion mutations increases the repression activity in a manner dependent on the number of extra alanines. Interestingly, deletions of alanine residues within polyalanine tracts 1 and 2 show low or no effect. In summary we demonstrate that the ARX protein is a strong transcription repressor, we identify novel ARX interacting proteins (TLE) and offer an explanation of a molecular pathogenesis of some ARX mutations, including the most frequent ARX mutations, the polyalanine tract expansion mutations, c.304ins(GCG)7 and c.428_451dup.
Cerebral microvascular amyloid beta protein (Abeta) deposition and associated neuroinflammation are increasingly recognized as an important component leading to cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease and related cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) disorders. Transgenic mice expressing the vasculotropic Dutch/Iowa (E693Q/D694N) mutant human Abeta precursor protein in brain (Tg-SwDI) accumulate abundant cerebral microvascular fibrillar amyloid deposits exhibiting robust neuroinflammation. In the present study, we sought to determine if the unique amyloid pathology of Tg-SwDI mice was associated with deficits in behavioral performance. Behavioral performance tests that assessed a variety of psychological functions, including overall activity, motor ability, balance and strength, anxiety, impulsivity, and learning were conducted on homozygous Tg-SwDI mice and similarly aged wild-type C57Bl/6 mice. Our results indicate that Tg-SwDI mice were impaired in the performance of the Barnes maze learning and memory task at 3, 9, and 12 months of age. While more widespread cerebral microvascular Abeta pathology was evident in older animals, the evaluation of the Abeta pathology in the 3 months old transgenic animals revealed specific accumulation of microvascular amyloid and markedly elevated numbers of reactive astrocytes and activated microglia restricted to the subiculum. These findings indicate that early-onset accumulation of subicular microvascular amyloid and accompanying neuroinflammation correlates with impaired performance in the learning and memory task in Tg-SwDI mice.
Axonal projections from the lateral superior olivary nuclei (LSO), as well as from the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) and dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL), converge in frequency-ordered layers in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (IC) where they distribute among different synaptic compartments. A carbocyanine dye, 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI), was used as a tracer to study the postnatal development of axonal projections in the ferret IC. The results indicated that projections from all three nuclei are present at birth, but are not segregated into bands. During the postnatal week between approximately postnatal days 4 and 12 (P4-P12), axons from LSO proliferate in IC, become more branched, and segregate into a series of bands composed of densely packed fibers and endings. LSO projections in these afferent bands course parallel to IC layers and are separated by intervening regions with few endings. A modest fit of a sine curve (R2&gt;0.15) to the pattern of spacing of LSO projections in IC indicated that regularly spaced bands are forming by P7. Similarly, banded patterns of DCN and DNLL projections to IC have developed by the end of the first postnatal week. Thus, well before hearing onset in ferret (P28-30), three different afferent projections have segregated into banded compartments along layers in the central nucleus of the ferret IC. Possible mechanisms in circuit development are discussed.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD) there is a significant loss of locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic neurons. However, recent work has shown the surviving noradrenergic neurons to display many compensatory changes, including axonal sprouting to the hippocampus. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is a forebrain region that is affected in dementia, and receives innervation from the LC noradrenergic neurons. Reduced PFC function can reduce cognition and disrupt behavior. Because the PFC is an important area in AD, we determined if noradrenergic innervation from the LC noradrenergic neurons is maintained and if adrenoreceptors are altered postsynaptically. Presynaptic PFC alpha2-adrenoreceptor (AR) binding site density, as determined by 3H-RX821002, suggests that axons from surviving noradrenergic neurons in the LC are sprouting to the PFC of subjects with dementia. Changes in postsynaptic alpha1-AR in the PFC of subjects with dementia indicate normal to elevated levels of binding sites. Expression of alpha1-AR subtypes (alpha1A- and alpha1D-AR) and alpha2C-AR subtype mRNA in the PFC of subjects with dementia is similar to what was observed in the hippocampus with one exception, the expression of alpha1A-AR mRNA. The expression of the alpha1A-AR mRNA subtype is significantly reduced in specific layers of the PFC in subjects with dementia. The loss of alpha1A-, alpha1D- and alpha2C-AR mRNA subtype expression in the PFC may be attributed to neuronal loss observed in dementia. These changes in postsynaptic AR would suggest a reduced function of the PFC. Consequence of this reduced function of the PFC in dementia is still unknown but it may affect memory and behavior.
A critical event in the development of behavioral sensitization is a transient increase in excitatory drive to dopamine neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA). This is likely to be due, in part, to the ability of drugs of abuse to produce long-term potentiation, expressed as increased AMPA receptor transmission, at excitatory synapses onto VTA dopamine neurons. We investigated the role of the laterodorsal tegmentum (LDT) in behavioral sensitization because LDT neurons provide an important source of excitatory drive to VTA dopamine neurons, through mixed glutamate and cholinergic inputs. To test the role of the LDT in amphetamine sensitization, ibotenic acid or sham lesions of the LDT were performed 1 week before the first of six daily amphetamine injections. When challenged with amphetamine 13 days after the last injection, sham rats expressed sensitization of stereotypy and post-stereotypy locomotor hyperactivity, whereas the latter was attenuated by ibotenic acid lesions of the LDT. To determine whether plasticity occurs in the LDT during amphetamine sensitization, we used a previously developed microdialysis assay in which increased ability of AMPA to activate a pathway serves as a marker for long-term potentiation. Two days after discontinuing repeated saline or amphetamine injections, the responsiveness of LDT-VTA neurons to AMPA was determined by microinjecting AMPA (0.4 nmol) into the LDT and measuring glutamate efflux in the ipsilateral VTA. Glutamate efflux was transiently increased in both groups but a delayed group difference was apparent with relatively higher glutamate efflux in amphetamine rats 30-60 min after AMPA injection. In parallel experiments, dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) following intra-LDT AMPA declined in saline rats but remained relatively stable in amphetamine rats. Both results suggest relatively greater excitability of the LDT-VTA-NAc pathway after repeated amphetamine treatment. Our results provide the first evidence that neuronal plasticity in the LDT contributes to behavioral sensitization.
We used manual macrodissection or laser capture microdissection (LCM) to isolate tissue sections of the hippocampus area of Ras-GRF1 wild type and knockout mice brains, and analyzed their transcriptional patterns using commercial oligonucleotide microarrays. Comparison between the transcriptomes of macrodissected and microdissected samples showed that the LCM samples allowed detection of significantly higher numbers of differentially expressed genes, with higher statistical rates of significance. These results validate LCM as a reliable technique for in vivo genomic studies in the brain hippocampus, where contamination by surrounding areas (not expressing Ras-GRF1) increases background noise and impairs identification of differentially expressed genes. Comparison between wild type and knockout LCM hippocampus samples revealed that Ras-GRF1 elimination caused significant gene expression changes, mostly affecting signal transduction and related neural processes. The list of 36 most differentially expressed genes included loci concerned mainly with Ras/G protein signaling and cytoskeletal organization (i.e. 14-3-3gamma/zeta, Kcnj6, Clasp2) or related, cross-talking pathways (i.e. jag2, decorin, strap). Consistent with the phenotypes shown by Ras-GRF1 knockout mice, many of these differentially expressed genes play functional roles in processes such as sensory development and function (i.e. Sptlc1, antiquitin, jag2) and/or neurological development/neurodegeneration processes affecting memory and learning. Indeed, potential links to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease (AD) or Creutzfeldt-Jacobs disease (CJD), have been reported for a number of differentially expressed genes identified in this study (Ptma, Aebp2, Clasp2, Hebp1, 14-3-3gamma/zeta, Csnk1delta, etc.). These data, together with the previously described role of IRS and insulin (known Ras-GRF1 activators) in AD, warrant further investigation of a potential functional link of Ras-GRF1 to neurodegenerative processes.
The striatum is thought to be an essential region for integrating diverse information in the brain. Rapid inhibitory gating (IG) of sensory input is most likely an early factor necessary for appropriate integration to be completed. Gating is currently evaluated in clinical settings and is dramatically altered in a variety of psychiatric illnesses. Basic neuroscience research using animals has revealed specific neural sites involved in IG including the hippocampus, thalamus, brainstem, amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex. The present study investigated local IG in the basal ganglia structure of the striatum using chronic recording microwires. We obtained both single unit activations and local field potentials (LFPs) in awake behaving rats from each wire during the standard two-tone paradigm. Single units responded with different types of activations including a phasic and sustained excitation, an inhibitory response and a combination response that contained both excitatory and inhibitory components. IG was observed in all the response types; however, non-gating was observed in a large proportion of responses as well. Positive wave field potentials at 50-60 ms post-stimulus (P60) showed consistent gating across the wire arrays. No significant correlations were found between single unit and LFP measures of gating during the initial baseline session. Gating was strengthened (Tamp/Camp ratios approaching 0) following acute stress (saline injection) at both the single unit and LFP level due to the reduction in the response to the second tone. Alterations in sensory responding reflected by changes in the neural response to the initial tone were primarily observed following long-term internal state deviation (food deprivation) and during general locomotion. Overall, our results support local IG by single neurons in striatum but also suggest that rapid inhibition is not the dominant activation profile observed in other brain regions.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by extracellular deposits of amyloid beta peptide (Abeta), a peptide that is generated upon proteolytic cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP). The events leading to the development of AD and their sequence are not yet fully understood. Protein kinase C (PKC) has been suggested to have a significant role in controlling neuronal degeneration and in the aberrant signal transduction taking place in AD. Several studies document a deficit in PKC levels and activity in brains of AD patients when compared with those of normal controls. Such a decrease in PKC could have serious implications since certain PKC isozymes were shown to drive the APP proteolytic cleavage into a non-amyloidogenic pathway. Reduced levels of distinct PKC isozymes could thus contribute to driving APP processing toward an amyloidogenic pathway. The direct cause for the down-regulation of PKC in AD brains is still unknown. In that respect, we tested in this study whether APP may play a role in PKC reduction. We show in three different cell lines (CHO, COS and BOSC) that overexpression of APP leads to decreased PKC levels. This decrease was found to be specific for the epsilon PKC isozyme whereas the levels of delta, alpha and conventional PKC remained unchanged. Furthermore, we observed this decrease for both active, membrane-associated and inactive, cytosolic epsilon PKC. APP-driven decrease in epsilon PKC is most likely mediated by a factor in the culture medium, since transfer of medium from cultured cells overexpressing APP to nave, non-overexpressing cells, has also led to the selective decrease in epsilon PKC levels. Taken together, our results suggest that APP expression levels may play a role in the decrease of epsilon PKC levels in AD brains and could thus affect the responsiveness of AD brain tissues to growth factors and neurotransmitters.
Prolonged exposure to organophosphate (OP) pesticides may produce cognitive deficits reflective of hippocampal injury in both humans and rodents. Recent work has indicated that microtubule trafficking is also adversely affected by exposure to the OP pesticide chlorpyrifos, suggesting a novel mode of OP-induced neurotoxicity. The present studies examined effects of prolonged exposure to chlorpyrifos oxon (CPO) on acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, immunoreactivity (IR) of microtubule-associated proteins, neuronal injury, and tubulin polymerization using in vitro organotypic slice cultures of rat hippocampus and bovine tubulin. Cultures were exposed to CPO (0.1-10 microM) in cell culture medium for 1-7 days, a regimen producing progressive reductions in AChE activity of 15-60%. Cytotoxicity (somatic uptake of the non-vital marker propidium iodide), as well as IR of alpha-tubulin and microtubule-associated protein-2 (a/b) [MAP-2], was assessed 1, 3, and 7 days after the start of CPO exposure. As early as 24 h after the start of exposure, CPO-induced deficits in MAP-2 IR were evident and progressive in each region of slice cultures at concentrations as low as 0.1 microM. CPO exposure did not alter alpha-tubulin IR at any time point. Concentration-dependent injury in the cornu ammonis (CA)1 pyramidal cell layer and to a lesser extent, CA3 and dentate cells, was evident 3 days after the start of CPO exposure (&gt;or=0.1 microM) and was greatest after 7 days. Tubulin polymerization assays indicated that CPO (&gt;or=0.1 microM) markedly inhibited the polymerization of purified tubulin and MAP-rich tubulin, though effects on MAP-rich tubulin were more pronounced. These data suggest that exposure to CPO produces a progressive decrease in neuronal viability that may be associated with impaired microtubule synthesis and/or function.
Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release (CICR) occurs via activation of ryanodine receptors (RyRs) in frog motor nerve terminals after RyRs are primed for activation by repetitive Ca2+ entries, thereby contributing to synaptic plasticity. To clarify how the mechanism of CICR becomes activable by repetitive Ca2+ entries, we studied effects of a RyR modulator, cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPr), on CICR by Ca2+ imaging techniques. Use-dependent binding of fluorescent ryanodine and its blockade by ryanodine revealed the existence of RyRs in the terminals. Repetition of tetani applied to the nerve produced repetitive rises in intracellular Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) in the terminals. The amplitude of each rise slowly waxed and waned during the course of the stimulation. These slow rises and decays were blocked by ryanodine, indicating the priming, activation and inactivation of CICR. Uncaging of caged-cADPr loaded in the terminals increased the amplitude of short tetanus-induced rises in [Ca2+]i and the amplitude, time to peak and half decay time of the slow waxing and waning rises in [Ca2+]i evoked by repetitive tetani. A cADPr blocker, 8-amino-cADPr, loaded in the terminals decreased the slow waxing and waning component of rises and blocked all the actions of exogenous cADPr. It is concluded that cADPr enhances the priming and activation of CICR. The four-state model for RyRs suggests that cADPr inhibits the inactivation of CICR and increases the activation efficacy of RyR.
The spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) and the Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) inbred rat strains display behavioral differences characterized by relative increases and decreases in levels of activity. Both strains have subsequently been utilized as animal models of hyperactive and hypoactive behavioral traits. The etiology of these behavioral characteristics is poorly understood, but may stem from alterations in the physiology of selected neural circuits or catecholamine systems. This study investigated the cellular properties of neurons from three genetically related strains: the SHR; WKY; and Wistar (WI). In vivo intracellular recordings were made under urethane anesthesia from spiny projection neurons in the striatum, a brain area involved in behavioral activation. Results obtained from 71 spiny projection neurons indicate that most cellular properties of these neurons were very similar across the three strains. However, the amplitude and half-duration of both spontaneously occurring and current-evoked action potentials were found to be significantly different between the SHR and WKY strains with neurons from the SHR firing action potentials of relatively greater amplitude and shorter duration. Action potential parameters measured from the WI rats were intermediate between the two other strains. These differences in action potentials between two behaviorally distinct strains may reflect altered functioning of particular membrane conductances.
Although there are clear interactions between circadian rhythms and drug addiction, mechanisms for such interactions remain unknown. Studies have shown that the circadian clock gene Period in Drosophila melanogaster could influence behavioral responses to cocaine, and the mouse homologues, mPer1 and mPer2, modulate cocaine sensitization and reward. In the present study, we applied DNAzyme targeting mPer1 to interfere the expression of mPer1 in CNS in mice, and studied its effects on morphine-induced reward and its molecular mechanism. The results demonstrated that the DNAzyme could attenuate the expression of mPer1 in CNS in mice and downregulate the increased extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activity induced by morphine in whole brain and the nucleus accumbens, the key region of drug addiction. Mice treated with morphine and injected intracerebroventricularly with DNAzyme did not show preference to the morphine-trained side. These results indicate that drug dependence seems to be influenced at least partially by mPer1 and its mechanism may involve the ERK signal pathway.
Stroke patients suffer from severe impairments and significant effort is under way to develop therapies to improve functional recovery. Stem cells provide a promising form of therapy to replace neuronal circuits lost to injury. Indeed, previous studies have shown that a variety of stem cell types can provide some functional recovery in animal models of stroke. However, it is unlikely that replacement therapy alone will be sufficient to maximize recovery. The aim of the present study was to determine if rodent stem cell transplants combined with rehabilitation resulted in enhanced functional recovery after focal ischemia in rats. Middle cerebral artery occlusion was induced by injection of the vasoconstrictive peptide endothelin-1 adjacent to the middle cerebral artery. Seven days after stroke the rats received adult neural stem cell transplants isolated from mouse subventricular zone or vehicle injection and then subsequently were housed in enriched or standard conditions. The rats in the enriched housing also had access to running wheels once a week. Enriched housing and voluntary running exercise enhanced migration of transplanted stem cells toward the region of injury after stroke and there was a trend toward increased survival of stem cells. Enrichment also increased the number of endogenous progenitor cells in the subventricular zone of transplanted animals. Finally, functional recovery measured in the cylinder test was facilitated only when the stem cell transplants were combined with enrichment and running exercise 7 days after the transplant. These results suggest that the ability of transplanted stem cells in promoting recovery can be augmented by environmental factors such as rehabilitation.
Intensity-tuned auditory cortex neurons have spike rates that are nonmonotonic functions of sound intensity: their spike rate initially increases and peaks as sound intensity is increased, then decreases as sound intensity is further increased. They are either &quot;unbalanced,&quot; receiving disproportionally large synaptic inhibition at high sound intensities; or &quot;balanced,&quot; receiving intensity-tuned synaptic excitation and identically tuned synaptic inhibition which neither creates enhances nor creates intensity-tuning. It has remained unknown if the synaptic inhibition received by unbalanced neurons enhances intensity-tuning already present in the synaptic excitation, or if it creates intensity-tuning that is not present in the synaptic excitation. Here we show, using in vivo whole cell recordings in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats, that in some unbalanced intensity-tuned auditory cortex neurons synaptic inhibition enhances the intensity-tuning; while in others it actually creates the intensity-tuning. The lack of balance between synaptic excitation and inhibition was not always apparent in their peak amplitudes, but could sometimes be revealed only by considering their relative timing. Since synaptic inhibition is essentially cortical in origin, the unbalanced neurons in which inhibition creates intensity-tuning provide examples of auditory feature-selectivity arising de novo at the auditory cortex.
We used electron microscopy to determine the relative numbers of the three synaptic terminal types, RL (round vesicle, large terminal), RS (round vesicles, small terminal), and F (flattened vesicles), found in several representative thalamic nuclei in cats chosen as representative examples of first and higher order thalamic nuclei, where the first order nuclei relay subcortical information mainly to primary sensory cortex, and the higher order nuclei largely relay information from one cortical area to another. The nuclei sampled were the first order ventral posterior nucleus (somatosensory) and the ventral portion of the medial geniculate nucleus (auditory), and the higher order posterior nucleus (somatosensory) and the medial portion of the medial geniculate nucleus (auditory). We found that the relative percentage of synapses from RL terminals varied significantly among these nuclei, these values being higher for first order nuclei (12.6% for the ventral posterior nucleus and 8.2% for the ventral portion of the medial geniculate nucleus) than for the higher order nuclei (5.4% for the posterior nucleus, and 3.5% for the medial portion of the medial geniculate nucleus). This is consistent with a similar analysis of first and higher order nuclei for the visual system (the lateral geniculate nucleus and pulvinar, respectively). Since synapses from RL terminals represent the main information to be relayed, whereas synapses from F and RS terminals are modulatory in function, we conclude that there is relatively more modulation of the thalamic relay in the cortico-thalamo-cortical higher order pathway than in first order relays.
Several lines of evidence suggest that hormonal changes after menopause may play an important role in the incidence of cognitive dysfunction, and also in the development of Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we investigated the effect of estrogen on cognitive function in rats under different stress environment. Female rats were divided into four groups: two groups were ovariectomized (OVX) and two were sham-operated. One group each of OVX and sham rats was kept in a normal environment, and the other groups were assigned to a daily restraint stress (6 h/day) for 21 days from 2 months after the operation. Following the stress period, subjects were tested for performance in novel object recognition test and then used for morphological and neurochemical analyses. The OVX plus stress (OVX/stress) group showed a significant impairment of recognition of novel objects, compared with the other groups. The OVX/stress group also showed a marked decrease in the number of pyramidal cells of the CA3 region and levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA in the hippocampus. We further examined the effect of estrogen against cognitive dysfunction and hippocampal changes of OVX/stress rats. Vehicle or 17beta-estradiol (E2) at 20 microg/day was s.c. administered to OVX/stress rats from 2 days before the stress period to the end of behavioral analysis through an implantable osmotic pump. Chronic E2 treatment decreased stress response and improved the cognitive and morphological impairments relative to vehicle group. These data have important implications for cognition enhancing effect of estrogen treatment in postmenopausal women.
Opioid signaling in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) strongly modulates flavor-based food choice. To further investigate the role of opioid signaling in taste reward, we used a sensory specific satiety (SSS) paradigm to devalue specific flavors of nutritionally identical food pellets in rats. In the NAcc, infusion of a mu opioid (MOP) receptor selective agonist selectively increased consumption of a pre-fed flavor, thus reversing the SSS effect. Conversely, blockade of endogenous opioid signaling with the opioid antagonist naltrexone selectively decreased consumption of a recently consumed flavor, potentiating the SSS effect. No enhancement of consumption was observed if a delay of 3 h was imposed following the intra-NAcc MOP agonist indicating that there were no long-term changes in flavor preference. If a delay was introduced between the initial flavor exposure and the intra-NAcc MOP agonist infusion, pellet consumption was increased non-selectively (irrespective of flavor) suggesting that close temporal contiguity between flavor experience and NAcc opioid action is critical for the opioid effect on flavor preference. In contrast to opioid effects, inactivating NAcc neurons by local microinjection of muscimol (a GABAA agonist) increased consumption of both the pre-fed and non-pre-fed flavors equally. These results demonstrate that opioids released in the NAcc during consumption of palatable foods produce a selective and transient increase in preference for a recently sampled flavor.

Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) plays a key role in neuroplasticity. We have recently demonstrated that the tPA-plasmin system is involved in the rewarding effects of drugs of abuse by regulating the release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens. In the present study, we investigated whether tPA is involved in the reinforcing properties of morphine in a paradigm of drug self-administration. Eight-week-old tPA knockout and wild-type control mice were subjected to a single 24-h session of morphine self-administration under a fixed ratio (FR) 2 or a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement after eight daily 30-min sessions of nose-poke training. tPA knockout mice responded significantly more often for morphine self-administration in a dose-dependent manner as compared with wild-type control mice. Under the PR schedule of morphine reinforcement, however, tPA knockout mice showed a lower breaking point than wild-type control mice. There was no significant difference in food-reinforced operant behavior, breaking points to food pellets, and saline self-administration between the two genotypes. The increased responding in tPA knockout mice under the FR2 schedule was significantly attenuated by the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 (0.3 mg/kg), whereas SCH23390, at a dose range of 0.03-2.0 mg/kg, demonstrated biphasic effects on morphine self-administration in wild-type control mice. Our findings suggest that the reinforcing effects of morphine are reduced in tPA knockout mice. Modulation of the tPA system in the brain may be a potential target against drugs of abuse.
Several studies have suggested that a potential mechanism for estrogen-mediated neuroprotection following experimental stroke is a result of modulating glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity. Our laboratory has shown that in male rats, estrogen injection (systemic or direct intracortical injection) resulted in an immediate depolarization of cortical neurons. Therefore, the present study was designed to investigate whether the estrogen-induced depolarization of cortical neurons was required in mediating the early events associated with this neuroprotection. We tested this hypothesis by co-injecting selective antagonists of the NMDA (MK-801) or AMPA (DNQX) glutamatergic receptors with estrogen. Systemic injection of estrogen significantly attenuated the MK-801-induced decrease in infarct volume following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Similarly, when estrogen and MK-801 were co-injected directly into the cortex, no neuroprotection was observed. However, when estrogen or MK-801 was injected centrally 10 min prior to the injection of the other drug, significant neuroprotection was observed. This led us to hypothesize that estrogen-mediated neuroprotection required an initial activation of NMDA receptors. Furthermore, our results suggest that this estrogen-mediated neuroprotection was also associated with a significant increase in m-calpain and activation of an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) specific caspase-12. Finally, the results of current clamp experiments showed that estrogen significantly depolarized cortical neurons as well as enhanced NMDA-induced depolarization. Taken together, these results suggest that estrogen pretreatment may activate NMDA receptors resulting in modification of ER-associated molecular mechanisms involved in neuroprotection following MCAO.
The high potassium-induced potentiation of spontaneous glycine release in extracellular Ca2+-free conditions was studied in mechanically dissociated rat spinal dorsal horn neurons using whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Elevating extracellular K+ concentration reversibly increased the frequency of spontaneous glycinergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. Blocking voltage-dependent Na+ channels (tetrodotoxin) and Ca2+ channels (nifedipine and omega-grammotoxin-SIA) had no effect on this potassium-induced potentiation of glycine-release. The high potassium-induced increase in IPSC frequency was also observed in the absence of extracellular Na+, although the recovery back to baseline levels of release was prolonged under these conditions. The action of high potassium solution on glycine release was prevented by BAPTA-AM, by depletion of intracellular Ca2+ stores by thapsigargin and by the phospholipase C inhibitor U-73122. The results suggest that the elevated extracellular K+ concentration causes Ca2+ release from internal stores which is independent of extracellular Na+- and Ca2+-influx, and may reveal a novel mechanism by which the potassium-induced depolarization of presynaptic nerve terminals can regulate intracellular Ca2+ concentration and exocytosis.
Neurogenesis studies on the adult mouse hippocampal subgranular zone (SGZ) typically report increases or decreases in proliferation. However, key information is lacking about these proliferating SGZ precursors, from the fundamental--what dose of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) is appropriate for labeling all S phase cells?--to the detailed--what are the kinetics of BrdU-labeled cells and their progeny? To address these questions, adult C57BL/6J mice were injected with BrdU and BrdU-immunoreactive (IR) cells were quantified. Initial experiments with a range of BrdU doses (25-500 mg/kg) suggested that 150 mg/kg labels all actively dividing precursors in the mouse SGZ. Experiments using a saturating dose of BrdU suggested BrdU bioavailability is less than 15 min, notably shorter than in the developing mouse brain. We next explored precursor division and maturation by tracking the number of BrdU-IR cells and colabeling of BrdU with other cell cycle proteins from 15 min to 30 days after BrdU. We found that BrdU and the Gap2 and mitosis (G2/M) phase protein pHisH3 maximally colocalized 8 h after BrdU, indicating that the mouse SGZ precursor cell cycle length is 14 h. In addition, triple labeling with BrdU and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Ki-67 showed that BrdU-IR precursors and/or their progeny express these endogenous cell cycle proteins up to 4 days after BrdU injection. However, the proportion of BrdU/Ki-67-IR cells declined at a greater rate than the proportion of BrdU/PCNA-IR cells. This suggests that PCNA protein is detectable long after cell cycle exit, and that reliance on PCNA may overestimate the length of time a cell remains in the cell cycle. These findings will be critical for future studies examining the regulation of SGZ precursor kinetics in adult mice, and hopefully will encourage the field to move beyond counting BrdU-IR cells to a more mechanistic analysis of adult neurogenesis.
We previously demonstrated that peripherally located N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors contribute to acute muscle nociception and the development of chronic muscular hyperalgesia. In the present study, we investigated the potential role of peripheral group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs 1/5) in the development of muscular hypersensitivity to mechanical stimulation, and attempted to elucidate intracellular signaling mechanisms associated with the mGluR activation in male Sprague-Dawley rats. First, our Western blot analyses revealed that mGluR 5 protein, but not mGluR 1 protein, is reliably detected in trigeminal ganglia and the masseter nerve. Subsequent behavioral studies demonstrated that the group I mGluR agonist, R,S-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), significantly decreased the mechanical threshold to noxious stimulation of the masseter, and that the DHPG-induced mechanical hypersensitivity can be effectively prevented by pretreatment of the masseter with 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine hydrochloride (MPEP), a selective mGluR 5 antagonist, but not by 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester (CPCCOEt), a selective mGluR 1 antagonist. Moreover, the DHPG-induced mechanical hypersensitivity was significantly blocked by inhibiting either the alpha or epsilon isoform of protein kinase C (PKC). Collectively, these data provide evidence that peripherally located mGluR 5 may play an important role in the development of masseter hypersensitivity, and that PKC activation is required for the modulatory effect of peripheral mGluR 5 in the craniofacial muscle tissue. Thus, selective targeting of peripheral mGluR 5 and PKCalpha, as well as PKCepsilon, might serve as an effective therapeutic strategy in the management of chronic muscle pain conditions, such as temporomandibular disorders.
We have recently demonstrated that co-administration of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, &quot;ecstasy&quot;) with the reversible monoamine oxidase type A (MAO-A) inhibitor moclobemide at an ambient temperature of 22 degrees C significantly increases striatal 5-HT outflow and 5-HT-mediated behaviors. In the present study, using microdialysis, we examined the effects of co-administration of MDMA or para-methoxyamphetamine (PMA) with moclobemide on striatal 5-HT outflow at the elevated ambient temperatures of 30 degrees C. Samples were collected every 30 min for 4 h and analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography assay with electrochemical detection (HPLC-ED). 5-HT-mediated effects on body temperature and behavior were also recorded. Rats were treated with either saline or 20 mg/kg (i.p.) moclobemide, followed by 10 mg/kg (i.p.) MDMA, 10 mg/kg (i.p.) PMA or saline 60 min later. Both MDMA and PMA produced significant increases in 5-HT outflow (370% peak and 309% peak, respectively, P&lt;0.05). MDMA and PMA significantly increased body temperature (+2.0 degrees C and +2.1 degrees C, respectively, P&lt;0.01) and drug-related behaviors (P&lt;0.05). When MDMA or PMA was co-administered with moclobemide, additional significant increases were seen in 5-HT outflow (850% peak, P&lt;0.01 and 1450% peak, P&lt;0.001, respectively) and only MDMA showed additional significant increase in body temperature (+5.0 degrees C, P&lt;0.001). No additional increases were seen in behavioral activity. When moclobemide was co-administered with MDMA, sustained increases in body temperature were recorded that were significantly higher than with MDMA alone and such increases were not observed in our previous study at normal room temperature. Our results suggest greater risk of MDMA-induced adverse effects on body temperature regulation, compared with PMA, when used in combination with moclobemide at elevated ambient temperatures.
Many chronic pain conditions are more prevalent in women than men and both fundamental and clinical research supports the implication of endogenous pain inhibitory mechanisms. The goal of this study was to verify if sex differences on endogenous pain inhibitory mechanisms during the formalin test are opioidergic and modulated by sex hormones. Formalin tests were performed with naloxone hydrochloride, a non-selective opioid antagonist in intact and gonadectomized Sprague-Dawley rats of both sexes. Considering the sexual dimorphisms we found, where naloxone preferentially blocked the interphase in female rats, injections of all the possible combinations of mu- (naltrexone hydrochloride), delta- (naltrindole hydrochloride) and kappa-selective antagonists (norbinaltorphimine dihydrochloride) were given to evaluate the contribution of these opioid-receptor subtypes to the inhibitory mechanism during the interphase in intact females. Finally, the systemic administration of naloxone methiodide and intrathecal administration of naloxone hydrochloride in intact females allowed us to verify if the action of endogenous opioids that are liberated during the interphase takes place at the periphery or spinally, respectively. The results show that the interphase was almost completely inhibited by naloxone in females while it produced only a slight blockade in males. These results permitted us to conclude that opioids play a major role in the pain inhibitory mechanism of the interphase in females while a non-opioid mechanism seems to be responsible for this inhibitory pathway in males. Using gonadectomized animals of both sexes, we demonstrated the modulation of the opioidergic system of the interphase by sex hormones. The administration of different combinations of selective antagonists for mu-, kappa- and delta-opioid receptors in intact females permitted us to conclude that only the combination of kappa- and delta-selective antagonists significantly blocked the interphase. The same result was obtained with the combination of the three antagonists, confirming the results with systemic naloxone hydrochloride. Finally, intrathecal administration permitted us to support that the action of naloxone is primarily at the spinal level, even if a supraspinal action cannot be ruled out. These results are of particular interest in showing sexual dimorphisms in endogenous pain modulation mechanisms during the interphase of the formalin test. A clearer understanding of the difference between male and female endogenous pain inhibitory pathways should lead to a better understanding of the role of endogenous pain modulation deficits in certain chronic pain conditions.
Misprocessing of beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) leading to the formation of elevated quantities of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta), derived by a cleavage at the beta-secretase site (N-671/673aa) and by a cleavage at the gamma-secretase site (C-711/713aa) of APP, is considered a key event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD). Point mutations near the beta-secretase site in the human gene for APP, such as in the Swedish mutation-KM670/671NL, lead to a form of dominantly inherited AD. These mutations are known to promote beta-site cleavage and to increase levels of Abeta. Abeta has been shown previously to increase acetyl cholinesterase (AChE) activity in vitro. We wished to test whether translational blocking of APP-mRNA at the mutated beta-site by antisense (AS) oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) directed to the mutated site will reduce cerebral amyloid in the Swedish transgenic mouse model (Tg2576). Mice were injected i.c.v. with AS-ODNs directed at the mutated beta-site (AS-beta site) or with AS-ODNs directed at the normal gamma-site (AS-gamma site) of human APP-mRNA, and compared with procedural controls that received i.c.v. injections of sense ODNs at the beta-site (S-beta site), sense ODNs at the gamma-site (S-gamma site) or mismatched ODNs, and with untreated littermates (Lt) and untreated transgenic mice (Tgs). ODNs were injected into the 3rd ventricle once a week for 4 weeks. Brains were processed for enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay analysis of beta- and gamma-cleaved soluble Abeta40 (sAbeta40), beta- and gamma-cleaved soluble Abeta42 (sAbeta42) and alpha-cleaved soluble beta-amyloid precursor protein (sAPPalpha). The physiological relevance of AS ODNs was tested by evaluating the cerebral distribution of AChE before and after the treatment. AChE was found increased about fivefold in Tg cortex as compared with control brain. Results show that compared with untreated and procedural controls, AS-beta increased cerebral levels of sAPPalpha by 43% and reduced sAbeta40/42 by approximately 39%; while simultaneously reducing the cortical density of AChE by approximately fourfold in the treated Tg animals, almost to the level found in the control brain (all values P&lt;0.0001, analysis of variance, unpaired two-tailed Student's t-test), while AS-gamma did not have any effect. These results indicate that AS directed to the mutated beta-site may be an effective approach to treat familial AD.
Immunosuppression remains a key issue in neural transplantation. Systemic administration of cyclosporin-A is currently widely used but has many severe adverse side effects. Newer immunosuppressive agents, such as tacrolimus (TAC) and rapamycin (RAPA), have been investigated for their neuroprotective properties on dopaminergic neurons. These drugs have been formulated into liposomal preparations [liposomal tacrolimus (LTAC) and liposomal rapamycin (LRAPA)] which retain these neuroprotective properties. Due to the slower release of the drugs from the liposomes, we hypothesized that co-transplantation of either LTAC or LRAPA within a xenogeneic cell suspension would increase cell survival and decrease graft rejection in the hemiparkinsonian rat, and that a combination of the two drugs may have a synergistic effect. 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats were divided to four groups which received intra-striatal transplants of the following: 1) a cell suspension containing 400,000 fetal mouse ventral mesencephalic cells; 2) the cell suspension containing 0.63 microM LRAPA; 3) the cell suspension containing a dose of 2.0 microM LTAC; 4) the cell suspension containing 2.0 microM LTAC and 0.63 microM LRAPA. Functional recovery was assessed by amphetamine-induced rotational behavior. Animals were killed at 4 days or 6 weeks post-transplantation, and immunohistochemistry was performed to look at the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase and major histocompatibility complex classes I and II. Only the group receiving LTAC had a decrease in rotational behavior. This observation correlated well with significantly more surviving tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive cells compared with the other groups and significantly lower levels of immunorejection as assessed by major histocompatibility complex class I and II staining. This study has shown the feasibility of using local immunosuppression in xenotransplantation. These findings may be useful in optimizing immunosuppression in experimental neural transplantation in the laboratory and its translation into the clinical setting.
Brain aging often results in cognitive impairment and is considered to be a major risk factor for neurodegenerative diseases. Earlier studies reported inflammatory responses in aged brain that could contribute to age-related neurodegeneration. Recently, innate immune receptors such as toll-like receptors (TLRs), so far implicated in defense against microorganisms, have been linked to pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, we asked whether the transcription of TLRs (1-9) and CD14, could also be altered in physiological brain aging. Using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), we indeed observed that TLR1, TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, TLR7 and CD14 expression was up-regulated in mouse brain in correlation with age. In contrast, transcriptions of TLR3, TLR6 and TLR8 were unchanged and the one of TLR9 was down-regulated. In situ hybridization further confirmed these results and identified the cellular source of TLR2 and TLR7 as mononuclear phagocytes. Together, this first systematic analysis demonstrates altered regulation of those innate immune receptors even in normal brain aging, which might be of relevance for understanding susceptibility to neurodegenerative processes associated with aging.
Estrogen deprivation and oxidative stress have been well established as two main factors closely related to the pathological development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of the present study is to investigate whether these two components act synergistically to accelerate the pathophysiological course of AD. To do this, we examined the effect of long-term intraperitoneal administration of D-galactose (D-gal) into ovariectomized (OVX) rats. Six weeks later, the OVX and d-gal-injected rats exhibited a higher degree of cognitive and memory impairment. This was accompanied by cholinergic neuronal loss in the forebrain and synaptic degeneration in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex which was not observed in intact controls, animals receiving injections of d-gal alone, untreated OVX animals or OVX animals receiving both D-gal and 17-beta estradiol. The typical histopathological alterations associated with AD, including intracellular deposition of amyloid beta peptide and the appearance of intracellular neurofibrillary tangles and nuclear granulovacuolar bodies, were observed in the hippocampus of OVX and D-gal-injected rats but not in other control groups. These results strongly suggest that estrogen deprivation and oxidative stress behave synergistically to enhance the development and progression of AD. Long-term OVX combined with D-gal injection serves as an ideal AD rodent model capable of mimicking pathological, neurochemical and behavioral alterations in AD.
Sex steroids have potent effects on mood, mental state and cognition. Our previous findings and those of others suggest that these effects may be due at least in part to estradiol actions on central serotonergic mechanisms. Specifically, estradiol-17beta in its acute positive feedback mode for gonadotropin release in the female rat induces expression of the genes for the 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) receptor (5-HT(2A)R) and the serotonin transporter (SERT) in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). This is accompanied by an increase in the densities of 5-HT(2A)R and the SERT in forebrain regions which in the human are concerned with the control of mood, mental state, cognition and emotion. Here we report that raloxifene, a benzothiophene and selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM), completely blocked estradiol stimulation of brain 5-HT(2A)R and SERT expression in acutely ovariectomized rats. Raloxifene also blocked the estrogen-induced surge of luteinizing hormone. Treatment of acutely ovariectomized rats with raloxifene alone increased the density of SERT sites in the mid-frontal cortex and decreased the density of 5-HT(2A)R in the posterior olfactory tubercle. The inhibitory effects of raloxifene on acute estrogen-induction of central serotonergic mechanisms were similar to those of tamoxifen even though there are major differences between the two SERMs in their affinity for the two estrogen receptor subtypes and their actions on the uterus. These findings provide robust evidence that estradiol induction of the 5-HT(2A)R and the SERT in brain is mediated by nuclear estrogen receptors. Our data may provide the basis for obtaining a better understanding of the effects of sex steroids on mood and mental state in the human and the possible rational development of congeners of sex steroids for the treatment of mental disorders.
Concussion, or mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), leads to a number of cognitive, attentional, and sensorimotor deficits that can last a surprisingly long time after the initial injury. We have previously shown that the ability to orient visuospatial attention is deficient in participants with mTBI within 2 days of their injury, but then recovers to normal levels within a week. Orienting attention requires disengagement from the point of fixation, movement of attention to the location of interest, and re-engagement at that location. Deficits in any or all of these processes could lead to the difficulties with orienting attention that we have observed in mTBI. To address this issue, we tested participants with mTBI using a gap saccade task. Because this task manipulates the temporal gap between the offset of the fixation target and the appearance of the peripheral saccade target, it isolates the contribution of the disengagement process to saccadic reaction time. We found that participants with mTBI had significantly longer saccadic reaction times than controls when the temporal gap was short but not when it was long. This gap-dependent difference in saccadic reaction time was present within 2 days of the injury and resolved within 1 week. This pattern of results suggests that as the contribution of the disengagement process is reduced, so too is the extent of the reaction time deficit in the participants with mTBI. Taken together, this is consistent with the idea that the deficits in orienting visuospatial attention in participants with mTBI are fully accounted for by difficulties with the initial disengagement process.
We have attempted to explore the neuroprotective effectiveness of PBT by measuring anti-oxidant ability in the hippocampus of rats in a freely moving state. Anti-oxidant ability was examined utilizing the principle that blood-brain barrier-permeable nitroxide radicals (PCAM) injected i.p. lose their paramagnetism in an exponential decay correlated with anti-oxidant ability in the brain. The half-life of PCAM was used as the indicator of the hippocampal anti-oxidant ability. While the half-life was statistically prolonged when infused with 0.1mM NMDA without PBT, the half-life was almost the same as in the control when infused with NMDA under anesthesia with PBT. In addition, the half-life under only PBT anesthesia was the shortest of all the groups. Our findings, therefore, suggested that PBT anesthesia not only suppresses NMDA-R activated free radical generation but also synergistically enhances the increased basal endogenous anti-oxidant ability in the hippocampus.
TorsinA is an AAA(+) protein located predominantly in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and nuclear envelope responsible for early onset torsion dystonia (DYT1). Most cases of this dominantly inherited movement disorder are caused by deletion of a glutamic acid in the carboxyl terminal region of torsinA. We used a sensitive reporter, Gaussia luciferase (Gluc) to evaluate the role of torsinA in processing proteins through the ER. In primary fibroblasts from controls and DYT1 patients most Gluc activity (95%) was released into the media and processed through the secretory pathway, as confirmed by inhibition with brefeldinA and nocodazole. Fusion of Gluc to a fluorescent protein revealed coalignment and fractionation with ER proteins and association of Gluc with torsinA. Notably, fibroblasts from DYT1 patients were found to secrete markedly less Gluc activity as compared with control fibroblasts. This decrease in processing of Gluc in DYT1 cells appear to arise, at least in part, from a loss of torsinA activity, because mouse embryonic fibroblasts lacking torsinA also had reduced secretion as compared with control cells. These studies demonstrate the exquisite sensitivity of this reporter system for quantitation of processing through the secretory pathway and support a role for torsinA as an ER chaperone protein.
Dietary carotenoids are precursors for the production of retinoids, which participate in many essential processes, including the formation of the photopigment rhodopsin. Despite the importance of conversion of carotenoids to vitamin A (all-trans-retinol), many questions remain concerning the mechanisms that promote this process, including the uptake of carotenoids. We use the Drosophila visual system as a genetic model to study retinoid formation from beta-carotene. In a screen for mutations that affect the biosynthesis of rhodopsin, we identified a class B scavenger receptor, SANTA MARIA. We demonstrate that SANTA MARIA functions upstream of vitamin A formation in neurons and glia, which are outside of the retina. The protein is coexpressed and functionally coupled with the beta, beta-carotene-15, 15'-monooxygenase, NINAB, which converts beta-carotene to all-trans-retinal. Another class B scavenger receptor, NINAD, functions upstream of SANTA MARIA in the uptake of carotenoids, enabling us to propose a pathway involving multiple extraretinal cell types and proteins essential for the formation of rhodopsin.
Myosin motors are central to diverse cellular processes in eukaryotes. Homologues of the myosin chaperone UNC-45 have been implicated in the assembly and function of myosin-containing structures in organisms from fungi to humans. In muscle, the assembly of sarcomeric myosin is regulated to produce stable, uniform thick filaments. Loss-of-function mutations in Caenorhabditis elegans UNC-45 lead to decreased muscle myosin accumulation and defective thick filament assembly, resulting in paralyzed animals. We report that transgenic worms overexpressing UNC-45 also display defects in myosin assembly, with decreased myosin content and a mild paralysis phenotype. We find that the reduced myosin accumulation is the result of degradation through the ubiquitin/proteasome system. Partial proteasome inhibition is able to restore myosin protein and worm motility to nearly wild-type levels. These findings suggest a mechanism in which UNC-45-related proteins may contribute to the degradation of myosin in conditions such as heart failure and muscle wasting.
The inbred Roman High- (RHA-I) and Roman Low-Avoidance (RLA-I) rats, psychogenetically selected for rapid (RHA-I) vs. extremely poor (RLA-I) acquisition of two-way active avoidance, exhibit a lower or a higher level of fearfulness, respectively, that can be observed in many laboratory anxiety models. The present study analyzed the performance of female RLA-I and RHA-I rats in a successive positive contrast situation induced during one-way avoidance learning. Three groups of RLA-I and three of RHA-I rats (1-30, 30-30 and 1-1 groups, the numbers stand for the time spent in the safe compartment during the first and second phase of training) were trained to avoid an electric foot-shock administered in a &quot;danger&quot; compartment, by running from this compartment to a &quot;safe&quot; one. Only RLA-I rats showed a significant positive contrast effect, in such a way that the reinforcement increase from the lower (1 s spent in safety) to the higher reward (30 s) led to a response enhancement, surpassing the performance of rats trained with the low (1-1 s) or the high (30-30 s) reward from the beginning of training. The results are discussed in the context of an opponent process theory based upon the interaction between the motivational strength of fear and the incentive value of relief taking place during one-way avoidance learning.
Feeding behavior is comprised of both appetitive and consummatory responses to food. Appetitive responses include the motivated acquisition of food. Consummatory responses, including swallowing, are those that move the food from the mouth to the stomach. Intraoral delivery of liquid food bypasses the requirement for appetitive responses and has been used to examine consummatory responses directly in intact rats. In the present study, we administered neuropeptide Y (NPY), agouti-related protein (AGRP) and norepinephrine (NE), into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) or into the fourth cerebral ventricle to examine their effects on the consummatory component of feeding behavior in the rat. To measure consummatory responses, milk (40% lactose free cow's milk diluted with water) was infused intraorally through a chronic cheek fistula (1 ml/min), using an alternating 5 min on -1 min off schedule, until rejection occurred. We found that both hypothalamic and fourth ventricle injections of NPY, AGRP and NE significantly increased consumption of the intraorally-delivered milk. Our results indicate that the circuitry for modulation of consummatory ingestive responses includes NE, NPY and AGRP receptors operating in both hypothalamic and hindbrain sites.
Neuronal behaviour is profoundly influenced by extracellular stimuli in many developmental and regeneration processes. Understanding neuron responses and integration of environmental signals could impact the design of successful therapies for neurodegenerative diseases and nerve injuries. Here, we have investigated the influence of localized extracellular cues on polarization (i.e. axon formation) of hippocampal neurons. Electron-beam lithography, microfabrication techniques and protein immobilization were used to create a unique system that provided simultaneous and independent chemical and physical cues to individual neurons. In particular, we analysed competitive responses between simultaneous stimulation with chemical ligands, including immobilized nerve growth factor and laminin, and contact guidance cues mediated by surface topography (i.e. microchannels). Contact guidance cues were preferred 70% of the time over chemical ligands by neurons extending axons, which suggests a stronger stimulation mechanism triggered by topography. This investigation contributes to the understanding of neuronal behaviour on artificial substrates, which is applicable to the creation of artificial environments for neural engineering applications.
Glycine transporter 2 (GlyT2) mRNA is exclusively expressed in glycinergic neurons, and is presently considered a reliable marker for glycinergic neuronal somata. In this study, we have performed non-radioactive in situ hybridization to localize GlyT2 mRNA in fixed free-floating sections of cervical (C2 and C6), thoracic (T5), lumbar (L2 and L5) and sacral (S1) segments of the rat spinal cord. The results showed that in all segments the majority of the GlyT2 mRNA labeled (glycinergic) neuronal somata was present in the deep dorsal horn and the intermediate zone (laminae III-VIII), with around 50% (range 43.7-70.9%) in laminae VII&amp;VIII. In contrast, the superficial dorsal horn, the motoneuronal cell groups and the area around the central canal contained only few glycinergic neuronal somata. The density (number of glycinergic neuronal somata per mm(2)) was also low in these areas, while the highest densities were found in laminae V to VIII. The lateral spinal nucleus and the lateral cervical nucleus also contained a limited number of glycinergic neurons. Our findings showed that the distribution pattern of the glycinergic neuronal somata is similar in all the examined segments. The few differences that were found in the relative laminar distribution between some of the segments, are most likely due to technical reasons. We therefore conclude that the observed distribution pattern of glycinergic neuronal somata is present throughout the spinal cord. Our findings further showed that the non-radioactive in situ hybridization technique for identifying GlyT2 mRNA in fixed free-floating sections is a highly efficient tool for identifying glycinergic neurons in the spinal cord.
Neuronal migration and growth-cone extension are both guided by extracellular factors in the developing brain, but whether these two forms of guidance are mechanistically linked is unclear. Application of a Slit-2 gradient in front of the leading process of cultured cerebellar granule cells led to the collapse of the growth cone and the reversal of neuronal migration, an event preceded by a propagating Ca(2+) wave from the growth cone to the soma. The Ca(2+) wave was required for the Slit-2 effect and was sufficient by itself to induce the reversal of migration. The Slit-2-induced reversal of migration required active RhoA, which was accumulated at the front of the migrating neuron, and this polarized RhoA distribution was reversed during the migration reversal induced by either the Slit-2 gradient or the Ca(2+) wave. Thus, long-range Ca(2+) signaling coordinates the Slit-2-induced changes in motility at two distant parts of migrating neurons by regulating RhoA distribution.

Loss of parkin function is a predominant cause of familial Parkinsonism. Emerging evidence also suggests that parkin expression variability may confer a risk for sporadic Parkinson disease. We have recently demonstrated that a wide variety of Parkinson disease-linked stressors, including dopamine (DA), induce parkin solubility alterations and promote its aggregation within the cell, a phenomenon that may underlie the progressive susceptibility of the brain to degeneration. The vulnerability of parkin to stress-induced modification is likely due to its abundance of cysteine residues. Here, we performed a comprehensive mutational analysis and demonstrate that Cys residues residing both within and outside of the RING-IBR (in between RING fingers)-RING domain of parkin are important in maintaining its solubility. The majority of these Cys residues are highly conserved in parkin across different species and potentially fulfil important structural roles. Further, we found that both parkin and HHARI (human homologue of Drosophila ariadne), another RING-IBR-RING-type ubiquitin ligase, are comparably more susceptible to solubility alterations induced by oxidative and nitrosative stress when compared with other non-RING-IBR-RING Cys-containing enzymes. However, parkin appears to be uniquely sensitive to DA-mediated stress, the specificity of which is likely due to DA modification of 2 Cys residues on parkin (Cys-268 and Cys-323) that are distinct from other RING-IBR-RING members.
The transcriptional regulation of proline-rich membrane anchor (PRiMA), an anchoring protein of tetrameric globular form acetylcholinesterase (G(4) AChE), was revealed in muscle during myogenic differentiation under the influence of innervation. During myotube formation of C2C12 cells, the expression of AChE(T) protein and the enzymatic activity were dramatically increased, but the level of G(4) AChE was relatively decreased. This G(4) AChE in C2C12 cells was specifically recognized by anti-PRiMA antibody, suggesting the association of this enzyme with PRiMA. Reverse transcription-PCR analysis revealed that the level of PRiMA mRNA was reduced during the myogenic differentiation of C2C12 cells. Overexpression of PRiMA in C2C12 myotubes significantly increased the production of G(4) AChE. The oligomerization of G(4) AChE, however, did not require the intracellular cytoplasmic tail of PRiMA. After overexpressing the muscle regulatory factors, myogenin and MyoD, the expressions of PRiMA and G(4) AChE in cultured myotubes were markedly reduced. In addition, calcitonin gene-related peptide, a known motor neuron-derived factor, and muscular activity were able to suppress PRiMA expression in muscle; the suppression was mediated by the phosphorylation of a cAMP-responsive element-binding protein. In accordance with the in vitro results, sciatic nerve denervation transiently increased the expression of PRiMA mRNA and decreased the phosphorylation of cAMP-responsive element-binding protein as well as its activator calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II in muscles. Our results suggest that the expression of PRiMA, as well as PRiMA-associated G(4) AChE, in muscle is suppressed by muscle regulatory factors, muscular activity, and nerve-derived trophic factor(s).
Cellular protein kinases, phosphatases, and other serotonin transporter (SERT) interacting proteins participate in several signaling mechanisms regulating SERT activity. The molecular mechanisms of protein kinase G (PKG)-mediated SERT regulation and the site of transporter phosphorylation were investigated. Treatment of rat midbrain synaptosomes with 8-bromo-cGMP increased SERT activity, and the increase was selectively blocked by PKG inhibitors. The V(max) value for serotonin (5-HT) transport increased following cGMP treatment. However, surface biotinylation studies showed no change in SERT surface abundance following PKG activation. (32)P metabolic labeling experiments showed increased SERT phosphorylation in the presence of cGMP that was abolished by selectively inhibiting PKG. Phosphoamino acid analysis revealed that cGMP-stimulated native SERT phosphorylation occurred only on threonine residues. When added to CHO-1 cells expressing SERT, 8-bromo-cGMP stimulated 5-HT transport and SERT phosphorylation. Mutation of SERT threonine 276 to alanine completely abolished cGMP-mediated stimulation of 5-HT transport and SERT phosphorylation. Although the T276A mutation had no significant effect on 5-HT transport or SERT protein expression, mutation to aspartate (T276D) increased the level of 5-HT uptake to that of cGMP-stimulated 5-HT uptake in wild-type SERT-expressing cells and was no longer sensitive to cGMP. These findings provide the first identification of a phosphorylation site in SERT and demonstrate that phosphorylation of Thr-276 is required for cGMP-mediated SERT regulation. They also constitute the first evidence that in the central nervous system PKG activation stimulates endogenous SERT activity by a trafficking-independent mechanism.
We provide the first systematic description of the morphological ontogenesis of the ferret cerebellum and compare its relative time-course to that of the rat cerebellum. Overall cerebellar size, foliation, and thickness of cortical layers were quantified and Purkinje cell morphology was characterized at 24 timepoints in ferrets from postnatal day (P)1 to P63. The ferret cerebellum was substantially larger than that of the rat and had a much longer developmental period. In ferrets, Purkinje cells were dispersed into a monolayer by P9, the formation of folia declined abruptly around P20, and the external granular layer peaked in thickness around P22 and disappeared by P56. Timepoints of corresponding relative developmental maturity of the quantified architectural features of rat and ferret cerebella were determined and their relationship was analyzed by linear regression. The time-conversion equation derived, describing the relationship between cerebellar morphogenesis in the two species, had a determination coefficient (r2) of 0.95. Conspicuously, the equation predicted with high accuracy the timing of structural changes in individual Purkinje cells in the ferret cerebellum. The conversion equation should be useful for precise quantitative translation of data between studies of ferret and rat cerebellum and for comparisons between development of motor and sensory structures and functions in ferrets. The degree of similarity in the time-courses of cerebellar development in two distantly related mammals makes explicit in quantitative terms how remarkably conserved the cerebellum is in phylogenesis. Therefore, the methodology should be applicable to precise quantitative conversions of cerebellar developmental time-courses also between other species.
Olfactory sensory information is processed and integrated by circuits within the olfactory bulb. Golgi morphology suggests the olfactory bulb contains several major neuronal classes. However, an increasingly diverse collection of neurochemical markers have been localized in subpopulations of olfactory bulb neurons. While the mouse is becoming the animal model of choice for olfactory research, little is known about the proportions of neurons expressing and coexpressing different neurochemical markers in this species. Here we characterize neuronal populations in the mouse main olfactory bulb, focusing on glomerular populations. Immunofluorescent labeling for: 1) calretinin, 2) calbindin D-28K (CB), 3) parvalbumin, 4) neurocalcin, 5) tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), 6) the 67-kDa isoform of GAD (GAD67), and 7) the neuronal marker NeuN was performed in mice expressing green fluorescent protein under the control of the glutamic acid decarboxylase 65kDa (GAD65) promoter. Using unbiased stereological cell counts we estimated the total numbers of cells and neurons in the bulb and the number and percentage of neurons expressing and coexpressing different neurochemical populations in each layer of the olfactory bulb. Use of a genetic label for GAD65 and immunohistochemistry for GAD67 identified a much larger percentage of GABAergic neurons in the glomerular layer (55% of all neurons) than previously recognized. Additionally, while many glomerular neurons expressing TH or CB coexpress GAD, the majority of these neurons preferentially express the GAD67 isoform. These data suggest that the chemospecific populations of neurons in glomeruli form distinct subpopulations and that GAD isoforms are preferentially regulated in different neurochemical cell types.
A sulfur compound, bis(4-hydroxybenzyl)sulfide (1) was isolated from the root extract of Pleuropterus ciliinervis. Its structure was elucidated using NMR spectroscopic techniques and mass spectrometric analysis. Compound 1 showed potent inhibitory activity in a histone deacetylase (HDAC) enzyme assay. It also exhibited growth inhibitory activity on five human tumor cell lines and more sensitive inhibitory activity on the MDA-MB-231 breast tumor cell line.
Competition between neurons is necessary for refining neural circuits during development and may be important for selecting the neurons that participate in encoding memories in the adult brain. To examine neuronal competition during memory formation, we conducted experiments with mice in which we manipulated the function of CREB (adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate response element-binding protein) in subsets of neurons. Changes in CREB function influenced the probability that individual lateral amygdala neurons were recruited into a fear memory trace. Our results suggest a competitive model underlying memory formation, in which eligible neurons are selected to participate in amemorytrace as a function of their relative CREB activity at the time of learning.

A report of a meeting sponsored by the BrainChild Foundation on the challenges for hydrocephalus researchers to provide the information required for better management of cerebrospinal fluid disorders.
P2X receptors are trimeric cation channels that open in response to binding of extracellular ATP. Each subunit contains a large extracellular ligand binding domain and two flanking transmembrane (TM) helices that form the pore, but the extent of gating motions of the TM helices is unclear. We probed these motions using ivermectin (IVM), a macrocyclic lactone that stabilizes the open state of P2X(4) receptor channels. We find that IVM partitions into lipid membranes and that transfer of the TM regions of P2X(4) receptors is sufficient to convey sensitivity to the lactone, suggesting that IVM interacts most favorably with the open conformation of the two TM helices at the protein-lipid interface. Scanning mutagenesis of the two TMs identifies residues that change environment between closed and open states, and substitutions at a subset of these positions weaken IVM binding. The emerging patterns point to widespread rearrangements of the TM helices during opening of P2X receptor channels.
Intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) activates the neural pathways that mediate reward, including dopaminergic terminal areas such as the nucleus accumbens (NAc). However, a direct role of dopamine in ICSS-mediated reward has been questioned. Here, simultaneous voltammetric and electrophysiological recordings from the same electrode reveal that, at certain sites, the onset of anticipatory dopamine surges and changes in neuronal firing patterns during ICSS are coincident, whereas sites lacking dopamine changes also lack patterned firing. Intrashell microinfusion of a D1, but not a D2 receptor antagonist, blocks ICSS. An iontophoresis approach was implemented to explore the effect of dopamine antagonists on firing patterns without altering behavior. Similar to the microinfusion experiments, ICSS-related firing is selectively attenuated following D1 receptor blockade. This work establishes a temporal link between anticipatory rises of dopamine and firing patterns in the NAc shell during ICSS and suggests that they may play a similar role with natural rewards and during drug self-administration.
Altered synaptic dopamine levels have been implicated in several neurological/neuropsychiatric disorders, including drug addiction and schizophrenia. However, it is unclear what precipitates these changes in synaptic dopamine levels. One of the key presynaptic components involved in regulating dopaminergic tone is the dopamine transporter (DAT). Here, we report that the DAT is also regulated by the dopamine D2 receptor through a direct protein-protein interaction involving the DAT amino-terminus and the third intracellular loop of the D2 receptor. This physical coupling facilitates the recruitment of intracellular DAT to the plasma membrane and leads to enhanced dopamine reuptake. Moreover, mice injected with peptides that disrupt D2-DAT interaction exhibit decreased synaptosomal dopamine uptake and significantly increased locomotor activity, reminiscent of DAT knockout mice. Our data highlight a novel mechanism through which neurotransmitter receptors can functionally modulate neurotransmitter transporters, an interaction that can affect the synaptic neurotransmitter levels in the brain.
The recently identified Mas-related gene (Mrg) family of G-protein-coupled receptors is expressed almost exclusively in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. The expression of one family member, MrgD, is even further confined to IB4+, nonpeptidergic, small-diameter nociceptors. Although the functional consequences of MrgD activation are not known, this expression profile provides intriguing potential for a role in pain sensation or modulation. In a recombinant cell line, we first assessed the functional significance of MrgD activation by coexpressing MrgD with the KCNQ2/3 potassium channel, a channel implicated in pain. Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings revealed that bath application of the ligand for MrgD, beta-alanine, resulted in robust inhibition of KCNQ2/3 activity. Pharmacological blockade of G(i/o) and phospholipase C signaling revealed a partial and complete block of the response, respectively. We extended these observations to dissociated DRG neuron cultures by examining MrgD modulation of M-currents (carried primarily by KCNQ2/3). Here too, beta-alanine-induced activation of endogenous MrgD inhibited M-currents, but primarily via a pertussis toxin-sensitive pathway. Finally, we assessed the consequence of beta-alanine-induced activation of MrgD in phasic neurons. Phasic neurons that fired a single action potential (AP) before beta-alanine application fired multiple APs during beta-alanine exposure. In sum, we provide evidence for a novel interaction between MrgD and KCNQ/M-type potassium channels that contributes to an increase in excitability of DRG neurons and thus may enhance the signaling of primary afferent nociceptive neurons.
A large body of pharmaco-behavioral data implicates the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) in the facilitation of memory consolidation by emotions. Overall, this evidence suggests that stress hormones released during emotional arousal increase the activity of BLA neurons. In turn, this increased BLA activity would facilitate synaptic plasticity elsewhere in the brain, to which the BLA projects. However, the direct effects of glucocorticoids on BLA neurons are incompletely understood. In the present study, we examined the direct effects of corticosterone (CORT) on principal neurons of the rat BLA in vitro using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. We found that application of a stress level of CORT for 20 min caused significant changes in the passive properties and responsiveness of BLA cells measured 1-2 h later. Indeed, CORT application produced a depolarization of the resting potential, an increase in input resistance, and a dramatic decrease in spike-frequency adaptation. In addition, GABA(A) IPSPs evoked by stimulation of the external capsule were significantly reduced by CORT application. This effect of CORT was not attributable to a reduction in the amount of GABA released because GABA(B) IPSPs were unchanged and the resistance drop associated with GABA(A) IPSPs was not altered. Rather, we found that this effect of CORT resulted from a positive shift of the GABA(A) reversal potential. Overall, these results suggest that, in agreement with previous behavioral findings, glucocorticoids enhance the excitability of principal BLA cells by increasing their intrinsic excitability and decreasing the impact of GABA(A) IPSPs.
Synaptic transmission initiates a cascade of signal transduction events that couple neuronal activity to local changes in blood flow and oxygenation. Although a number of vasoactive molecules and specific cell types have been implicated, the transformation of stimulus-induced activation of neuronal circuits to hemodynamic changes is still unclear. We use somatosensory stimulation and a suite of in vivo imaging tools to study neurovascular coupling in rat primary somatosensory cortex. Our stimulus evoked a central region of net neuronal depolarization surrounded by net hyperpolarization. Hemodynamic measurements revealed that predominant depolarization corresponded to an increase in oxygenation, whereas predominant hyperpolarization corresponded to a decrease in oxygenation. On the microscopic level of single surface arterioles, the response was composed of a combination of dilatory and constrictive phases. Critically, the relative strength of vasoconstriction covaried with the relative strength of oxygenation decrease and neuronal hyperpolarization. These results suggest that a neuronal inhibition and concurrent arteriolar vasoconstriction correspond to a decrease in blood oxygenation, which would be consistent with a negative blood oxygenation level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging signal.
Emotional salience and working memory (WM) load are known to affect object processing in the ventral stream. However, the combined effect, which could be either synergistic or antagonistic, remains unclear. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging and a three-factorial design, we investigated the effects of WM load and emotional salience on object processing in the ventral visual stream. Twenty-three female subjects were shown blocks of task-irrelevant and more or less degraded visual stimuli that varied in emotional valence (negative or neutral) and phase coherence rendering them more or less noisy. Superimposed on these pictures, subjects saw colored squares on which they had to perform a demanding WM task (one-back, two-back). This WM task absorbs attentional resources normally available for the perceptual analysis of visual objects and can therefore be interpreted as a manipulation of attention. We hypothesized that attenuated processing resources in the lateral occipital complex (LOC) for these task-irrelevant pictures under high WM load (Rose et al., 2005) could be regained when they were of negative emotional valence. Our results indicate that both emotional salience and WM load critically depend on a minimum level of phase coherence of the stimuli to affect LOC activation. Furthermore, the influences of emotional salience and WM load do not interact with each other in LOC. Rather, emotional salience exerts a general multiplicative gain effect while preserving the difference in activation between low and high WM load. A connectivity analysis suggests that the emotional modulation might originate in the amygdalo-hippocampal junction.
The master clock driving mammalian circadian rhythms is located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus and entrained by daily light/dark cycles. SCN lesions abolish circadian rhythms of behavior and result in a loss of synchronized circadian rhythms of clock gene expression in peripheral organs (e.g., the liver) and of hormone secretion (e.g., corticosterone). We examined rhythms of behavior, hepatic clock gene expression, and corticosterone secretion in VPAC2 receptor-null (Vipr2-/-) mice, which lack a functional SCN clock. Unexpectedly, although Vipr2-/- mice lacked robust circadian rhythms of wheel-running activity and corticosterone secretion, hepatic clock gene expression was strongly rhythmic, but advanced in phase compared with that in wild-type mice. The timing of food availability is thought to be an important entrainment signal for circadian clocks outside the SCN. Vipr2-/- mice consumed food significantly earlier in the 24 h cycle than wild-type mice, consistent with the observed timing of peripheral rhythms of circadian gene expression. When restricted to feeding only during the daytime (RF), mice develop rhythms of activity and of corticosterone secretion in anticipation of feeding time, thought to be driven by a food-entrainable circadian oscillator, located outside the SCN. Under RF, mice of both genotypes developed food-anticipatory rhythms of activity and corticosterone secretion, and hepatic gene expression rhythms also became synchronized to the RF stimulus. Thus, food intake is an effective zeitgeber capable of coordinating circadian rhythms of behavior, peripheral clock gene expression, and hormone secretion, even in the absence of a functional SCN clock.
Mature mammals are uniquely vulnerable to permanent auditory and vestibular deficits, because the cell proliferation that produces replacement hair cells in other vertebrates is limited in mammals. To investigate the cellular mechanisms responsible for that difference, we created excision lesions in the sensory epithelium of embryonic and 2-week-old mouse utricles. Lesions in embryonic utricles closed in &lt;24 h via localized expansion of supporting cells, which then reentered the cell cycle. Pharmacological treatments combined with time-lapse microscopy demonstrated that the healing depended on Rho-mediated contraction of an actin ring at the leading edge of the lesion. In contrast, lesions in utricles from 2-week-old and older mice remained open even after 48 h. Supporting cells in those utricles remained compact and columnar and had significantly stouter cortical actin belts than those in embryonic sensory epithelia. This suggests that cytoskeletal changes may underlie the age-related loss of proliferation in mammalian ears by limiting the capacity for mature supporting cells to change shape. In mature utricles, exogenous stimulation with lysophosphatidic acid overcame this maturational block and induced closure of lesions, promoting supporting cell expansion and subsequent proliferation. After lysophosphatidic acid treatment, 85% of the mature supporting cells that had spread to a planar area &gt;300 microm2 entered S-phase, whereas only 10% of those cells that had a planar area &lt;100 microm2 entered S-phase. Together, these results indicate that cellular shape change can overcome the normal postnatal cessation of supporting cell proliferation that appears to limit regeneration in mammalian vestibular epithelia.

The discovery of LRRK2 gene mutations in late-onset Parkinson's disease (PD) has irrevocably established the role of genetics in the etiology of PD. The LRRK1 gene is the single homolog of LRRK2. A high degree of homology exists between LRRK1 and LRRK2, indicative of shared functions and/or pathways. One study has examined LRRK1 in familial parkinsonism by complete sequencing of the gene, reporting 4 novel non-synonymous coding variants within the LRRK1 gene. One of these variants (ss65713826) was identified in a Norwegian proband. We investigated whether five common polymorphisms or these recently identified coding changes within LRRK1 are associated with PD in the Norwegian population. Two rare coding variants ss65713826 and ss65713830 were more frequent in patients than controls. However, their identification in healthy controls and lack of co-segregation with disease suggests they may represent benign polymorphisms.
People suffering from developmental dyscalculia encounter difficulties in automatically accessing numerical magnitudes [1-3]. For example, when instructed to attend to the physical size of a number while ignoring its numerical value, dyscalculic subjects, unlike healthy participants, fail to process the irrelevant dimension automatically and subsequently show a smaller size-congruity effect (difference in reaction time between incongruent [e.g., a physically large 2 and a physically small 4] and congruent [e.g., a physically small 2 and a physically large 4] conditions), and no facilitation (neutral [e.g., a physically small 2 and a physically large 2] versus congruent) [3]. Previous imaging studies determined the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) as a central area for numerical processing [4-11]. A few studies tried to identify the brain dysfunction underlying developmental dyscalculia but yielded mixed results regarding the involvement of the left [12] or the right [13] IPS. Here we applied fMRI-guided TMS neuronavigation to disrupt left- or right-IPS activation clusters in order to induce dyscalculic-like behavioral deficits in healthy volunteers. Automatic magnitude processing was impaired only during disruption of right-IPS activity. When using the identical paradigm with dyscalculic participants, we reproduced a result pattern similar to that obtained with nondyscalculic volunteers during right-IPS disruption. These findings provide direct evidence for the functional role of right IPS in automatic magnitude processing.

Emotional trauma and psychological stress can precipitate cardiac arrhythmia and sudden death through arrhythmogenic effects of efferent sympathetic drive. Patients with preexisting heart disease are particularly at risk. Moreover, generation of proarrhythmic activity patterns within cerebral autonomic centers may be amplified by afferent feedback from a dysfunctional myocardium. An electrocortical potential reflecting afferent cardiac information has been described, reflecting individual differences in interoceptive sensitivity (awareness of one's own heartbeats). To inform our understanding of mechanisms underlying arrhythmogenesis, we extended this approach, identifying electrocortical potentials corresponding to the cortical expression of afferent information about the integrity of myocardial function during stress. We measured changes in cardiac response simultaneously with electroencephalography in patients with established ventricular dysfunction. Experimentally induced mental stress enhanced cardiovascular indices of sympathetic activity (systolic blood pressure, heart rate, ventricular ejection fraction, and skin conductance) across all patients. However, the functional response of the myocardium varied; some patients increased, whereas others decreased, cardiac output during stress. Across patients, heartbeat-evoked potential amplitude at left temporal and lateral frontal electrode locations correlated with stress-induced changes in cardiac output, consistent with an afferent cortical representation of myocardial function during stress. Moreover, the amplitude of the heartbeat-evoked potential in the left temporal region reflected the proarrhythmic status of the heart (inhomogeneity of left ventricular repolarization). These observations delineate a cortical representation of cardiac function predictive of proarrhythmic abnormalities in cardiac repolarization. Our findings highlight the dynamic interaction of heart and brain in stress-induced cardiovascular morbidity.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a neuropeptide that elevates adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cyclic AMP, also abbreviated cAMP) to elicit neuritogenesis in PC12 cells. This effect appears to be independent of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) yet dependent on cAMP, leading to the conclusion that another cAMP-binding protein and subsequent signaling pathway must exist to mediate this PKA-independent signaling mechanism. Such a protein was identified as exchange protein directly activated by cAMP (EPAC). Although EPAC may play an indirect role in PACAP-mediated neuritogenesis, it does not serve as the only PKA-independent link from cAMP that leads to neuritogenesis. Thus, the challenge remains to construct a signaling network that incorporates the known mediators, working independently of PKA, that are ultimately responsible for PACAP-mediated neuritogenesis.
The goal of the present experiments was to use a disconnection paradigm to test the interactions between the hippocampus and parietal cortex (PC) during an object-place paired associate learning task, dry-land water maze task, and a reaction-to-change task. Previous research indicates that these tasks are sensitive to hippocampal or PC disruption. Unilateral lesions were made to the dorsal hippocampus or posterior PC in contralateral hemispheres or ipsilateral hemispheres. It was hypothesized that if the hippocampus and PC interact, then contralateral lesioned animals should be markedly impaired compared to ipsilateral lesions. The results indicate that contralateral lesioned animals were significantly more impaired than animals with ipsilateral lesions during object-place paired-associate learning; however, both groups readily learned single discriminations (i.e., objects or places). Furthermore, contralateral lesioned animals traveled further to find the reward during acquisition of the dry-land water maze task and spent less time in the rewarded quadrant during the probe trial. Conversely, contralateral lesioned animals' performance matched ipsilateral lesioned animals during the reaction-to-change paradigm. Thus, the hippocampus and PC interact during some tasks, presumably when tasks require multiple trials across days, but not during the detection of novelty within a single day.
Intact cerebellar structures (i.e., deep nuclei and perhaps cortex) are essential for acquisition of both simple delay and trace eyeblink (EB) conditioning. However, successful trace conditioning also requires intact cortico-limbic structures (i.e., hippocampus, medial thalamus, and medial prefrontal cortex, mPFC). A direct connection between the cerebellum and ventrolateral thalamic nuclei (VLTN) has been demonstrated in several species. Since VLTN projects to both premotor and prefrontal cortex, it may be an essential link in a cerebellar-thalamic-prefrontal circuit that provides the CNS substrate for acquisition of the trace EB CR. The current studies thus assessed the role of the VLTN on trace EB conditioning in New Zealand albino rabbits. We first verified afferent connections to the mPFC (Brodmann's area 32) from the VLTN, by injecting the retrograde tracer Flourogold(c) into area 32. Strong labeling in VLTN from terminal projections to mPFC were found. We next assessed the role of VLTN in trace eyeblink conditioning in animals that received either sham or ibotenic acid VLTN lesions. EB conditioning began with 10 consecutive daily sessions of trace conditioning, followed immediately by 4 days of extinction, and then 4 days of delay conditioning. VLTN lesions significantly impaired acquisition of both trace and delay conditioning, and impaired extinction. These findings, thus confirm the importance of the VLTN in a postulated cerebellar-thalamic-prefrontal circuit that underlies successful trace, as well as delay EB conditioning.
Sequential learning has been extensively studied in humans using the serial reaction time (SRT) paradigm, and has contributed significantly to the description of the neurobiological processes and substrates underlying different memory systems. More precisely, patients with basal ganglia, but not medial temporal lobe pathology exhibit selective deficits in this task, qualified as implicit learning, since this learning occurs without any conscious awareness of the subjects. While, the construction of transgenic mouse models of human neurological diseases has created a great need for developing mouse analogs of this or other types of human memory tasks, only a few studies exist in rodents, and more specifically in mice. The present study is aimed at examining a SRT protocol for mice using our new operant chamber designed to be polyvalent for different experimental conditions and uses. We provide data for learning by normal C57BL/6 mice of a repeating sequence of 12 nose poke responses, first, via the observation of increases in reaction times when repeated sequence is replaced by random sequence, and, second, by analysis of behavior during transfer trials in which one sequential element is discretely replaced by a new item. The potential of our protocol for dissecting the different neural systems of learning and memory is discussed as well as its usefulness for the validation of transgenic mouse models of human neurodegenerative diseases such as Huntington's disease and Alzheimer's disease.
Embryonic stem (ES) cells have been investigated in many animal models of injury and disease. However, few studies have examined the ability of pre-differentiated ES cells to improve functional outcome following traumatic brain injury (TBI). The purpose of the present study was to compare the effect of murine ES cells that were pre-differentiated into GABAergic neurons or astrocytes on functional recovery following TBI. Neural and astrocyte induction was achieved by co-culturing ES cells on a bone marrow stromal fibroblast (M2-10B4) feeder layer and incubating them with various mitogenic factors. Rats were initially prepared with a unilateral controlled cortical contusion injury of the sensorimotor cortex or sham procedure. Rats were transplanted 7 days following injury with approximately 100K GABAergic neurons, astrocytes, fibroblasts, or media. Animals were assessed on a battery of sensorimotor tasks following transplantation. The stromal fibroblast cells (M2-10B4), as a control cell line, did not differ significantly from media infusions. Transplantation of GABAergic neurons facilitated complete and total recovery on the vibrissae-forelimb placing test as opposed to all other groups, which failed to show any recovery. It was also found that GABAergic neurons reduced the magnitude of the initial impairment on the limb use test. Histological analysis revealed infiltration of host brain with transplanted neurons and astrocytes. The results of the present study suggest that transplantation of pre-differentiated GABAergic neurons significantly induces recovery of sensorimotor function; whereas, astrocytes do not.
Spatial learning and memory deficits in the APP23 transgenic mice have mainly been studied using the Morris water maze (MWM). However learning in the MWM relies on swimming abilities and may be confounded by the stressful nature of this test. We have therefore assessed spatial learning and memory in 12-month-old APP23 using a dry-land maze test developed by Barnes. Mice were given daily learning trials for a total of 41 successive days. After a 12-day interval the mice were re-tested for 4 additional days in order to examine the spatial memory retention. Immediately following this phase, reversal learning was examined for 13 additional days by moving the escape tunnel to the opposite position. During the initial learning phase, APP23 mice showed a significantly longer latency to find the escape tunnel as well as an increased number of errors compared to non-transgenic littermates. These deficits appeared to be due to a delay in switching from a &quot;no strategy&quot; to a spatial strategy. Indeed, this same delay in the use of spatial strategy was observed in the reversal phase of the study. Our results suggest that impairments in APP23 mice in learning and memory maze tests may be due to a specific deficit in the use of spatial strategy.
In humans, the Simon effect refers to the fact that choice reaction time (RT) is shorter when the stimulus corresponds spatially to the response than when it does not, albeit the location of the stimulus is irrelevant to the task. This effect has motivated innumerable empirical and theoretical studies and is considered to reflect elementary cognitive processes. We report an experiment demonstrating that rats also display a Simon effect, the dynamics of which--as assessed by factorial manipulations and RT distribution analyses--partly corresponds to those of the effect studied in human participants. The present results are consistent with the ideas that in rats, like in humans, (i) the information conveyed by the stimulus is processed via two parallel routes, one controlled and relatively slow, and one fast and automatic (dual-route architecture) and (ii) the dual-route processing is finished before the start of motor processes. The correspondence between these findings and those reported in humans open new perspectives for neurophysiological investigations of the dual-route architecture in an animal model routinely studied in neuroscience research.
Stress plays a key role in pathogenesis of anxiety and depression. Animal models of these disorders are widely used in behavioral neuroscience to explore stress-evoked brain abnormalities, screen anxiolytic/antidepressant drugs and establish behavioral phenotypes of gene-targeted or transgenic animals. Here we discuss the current situation with these experimental models, and critically evaluate the state of the art in this field. Noting a deficit of fresh ideas and especially new paradigms for animal anxiety and depression models, we review existing challenges and outline important directions for further research in this field.
Sexual dysfunction in the female has been associated with a decrease in androgen levels, which can be reversed by testosterone treatment, however, bearing the risk of adverse side effects. Nasally administered testosterone could be an effective method for androgenic treatment avoiding the first-pass intestinal and hepatic metabolism and side effects. Here we examined the effects of chronic intranasal administration of testosterone on sexual behavior in female capuchin monkeys (Cebus apella) that lived with male cohorts. During 8 days of baseline 10 females were observed for their sexual and non-sexual behavior without drug. They then received daily intranasal testosterone (0.24 mg per nostril, n=5 per group) or placebo gel for 5 days, followed by 5 days of wash out, followed by 5 days of daily intranasal application, whereby the animals that had received testosterone before, now received placebo and vice versa. Diverse sexual and non-sexual behaviors were scored. Blood samples were collected and analyzed for testosterone, estradiol, dihydrotestosterone and progesterone using EIAs. The results revealed an increase in sexual behavior (eyebrow raising, chest rubbing, courtship behavior, masturbation) in the females during testosterone treatment, which seemed to be prolonged even when testosterone treatment was discontinued. These behavioral results were accompanied by an increase in plasma testosterone levels. This study demonstrates the efficacy of testosterone in enhancing sexual behavior in female capuchin monkeys by means of intranasal application, which may be a useful alternative compared to other forms of administration.

The purpose of this investigation was to enhance our understanding of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) absorption pathways. To achieve this, Microfil (a coloured silastic material) was infused into the subarachnoid space (cisterna magna) of sheep post mortem, and the relevant tissues examined macroscopically and microscopically. The Microfil was taken up by an extensive network of extracranial lymphatic vessels in the olfactory turbinates. In addition however, Microfil also passed consistently through the dura at the base of the brain. Microfil was noted in the spaces surrounding the venous network that comprises the cavernous sinus, in the adventitia of the internal carotid arteries and adjacent to the pituitary gland. Additionally, Microfil was observed within the endoneurial spaces of the trigeminal nerve and in lymphatic vessels emerging from the epineurium of the nerve. These results suggest several unconventional pathways by which CSF may be removed from the subarachnoid space. The movement of CSF to locations external to the cranium via these routes may lead to its absorption into veins and lymphatics outside of the skull. The physiological importance of these pathways requires further investigation.
We investigated how degraded speech sounds activate the auditory cortices of the left and right hemisphere. To degrade the stimuli, we introduce uniform scalar quantization, a controlled and replicable manipulation, not used before, in cognitive neuroscience. Three Finnish vowels (/a/, /e/ and /u/) were used as stimuli for 10 participants in magnetoencephalography registrations. Compared with the original vowel sounds, the degraded sounds increased the amplitude of the right-hemispheric N1m without affecting the latency whereas the amplitude and latency of the N1m in the left hemisphere remained unaffected. Although the participants were able to identify the stimuli correctly, the increased degradation led to increased reaction times which correlated positively with the N1m amplitude. Thus, the auditory cortex of right hemisphere might be particularly involved in processing degraded speech and possibly compensates for the poor signal quality by increasing its activity.
We have shown previously that primed human fetal neural stem cells, after transplantation into rat spinal cords, differentiated into cholinergic motoneurons that sent axons to contact medial gastrocnemius myocytes. Here we demonstrate that (i) axons from the transplanted cells are cholinergic and myelinated, (ii) putative synapses form on transplanted somata and dendrites in the ventral horn, (iii) human fetal neural stem cells transplantation led to normal electromyograms from medial gastrocnemius muscles, and (iv) the gait of transplanted animals was much improved. Accumulatively, our data indicate that some transplanted human fetal neural stem cells in adult motoneuron-deficient ventral horns differentiate into relatively normal motoneurons that are integrated into spinal and peripheral circuitry. These findings are steps towards the long-term goal of providing stem cell transplants for motoneuron loss.
The basolateral amygdaloid complex is a site of origin for zinc-containing pathways in the brain; it is also known for its massive innervation of the medial prefrontal cortex. The presence, and potential neuromodulatory role, of zinc within this fundamental corticolimbic circuit has not been described. For this study, basolateral neurons innervating the medial prefrontal cortex were retrogradely labeled with FluoroGold, and zinc-containing neurons were identified using autometallography to visualize zinc selenium precipitates. Upon quantification of single-labeled and double-labeled cells, 35% of basolateral neurons projecting to medial prefrontal cortex were found to also contain zinc. We conclude that zinc may act as a neuromodulator for a substantial proportion of basolateral-medial prefrontal cortical innervation, therefore implicating zinc in corticolimbic function as well as pathology.

Three novel heterocyclic benzofurans A-688057 (1), A-687136 (2), and A-698418 (3) were profiled for their in vitro and in vivo properties as a new series of histamine H(3) receptor antagonists. The compounds were all found to have nanomolar potency in vitro at histamine H(3) receptors, and when profiled in vivo for CNS activity, all were found active in an animal behavioral model of attention. The compound with the most benign profile versus CNS side effects was selected for greater scrutiny of its in vitro properties and overall drug-likeness. This compound, A-688057, in addition to its potent and robust efficacy in two rodent behavioral models at blood levels ranging 0.2-19 nM, possessed other favorable features, including high selectivity for H(3) receptors (H(3), K(i)=1.5 nM) versus off-target receptors and channels (including the hERG K(+) channel, K(i)&gt;9000 nM), low molecular weight (295), high solubility, moderate lipophilicity (logD(pH7.4)=2.05), and good CNS penetration (blood/brain 3.4x). In vitro toxicological tests indicated low potential for phospholipidosis, genotoxicity, and CYP(450) inhibition. Even though pharmacokinetic testing uncovered only moderate to poor oral bioavailability in rat (26%), dog (30%), and monkey (8%), and only moderate blood half-lives after i.v. administration (t(1/2) in rat of 2.9h, 1.7h in dog, 1.8h in monkey), suggesting poor human pharmacokinetics, the data overall indicated that A-688057 has an excellent profile for use as a pharmacological tool compound.
Our understanding of the development of neurotransmitter systems in the central nervous system has increased greatly over the past three decades and it has become apparent that drug effects on the developing nervous system may differ considerably from effects on the mature nervous system. Recently it has become clear there are significant differences in the effectiveness of antidepressant drug classes in children and adolescents compared to adults. Whereas the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are effective in treating all ages from children to adults, the tricyclic antidepressants, many of which inhibit norepinephrine reuptake, have been shown to be ineffective in treating children and adolescents even though they are effective in adults. We review here the development of the noradrenergic and serotonergic nervous systems, both in terms of neurotransmitter system markers and function. Both of these neurotransmitter systems are primary targets of antidepressant medications as well as of central nervous system stimulants. It is clear from a comparison of their development that the serotonin system reaches maturity much earlier than the norepinephrine system. We suggest this may help explain the differences in response to antidepressants in children and adolescents compared to adults. In addition, these differences suggest that drugs acting preferentially on either neurotransmitter system may impact the normal course of CNS development at different time points. Consideration of such differences in the development of neurotransmitter systems may be of significance in optimizing treatments for a variety of centrally mediated disorders.
Neuronal histamine regulates several functions in the vertebrate brain. The zebrafish brain contains a widespread histaminergic system and H(3) receptor ligand binding has been reported. In this study we provide evidence for the existence of histamine H(1), H(2) and H(3) receptor genes in zebrafish. Single copies of putative histamine H(1), H(2) and H(3) receptors were identified and cloned from the zebrafish brain. Expression analysis suggested that they are expressed in the brain and a few other tissues. Widespread distribution of zebrafish H(2) receptor binding sites was detected with [(125)I]iodoaminopotentidine in brain sections. Zebrafish larvae were exposed to 1, 10 or 100 microM of the H(1) ligand pyrilamine, the H(2) ligand cimetidine and the H(3) ligands thioperamide and immepip for 5 days. Significant decreases in swimming distance were observed with the highest dose of all ligands, whereas cimetidine gave a significant decrease also with 1 and 10 microM doses. These results provide the first molecular biological evidence for the presence of histamine receptors in zebrafish. These histamine receptors resemble those of higher vertebrates and they provide a useful model for pharmacological and behavioral studies for characterizing the functions of histamine in more detail.


Using carbon fiber amperometry, we exploited the natural variation in quantal size (Q) among individual granules in rat chromaffin cells to examine the influence of Q on quantal release kinetics. Although it is generally accepted that granules with larger Q have slower kinetics of release, we found that this trend was applicable only to granules with Q(1/3) &lt; 0.6 pC(1/3). Granules with larger Q adapted specific mechanisms to maintain a rapid kinetic of release. The semistable fusion pores in the large-Q granules persisted for a longer duration and could reach a bigger size before the onset of very rapid dilation to allow a longer and larger foot signal. Most importantly, a large proportion of large-Q granules maintained a relatively short half-width in the main spike. This suggests that the most rapid phase of fusion pore dilation in many large-Q granules may be faster than that in small-Q granules. Moreover, cAMP selectively advanced the onset of the rapid dilation of the fusion pore in the large- but not the small-Q granules. Thus, our finding raises the possibility that fusion pore and/or granule matrix in small- and large-Q granules may have different molecular structures.
The importance of acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter in the nervous system is well established, but little is yet known about its recently described role as an autocrine and paracrine hormone in a wide variety of nonneuronal cells. Consistent with the expression of acetylcholine in normal lung, small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) synthesize and secrete acetylcholine, which acts as an autocrine growth factor through both nicotinic and muscarinic cholinergic mechanisms. The purpose of this study was to determine if interruption of autocrine muscarinic cholinergic signaling has potential to inhibit SCLC growth. Muscarinic receptor (mAChR) agonists caused concentration-dependent increases in intracellular calcium and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and Akt phosphorylation in SCLC cell lines. The inhibitory potency of mAChR subtype-selective antagonists and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) on acetylcholine-increased intracellular calcium and MAPK and Akt phosphorylation was consistent with mediation by M3 mAChR (M3R). Consistent with autocrine acetylcholine secretion stimulating MAPK and Akt phosphorylation, M3R antagonists and M3R siRNAs alone also caused a decrease in basal levels of MAPK and Akt phosphorylation in SCLC cell lines. Treatment of SCLC cells with M3R antagonists inhibited cell growth both in vitro and in vivo and also decreased MAPK phosphorylation in tumors in nude mice in vivo. Immunohistochemical staining of SCLC and additional cancer types showed frequent coexpression of acetylcholine and M3R. These findings suggest that M3R antagonists may be useful adjuvants for treatment of SCLC and, potentially, other cancers.
Tasidotin (ILX-651), an orally active synthetic microtubule-targeted derivative of the marine depsipeptide dolastatin-15, is currently undergoing clinical evaluation for cancer treatment. Tasidotin inhibited proliferation of MCF7/GFP breast cancer cells with an IC(50) of 63 nmol/L and inhibited mitosis with an IC(50) of 72 nmol/L in the absence of detectable effects on spindle microtubule polymer mass. Tasidotin inhibited the polymerization of purified tubulin into microtubules weakly (IC(50) approximately 30 micromol/L). However, it strongly suppressed the dynamic instability behavior of the microtubules at their plus ends at concentrations approximately 5 to 10 times below those required to inhibit polymerization. Its major actions were to reduce the shortening rate, the switching frequency from growth to shortening (catastrophe frequency), and the fraction of time the microtubules grew. In contrast with all other microtubule-targeted drugs thus far examined that can inhibit polymerization, tasidotin did not inhibit the growth rate. In contrast to stabilizing plus ends, tasidotin enhanced microtubule dynamic instability at minus ends, increasing the shortening length, the fraction of time the microtubules shortened, and the catastrophe frequency and reducing the rescue frequency. Tasidotin C-carboxylate, the major intracellular metabolite of tasidotin, altered dynamic instability of purified microtubules in a qualitatively similar manner to tasidotin but was 10 to 30 times more potent. The results suggest that the principal mechanism by which tasidotin inhibits cell proliferation is by suppressing spindle microtubule dynamics. Tasidotin may be a relatively weak prodrug for the functionally active tasidotin C-carboxylate.
Understanding the mechanisms that control amphibian limb regeneration should allow us to decipher the critical differences between amphibians and humans, which have the limited ability of organ regeneration. However, many issues at the cellular and molecular levels still remain unresolved. We have generated a transgenic Xenopus laevis line that expresses green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of mouse prx1 limb enhancer, which directs reporter gene expression in limb mesenchyme in mice, and found that GFP accumulated in blastemal mesenchymal cells of the transgenic froglets after limb amputation. Thus, this transgenic line should provide a new approach to gain insights into the cellular dynamics and signaling pathways involved in limb blastema formation. We have also developed a culture system for forelimb explants of froglets and found that treatment with inhibitors of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) repressed GFP expression. These effects were partially reversible, and down-regulation of GFP was associated with inhibition of cell-cycle progression and induction of ectopic apoptosis. In addition, we found that ERK1/2 and AKT, downstream mediators of MEK1/2 and PI3K pathways, were activated in amputated forelimb stumps. These results demonstrate that MEK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathways regulate limb blastema formation in the X. laevis froglet.
A critical part of the functional development of our peripheral balance system is the embryonic formation of otoconia, composite crystals that overlie and provide optimal stimulus input to the sensory epithelium of the gravity receptor in the inner ear. To date neither the functions of otoconial proteins nor the processes of crystal formation are clearly defined. Using gene targeting and protein analysis strategies, we demonstrate that the predominant mammalian otoconin, otoconin-90/95 (Oc90), is essential for formation of the organic matrix of otoconia by specifically recruiting other matrix components, which includes otolin, a novel mammalian otoconin that we identified to be in wildtype murine otoconia. We show that this matrix controls otoconia growth and morphology by embedding the crystallites during seeding and growth. During otoconia development, the organic matrix forms prior to CaCO3 deposition and provides optimal calcification efficiency. Histological and ultrastructural examinations show normal inner ear epithelial morphology but reduced acellular matrices, including otoconial, cupular and tectorial membranes, in Oc90 null mice, likely due to an absence of Oc90 and a profound reduction of otolin. Our data demonstrate the critical roles of otoconins in otoconia seeding, growth and anchoring and suggest mechanistic similarities and differences between otoconia and bone calcification.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs, with a length of 19 to 23 nucleotides, which appear to be involved in the regulation of gene expression by inhibiting the translation of messenger RNA. Expression profile analysis of miRNAs is necessary to understand their complex role in the regulation of gene expression during the development and differentiation of cells and in various tissues. We describe here a detection system for miRNA expression profiles, using a new type of DNA chip and fluorescent labeled cellular RNAs, which allows real-time detection of hybridization signals at every step of washing and results in highly reproducible miRNA expression profiles. Using the system, we investigated the expression profiles of miRNA in the mouse central nervous system (CNS), namely the spinal cord, medulla oblongata, pons, cerebellum, midbrain, diencephalons, and cerebral hemispheres. The results indicated that although the CNS subregions expressed similar miRNA genes, the expression levels of the miRNAs varied among the subregions, suggesting that the CNS subregions specialized for different functions possess different expression profiles of miRNAs.
In the mature central nervous system (CNS) regulated secretion of ATP from astrocytes is thought to play a significant role in cell signaling. Whether such a mechanism is also operative in the developing nervous system and, if so, during which stage of development, has not been investigated. We have tackled this question using cells derived from reconstituted neurospheres, as well as brain explants of embryonic mice. Here, we show that in both models of neural cell development, astrocyte progenitors are competent for the regulated secretion of ATP-containing vesicles. We further document that this secretion is dependent on cytosolic Ca(2+) and the v-SNARE system, and takes place by exocytosis. Interference with ATP secretion alters spontaneous Ca(2+) oscillations and migration of neural progenitors. These data indicate that astrocyte progenitors acquire early in development the competence for regulated secretion of ATP, and that this event is implicated in the regulation of at least two cell functions, which are critical for the proper morphogenesis and functional maturation of the CNS.
Dorsal root injury is known to induce alteration of the extracellular environment in the spinal cord and synaptic reorganization with degradation of injured primary afferent and sprouting of spared terminal. These changes affect behavioral sensitivity and sometimes lead to neuropathic pain. We have hypothesized that changes in extracellular proteolysis in the dorsal horn is involved in neuroplastic changes in the dorsal horn after nerve injury. Tissue type plasminogen activator (tPA) is a well-known extracellular serine protease and is involved in the modification of the extracellular matrix, which leads to neuroplastic changes such as long-term potentiation in the hippocampus. In the present study, we found a marked induction of tPA in activated astrocytes following L4/5 root injury and a resultant increase of proteolytic enzymatic activity in the dorsal horn. We also examined the involvement of tPA activity on mechanical hypersensitivity using a root ligation model which has been used for investigating radiculopathy pain behavior. Intrathecal and continuous administration of tPA inhibitor, tPA-STOP, suppressed root ligation-induced mechanical allodynia in a dose-dependent manner during an early stage of injury (0-4 days). In contrast, the delayed administration of tPA-STOP during the chronic stage of injury (10 days) did not affect pain behavior. These data suggest an important contribution of astrocytes in the dorsal horn to the pathophysiology of radiculopathy pain, and astrocyte-derived tPA and the proteolytic activity in the dorsal horn may be one of the essential factors involved in pain following root injury.
We previously reported that extracellular ATP induces membrane ruffling and chemotaxis of microglia and suggested that their induction is mediated by the Gi/o-protein coupled P2Y(12) receptor (P2Y(12)R). Here we report discovering that the P2X(4) receptor (P2X(4)R) is also involved in ATP-induced microglial chemotaxis. To understand the intracellular signaling pathway downstream of P2Y(12)R that underlies microglial chemotaxis, we examined the effect of two phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase (PI3K) inhibitors, wortmannin, and LY294002, on chemotaxis in a Dunn chemotaxis chamber. The PI3K inhibitors significantly suppressed chemotaxis without affecting ATP-induced membrane ruffling. ATP stimulation increased Akt phosphorylation in the microglia, and the increase was reduced by the PI3K inhibitors and a P2Y(12)R antagonist. These results indicate that P2Y(12)R-mediated activation of the PI3K pathway is required for microglial chemotaxis in response to ATP. We also found that the Akt phosphorylation was reduced when extracellular calcium was chelated, suggesting that ionotropic P2X receptors are involved in microglial chemotaxis by affecting the PI3K pathway. We therefore tested the effect of various P2X(4)R antagonists on the chemotaxis, and the results showed that pharmacological blockade of P2X(4)R significantly inhibited it. Knockdown of the P2X(4) receptor in microglia by RNA interference through the lentivirus vector system also suppressed the microglial chemotaxis. These results indicate that P2X(4)R as well as P2Y(12)R is involved in ATP-induced microglial chemotaxis.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a unique member of the Cdk family; its kinase activity requires association with its activator, p35 or p39. p35 is the strongest and best characterized activator. Previous studies showed that p35 is a neuron-specific protein that restricts Cdk5 activity in neurons. However, a high expression level of Cdk5 is found in astrocytes, which raises the possibility that astrocytic Cdk5 is functional. Here we show the presence of functional Cdk5 associated with p35 in astrocytes and demonstrate its important role in process elongation of scratched astrocytes. We found that p35 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were co-localized in primary cultured and acute isolated brain cells. Cdk5 could form an immunocomplex with p35 and its activity was shown in pure primary cultured astrocytes. p35 was upregulated in astrocytes injured by scratching, concomitantly with upregulation of Cdk5 kinase activity. Pretreatment of the scratched astrocytes with a Cdk5 inhibitor, roscovitine, could delay wound healing by inhibiting the reorganization of tubulin, GFAP, and the extension of hypertrophic processes. Moreover, overexpression of dominant negative Cdk5 could shorten the length of extending protrusion of reactive astrocytes. Thus, our findings demonstrated that functional Cdk5, associated with p35, was expressed in astrocytes and its activity could be upregulated in reactive astrocytes, a new role of Cdk5 that has never been reported in the nervous system. The present study may provide new insight for understanding the multifunctional protein complex Cdk5/p35 in the nervous system.
Previous validation studies on the PDQ-8, a brief disease-specific quality of life instrument, were performed with the PDQ-8 nested in the original PDQ-39. Such an approach may influence patient responses and the psychometric properties of the PDQ-8. We therefore undertook this study to validate the PDQ-8 when administered independently in English and Chinese and found good item-to-scale correlations (correlation coefficient: 0.44-0.68) and internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha: 0.81, 0.87). Factor analyses yielded a component on which all 8 questions were substantially loaded (loading range: 0.55-0.77). Scree plots also showed the one-factor solution thereby validating the PDQ-8 summary index. Construct validation against the Hoehn and Yahr stage and UPDRS motor scores showed significant correlations between higher PDQ-8 summary index and increased disease severity in both English and Chinese versions. Our results show the PDQ-8 to be a valid and reliable disease-specific HRQoL instrument for PD when used independently of the PDQ-39.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a heterogeneous, highly heritable, disorder resulting from complex gene-gene and gene-environment interactions. The defining symptoms of hyperactivity, impulsivity and impaired sustained attention are not unique to ADHD. It is therefore not surprising that animals with distinctly different neural defects model the behavioural characteristics of the disorder. Consistent with ADHD being a developmental disorder, animal models are either genetic (spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), dopamine transporter (DAT) knock-out mice, SNAP-25 mutant mice, mice expressing a mutant thyroid receptor) or have suffered an insult to the central nervous system during the early stages of development (anoxia, 6-hydroxydopamine). It appears that neural transmission is impaired by either direct disruption of dopaminergic transmission or a more general impairment of neurotransmission that gives rise to compensatory changes in monoaminergic systems that are not sufficient to completely normalize neural function. In general, results obtained with animal studies suggest that dopamine neurons are functionally impaired. However, evidence obtained from some animal models suggests that the noradrenergic and serotonergic neurotransmitter systems may be the target of drugs that ameliorate ADHD symptoms.
The implantation of a foreign object in the brain produces an acute neuroinflammatory state in which glia (astrocytes and microglia) may remain chronically activated in response to the inert foreign object. Activated glia can exhibit a sensitized pro-inflammatory response to immunogenic stimuli. This may be relevant to intracranial cannula implantation, which is commonly used to administer substances directly into the brain. If intracranial cannulation activates glia, a subsequent neuroinflammatory stimulus might induce a potentiated pro-inflammatory response, thereby introducing a potential experimental confound. We tested the temporal and spatial responses of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) to an acute immune challenge produced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in animals with chronic bilateral intrahippocampal cannulae implants (stainless steel). Cannulation increased the gene expression of the microglia activation antigens MHC II and CD11b, but not the astrocyte antigen GFAP. Moreover, this activation was temporally and spatially dependent. In addition, IL-1beta mRNA, but not IL-1beta protein, was significantly elevated in cannulated animals. Administration of LPS, however, significantly potentiated the brain IL-1beta response in cannulated animals, but not in stab wounded or nave animals. This IL-1beta response was also temporo-spatially dependent. Thus, the pro-inflammatory sequelae of intracranial cannulation should be considered when designing studies of neuroinflammatory processes.
Deposition of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) as senile plaques and amyloid angiopathy are the major neuropathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Heterogeneity is observed in the N- and C-termini of the deposited Abeta species. Recent evidence implicates caspase activation and apoptosis in AD neurodegeneration. We previously reported that a distinct N-terminally truncated Abeta species, Abeta5-40/42 is preferentially produced from the caspase-cleaved form of amyloid precursor protein (APP) lacking its C-terminal 31 amino acids and that it is deposited in AD brain tissues. Here, we generated a novel monoclonal antibody specific to the N-terminal end of Abeta5-40/42. Western blotting confirmed that this antibody recognizes Abeta5-40 but not Abeta1-40. We also showed that the antibody is able to immunoprecipitate Abeta5-40 but not Abeta1-40. Immunoprecipitation with the antibody followed by mass spectrometric analysis further detected Abeta5-40 in the conditioned media from neuroblastoma cells expressing the caspase-cleaved APP. The antibody reacted weakly with Abeta derived from AD brains. These results suggest that our novel monoclonal antibody is useful for detecting the N-terminally truncated Abeta produced in conjunction with caspase activation.
Many variables in the social, physical, and biosciences, including neuroscience, are non-normally distributed. To improve the statistical properties of such data, or to allow parametric testing, logarithmic or logit transformations are often used. Box-Cox transformations or ad hoc methods are sometimes used for parameters for which no transformation is known to approximate normality. However, these methods do not always give good agreement with the Gaussian. A transformation is discussed that maps probability distributions as closely as possible to the normal distribution, with exact agreement for continuous distributions. To illustrate, the transformation is applied to a theoretical distribution, and to quantitative electroencephalographic (qEEG) measures from repeat recordings of 32 subjects which are highly non-normal. Agreement with the Gaussian was better than using logarithmic, logit, or Box-Cox transformations. Since normal data have previously been shown to have better test-retest reliability than non-normal data under fairly general circumstances, the implications of our transformation for the test-retest reliability of parameters were investigated. Reliability was shown to improve with the transformation, where the improvement was comparable to that using Box-Cox. An advantage of the general transformation is that it does not require laborious optimization over a range of parameters or a case-specific choice of form.
Cost-based metrics formalize notions of distance, or dissimilarity, between two spike trains, and are applicable to single- and multineuronal responses. As such, these metrics have been used to characterize neural variability and neural coding. By examining the structure of an efficient algorithm [Aronov D, 2003. Fast algorithm for the metric-space analysis of simultaneous responses of multiple single neurons. J Neurosci Methods 124(2), 175-79] implementing a metric for multineuronal responses, we determine criteria for its generalization, and identify additional efficiencies that are applicable when related dissimilarity measures are computed in parallel. The generalized algorithm provides the means to test a wide range of coding hypotheses.
We compared functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) for the mapping of receptive language function. Participants performed the same language task in the two different imaging environments. MEG activation profiles showed prominent bilateral activity in superior temporal gyrus and left-lateralized activity in middle temporal gyrus. fMRI activation profiles revealed bilateral activity in prefrontal, superior temporal, middle temporal, and visual areas. Laterality quotients derived from the two modalities showed poor agreement between the two methods for commonly active regions of interest. Locations of peak activity also varied considerably within participants between the two methods.
The connections and monosynaptic projections of muscle spindle afferents of individual heads of the longissimus lumborum have been studied in cats by natural stimulation, by electrical stimulation and by spike-triggered averaging from single identified afferents. The spindle afferents were classified by sensitivity to vibration and by the effect of succinylcholine on their response to ramp-and-hold muscle stretches. Axonal conduction and synaptic effects were recorded as field potentials and focal synaptic potentials during systematic exploration of the spinal cord in segments L1 to L4 with extracellular metal microelectrodes, singly and in linear arrays. Ascending branches of afferent axons within the cord had a significantly higher mean conduction velocity (CV: 56.5 m s(-1)) than descending branches (40.8 m s(-1)). The CV of ascending branches was significantly positively correlated with a measure of the strength of intrafusal bag(2) muscle fibre contacts, but not to a measure of bag(1) contacts. Two sites of monosynaptic excitatory projection in the cord were identified, namely to the intermediate region (laminae V, VI and VII) and to ventral horn region (laminae VIII and IX). In tests of 154 single afferents, signs of central projection were detected for 60, providing 122 regions of maximum negative focal synaptic potentials (FSPs) of mean amplitude 7.51 microV. Their longitudinal spacing indicated that axons gave off descending collaterals at intervals of 1.5-3.5 mm. Based on the amplitude of FSPs, the projection of secondary afferents is stronger than that of primaries in the intermediate region and possibly also in the ventral horn region. Evidence is also presented that spindle afferent input from different heads of the longissimus converges into any given spinal segment and that input in one spinal root projects to adjacent segments. It is concluded that the organization of the longissimus monosynaptic spindle input favours relatively tonic and diffuse stretch reflexes.
Questions surrounding estrogen therapy for post-menopausal cognitive decline and dementia led us to examine the role of luteinizing hormone that becomes elevated after menopause. We examined hippocampal-associated cognitive performance, as measured with the Y-maze task, in two strains of transgenic mice, one (Tg-LHbeta) which over-expresses luteinizing hormone and another (LHRKO), which has increased circulating luteinizing hormone levels, but its receptors are silenced. Our results demonstrate that Tg-LHbeta, but not LHRKO mice, show decreased Y-maze performance when compared to aged-matched wild-type animals. These findings indicate that increased luteinizing hormone levels, in the presence of functional receptors may, at least in part, be responsible for cognitive decline after menopause. As such, modulation of luteinizing hormone or its receptor levels may prove to be useful therapeutic strategies for cognitive decline associated with aging and age-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease.
Anti-Hu encephalomyelitis is one of the most frequent paraneoplastic syndromes, classically presenting with diffuse neurological involvement. We report a 69-year-old man presenting with a three-month isolated, progressive gait disorder with normal neurological examination, except for loss of balance and gait failure reminding frontal disequilibrium, only accompanied by a very mild rigidity of his right foot. MRI of the brain showed hyperintensities in both amygdale and left putamen. EMG study showed no abnormal continuous spontaneous fiber activity. Because of fast progression and MRI findings, anti-Hu antibodies were tested, resulting positive. Mediastinal biopsy of two adenopathies detected by body-PET, confirmed an oat-cell carcinoma. The patient received oral steroids and oncological therapy. One year later, the tumor is in remission. His gait and abnormal posture of right leg are normal. Only mild residual hyperintensities persist on follow-up MRI. A paraneoplastic syndrome should be considered in the differential diagnosis of subacute, fast progressive gait disorders.
Using antibodies to calcineurin (CaN) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), we performed topographical and cellular immunohistochemical analysis on the posterior putamen of autopsied patients with multiple system atrophy with predominant parkinsonism (MSA-P). We document that in these patients, medium spiny neurons positive for CaN were severely depleted in the dorsolateral portion of the posterior putamen where ChAT-positive neurons are normally distributed. Our findings indicate that in patients with MSA-P, striatal neurons manifest a cell type-specific vulnerability to neurodegeneration.
This is a single case report of a patient with spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) and severe tremor. Whereas disease progression with prevailing ataxia and dysmetria was slow over the first symptomatic 6 years, 6 months prior to operation were characterized by the development of a severe, debilitating postural tremor rendering the patient unable to independently sit, stand, speak, or swallow. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) at a subthalamic-thalamic electrode position almost completely arrested her tremor. The patient regained the functional state prior to her rapid disease progression allowing a restricted range of daily activities. Her condition has remained approximately stable over the two postoperative years to date. In addition to the efficacy of DBS on cerebellar tremor, the results illustrate a remarkable improvement of the patient's general condition and independence.
Behavioral and neuroimaging studies of cognition frequently test hypotheses regarding mental processing of different stimulus categories (e.g. verbs, faces, animals, scenes, etc.). The conclusions of such studies hinge upon the generalizability of their findings from the specific stimuli used in the experiment to the category as a whole. This type of generalizability is explicitly tested in behavioral studies, using &quot;item analysis&quot;. However, generalizability to stimulus categories has up until now been assumed in neuroimaging studies, without employing item analysis for statistical validation. Here we apply item analysis to a functional magnetic resonance imaging study of nouns and verbs, demonstrating its theoretical importance and feasibility. In the subject-wise analysis, a left prefrontal and a left posterior-temporal region of interest showed putative grammatical class effects. An item-wise analysis revealed, however, that only the left posterior-temporal effect was generalizable to the stimulus categories of nouns and verbs. Taken together, the findings of the subject- and item-wise analyses suggest that grammatical-class effects in the left prefrontal cortex depend on the particular word stimuli used, rather than reflecting categorical differences between nouns and verbs. This empirical example illustrates that item analysis not only is sufficiently powered to detect task relevant changes in BOLD signal but also can make theoretically important distinctions between findings that generalize to the item populations, and those that do not.
A number of neuroimaging and neuropsychology studies have implicated various regions of parietal cortex as playing a critical role in the binding of color and form into conjunctions. The current study investigates the role of two such regions by examining how parietal transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) influences binding errors known as 'illusory conjunctions'. Participants made fewer binding errors after 1 Hz rTMS of the right intraparietal sulcus (IPS), while basic perception of features (color and shape) was unaffected. No perceptual effects were found following left IPS stimulation, or stimulation of the right angular gyrus at the junction of the transverse occipital sulcus (IPS/TOS). These results support a role for the parietal cortex in feature binding but in ways that may require rethinking.
Conventional microscopy, electron microscopy, and imaging techniques such as MRI and PET commonly generate large stacks of images of the sectioned brain. In other domains, such as neurophysiology, variables such as space or time are also varied along a stack axis. Digital image sizes have been progressively increasing and in virtual microscopy, it is now common to work with individual image sizes that are several hundred megapixels and several gigabytes in size. The interactive visualization of these high-resolution, multiresolution images in 2D has been addressed previously [Sullivan, G., and Baker, R., 1994. Efficient quad-tree coding of images and video. IEEE Trans. Image Process. 3 (3), 327-331]. Here, we describe a method for interactive visualization of multiresolution image stacks in 3D. The method, characterized as quad-tree based multiresolution image stack interactive visualization using a texel projection based criterion, relies on accessing and projecting image tiles from multiresolution image stacks in such a way that, from the observer's perspective, image tiles all appear approximately the same size even though they are accessed from different tiers within the images comprising the stack. This method enables efficient navigation of high-resolution image stacks. We implement this method in a program called StackVis, which is a Windows-based, interactive 3D multiresolution image stack visualization system written in C++ and using OpenGL. It is freely available at http://brainmaps.org.

Most prospective studies of HPA axis have found that non-suppressors in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) are more likely to commit suicide during the follow-up. Attempted suicide is a strong clinical predictor of suicide. The aim of this study was to assess the predictive value of DST for suicide in a group of depressed inpatients with and without an index suicide attempt. Historical cohort of 382 psychiatric inpatients with mood disorder admitted to the department of Psychiatry at the Karolinska University Hospital between 1980 and 2000 were submitted to the DST and followed up for causes of death. During the follow-up (mean 18 years), 36 suicides (9.4%) occurred, 20 of these were non-suppressors and 16 were suppressors. There was no statistically significant difference in suicide risk between the suppressors and non-suppressors for the sample as a whole. An index suicide attempt predicted suicide. In suicide attempters with mood disorder, the non-suppressor status was significantly associated with suicide indicating that HPA axis hyperactivity is a risk factor for suicide in this group. The dexamethasone suppression test may be a useful predictor within this population.
Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) has been implicated as a key molecule in arresting embryonic development; however, its mechanism of action is not fully established. The aim of the present study was to determine the chronological generation of H(2)O(2) from oocyte to morula, and to examine the relationship of H(2)O(2) with loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kappaB), p53, caspase-3 activation, and cell death in bovine embryos in vitro. Accordingly, superoxide anion radicals were detected between 32 and 120 h after in vitro fertilization, but higher percentages of oxygen radicals were found in non-competent embryos (n=73, 22 to 34%) than in competent embryos (n=73, 0 to 1%; P&lt;0.005). Similarly, H(2)O(2) levels were higher in non-competent embryos (n=249, 39 to 71%) than in competent embryos (n=278, 0 to 3.4%) at all developmental stages tested (P&lt;0.005). The percentage of cells with apoptotic morphology were higher in non-competent embryos (n=411, 3 to 54%) than in competent embryos (n=306, 0 to 0.6%; P&lt;0.005). Based on assessment of mitochondrial membrane potential, competent embryos (n=305) had the highest percentages of JC-1 staining (31 to 50%) when compared with non-competent embryos (n=411; 1 to 15%, P&lt;0.005). The percentage of activation of general caspases was different in non-competent embryos (n=291, 15 to 57%) when compared to competent embryos (n=304, 0 to 0.5%; P&lt;0.005). Pharmacological inhibition of caspase-3, NF-kappaB and p53 triggered aberrant embryo cytoplasmic fragmentation with and without nuclei. We concluded that the sequential mechanism of O(2)(-) and H(2)O(2) generation, mitochondrial damage, caspase activation, and apoptotic morphology might be responsible for the developmental arrest of preimplantation embryos.

The balancing act between microbes and their host in commensal and disease states needs to be deciphered in order to fully treat and combat infectious diseases. The elucidation of microbial genome dynamics in each instance is therefore required. In this context, the major bacterial meningitis pathogens are Neisseria meningitidis, Haemophilus influenzae and Streptococcus pneumoniae. In prokaryotic CNS pathogenesis both the intact organism as well as its released components can elicit disease, often resulting in neurological sequelae, neurodegeneration or fatal outcome. The study of microbial virulence in CNS disease is expected to generate findings that yield new information on the general mechanisms of brain edema and excitatory neuronal disturbances due to meningitis, with significant potential for discoveries that can directly influence and inspire new strategies for prevention and treatment of this serious disease.
In recent years, it has become increasingly clear that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage are major contributors to neuronal loss. Free radicals, typically generated from mitochondrial respiration, cause oxidative damage of nucleic acids, lipids, carbohydrates and proteins. Despite enormous amount of effort, however, the mechanism by which oxidative damage causes neuronal death is not well understood. Emerging data from a number of neurodegenerative diseases suggest that there may be common features of toxicity that are related to oxidative damage. In this review, while focusing on Huntington's disease (HD), we discuss similarities among HD, Friedreich ataxia and xeroderma pigmentosum, which provide insight into shared mechanisms of neuronal death.
Patients with the rare genetic disorders, xeroderma pigmentosum (XP), trichothiodystrophy (TTD) and Cockayne syndrome (CS) have defects in DNA nucleotide excision repair (NER). The NER pathway involves at least 28 genes. Three NER genes are also part of the basal transcription factor, TFIIH. Mutations in 11 NER genes have been associated with clinical diseases with at least eight overlapping phenotypes. The clinical features of these patients have some similarities but also have marked differences. NER is involved in protection against sunlight-induced DNA damage. While XP patients have 1000-fold increase in susceptibility to skin cancer, TTD and CS patients have normal skin cancer risk. Several of the genes involved in NER also affect somatic growth and development. Some patients have short stature and immature sexual development. TTD patients have sulfur deficient brittle hair. Progressive sensorineural deafness is an early feature of XP and CS. Many of these clinical diseases are associated with developmental delay and progressive neurological degeneration. The main neuropathology of XP is a primary neuronal degeneration. In contrast, CS and TTD patients have reduced myelination of the brain. These complex neurological abnormalities are not related to sunlight exposure but may be caused by developmental defects as well as faulty repair of DNA damage to neuronal cells induced by oxidative metabolism or other endogenous processes.
A subgroup of human autosomal recessive ataxias is also characterized by disturbances of eye movement or oculomotor apraxia. These include ataxia telangiectasia (A-T); ataxia telangiectasia like disorder (ATLD); ataxia oculomotor apraxia type 1 (AOA1) and ataxia oculomotor apraxia type 2 (AOA2). What appears to be emerging is that all of these have in common some form of defect in DNA damage response which could account for the neurodegenerative changes seen in these disorders. We describe here sensitivity to DNA damaging agents in AOA1 and evidence that these cells have a defect in single strand break repair. Comparison is made with what appears to be a novel form of AOA (AOA3) which also shows sensitivity to agents that lead to single strand breaks in DNA as well as a reduced capacity to repair these breaks. AOA3 cells are defective in the DNA damage-induced p53 response. This defect can be overcome by incubation with the mdm2 antagonists, nutlins, but combined treatment with nutlins and DNA damage does not enhance the response. We also show that AOA3 cells are deficient in p73 activation after DNA damage. These data provide further evidence that different forms of AOA have in common a reduced capacity to cope with damage to DNA, which may account for the neurodegeneration observed in these syndromes.
Dietary caloric restriction (CR) is the only intervention repeatedly demonstrated to retard the onset and incidence of age-related diseases, maintain function, and extend both lifespan and health span in mammals, including brain and behavioral function. In 70 years of study, such beneficial effects have been demonstrated in rodents and lower animals. Recent results emerging from ongoing studies of CR in humans and nonhuman primates suggest that many of the same anti-disease and anti-aging benefits observed in rodent studies may be applicable to long-lived species. Results of studies in rhesus monkeys indicate that CR animals (30% less than controls) are healthier than fully-fed counterparts based on reduced incidence of various diseases, exhibit significantly better indices of predisposition to disease and may be aging at a slower rate based on analysis of selected indices of aging. The current review discusses approaches taken in studies of rhesus monkeys to analyze age-related changes in brain and behavioral function and the impact of CR on these changes. Approaches include analyses of gross and fine locomotor performance as well as brain imaging. In a related study it was observed that short-term CR (6 months) in adult rhesus monkeys can provide protection against a neurotoxic insult. Increasing interest in the CR paradigm will expand its role in demonstrating how nutrition can modulate the rate of aging and the mechanisms responsible for this modulation.
Six major pathways for DNA repair have been identified. These include (1) DNA repair by direct reversal, (2) base excision repair, (3) mismatch repair, (4) nucleotide excision repair, (5) homologous recombination, and (6) non-homologous end-joining. In addition, several other cellular processes influence the response to DNA damage. The generation of gene-targeted organisms is crucial for assessing the relative contribution of single DNA repair proteins and DNA repair pathways in maintaining genome stability. In particular, the accumulation of DNA damage, mutations and cancer in unexposed gene-targeted animals illuminates the spontaneous load of a particular lesion and the relative significance of a single gene in a specific pathway. Strategies for the generation of gene-targeted mice have been available for 15 years and more than 100 different genes relevant to DNA repair have been targeted. This review describes some important progress made toward understanding spontaneous DNA damage and its repair, exemplified through one, or a few, gene-targeted mice from each major DNA repair pathway.
Postmitotic neurons must survive for the entire life of the organism and be able to respond adaptively to adverse conditions of oxidative and genotoxic stress. Unrepaired DNA damage can trigger apoptosis of neurons which is typically mediated by the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM)-p53 pathway. As in all mammalian cells, telomeres in neurons consist of TTAGGG DNA repeats and several associated proteins that form a nucleoprotein complex that prevents chromosome ends from being recognized as double strand breaks. Proteins that stabilize telomeres include TRF1 and TRF2, and proteins known to play important roles in DNA damage responses and DNA repair including ATM, Werner and the catalytic subunit of DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PKcs). We have been performing studies of developing and adult neurons aimed at understanding the effects of global and telomere-directed DNA damage responses in neuronal plasticity and survival in the contexts of aging and neurodegenerative disorders. Deficits in specific DNA repair proteins, including DNA-PKcs and uracil DNA glycosylase (UDG), render neurons vulnerable to adverse conditions of relevance to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and stroke. Similarly, early postmitotic neurons with reduced telomerase activity exhibit accentuated responses to DNA damage and are prone to apoptosis demonstrating a pivotal role for telomere maintenance in both mitotic cells and postmitotic neurons. Our recent findings suggest key roles for TRF2 in regulating the differentiation and survival of neurons. TRF2 affects cell survival and differentiation by modulating DNA damage pathways, and gene expression. A better understanding of the molecular mechanisms by which neurons respond to global and telomere-specific DNA damage may reveal novel strategies for prevention and treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. Indeed, work in this and other laboratories has shown that dietary folic acid can protect neurons against Alzheimer's disease by keeping homocysteine levels low and thereby minimizing the misincorporation of uracil into DNA in neurons.
Patients with the genetic disease xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) lack the capacity to carry out a specific type of DNA repair process called nucleotide excision repair (NER). The NER pathway plays a critical role in the repair of DNA damage resulting from ultraviolet (UV) radiation. A subset of XP patients develops a profound neurodegenerative condition known as XP neurological disease. Robbins and colleagues [Andrews A, Barrett S, Robbins J (1978) Xeroderma pigmentosum neurological abnormalities correlate with the colony forming ability after ultraviolet irradiation. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 75:1984-1988] hypothesized that since UV light cannot reach into the human brain, XP neurological disease results from some form of endogenous DNA damage that is normally repaired by the NER pathway. In the absence of NER, the damage accumulates, causing neuronal death by blocking transcription. In this manuscript, I consider the evidence that a particular class of oxidative DNA lesions, the 8,5'-cyclopurine-2'-deoxynucleosides, fulfills many of the criteria expected of neurodegenerative DNA lesions in XP. Specifically, these lesions are chemically stable, endogenous DNA lesions that are repaired by the NER pathway but not by any other known process, and strongly block transcription by RNA polymerase II in cells from XP patients. A similar set of criteria might be used to evaluate other candidate DNA lesions responsible for neurological diseases resulting from defects in other DNA repair mechanisms as well.
It was established several decades ago that it is crucial for all organisms to repair their DNA to maintain genome integrity and numerous proteins are dedicated to this purpose. However, it is becoming increasingly clear that it is also important to prevent and repair lesions in the macromolecules encoded by the DNA, i.e. RNA and protein. Many neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease are associated with the aggregation of defective, misfolded proteins, and several mechanisms exist to prevent such aggregation, both through direct protein repair and through the elimination and repair of faulty or damaged RNAs. A few years ago, it was discovered that the E. coli AlkB protein represented an iron and 2-oxoglutarate dependent oxygenase capable of repairing methyl lesions in DNA by a novel mechanism, termed oxidative demethylation. Furthermore, it was found that both human and bacterial AlkB proteins were able to demethylate lesions also in RNA, thus representing the first example of RNA repair. In the present review, recent findings on the AlkB mechanism, as well as on RNA damage in general, will be discussed.
This review is focused on proteins with key roles in pathways controlling either reactive oxygen species or DNA damage responses, both of which are essential for preserving the nervous system. An imbalance of reactive oxygen species or inappropriate DNA damage response likely causes mutational or cytotoxic outcomes, which may lead to cancer and/or aging phenotypes. Moreover, individuals with hereditary disorders in proteins of these cellular pathways have significant neurological abnormalities. Mutations in a superoxide dismutase, which removes oxygen free radicals, may cause the neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Additionally, DNA repair disorders that affect the brain to various extents include ataxia-telangiectasia-like disorder, Cockayne syndrome or Werner syndrome. Here, we highlight recent advances gained through structural biochemistry studies on enzymes linked to these disorders and other related enzymes acting within the same cellular pathways. We describe the current understanding of how these vital proteins coordinate chemical steps and integrate cellular signaling and response events. Significantly, these structural studies may provide a set of master keys to developing a unified understanding of the survival mechanisms utilized after insults by reactive oxygen species and genotoxic agents, and also provide a basis for developing an informed intervention in brain tumor and neurodegenerative disease progression.
This laboratory, using post-mitotic rat brain neurons as a model system, has been testing the hypothesis that the inherited DNA repair potential would have profound influence on the aging process of the individual. It has been found that both single and double strand breaks in DNA accumulate in neurons with age. Since base excision repair (BER) is the pathway to effect repair of the type of DNA damage that is likely to occur in neurons, model oligo duplexes were used to assess the BER pathway. Both extension of a primer and one or four nucleotide gap repair are markedly reduced in aging neurons as compared with the young. The extension activity could be restored by supplementing the neuronal extracts with pure DNA polymerase beta (pol beta) while the restoration of gap repair needed the addition of both pol beta and DNA ligase. It thus appears that both pol beta and DNA ligase are deficient in aging neurons. We have also established a system to study the non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) mode of DNA repair in neurons. The end joining of cohesive but not of blunt or non-matching ends, is reduced with age and attempts to identify the limiting factor(s) in this case have been unsuccessful so far. These results are reviewed vis--vis the existing literature.
Genome instability has been implicated as a major cause of both cancer and aging. Using a lacZ-plasmid transgenic mouse model we have shown that mutations accumulate with age in a tissue-specific manner. Genome rearrangements, including translocations and large deletions, are a major component of the mutation spectrum in some tissues at old age such as heart. Such large mutations were also induced by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) in lacZ-plasmid mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and demonstrated to be replication-independent. This was in contrast to ultraviolet light-induced point mutations, which were much more abundant in proliferating than in quiescent MEFs. To test if large rearrangements could adversely affect patterns of gene expression we PCR-amplified global mRNA content of single MEFs treated with H2O2. Such treatment resulted in a significant increase in cell-to-cell variation in gene expression, which was found to parallel the induction and persistence of genome rearrangement mutations at the lacZ reporter locus. Increased transcriptional noise was also found among single cardiomyocytes from old mice as compared with similar cells from young mice. While these results do not directly indicate a cause and effect relationship between genome rearrangement mutations and transcriptional deregulation, they do underscore the stochastic nature of genotoxic effects on cells and tissues and could provide a mechanism for age-related cellular degeneration in postmitotic tissue, such as heart or brain.
Oxidative stress in the brain may cause neuro-degeneration, possibly due to DNA damage. Oxidative base lesions in DNA are mainly repaired by base excision repair (BER). The DNA glycosylases Nei-like DNA glycosylase 1 (NEIL1), Nei-like DNA glycosylase 2 (NEIL2), mitochondrial uracil-DNA glycosylase 1 (UNG1), nuclear uracil-DNA glycosylase 2 (UNG2) and endonuclease III-like 1 protein (NTH1) collectively remove most oxidized pyrimidines, while 8-oxoguanine-DNA glycosylase 1 (OGG1) removes oxidized purines. Although uracil is the main substrate of uracil-DNA glycosylases UNG1 and UNG2, these proteins also remove the oxidized cytosine derivatives isodialuric acid, alloxan and 5-hydroxyuracil. UNG1 and UNG2 have identical catalytic domain, but different N-terminal regions required for subcellular sorting. We demonstrate that mRNA for UNG1, but not UNG2, is increased after hydrogen peroxide, indicating regulatory effects of oxidative stress on mitochondrial BER. To examine the overall organization of uracil-BER in nuclei and mitochondria, we constructed cell lines expressing EYFP (enhanced yellow fluorescent protein) fused to UNG1 or UNG2. These were used to investigate the possible presence of multi-protein BER complexes in nuclei and mitochondria. Extracts from nuclei and mitochondria were both proficient in complete uracil-BER in vitro. BER assays with immunoprecipitates demonstrated that UNG2-EYFP, but not UNG1-EYFP, formed complexes that carried out complete BER. Although apurinic/apyrimidinic site endonuclease 1 (APE1) is highly enriched in nuclei relative to mitochondria, it was apparently the major AP-endonuclease required for BER in both organelles. APE2 is enriched in mitochondria, but its possible role in BER remains uncertain. These results demonstrate that nuclear and mitochondrial BER processes are differently organized. Furthermore, the upregulation of mRNA for mitochondrial UNG1 after oxidative stress indicates that it may have an important role in repair of oxidized pyrimidines.
Cells of the CNS are constantly exposed to agents which damage DNA. Although much attention has been paid to the effects of this damage on nuclear DNA, the nucleus is not the only organelle containing DNA. Within each cell, there are hundreds to thousands of mitochondria. Within each mitochondrion are multiple copies of the mitochondrial genome. These genomes are extremely vulnerable to insult and mutations in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) have been linked to several neurodegenerative diseases, as well as the normal process of aging. The principal mechanism utilized by cells to avoid DNA mutations is DNA repair. Multiple pathways of DNA repair have been elucidated for nuclear DNA. However, it appears that only base excision repair is functioning in mitochondria. This repair pathway is responsible for the removal of most endogenous damage including alkylation damage, depurination reactions and oxidative damage. Within the rat CNS, there are cell-specific differences mtDNA repair. Astrocytes exhibit efficient repair, whereas, other glial cell types and neuronal cells exhibit a reduced ability to remove lesions from mtDNA. Additionally, a correlation was observed between those cells with reduced mtDNA repair and an increase in the induction of apoptosis. To demonstrate a causative relationship, a strategy of targeting DNA repair proteins to mitochondria to enhance mtDNA repair capacity was employed. Enhancement of mtDNA repair in oligodendrocytes provided protection from reactive oxygen species- and cytokine-induced apoptosis. These experiments provide a novel strategy for protecting sensitive CNS cells from genotoxic insults and thus provide new treatment options for neurodegenerative diseases.
Accumulation of nuclear and mitochondrial DNA damage is thought to be particularly deleterious in post-mitotic cells, which cannot be replaced through cell division. Recent experimental evidence demonstrates the importance of DNA damage responses for neuronal survival. Here, we summarize current literature on DNA damage responses in the mammalian CNS in aging and neurodegeneration. Base excision repair (BER) is the main pathway for the removal of small DNA base modifications, such as alkylation, deamination and oxidation, which are generated as by-products of normal metabolism and accumulate with age in various experimental models. Using neuronal cell cultures, human brain tissue and animal models, we and others have shown an active BER pathway functioning in the brain, both in the mitochondrial and nuclear compartments. Mitochondrial DNA repair may play a more essential role in neuronal cells because these cells depend largely on intact mitochondrial function for energy metabolism. We have characterized several BER enzymes in mammalian mitochondria and have shown that BER activities change with age in mitochondria from different brain regions. Together, the results reviewed here advocate that mitochondrial DNA damage response plays an important role in aging and in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases.
Cockayne syndrome (CS) is mainly caused by mutations in the Cockayne syndrome group A or B (CSA or CSB) genes which are required for a sub-pathway of nucleotide excision repair entitled transcription coupled repair. Approximately 20% of the CS patients have mutations in CSA, which encodes a 44 kDa tryptophane (Trp, W) and aspartic acid (Asp, D) amino acids (WD) repeat protein. Up to now, nine different CSA mutations have been identified. We examined two Somali siblings 9 and 12 years old with clinical features typical of CS including skin photosensitivity, progressive ataxia, spasticity, hearing loss, central and peripheral demyelination and intracranial calcifications. Molecular analysis showed a novel splice acceptor site mutation, a G to A transition in the -1 position of intervening sequence 6 (g.IVS6-1G&gt;A), in the CSA (excision repair cross-complementing 8 (ERCC8)) gene. IVS6-1G&gt;A results in a new 28 amino acid C-terminus and premature termination of the CSA protein (G184DFs28X). A review of the CSA protein and the 10 known CSA mutations is also presented.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) is a nuclear enzyme that contributes to both neuronal death and survival under stress conditions. PARP-1 is the most abundant of several PARP family members, accounting for more than 85% of nuclear PARP activity, and is present in all nucleated cells of multicellular animals. When activated by DNA damage, PARP-1 consumes nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) to form branched polymers of ADP-ribose on target proteins. This process can have at least three important consequences in the CNS, depending on the cell type and the extent of DNA damage: 1) Poly(ADP-ribose) formation on histones and on enzymes involved in DNA repair can prevent sister chromatid exchange and facilitate base-excision repair; 2) poly(ADP-ribose) formation can influence the action of transcription factors, notably nuclear factor kappaB, and thereby promote inflammation; and 3) extensive PARP-1 activation can promote neuronal death through mechanisms involving NAD+ depletion and release of apoptosis inducing factor from the mitochondria. PARP-1 activation is thereby a key mediator of neuronal death during excitotoxicity, ischemia, and oxidative stress, and PARP-1 gene deletion or pharmacological inhibition can markedly improve neuronal survival in these settings. PARP-1 activation has also been identified in Alzheimer's disease and in experimental allergic encephalitis, but the role of PARP-1 in these disorders remains to be established.
Cockayne syndrome (CS) is a progressive childhood neurodegenerative disorder associated with a DNA repair defect caused by mutations in either of two genes, CSA and CSB. These genes are involved in nucleotide excision repair (NER) of DNA damage from ultraviolet (UV) light, other bulky chemical adducts and reactive oxygen in transcriptionally active genes (transcription-coupled repair, TCR). For a long period it has been assumed that the symptoms of CS patients are all due to reduced TCR of endogenous DNA damage in the brain, together with unexplained unique sensitivity of specific neural cells in the cerebellum. Not all the symptoms of CS patients are however easily related to repair deficiencies, so we hypothesize that there are additional pathways relevant to the disease, particularly those that are downstream consequences of a common defect in the E3 ubiquitin ligase associated with the CSA and CSB gene products. We have found that the CSB defect results in altered expression of anti-angiogenic and cell cycle genes and proteins at the level of both gene expression and protein lifetime. We find an over-abundance of p21 due to reduced protein turnover, possibly due to the loss of activity of the CSA/CSB E3 ubiquitylation pathway. Increased levels of p21 can result in growth inhibition, reduced repair from the p21-PCNA interaction, and increased generation of reactive oxygen. Consistent with increased reactive oxygen levels we find that CS-A and -B cells grown under ambient oxygen show increased DNA breakage, as compared with xeroderma pigmentosum cells. Thus the complex symptoms of CS may be due to multiple, independent downstream targets of the E3 ubiquitylation system that results in increased DNA damage, reduced transcription coupled repair, and inhibition of cell cycle progression and growth.
Unlike normal somatic cells, human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) can proliferate indefinitely in culture in an undifferentiated state where they do not appear to undergo senescence and yet remain nontransformed. Cells maintain their pluripotency both in vivo and in vitro, exhibit high telomerase activity, and maintain telomere length after prolonged in vitro culture. Thus, hESCs may provide an unlimited cell source for replacement in a number of aging-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease as well as other neurological disorders including spinal cord injuries. The ability of hESCs to bypass senescence is lost as hESCs differentiate into fully differentiated somatic cells. Evidence has been accumulated that differences in telomere length, telomerase activity, cell cycle signaling, DNA repair ability, as well as the lack of genomic, mitochondrial and epigenetic changes, may contribute to the lack of senescence in hESC. In this manuscript, we will review recent advances in characterizing hESCs and monitoring changes in these aspects in prolonged cultures. We will focus on the potential roles of several cellular pathways including the telomerase, p53 and the Rb pathways in escaping senescence in hESCs. We will also discuss the genomic and epigenetic changes in long-term hESC culture and their potential roles in bypassing senescence.
Non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) represent common genetic variation that alters encoded amino acids in proteins. All nsSNPs may potentially affect the structure or function of expressed proteins and could therefore have an impact on complex diseases. In an effort to evaluate the phenotypic effect of all known nsSNPs in human DNA repair genes, we have characterized each polymorphism in terms of different functional properties. The properties are computed based on amino acid characteristics (e.g. residue volume change); position-specific phylogenetic information from multiple sequence alignments and from prediction programs such as SIFT (Sorting Intolerant From Tolerant) and PolyPhen (Polymorphism Phenotyping). We provide a comprehensive, updated list of all validated nsSNPs from dbSNP (public database of human single nucleotide polymorphisms at National Center for Biotechnology Information, USA) located in human DNA repair genes. The list includes repair enzymes, genes associated with response to DNA damage as well as genes implicated with genetic instability or sensitivity to DNA damaging agents. Out of a total of 152 genes involved in DNA repair, 95 had validated nsSNPs in them. The fraction of nsSNPs that had high probability of being functionally significant was predicted to be 29.6% and 30.9%, by SIFT and PolyPhen respectively. The resulting list of annotated nsSNPs is available online (http://dna.uio.no/repairSNP), and is an ongoing project that will continue assessing the function of coding SNPs in human DNA repair genes.
Oligodendrocytes are crucial to the function of the mammalian brain: they increase the action potential conduction speed for a given axon diameter and thus facilitate the rapid flow of information between different brain areas. The proliferation and differentiation of developing oligodendrocytes, and their myelination of axons, are partly controlled by neurotransmitters. In addition, in models of conditions like stroke, periventricular leukomalacia leading to cerebral palsy, spinal cord injury and multiple sclerosis, oligodendrocytes are damaged by glutamate and, contrary to dogma, it has recently been discovered that this damage is mediated in part by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Mutations in oligodendrocyte neurotransmitter receptors or their interacting proteins may cause defects in CNS function. Here we review the roles of neurotransmitter receptors in the normal function, and malfunction in pathological conditions, of oligodendrocytes.
DNA single-strand breaks (SSBs) are the commonest DNA lesions arising spontaneously in cells, and if not repaired may block transcription or may be converted into potentially lethal/clastogenic DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). Recently, evidence has emerged that defects in the rapid repair of SSBs preferentially impact the nervous system. In particular, spinocerebellar ataxia with axonal neuropathy (SCAN1) is a human disease that is associated with mutation of TDP1 (tyrosyl DNA phosphodiesterase 1) protein and with a defect in repairing certain types of SSBs. Although SCAN1 is a rare neurodegenerative disorder, understanding the molecular basis of this disease will lead to better understanding of neurodegenerative processes. Here we review recent progress in our understanding of TDP1, single-strand break repair (SSBR), and neurodegenerative disease.
Reactive oxygen species generated during normal cellular metabolism react with lipids, proteins, and nucleic acid. Evidence indicates that the accumulation of oxidative damage results in cellular dysfunction or deterioration. In particular, oxidative DNA damage can induce mutagenic replicative outcomes, leading to altered cellular function and/or cellular transformation. Additionally, oxidative DNA modifications can block essential biological processes, namely replication and transcription, triggering cell death responses. The major pathway responsible for removing oxidative DNA damage and restoring the integrity of the genome is base excision repair (BER). We highlight herein what is known about BER protein function(s) in the CNS, which in cooperation with the peripheral nervous system operates to control physical responses, motor coordination, and brain operation. Moreover, we describe evidence indicating that defective BER processing can promote post-mitotic (i.e. non-dividing) neuronal cell death and neurodegenerative disease. The focus of the review is on the core mammalian BER participants, i.e. the DNA glycosylases, AP endonuclease 1, DNA polymerase beta, X-ray cross-complementing 1, and the DNA ligases.
Within the nervous system appropriate responses to DNA damage are required to maintain homeostasis and prevent disease. In this tissue, DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) initiate a molecular response to repair DNA, or in many cases, activate apoptosis. The repair of DNA DSBs occurs via nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) or homologous recombination (HR). These mechanistically distinct pathways are critical for maintenance of genomic integrity. During nervous system development there are discrete requirements for each DNA DSB repair pathway at different stages of development. For example, in the nervous system HR is particularly important for proliferating cells, while NHEJ is critical for differentiating cells. Inactivation of either of these pathways can lead to embryonic lethality, neurodegeneration or brain tumors. Human syndromes that result from defective responses to DNA damage often feature overt neuropathology. A prime example is the neurodegenerative syndrome ataxia telangiectasia (A-T), which results from inactivation of the ATM kinase, a crucial nexus for the cellular response to DNA DSBs. This type of DNA damage activates ATM via the Mre11-Rad50-NBS1 (MRN) complex, which leads to selective phosphorylation of ATM substrates resulting in apoptosis or cell cycle arrest and DNA repair. Furthermore, DNA DSBs resulting from chronic genotoxic stress can also result in tumorigenesis, as inactivation of either HR or NHEJ can lead to certain types of brain tumors. Thus, there are distinct requirements for each DNA DSB repair pathway during neural development, which have important implications for understanding diseases of the nervous system.
Terminally differentiated cells need never replicate their genomes and may therefore dispense with the daunting task of maintaining several repair systems to constantly scan their entire complement of DNA. Obviously, transcribed genes need to be repaired, so that cells can carry out their specialized functions, but dedicated mechanisms such as transcription-coupled repair and differentiation-associated repair can ensure the maintenance of those transcriptionally active domains. Many groups have studied DNA repair in differentiated cells, often with divergent results, possibly because there are distinct classes of differentiated cells, with unique properties. Thus neurons ought to last for a lifetime, whereas myocytes are backed by precursor cells, while white blood cells like macrophages are constantly being replaced. More importantly, different DNA repair systems can vary in their response to cellular differentiation, possibly depending on whether they can be coupled to transcription. Nucleotide excision repair (NER) is probably the most versatile DNA repair system and is coupled to transcription. NER was shown to be attenuated by differentiation in several cell types, including neurons. The attenuation occurs only at the global genome level, with transcribed genes still being efficiently repaired. We have determined that this attenuation results from the lack of ubiquitination of a NER factor, most likely owing to differences in phosphorylation of the ubiquitin-activating enzyme E1. Because there is only one E1 in human cells, it is likely that other metabolic pathways are similarly affected, depending on whether they rely on an E2 enzyme which is sensitive to the state of E1 phosphorylation.
Suramin is a well-known antitrypanosomal drug and a novel experimental agent for the treatment of several cancers. Previous study showed that suramin is an activator of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) signaling in several cell lines including Chinese hamster ovary cells, although the physiological relevance of this activation remains uncertain. Here, it was shown that suramin enhances neurite outgrowth concomitant with activation of ERK1/2 in Neuro-2a cells, a neuronal cell line. These neurite outgrowth and ERK1/2 activation were significantly inhibited by PD98059, an inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase, as well as by activation of endogenous adenosine A2A receptors. The suramin-induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2 was also inhibited by inhibitors of Src family kinases. This attenuation of ERK1/2 activity was accompanied by a significant decrease in suramin-induced neurite outgrowth. These results suggest that suramin activates the Src/ERK1/2 signaling pathway that induces neurite outgrowth, both of which are negatively regulated by cAMP produced in response to activation of endogenous adenosine A2A receptors.
Cognitive performance differs with motivation, but little direct evidence exists regarding the neural mechanisms of the influence of reward motivation on working memory (WM). We tested the effects of motivation on the top-down control in visual WM. Encoding relevant stimuli for maintenance, while suppressing inappropriate inputs is considered a core process in cognition. Prior functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) results demonstrated that stimulus-specific visual association cortex serves as a marker of activation differences for task-relevant and task-irrelevant inputs, such that enhanced activity occurs when attention is directed to relevant stimuli and suppressed activity occurs when attention is directed away from irrelevant stimuli [Gazzaley, A., Cooney, J., McEvoy, K., Knight, R.T., and D'Esposito, M. J. Cogn. Neurosci. 17, 507-517]. We used fMRI to test whether differential WM performance, indexed by lowered response times on a delayed-recognition task, was associated with amplification of enhancement and suppression effects during stimulus encoding within visual association cortex. Our results indicate that enhancement and suppression are amplified for trials with the highest reward level relative to non-rewarded trials for a scene-selective cortical region. In a face-selective region, similar modulation of enhancement for the highest reward level relative to non-rewarded trials was found. Prefrontal cortex also showed enhanced activity during high reward trials. Overall these results reveal that reward motivation can play a pivotal role in driving performance through top-down signaling in frontal regions involved in WM, as well as visual association regions selective to processing the perceptual inputs of the items to be remembered.
We have previously demonstrated that a variant form of choline acetyltransferase (pChAT) is expressed in rat trigeminal neurons. To assess the significance of pChAT in sensory functions, we characterized immunohistochemically pChAT-positive trigeminal neurons in the rat. pChAT-immunoreactivity was observed in a rather uniform pattern in about half of all trigeminal neurons throughout the trigeminal ganglion. The majority of pChAT-positive neurons had small to medium-sized cell bodies. Double immunofluorescent study showed that more than 90% of substance P (SP)-positive trigeminal cells and about 80% of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-positive cells exhibited pChAT-immunoreactivity. pChAT-positive cells formed a larger population of neurons than SP-positive or CGRP-positive cells, but they were a different population from calbindin-D(28k)-positive neurons. In addition, pChAT-immunoreactivity was present in a subset of neurons positive for neuronal nitric oxide synthase. The present results suggest that pChAT plays roles not only in nociception, but also in other sensory functions such as mechanoreception mediating tactile sensation.
Hamsters self-administer androgens. Previously, we determined that testosterone (T) activates select steroid- and opiate-sensitive brain regions. Is T-stimulated neuronal activation androgenic? Thirty-five castrated males with physiologic T replacement (n=7/group) were pre-treated with the androgen antagonist flutamide (15 mg/kg sc) or ethanol (0.25 ml) and infused into the lateral ventricle (ICV) for 4 h with 40 microg T (TF and TE, respectively) or 40 microl vehicle (VF and VE). To determine if androgens and opiates activate overlapping brain areas, 7 additional males received 20 mug morphine sulfate ICV following ethanol injection (ME). Immediately after ICV infusion, animals were perfused. Sixty-micrometer coronal brain slices were stained for Fos. Fos-positive neurons were counted in a 0.3-mm(2) area from 5 regions previously shown to express T-induced Fos: the posteromedial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTPM), posteromedial amygdala (MeP), lateral habenula (LHb), ventral tegmental area, and lateral pontine nucleus. T induced Fos in all areas reported previously (TE vs. VE, p&lt;0.05), except LHb (p&gt;0.05). Morphine induced Fos in all 5 brain regions (ME vs. VE, p&lt;0.05), indicating that androgens and opiates activate overlapping brain regions. Flutamide alone did not induce Fos (VF vs. VE, p&gt;0.05). Moreover, flutamide treatment blocked T-induced Fos expression only in the steroid-sensitive BSTPM, suggesting that androgens mediate neuronal activation in this area (mean+/-SEM: TF: 68.4+/-13.2 vs. TE: 137.9+/-17.6, p&lt;0.05). The absence of flutamide effects on T-induced Fos in the steroid-sensitive MeP (TE: 210.6+/-50.0 vs. TF: 215.3+/-28.2, p&gt;0.05) suggests that distinct mechanisms activate Fos in individual androgen-responsive nuclei.
Snake presynaptic phospholipase A2 neurotoxins (SPANs) bind to the presynaptic membrane and hydrolyze phosphatidylcholine with generation of lysophosphatidylcholine (LysoPC) and fatty acid (FA). The LysoPC+FA mixture promotes membrane fusion, inducing the exocytosis of the ready-to-release synaptic vesicles. However, also the reserve pool of synaptic vesicles disappears from nerve terminals intoxicated with SPAN or LysoPC+FA. Here, we show that LysoPC+FA and SPANs cause a large influx of extracellular calcium into swollen nerve terminals, which accounts for the extensive synaptic vesicle release. This is paralleled by the change of morphology and the collapse of membrane potential of mitochondria within nerve bulges. These results complete the picture of events occurring at nerve terminals intoxicated by SPANs and define the LysoPC+FA lipid mixture as a novel and effective agonist of synaptic vesicle release.
Rats subjected to single prolonged stress (SPS) show enhanced HPA negative feedback, exaggerated acoustic startle response, and enhanced contextual freezing 7 days after SPS, and accordingly, SPS is an animal model of PTSD. To elucidate the influence of contextual fear on gene expression in the hippocampus of SPS rats, we used cDNA microarray followed by real-time quantitative PCR analyses to compare the hippocampal gene expression profiles between rats that were or were not subjected to SPS during exposure to contextual fear. In the behavioral experiments, spontaneous locomotor activity was measured 7 days after SPS. Twenty-four hours after footshock conditioning (7 days after SPS), freezing behavior was measured during re-exposure to the chamber in which footshock was delivered. Based on the behavioral analysis, rats subjected to SPS exhibited a significant enhancement of contextual freezing compared to rats not subjected to SPS, without any changes in locomotor activity. Analyses using cDNA microarray and RT-PCR showed that the hippocampal levels of glycine transporter 1 (Gly-T1) and vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 (VAMP2) mRNA in rats subjected to SPS were significantly increased relative to sham-treated rats. Administration of SPS alone did not affect the expression of these 2 genes. These findings suggest that the upregulation of Gly-T1 and VAMP2 in the hippocampus may be, at least in part, involved in the enhanced susceptibility to contextual fear in rats subjected to SPS.


The aim of this study was to establish the effects of active sinusoidal ipsilateral and contralateral upper limb flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction with elbows extended on the right soleus H-reflex with subjects seated and standing. Reflex effects were also established when both arms moved synchronously in a reciprocal pattern with elbows flexed in seated and standing subjects. Sinusoidal arm movements were timed to a metronome and performed at 0.2 Hz. Soleus H-reflexes were elicited only once (every 4s) in every movement cycle of the upper limbs. Position of arms, and activity of shoulder muscles were recorded through twin-axis goniometers and surface electromyography (EMG), respectively. We found that in seated subjects, regardless the direction of the active movement or the upper limb being moved, the soleus H-reflex was depressed. In standing subjects, a reflex depression was observed during extension, abduction, and adduction of the ipsilateral and contralateral upper limbs. Muscles were active during arm flexion and abduction in all directions of arm movement with subjects either seated or standing. It is suggested that arm movement might be incorporated in the rehabilitation training of people with a supraspinal or spinal cord lesion, since it can benefit motor recovery by decreasing spinal reflex excitability of the legs in these patients.
Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) is a key mitochondrial enzyme that catalyzes electron transfer at the terminal stage of respiratory chain and is composed of multisubunits. We hypothesize that ethanol withdrawal (EW) impairs the activity of COX and estrogen deprivation exacerbates this problem. Five-month-old ovariectomized rats with or without 17beta-estradiol (E2) replacement received a control dextrin or a liquid ethanol diet (6.5%, 5 weeks). They were then sacrificed either during ethanol exposure or at 24h of EW (EW group). Mitochondria of the cerebellum and cortex were processed to measure the activities of total COX, COX subunit I, and IV. The effects of EW and E2 on the protein levels of these subunits were also assessed using an immunoblotting method. As compared to the control dextrin and ethanol exposure, EW decreased the activities of total COX, COX I, and COX IV. E2 treatment prevented the effects of EW on the activities of total COX and COX IV but not COX I. Neither EW nor E2 altered the protein levels of the subunits. These findings suggest that a counteracting relationship exists between the effects of EW and E2 on the activity of COX in a subunit specific manner.
It has recently been shown that hippocampal neurogenesis can be modulated either directly or indirectly by ascending cholinergic inputs from the basal forebrain. In the present work, we sought to address whether extended training in a spatial navigation task would affect hippocampal neurogenesis in the presence of a severe and selective cholinergic depletion. Young female rats received stereotaxic injections of the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin into the basal forebrain nuclei and/or the cerebellar cortex. Starting from 4 to 5 weeks post-lesion, and for the subsequent 2 weeks, the animals were trained on paradigms of reference and working memory in the water maze and received single daily i.p. injections of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) at the end of each testing session. In line with previous observations, a dramatic 80% decrease in neuron proliferation was seen in the dentate gyrus of lesioned animals, as compared to vehicle-injected or intact controls. Interestingly, however, rats subjected to maze training over 2 weeks, irrespective of their learning success, exhibited significantly fewer newborn neurons than matched controls with no maze exposure. Thus, at least for the type of task used here, which has previously been shown to impose a certain degree of stress, extended training and learning does not appear to affect proliferation in the dentate gyrus.
Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) is a naturally occurring antagonist of IL-1alpha and IL-1beta binding to the IL-1 receptors and alleviates various inflammatory reactions. Therefore, the upregulation of IL-1ra expression is important for preventing and/or treating inflammatory diseases including many neurodegenerative diseases. This study found that SB203580, which is generally known as a p38 MAP kinase inhibitor and an anti-inflammatory agent, increased the level of IL-1ra expression in IFN-gamma-stimulated BV2 microglial cells. This effect is believed to occur through the inhibition of protein kinase B (PKB), independently of the p38 MAP kinase pathways. Further mechanistic studies using an IL-1ra promoter revealed that a composite NF-kappaB/PU.1 binding site plays an important role in this SB203580-mediated upregulation of IL-1ra. Considering that IFN-gamma is a major stimulator of the innate and adaptive immune responses, the upregulation of anti-inflammatory IL-1ra expression by SB203580 in the IFN-gamma-stimulated microglia might provide a new therapeutic modality for various inflammatory diseases of the central nervous system.
We examined whether the mGluR1 and mGluR5 were involved in development and maintenance of behavioral signs of non-evoked pain and secondary mechanical hyperalgesia induced by knee joint inflammation. Selective mGluR1 antagonist, (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA: 50, 100, 200 microM/25 microl, n=10 per group) and selective mGluR5 antagonist, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP: 50, 100, 200 nM/25 microl, n=10 per group) was intra-articularly (i.a.) injected 30 min before and 4h after carrageenan injection and behavioral tests were conducted. In the pre-treatment, only a higher dose (200 nM) of MPEP significantly prevented the magnitude of weight load reduction, whereas AIDA (200 microM) and MEPE (50, 100 and 200 nM) significantly reduced the development of mechanical hyperalgesia compared to saline treated group. In the post-treatment, AIDA (200 microM) and MPEP at 100 and 200 nM partially reversed the reduction of weight load induced by carrageenan. MPEP significantly increased the withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimulation in a dose-dependent manner, whereas AIDA had significantly reversed the decreased the paw withdrawal threshold only at 200 microM. The present study demonstrated that i.a. MPEP, selective mGluR5 antagonist is more effective than selective mGluR1 antagonist, AIDA on non-evoked pain as well as mechanical hyperalgesia in both induction and maintenance phase in knee joint inflammation. It is suggested that peripheral mGlu5 receptors play a more prominent role in inflammatory pain including evoked and spontaneous pain. Thus, selective mGluR5 antagonist could be effective therapeutic tools in clinical setting.
The primary action of several antidepressant treatments used in the clinic raises extracellular concentrations of serotonin (5-HT), which subsequently act on multiple 5-HT receptors. The present study examined whether 5-HT6 receptors might be involved in the antidepressant-like effects mediated by enhanced neurotransmission at 5-HT synapses. A selective 5-HT6 receptor antagonist, SB271046, was evaluated for its ability to counteract fluoxetine-induced biochemical and behavioral responses in mice. In addition, biochemical and behavioral effects of the 5-HT6 receptor agonist, 2-ethyl-5-methoxy-N,N-dimethyltryptamine (EMDT), were assessed in mice to ascertain whether enhancement of 5-HT6 receptor-mediated neurotransmission engenders antidepressant-like effects. SB271046 significantly counteracted the stimulatory actions of fluoxetine on cortical c-fos mRNA, phospho-Ser845-GluR1, and in the tail suspension antidepressant assay, whereas it had no effect on these parameters by itself. EMDT increased the phosphorylation states of Thr34-DARPP-32 and Ser845-GluR1, both in brain slices and in the intact brain, which were effects also seen with the antidepressant fluoxetine; as with fluoxetine, these effects were demonstrated to be independent of D1 receptor stimulation. Systemic administration of EMDT increased c-fos mRNA expression in the striatum and cerebral cortex and reduced immobility in the tail suspension test. The antidepressant-like effects of EMDT in the tail suspension test were prevented by SB271046. Our results indicate that 5-HT6 receptor stimulation may be a mechanism initiating some of the biochemical and behavioral outcomes of 5-HT reuptake inhibitors, such as fluoxetine. These findings also indicate that selective 5-HT6 receptor agonists may represent a novel antidepressant drug class.
Understanding the molecular and physiological determinants of cortical neuronal progenitor cells is essential for understanding the development of the human brain in health and in disease. We used surface marker fucose N-acetyl lactosamine (LeX) (also known as CD15) to isolate progenitor cells from the cortical ventricular/subventricular zone of human fetal brain at the second trimester of gestation and to study their progeny in vitro. LeX+ cells had typical bipolar morphology, radial orientation, and antigen profiles, characterizing them as a subtype of radial glia (RG) cells. Four complementary experimental techniques (clonal analysis, immunofluorescence, transfection experiments, and patch-clamp recordings) indicated that this subtype of RG generates mainly astrocytes but also a small number of cortical neurons. The neurogenic capabilities of RGs were both region and stage dependent. Present results provide the first direct evidence that RGs in the human cerebral cortex serve as neuronal progenitors. Simultaneously, another progenitor subtype was identified as proliferating cells labeled with neuronal (beta-III-tubulin and doublecortin) but not RG markers [GFAP, vimentin, and BLBP (brain lipid-binding protein)]. Proliferative and antigenic characteristics of these cells suggested their neuron-restricted progenitor status. In summary, our in vitro study suggests that diverse populations of cortical progenitor cells, including multipotent RGs and neuron-restricted progenitors, contribute differentially to cortical neurogenesis at the second trimester of gestation in human cerebral cortex.
The perirhinal cortex plays a critical role in memory formation, in part because it forms reciprocal connections with the neocortex and entorhinal cortex and is thus in a position to integrate and transfer higher-order information to and from the hippocampus. However, for reasons that remain unclear, perirhinal transfer of neocortical inputs to the entorhinal cortex occurs with a low probability. Using patch recordings in vitro and tract-tracing combined with GAD-67 immunohistochemistry, we show that the perirhinal cortex contains GABAergic neurons with long-range projections to superficial entorhinal cells. This finding challenges the traditional model of cortical inhibition in which all trans-areal inhibition is thought to be disynaptic because the axons of GABAergic interneurons are assumed to be confined within the area in which their somata are located. Moreover, consistent with recent studies indicating that the formation of perirhinal-dependent memories requires activation of muscarinic receptors, long-range IPSPs were presynaptically inhibited by M2 receptor activation. Overall, these results suggest that long-range feedforward inhibition regulates perirhinal transfer of neocortical inputs to the entorhinal cortex, but that cholinergic inputs can presynaptically adjust the impact of this control mechanism as a function of environmental contingencies.
Spreading depression (SD) is a propagating wave of neuronal depolarization and ionic shifts, seen in stroke and migraine. In vitro, SD is associated with astrocytic [Ca2+] waves, but it is unclear what role they play and whether they influence cerebral blood flow, which is altered in SD. Here we show that SD in vivo is associated with [Ca2+] waves in astrocytes and neurons and with constriction of intracortical arterioles severe enough to result in arrest of capillary perfusion. The vasoconstriction is correlated with fast astrocytic [Ca2+] waves and is inhibited when they are reduced. [Ca2+] waves appear in neurons before astrocytes, and inhibition of astrocytic [Ca2+] waves does not depress SD propagation. This suggests that astrocytes do not drive SD propagation but are responsible for the hemodynamic failure seen deep in the cortex. Similar waves occur in anoxic depolarizations (AD), supporting the notion that SD and AD are related processes.
Osmosensory transduction is a bidirectional process displayed by neurons involved in the control of thirst and antidiuretic hormone release, and is therefore crucial for body fluid homeostasis. Although this mechanism is known to involve the activation of nonselective cation channels during hypertonicity-evoked shrinking, and the inhibition of these channels during hypotonicity-evoked swelling, the basis for this regulation is unknown. Here, we investigated this process using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from neurons acutely isolated from the supraoptic nucleus of adult rats. The mechanosensitivity index, defined as the ratio of conductance change to normalized volume change, was quantitatively equivalent whether cell volume was increased or decreased by changes in extracellular fluid osmolality, or by changes in pipette pressure. Moreover, responses induced by hyperosmotic or hypo-osmotic media could be reversed by increasing or decreasing pipette pressure, respectively. The mechanosensitivity index was significantly reduced in neurons treated with cytochalasin-D, a compound that promotes the depolymerization of actin filaments. Conversely, cells treated with jasplakinolide, a compound that promotes actin polymerization, showed a significant increase in mechanosensitivity index. Finally, the depolarizing and excitatory effects of hypertonic stimuli were significantly enhanced by jasplakinolide and reduced by cytochalasin-D. We conclude that osmosensory transduction in these neurons is a reversible mechanical process that depends on an intact actin cytoskeleton, and the sensitivity of the transducer appears to vary in proportion with the density of actin filaments.
Kainate receptors (KARs) are heteromeric ionotropic glutamate receptors that play a variety of functions in the regulation of the activity of synaptic networks. Little is known about the regulation of the function of synaptic KARs in the brain. In the present study, we found that a conditioning activation of synaptic NMDA receptors (NMDARs) induces short-term depression of KAR-EPSCs but not of AMPA receptor-EPSCs at synapses between mossy fibers and CA3 pyramidal cells. Short-term depression of KAR-EPSCs by synaptic NMDARs peaked at 1 s and reversed within 20 s, was likely induced and expressed postsynaptically, and was homosynaptic. It depended on a rise of Ca2+ in the postsynaptic cell and on the activation of the phosphatase calcineurin that likely binds to the GluR6b (glutamate receptor subunit 6b) subunit splice variant allowing the dephosphorylation of KARs and inhibition of activity. Finally, we show in the current-clamp mode that short-term depression of KAR-EPSPs is induced by the coincident discharge of action potentials in the postsynaptic cell together with synaptic stimulation. Hence, this study describes a form of short-term synaptic plasticity that is postsynaptic, depends on the temporal order of presynaptic and postsynaptic spiking, and likely affects the summation properties of mossy fiber EPSPs.
The mammalian retina contains directly photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), which use the photopigment melanopsin. The generation of mice lacking melanopsin has been invaluable in elucidating the function of these cells. These animals display deficiencies in circadian photoentrainment, the pupil light reflex, and the circadian regulation of the cone pathway. Interpreting the results from such gene knock-out models is always complicated by neuronal plasticity and the potential for restructuring of neuronal networks. Until now, the study of photosensitive RGCs has lacked an acute inhibitor. 2-Aminoethoxydiphenylborane (2-APB) is an antagonist at IP3 receptors and an inhibitor of canonical transient receptor potential ion channels (TRPCs). Here, we show that 2-APB is an extremely potent in vitro inhibitor of the photosensitive RGCs and that its effect is independent of store-dependent Ca2+ release. The identification of canonical TRPC6 and TRPC7 ion channels in melanopsin-expressing ganglion cells suggests that 2-APB may act directly on a TRPC ion channel. Importantly, using the pupil light reflex as a functional assay, we show that 2-APB inhibits photosensitive RGC activity in vivo. Collectively, our data further elucidate the phototransduction pathway in the photosensitive RGCs and demonstrate that 2-APB can be used to silence activity in these cells both in vitro and in vivo.

Current theories of auditory pitch perception propose that cochlear place (spectral) and activity timing pattern (temporal) information are somehow combined within the brain to produce holistic pitch percepts, yet the neural mechanisms for integrating these two kinds of information remain obscure. To examine this process in more detail, stimuli made up of three pure tones whose components are individually resolved by the peripheral auditory system, but that nonetheless elicit a holistic, &quot;missing fundamental&quot; pitch percept, were played to human listeners. A technique was used to separate neural timing activity related to individual components of the tone complexes from timing activity related to an emergent feature of the complex (the envelope), and the region of the tonotopic map where information could originate from was simultaneously restricted by masking noise. Pitch percepts were mirrored to a very high degree by a simple combination of component-related and envelope-related neural responses with similar timing that originate within higher-frequency regions of the tonotopic map where stimulus components interact. These results suggest a coding scheme for holistic pitches whereby limited regions of the tonotopic map (spectral places) carrying envelope- and component-related activity with similar timing patterns selectively provide a key source of neural pitch information. A similar mechanism of integration between local and emergent object properties may contribute to holistic percepts in a variety of sensory systems.
Little is known about the functions of class III unconventional myosins although, with an N-terminal kinase domain, they are potentially both signaling and motor proteins. Limulus myosin III is particularly interesting because it is a phosphoprotein abundant in photoreceptors that becomes more heavily phosphorylated at night by protein kinase A. This enhanced nighttime phosphorylation occurs in response to signals from an endogenous circadian clock and correlates with dramatic changes in photoreceptor structure and function. We seek to understand the role of Limulus myosin III and its phosphorylation in photoreceptors. Here we determined the sites that become phosphorylated in Limulus myosin III and investigated its kinase, actin binding, and myosin ATPase activities. We show that Limulus myosin III exhibits kinase activity and that a major site for both protein kinase A and autophosphorylation is located within loop 2 of the myosin domain, an important actin binding region. We also identify the phosphorylation of an additional protein kinase A and autophosphorylation site near loop 2, and a predicted phosphorylation site within loop 2. We show that the kinase domain of Limulus myosin III shares some pharmacological properties with protein kinase A, and that it is a potential opsin kinase. Finally, we demonstrate that Limulus myosin III binds actin but lacks ATPase activity. We conclude that Limulus myosin III is an actin-binding and signaling protein and speculate that interactions between actin and Limulus myosin III are regulated by both second messenger mediated phosphorylation and autophosphorylation of its myosin domain within and near loop 2.
Glutamate is the main excitatory transmitter in both central and peripheral nervous systems. Discovery of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) made it clear that glutamate can have excitatory or inhibitory effects on neuronal function, with group I mGluRs enhancing cell excitability but group II and III mGluRs decreasing excitability. The present study investigated the colocalization of mGluR subtypes representing groups I, II, or III in rat L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells. The analyses show that group III has the highest expression, with 75.0% of DRG cells expressing mGluR8, followed by group II, with 51.6% expressing mGluR2/3, followed by group I, with only 6.8% expressing mGluR1alpha. mGluR8 is expressed by small, medium, and large diameter cells. In contrast, mGluR1alpha and mGluR2/3 are expressed by mainly small and medium cells. Approximately half of cells expressing group I mGluR1alpha also express either group II mGluR2/3 or group III mGluR8. These mGluR1alpha double-labeled populations are not likely to overlap since &gt;1.0% of mGluR1alpha are triple-labeled. As expected from the high percentage of single-labeled mGluR2/3 and mGluR8 cells, there is a considerable population of double-labeled cells with approximately 30% of each population expressing both receptors. Due to the fact that the number of mGluR1alpha-expressing cells in the DRG is low, the percentage of triple-labeled cells is also low ( approximately 1-2%). The prevalence of groups II and III indicate that glutamate could have a substantial inhibitory effect of primary afferent function, reducing and/or fine-tuning sensory input before transmission to the spinal cord. These anatomical data highlight the potential inhibitory role glutamate may play in peripheral sensory transmission.
Connexins in retinal horizontal cells (HC) function in the processing of visual information. For example, gap junction-forming connexins may contribute to the spatial integration of visual stimuli. Additionally, connexin hemichannels have been hypothesized to participate in the feedback pathway from HCs to cones. To verify the identities of the zebrafish HC connexins, we performed promoter expression and immunohistochemical studies of connexin 52.6 (Cx52.6) and Cx55.5. Zebrafish embryos were microinjected with Cx52.6 or Cx55.5 promoter sequences and a green fluorescent protein reporter construct. Light and electron microscopic (EM) analysis showed green fluorescent protein expression exclusively in retinal HCs. Immunohistochemistry confirmed that HCs express Cx52.6 and Cx55.5 proteins. Light microscopy revealed Cx52.6 and Cx55.5 in the retinal inner nuclear and outer plexiform layers. Double labeling for Cx55.5 or Cx52.6 and cell-specific markers (tyrosine hydroxylase, protein kinase C-alpha, or GluR2) demonstrated that these connexins do not localize to interplexiform or ON bipolar cells, but most likely are present in HCs. Preembedding immuno-EM confirmed the HC-specific expression of Cx52.6 and Cx55.5 and illustrated the presence of these two connexins in gap junctions between HCs. The EM data also revealed robust labeling for Cx55.5 in hemichannels on HC dendrites in photoreceptor synaptic terminals. Voltage-clamp experiments in cultured cells demonstrated that Cx55.5-containing hemichannels can open at physiological membrane potentials. These results offer the first in vivo demonstration of the HC-specific activities of the Cx52.6 and Cx55.5 promoters. Furthermore, these data provide the first proof at the protein level for retinal HC-specific connexins in the zebrafish.
Promormyromasts were found in the epidermis of the head of the larvae of five species of mormyrids bred in captivity. The promormyromast is a larval electroreceptor belonging to the specific lateral line system. In 12-day-old larvae this electroreceptor is characterized by a single sensory cell and two types of accessory cells. One type of accessory cell has dark cytoplasm, few microtubules, and contacts the sensory cell directly, whereas a second type has pale cytoplasm, many microtubules, and forms an outer layer not directly in contact with the sensory cell. This second type is referred to as a long pyriform accessory cell. This assembly of cells is situated below an intraepidermal cavity filled with acid polysaccharides. The bordering epidermal cells extend microvilli into the intraepidermal cavity. The apexes of the sensory cell, and of the two types of accessory cells, also open into the intraepidermal cavity but bear no microvilli. The promormyromast is innervated by an unmyelinated sensory nerve fiber passing through the basal membrane, which then splits into several branches between the accessory cells. These branches contact the periphery of the sensory cell with terminal boutons. At the site of each contact a ribbon-like structure surrounded by vesicles is present in the cytoplasm of the sensory cell. In older larvae of Campylomormyrus cassaicus, membrane foldings develop at the periphery of the pyriform accessory cells and accessory cell staining properties change just before transformation to become a mormyromast. The functional role of the promormyromast of the larval mormyrids is discussed.
The excitatory amino acid glutamate mediates transmission at spinal synapses, including those formed by sensory afferent fibers and by intrinsic interneurons. The identity and physiological properties of glutamatergic dorsal horn neurons are poorly characterized despite their importance in spinal sensory circuits. Moreover, many intrinsic spinal glutamatergic synapses colocalize the opioid peptide enkephalin (ENK), but the neurons to which they belong are yet to be identified. Therefore, we used immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy to investigate expression of the VGLUT2 vesicular glutamate transporter, an isoform reported in nonprimary afferent spinal synapses, and ENK in electrophysiologically identified neurons of hamster spinal dorsal horn. VGLUT2 immunoreactivity was localized in restricted fashion to axon varicosities of neurons recorded from laminae II-V, although the occurrence of immunolabeling in individual varicosities varied widely between cells (39 +/- 36%, n = 31 neurons). ENK colocalized with VGLUT2 in up to 77% of varicosities (17 +/- 21%, n = 21 neurons). The majority of neurons expressing VGLUT2 and/or ENK had axons with dense local terminations or projections consistent with propriospinal functions. VGLUT2 and ENK labeling were not correlated with cellular morphology, intrinsic membrane properties, firing patterns, or synaptic responses to sensory afferent stimulation. However, VGLUT2 expression was significantly higher in neurons with depolarized resting membrane potential. The results are new evidence for a population of dual-function dorsal horn interneurons that might provide another mechanism for limiting excitation within dorsal horn circuits during periods of strong sensory activation.
Vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) are responsible for glutamate trafficking and for the subsequent regulated release of this excitatory neurotransmitter at the synapse. Three isoforms of the VGLUT have been identified, now known as VGLUT1, VGLUT2, and VGLUT3. Both VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 have been considered definitive markers of glutamatergic neurons, whereas VGLUT3 is expressed in nonglutamatergic neurons such as cholinergic striatal interneurons. It is widely believed that VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 are expressed in a complementary manner at the cortical and thalamic levels, suggesting that these glutamatergic neurons fulfill different physiological functions. In the present work, we analyzed the pattern of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 mRNA expression at the thalamic level by using single and dual in situ hybridization. In accordance with current beliefs, we found significant expression of VGLUT2 mRNA in all the thalamic nuclei, while moderate expression of VGLUT1 mRNA was consistently found in both the principal relay and the association thalamic nuclei. Interestingly, individual neurons within these nuclei coexpressed both VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 mRNAs, suggesting that these individual thalamic neurons may have different ways of trafficking glutamate. These results call for a reappraisal of the previously held concept regarding the mutually exclusive distribution of VGLUT transporters in the central nervous system.
The effects of the opiates morphine and morphine-6-glucuronide (M6G), the mu opioid receptor specific antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Om-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTOP), and the general opiate antagonist naloxone on the latency of response to thermal stimulation were determined in the parasitic nematode Ascaris suum. Thermal detection and avoidance behaviors of the worms were evaluated with a tail flick analgesia meter using a modification of a technique employed for nociception experiments in rodents. Morphine and M6G were shown to have a dose dependent analgesic effect on A. suum's latency of response to heat with morphine being the most potent. The analgesic effect of morphine was reversed by naloxone but not CTOP. Neither naloxone nor CTOP was able to block the analgesia of M6G. CTOP but not naloxone had significant analgesic effects on its own. These findings are generally consistent with previous results on the effects of opiates and nitric oxide release from A. suum tissue. Apparently these nematodes possess opioid receptors that effect nociception.

Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is a serine/threonine protein kinase critically involved in synaptic plasticity in the brain. It is highly concentrated in the postsynaptic density fraction, exceeding the amount of any other signal transduction molecules. Because kinase signaling can be amplified by catalytic reaction, why CaMKII exists in such a large quantity has been a mystery. Here, we provide biochemical evidence that CaMKII is capable of bundling F-actin through a stoichiometric interaction. Consistent with this evidence, in hippocampal neurons, RNAi-mediated down-regulation of CaMKII leads to a reduction in the volume of dendritic spine head that is mediated by F-actin dynamics. An overexpression of CaMKII slowed down the actin turnover in the spine head. This activity was associated with beta subunit of CaMKII in a manner requiring its actin-binding and association domains but not the kinase domain. This finding indicates that CaMKII serves as a central signaling molecule in both functional and structural changes during synaptic plasticity.
Social concepts such as &quot;tactless&quot; or &quot;honorable&quot; enable us to describe our own as well as others' social behaviors. The prevailing view is that this abstract social semantic knowledge is mainly subserved by the same medial prefrontal regions that are considered essential for mental state attribution and self-reflection. Nevertheless, neurodegeneration of the anterior temporal cortex typically leads to impairments of social behavior as well as general conceptual knowledge. By using functional MRI, we demonstrate that the anterior temporal lobe represents abstract social semantic knowledge in agreement with this patient evidence. The bilateral superior anterior temporal lobes (Brodmann's area 38) are selectively activated when participants judge the meaning relatedness of social concepts (e.g., honor-brave) as compared with concepts describing general animal functions (e.g., nutritious-useful). Remarkably, only activity in the superior anterior temporal cortex, but not the medial prefrontal cortex, correlates with the richness of detail with which social concepts describe social behavior. Furthermore, this anterior temporal lobe activation is independent of emotional valence, whereas medial prefrontal regions show enhanced activation for positive social concepts. Our results demonstrate that the superior anterior temporal cortex plays a key role in social cognition by providing abstract conceptual knowledge of social behaviors. We further speculate that these abstract conceptual representations can be associated with different contexts of social actions and emotions through integration with frontolimbic circuits to enable flexible evaluations of social behavior.
Circadian rhythms and the genes that make up the molecular clock have long been implicated in bipolar disorder. Genetic evidence in bipolar patients suggests that the central transcriptional activator of molecular rhythms, CLOCK, may be particularly important. However, the exact role of this gene in the development of this disorder remains unclear. Here we show that mice carrying a mutation in the Clock gene display an overall behavioral profile that is strikingly similar to human mania, including hyperactivity, decreased sleep, lowered depression-like behavior, lower anxiety, and an increase in the reward value for cocaine, sucrose, and medial forebrain bundle stimulation. Chronic administration of the mood stabilizer lithium returns many of these behavioral responses to wild-type levels. In addition, the Clock mutant mice have an increase in dopaminergic activity in the ventral tegmental area, and their behavioral abnormalities are rescued by expressing a functional CLOCK protein via viral-mediated gene transfer specifically in the ventral tegmental area. These findings establish the Clock mutant mice as a previously unrecognized model of human mania and reveal an important role for CLOCK in the dopaminergic system in regulating behavior and mood.
Four patients that had received an anterior cingulotomy (ACING) and five patients that had received both an ACING and an anterior capsulotomy (ACAPS) as an intervention for chronic, treatment refractory depression were presented with a series of dynamic emotional stimuli and invited to identify the emotion portrayed. Their performance was compared with that of a group of non-surgically treated patients with major depression (n=17) and with a group of matched, never-depressed controls (n=22). At the time of testing, four of the nine neurosurgery patients had recovered from their depressive episode, whereas five remained depressed. Analysis of emotion recognition accuracy revealed no significant differences between depressed and non-depressed neurosurgically treated patients. Similarly, no significant differences were observed between the patients treated with ACING alone and those treated with both ACING and ACAPS. Comparison of the emotion recognition accuracy of the neurosurgically treated patients and the depressed and healthy control groups revealed that the surgically treated patients exhibited a general impairment in their recognition accuracy compared to healthy controls. Regression analysis revealed that participants' emotion recognition accuracy was predicted by the number of errors they made on the Stroop colour-naming task. It is plausible that the observed deficit in emotion recognition accuracy was a consequence of impaired attentional control, which may have been a result of the surgical lesions to the anterior cingulate cortex.
Little is known about the initial stages of information processing in amnesia as compared to normal memory. In this study, we used electrical spatiotemporal mapping to compare cortical activation during encoding and recognition in a 56-year-old patient with severe, chronic post-anoxic amnesia and an age-matched control group. Event-related potentials were recorded as the subjects performed a continuous recognition task composed of meaningful designs. Activation in the control group rapidly progressed through eight different electrocortical configurations over 700 ms after onset of new stimuli. In contrast, activation in the amnesic patient was highly monotonous: it showed varying electrocortical patterns only during the first 150 ms but then remained abnormally stable for the remainder of the analysed time window. Electrical source localisation revealed that the patient failed to activate distributed cortical networks and that his processing was confined to visual areas. The present study suggests that the rapid activation of distributed cortical networks is critical for efficient encoding.
Reflexive spatial attention is critical for controlling perception and action. An established body of evidence suggests that mechanisms of spatial attention operate both within and between sensory modalities; however the attentional mechanisms that link modalities in the human brain are unclear. Here we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to explore the role of the parietal cortex in coordinating reflexive shifts of spatial attention between vision and touch. In two experiments, healthy participants localised visual and somatosensory targets that were preceded by non-informative visual or somatosensory spatial cues. To determine the role of parietal cortex in spatial orienting, TMS was delivered synchronously with cue onset for 100 ms. Results revealed a critical role of the right angular gyrus and supramarginal gyrus in reflexive orienting to visual and somatosensory targets that followed a somatosensory cue. In contrast, the same TMS protocol was ineffective in modulating reflexive orienting based on visual cues. This dependence on cue modality may reflect subcortical redundancy of visual orienting mechanisms. Overall, our results indicate a critical role of the inferior parietal cortex in mediating reflexive shifts of attention within and between sensory modalities.
Performance on tests of odour discrimination, naming, and matching was compared in patients with four distinct forms of neurodegenerative disease: Alzheimer's disease (AD), semantic dementia (SD), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), and corticobasal degeneration (CBD). The SD patients were found to have a severe impairment of identification from olfaction despite having normal discrimination, consistent with the multimodal semantic impairment characteristic of this patient group. The AD patients' poor odour discrimination suggests that a perceptual impairment is the root of their poor odour identification. Mild impairments in odour identification observed in FTD and CBD are consistent with their generalised executive dysfunction. The findings illustrate that breakdown in olfaction can occur at a perceptual or semantic level, analogous to the distinction between apperceptive and associative forms of deficit in the visual and auditory modalities. The findings add further insights into the nature of the semantic deficit in SD by exploring a hitherto neglected modality and may have relevance in explaining the altered eating habits commonly associated with SD.
Pulvinar activation has been observed while viewing fearful expressions, but the necessity of this activation to their recognition has not been previously assessed. We measured the processing of emotional facial expressions in a rare patient with complete unilateral loss of the pulvinar. With brief presentations, patient CJ was incapable of recognizing fearful expressions in his contralesional field. Three other patients, with damage limited to the anterior and to the lateral pulvinar, showed no deficits in recognition. In conjunction with anatomical studies of the monkey pulvinar, these results suggest that fear recognition is mediated by the human medial pulvinar. We outline the possible role of the pulvinar in fear recognition, considering both the pulvinar's direct and indirect cortical connections with the amygdala, and we suggest that the integrative role of the pulvinar may be primary. Our results suggest that the cortex in isolation from the entire pulvinar is incapable of recognizing fearful expressions.

This study directly compared four patients who, to varying degrees, showed the characteristics of deep dyslexia, dysphasia and/or dysgraphia--i.e., they made semantic errors in oral reading, repetition and/or spelling to dictation. The &quot;primary systems&quot; hypothesis proposes that these different conditions result from severe impairment to a common phonological system, rather than damage to task-specific mechanisms (i.e. grapheme-phoneme conversion). By this view, deep dyslexic/dysphasic patients should show overlapping deficits but previous studies have not directly compared them. All four patients in the current study showed poor phonological production across different tasks, including repetition, reading aloud and spoken picture naming, in line with the primary systems hypothesis. They also showed severe deficits in tasks that required the manipulation of phonology, such as phoneme addition and deletion. Some of the characteristics of the deep syndromes - namely lexicality and imageability effects - were typically observed in all of the tasks, regardless of whether semantic errors occurred or not, suggesting that the patients' phonological deficits impacted on repetition, reading aloud and spelling to dictation in similar ways. Differences between the syndromes were accounted for by variation in other primary systems--particularly auditory processing. Deep dysphasic symptoms occurred when the impact of phonological input on spoken output was disrupted or reduced, either as a result of auditory/phonological impairment, or for patients with good phonological input analysis, when repetition was delayed. 'Deep' disorders of reading aloud, repetition and spelling can therefore be explained in terms of damage to interacting primary systems such as phonology, semantics and vision, with phonology playing a critical role.
This study examines the role of four regions of the parietal lobe in grapheme-colour synaesthesia. TMS applied over a right parieto-occipital region disrupts performance on a synaesthetic priming task. TMS over the left parietal or a more anterior right parietal site did not have a reliable effect on synaesthesia even though one of the sites had been implicated in synaesthesia by previous fMRI studies. The same disruption is found for synaesthetes who experience colours in their &quot;mind's eye&quot; as well as those who project colours onto the inducing grapheme. This region may be important for binding graphemes and colours to different spatial reference frames.
Adults' expertise in recognizing facial identity involves encoding subtle differences among faces in the shape of individual facial features (featural processing) and in the spacing among features (a type of configural processing called sensitivity to second-order relations). We used fMRI to investigate the neural mechanisms that differentiate these two types of processing. Participants made same/different judgments about pairs of faces that differed only in the shape of the eyes and mouth, with minimal differences in spacing (featural blocks), or pairs of faces that had identical features but differed in the positions of those features (spacing blocks). From a localizer scan with faces, objects, and houses, we identified regions with comparatively more activity for faces, including the fusiform face area (FFA) in the right fusiform gyrus, other extrastriate regions, and prefrontal cortices. Contrasts between the featural and spacing conditions revealed distributed patterns of activity differentiating the two conditions. A region of the right fusiform gyrus (near but not overlapping the localized FFA) showed greater activity during the spacing task, along with multiple areas of right frontal cortex, whereas left prefrontal activity increased for featural processing. These patterns of activity were not related to differences in performance between the two tasks. The results indicate that the processing of facial features is distinct from the processing of second-order relations in faces, and that these functions are mediated by separate and lateralized networks involving the right fusiform gyrus, although the FFA as defined from a localizer scan is not differentially involved.
Recall impairments in patients with lesions to the prefrontal cortex (PFC) have variously been attributed to problems with organisation at encoding, organisation at retrieval and monitoring at retrieval. Neuroimaging and recent theoretical work has associated the left lateral PFC with organisation and strategy production at encoding, and the right lateral PFC with organisation, error detection and monitoring at retrieval. However few lesion studies have been anatomically specific enough to test the direct predictions made by this work. Proactive interference, response to prompting, monitoring and organisational strategies were examined in 34 patients with frontal lobe lesions and 50 healthy controls using a structured verbal recall task, and the fractionation of deficits according to specific frontal lesion site was explored. Recall impairments were observed in the Right Lateral and Medial frontal subgroups. The Medial recall impairment was unaffected by manipulations at encoding or retrieval and was attributed to a &quot;pure&quot; memory deficit arising from disruption of the limbo-thalamic system. The Right Lateral recall impairment was ameliorated by the provision of prompts at retrieval, indicating a strategic retrieval deficit. This intervention also resulted in an unusual pattern of intrusions, namely an increase in proactive interference responses compared with extra-list intrusions. However contrary to predictions no monitoring impairment was found. We offer two explanations for the pattern of performance in the Right Lateral group: failure of a right lateralised error detection and checking system, or an impairment in the active uncued initiation of a supervisory operation.
Developmental dyslexia is strongly associated with a phonological deficit. Yet, implicit phonological processing (in)capacities in dyslexia remain relatively unexplored. Here we use a neurophysiological response sensitive to experience-dependent auditory memory traces, the mismatch negativity (MMN), to investigate implicit phonological processing of natural speech in dyslexic and normally reading children. In a modified passive oddball design that minimizes the contribution of acoustic processes, we presented non-words that differed by the degree of phonotactic probability, i.e. the distributional frequency of phoneme combinations in a given language. Overall morphology of ERP responses to the non-words indicated comparable processing of acoustic-phonetic stimulus differences in both children groups. Consistent with previous findings in adults, normally reading children showed a significantly stronger MMN response to the non-word with high phonotactic probability (notsel) as compared to the non-word with low phonotactic probability (notkel), suggesting auditory cortical tuning to statistical regularities of phoneme combinations. In contrast, dyslexic children did not show this sensitivity to phonotactic probability. These findings indicate that the phonological problems often reported in dyslexia relate to a subtle deficit in the implicit phonetic-phonological processing of natural speech.
The mouse Engrailed genes, En1 and En2, play an important role in the development of the cerebellum from its inception at the mid/hindbrain boundary in early embryonic development through cell type specification events and beyond. In the absence of En1, the cerebellum and caudal midbrain fail to develop normally--a phenotype that we have previously reported to be strain dependent. On the 129/S1 strain background, En1 null alleles lead to mid/hindbrain failure, whereas on the C57BL/6 background, En1 deficiency is compatible with near normal cerebellar development. We have pursued this dramatic effect of genetic background by performing a genetic modifier screen through F1 backcross and F1 intercross matings. The backcross has yielded two strong candidate intervals with suggestive linkage to a third region. Moreover, variations in rescue frequency among subgroups within the backcross indicate gender and parent of origin influences on rescue penetrance. The intercross data reveal locus heterogeneity of the En1 modifiers, with more than one compliment of C57BL/6 and 129/S1 alleles capable of mediating the rescue phenotype. These findings highlight the complexity and plasticity of gene networks involved in brain development.
Grid2(Lc) (Lurcher), Grid2(ho) (hot-foot), Rora(sg) (staggerer), nr (nervous), Agtpbp1(pcd) (Purkinje cell degeneration), Reln(rl) (reeler), and Girk2(Wv) (Weaver) are spontaneous mutations with cerebellar atrophy, ataxia, and deficits in motor coordination tasks requiring balance and equilibrium. In addition to these signs, the Dst(dt) (dystonia musculorum) spinocerebellar mutant displays dystonic postures and crawling. More recently, transgenic models with human spinocerebellar ataxia mutations and alterations in calcium homeostasis have been shown to exhibit cerebellar anomalies and motor coordination deficits. We describe neurochemical characteristics of these mutants with respect to regional brain metabolism as well as amino acid and biogenic amine concentrations, uptake sites, and receptors.
O-Linked N-acetylglucosaminylation termed O-GlcNAc is a dynamic cytosolic and nuclear glycosylation that is dependent both on glucose flow through the hexosamine biosynthesis pathway and on phosphorylation because of the existence of a balance between phosphorylation and O-GlcNAc. This glycosylation is a ubiquitous post-translational modification, which probably plays an important role in many aspects of protein functions. We have previously reported that, in skeletal muscle, proteins of the glycolytic pathway, energetic metabolism, and contractile proteins were O-GlcNAc-modified and that O-Glc-NAc variations could control the muscle protein homeostasis and be implicated in the regulation of muscular atrophy. In this paper, we report O-N-acetylglucosaminylation of a number of key contractile proteins (i.e. myosin heavy and light chains and actin), which suggests that this glycosylation could be involved in skeletal muscle contraction. Moreover, our results showed that incubation of skeletal muscle skinned fibers in N-acetyl-d-glucosamine, in a concentration solution known to inhibit O-GlcNAc-dependent interactions, induced a decrease in calcium sensitivity and affinity of muscular fibers, whereas the cooperativity of the thin filament proteins was not modified. Thus, our results suggest that O-GlcNAc is involved in contractile protein interactions and could thereby modulate muscle contraction.
Cyclic AMP regulates multiple neuronal functions, including neurite outgrowth and axonal regeneration. GPR3, GPR6, and GPR12 make up a family of constitutively active G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that share greater than 50% identity and 65% similarity at the amino acid level. They are highly expressed in the central nervous system, and their expression in various cell lines results in constitutive stimulation of cAMP production. When the constitutively active GPCRs were overexpressed in rat cerebellar granule neurons in culture, the transfected neurons exhibited significantly enhanced neurite outgrowth and overcame growth inhibition caused by myelin-associated glycoprotein. GPR12-mediated neurite outgrowth was the most prominent and was shown to depend on G(s) and cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Moreover, the GPR12-mediated rescue from myelin-associated glycoprotein inhibition was attributable to cAMP-dependent protein kinase-mediated inhibition of the small GTPase, RhoA. Among the three receptors, GPR3 was revealed to be enriched in the developing rat cerebellar granule neurons. When the endogenous GPR3 was knocked down, significant reduction of neurite growth was observed, which was reversed by expression of either GPR3 or GPR12. Taken together, our results indicate that expression of the constitutively active GPCRs up-regulates cAMP production in neurons, stimulates neurite outgrowth, and counteracts myelin inhibition. Further characterization of the GPCRs in developing and injured mammalian neurons should provide insights into how basal cAMP levels are regulated in neurons and could establish a firm scientific foundation for applying receptor biology to treatment of various neurological disorders.
Extinction of conditioned fear is an important model both of inhibitory learning and of behavior therapy for human anxiety disorders. Like other forms of learning, extinction learning is long-lasting and depends on regulated gene expression. Epigenetic mechanisms make an important contribution to persistent changes in gene expression; therefore, in these studies, we have investigated whether epigenetic regulation of gene expression contributes to fear extinction. Since brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is crucial for synaptic plasticity and for the maintenance of long-term memory, we examined histone modifications around two BDNF gene promoters after extinction of cued fear, as potential targets of learning-induced epigenetic regulation of gene expression. Valproic acid (VPA), used for some time as an anticonvulsant and a mood stabilizer, modulates the expression of BDNF, and is a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor. Here, we report that extinction of conditioned fear is accompanied by a significant increase in histone H4 acetylation around the BDNF P4 gene promoter and increases in BDNF exon I and IV mRNA expression in prefrontal cortex, that VPA enhances long-term memory for extinction because of its HDAC inhibitor effects, and that VPA potentiates the effect of weak extinction training on histone H4 acetylation around both the BDNF P1 and P4 gene promoters and on BDNF exon IV mRNA expression. These results suggest a relationship between histone H4 modification, epigenetic regulation of BDNF gene expression, and long-term memory for extinction of conditioned fear. In addition, they suggest that HDAC inhibitors may become a useful pharmacological adjunct to psychotherapy for human anxiety disorders.
The free radical-generating system of xanthine and xanthine oxidase is commonly used experimentally as a source of superoxide anion, which can produce oxidative stress, leading to cellular damage and death. Models of oxidative stress are important in elucidating pathologies associated with increased levels of reactive oxygen species, including stroke and neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. We therefore, examined the effect of the xanthine/xanthine oxidase system on the viability of postnatal cerebellar granule neurones obtained from 8-day old Sprague-Dawley rat pups. Xanthine (100 microM) and xanthine oxidase (0.02 U/ml) applied for 1 or 6h reduced the viability of cells at 8 div assessed using the alamar blue assay, and induced morphological changes, such as shrinkage of the cell bodies and neurites. Heat-inactivation of xanthine oxidase resulted in complete loss of its activity. Superoxide dismutase (250 U/ml) failed to modify the damage by xanthine and xanthine oxidase, while catalase (250 U/ml) completely prevented it. When applied alone, xanthine oxidase significantly lowered cell viability, an effect that was blocked by allopurinol and catalase, but not by superoxide dismutase. The results indicate that xanthine and xanthine oxidase can produce predominantly hydrogen peroxide instead of the superoxide anion. Cerebellar granule cells in culture may also possess significant levels of endogenous xanthine.
Systemic administration of ketamine, a non-competitive antagonist of the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDA-R), produces a condition of NMDA-R hypofunction, which is considered one of the putative molecular mechanisms involved in psychosis. In this study, we evaluated the effect of ketamine on glutamatergic markers of the postsynaptic density (PSD), a pivotal site for dopamine-glutamate interaction. We assessed gene expression of Homer1a, alpha and betaCaMKII, and dopamine transporter (DAT) by two different doses of ketamine. These genes were chosen because of their impact on signal transduction and dopamine-glutamate interplay in postsynaptic density. Moreover, Homer1a is modulated by antipsychotics and represents a candidate gene for schizophrenia. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with saline, 12mg/kg ketamine or 50mg/kg ketamine, and sacrificed 90 minutes after injections. In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to quantitate the rate of gene expression in rat forebrain. Homer1a was induced by 50mg/kg ketamine in ventral striatum and by both 50 and 12mg/kg ketamine in nucleus accumbens, whereas gene expression was not affected in dorsal striatum. alphaCaMKII was increased by 12mg/kg ketamine against saline in almost all subregions assessed. betaCaMKII was not affected by ketamine. DAT was increased by both doses of ketamine in the ventro-tegmental area and substantia nigra pars compacta. We suggest that these changes may represent molecular adaptations to the perturbation in glutamatergic transmission induced by ketamine blockade of NMDA receptors and may be implicated in molecular alterations occurring in schizophrenia.
This report describes the in vitro features of a novel selective nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) alpha7 agonist, JN403, (S)-(1-Aza-bicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl)-carbamic acid (S)-1-(2-fluoro-phenyl)-ethyl ester. JN403 was evaluated in a number of in vitro systems of different species, at recombinant receptors using radioligand binding, signal transduction and electrophysiological studies. When using [(125)I] alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BTX) as a radioligand, JN403 has high affinity for human recombinant nAChR alpha7 (pK(D)=6.7). Functionally, JN403 is a partial and potent agonist at human nAChR alpha7. The compound stimulates calcium influx in GH3 cells recombinantly expressing the human nAChR with an pEC(50) of 7.0 and an E(max) of 85% (compared to the full agonist epibatidine). In Xenopus oocytes expressing human nAChR alpha7 JN403 induces inward currents with an pEC(50) of 5.7 and an E(max) of 55%. In both recombinant systems JN403 is a partial agonist and the agonistic effects are blocked after pre-administration of methyllycaconitine (MLA, 100nM), a nAChR alpha7 antagonist. In functional calcium influx assays, JN403 displays a significantly lower potency for other subtypes of human nAChRs like alpha4beta2, alpha3beta4, alpha1beta1gammadelta as well as 5HT(3) receptors when tested functionally as an antagonist (pIC(50)&lt;4.8) and is devoid of agonistic activity (pEC(50)&lt;4). Similarly, JN403 shows low binding activity at a wide panel of neurotransmitter receptors. Thus, JN403 is a potent and selective nAChR alpha7 agonist and will be a useful tool for the characterization of nAChR alpha7 mediated effects both in vitro and in vivo.
In Parkinson's disease (PD), the pathogenic factors oxidative stress and protein aggregation interact and culminate in the apoptotic death of (mainly catecholaminergic) neurons. The dithiolethiones comprise thiol antioxidants that are well known for their activation of the expression of a wide collection of cytoprotective genes, including genes coding for antioxidant enzymes. Given the observation that heat shock proteins (HSPs), in particular the heat shock protein 72 (HSP72), protects against cellular degeneration in various models of PD, the ability of the unsubstituted dithiolethione 1,2-dithiole-3-thione (D3T) to stimulate heat shock protein gene and protein expression was studied using the dopaminergic PC12 cell line. As anticipated, D3T stimulated the expression of the antioxidant enzyme NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1). Quantitative PCR analysis revealed that D3T stimulates the expression of the inducible, cytoplasmic HSP72. Moreover, D3T strongly potentiated HSP72 gene and protein expression in heat-stressed cells. Taken together, our data show that, in addition to antioxidant enzymes, D3T stimulates the expression of HSP72, a chaperone shown to be neuroprotective in various models of PD, in particular under conditions of cellular stress. Thus, the broad range manipulation of endogenous cellular defense mechanisms, through D3T, may represent an innovative approach to therapeutic intervention in PD.
Memory encoding occurs rapidly, but the consolidation of memory in the neocortex has long been held to be a more gradual process. We now report, however, that systems consolidation can occur extremely quickly if an associative &quot;schema&quot; into which new information is incorporated has previously been created. In experiments using a hippocampal-dependent paired-associate task for rats, the memory of flavor-place associations became persistent over time as a putative neocortical schema gradually developed. New traces, trained for only one trial, then became assimilated and rapidly hippocampal-independent. Schemas also played a causal role in the creation of lasting associative memory representations during one-trial learning. The concept of neocortical schemas may unite psychological accounts of knowledge structures with neurobiological theories of systems memory consolidation.

Accumulating evidence indicate that cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is of pathophysiological importance for the neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease (PD). For example, in a large epidemiological study, use of NSAIDs was associated with a lower risk of PD. Genetic variants of the COX-2 gene might therefore influence the risk of developing the disease. The genotype distribution of four common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the COX-2 gene (rs689466:A496G, rs20417:G926C, rs5277:G3050C, rs5275:C8473T) was analyzed in PD patients and control subjects in a Swedish population. No differences could be seen between the PD-patient and controls regarding the A496G, G926C, and G3050C SNPs, but the allele frequency of the C8473T SNP was found to differ when male patients were compared to controls (P = 0.007). In females no difference could be seen between PD-patients and controls. In conclusion, the results suggest a possible influence of the COX-2 C8473T SNP in PD, although it only seems to be of importance in men.
During episodic recognition tests, meaningful stimuli such as words can engender both conscious retrieval (explicit memory) and facilitated access to meaning that is distinct from the awareness of remembering (conceptual implicit memory). Neuroimaging investigations of one type of memory are frequently subject to the confounding influence of the other type of memory, thus posing a serious impediment to theoretical advances in this area. We used minimalist visual shapes (squiggles) to attempt to overcome this problem. Subjective ratings of squiggle meaningfulness varied idiosyncratically, and behavioral indications of conceptual implicit memory were evident only for stimuli given higher ratings. These effects did not result from perceptual-based fluency or from explicit remembering. Distinct event-related brain potentials were associated with conceptual implicit memory and with explicit memory by virtue of contrasts based on meaningfulness ratings and memory judgments, respectively. Frontal potentials from 300 to 500 msec after the onset of repeated squiggles varied systematically with perceived meaningfulness. Explicit memory was held constant in this contrast, so these potentials were taken as neural correlates of conceptual implicit memory. Such potentials can contaminate putative neural correlates of explicit memory, in that they are frequently attributed to the expression of explicit memory known as familiarity. These findings provide the first neural dissociation of these two memory phenomena during recognition testing and underscore the necessity of taking both types of memory into account in order to obtain valid neural correlates of specific memory functions.


A basic tenet of microeconomics suggests that the subjective value of financial gains decreases with increasing assets of individuals (&quot;marginal utility&quot;). Using concepts from learning theory and microeconomics, we assessed the capacity of financial rewards to elicit behavioral and neuronal changes during reward-predictive learning in participants with different financial backgrounds. Behavioral learning speed during both acquisition and extinction correlated negatively with the assets of the participants, irrespective of education and age. Correspondingly, response changes in midbrain and striatum measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging were slower during both acquisition and extinction with increasing assets and income of the participants. By contrast, asymptotic magnitudes of behavioral and neuronal responses after learning were unrelated to personal finances. The inverse relationship of behavioral and neuronal learning speed with personal finances is compatible with the general concept of decreasing marginal utility with increasing wealth.
When interfering objects occlude a scene, the visual system restores the occluded information. Similarly, when a sound of interest (a &quot;foreground&quot; sound) is interrupted (occluded) by loud noise, the auditory system restores the occluded information. This process, called auditory induction, can be exploited to create a continuity illusion. When a segment of a foreground sound is deleted and loud noise fills the missing portion, listeners incorrectly report hearing the foreground continuing through the noise. Here we reveal the neurophysiological underpinnings of illusory continuity in single-neuron responses from awake macaque monkeys' primary auditory cortex (A1). A1 neurons represented the missing segment of occluded tonal foregrounds by responding to discontinuous foregrounds interrupted by intense noise as if they were responding to the complete foregrounds. By comparison, simulated peripheral responses represented only the noise and not the occluded foreground. The results reveal that many A1 single-neuron responses closely follow the illusory percept.



We have previously reported that insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) supports growth and survival of mouse and human medulloblastoma cell lines, and that IGF-I receptor (IGF-IR) is constitutively phosphorylated in human medulloblastoma clinical samples. Here, we demonstrate that a specific inhibitor of insulin-like growth factor-I receptor (IGF-IR), NVP-AEW541, attenuated growth and survival of mouse (BsB8) and human (D384, Daoy) medulloblastoma cell lines. Cell cycle analysis demonstrated that G1 arrest and apoptosis contributed to the action of NVP-AEW54. Interestingly, very aggressive BsB8 cells, which derive from cerebellar tumors of transgenic mice expressing viral oncoprotein (large T-antigen from human polyomavirus JC) became much more sensitive to NVP-AEW541 when exposed to anchorage-independent culture conditions. This high sensitivity to NVP-AEW54 in suspension was accompanied by the loss of GSK-3beta constitutive phosphorylation and was independent from T-antigen-mediated cellular events (Supplementary Materials). BsB8 cells were partially rescued from NVP-AEW541 by GSK3beta inhibitor, lithium chloride and were sensitized by GSK3beta activator, sodium nitroprusside (SNP). Importantly, human medulloblastoma cells, D384, which demonstrated partial resistance to NVP-AEW541 in suspension cultures, become much more sensitive following SNP-mediated GSK3beta dephosphorylation (activation). Our results indicate that hypersensitivity of medulloblastoma cells in anchorage-independence is linked to GSK-3beta activity and suggest that pharmacological intervention against IGF-IR with simultaneous activation of GSK3beta could be highly effective against medulloblastomas, which have intrinsic ability of disseminating the CNS via cerebrospinal fluid.

The microtubule binding protein gephyrin plays a prominent role in establishing and maintaining a high concentration of inhibitory glycine receptors juxtaposed to presynaptic releasing sites. Here, we show that endogenous gephyrin undergoes proline-directed phosphorylation, which is followed by the recruitment of the peptidyl-prolyl isomerase Pin1. The interaction between gephyrin and Pin1 is strictly dependent on gephyrin phosphorylation and requires serine-proline consensus sites encompassing the gephyrin proline-rich domain. Upon binding, Pin1 triggers conformational changes in the gephyrin molecule, thus enhancing its ability to bind the beta subunit of GlyRs. Consistently, a downregulation of GlyR clusters was detected in hippocampal neurons derived from Pin1 knockout mice, which was paralleled by a reduction in the amplitude of glycine-evoked currents. Our results suggest that phosphorylation-dependent prolyl isomerisation of gephyrin represents a mechanism for regulating GlyRs function.
Single-channel analysis revealed the existence of neuronal L-type Ca2+ channels (LTCCs) with fundamentally different gating properties; in addition to LTCCs resembling cardiac channels, LTCCs with anomalous gating were identified in a variety of neurons, including cerebellar granule cells. Anomalous LTCC gating is mainly characterized by long reopenings after repolarization following strong depolarizations or trains of action potentials. To elucidate the unknown molecular nature of anomalous LTCCs, we performed single-channel patch-clamp recordings from cerebellar granule cells of wild-type, Ca(v)1.3-/- and Ca(v)1.2DHP-/- [containing a mutation in the Ca(v)1.2 alpha1 subunit that eliminates dihydropyridine (DHP) sensitivity] mice. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR revealed that Ca(v)1.2 accounts for 89% and Ca(v)1.3 for 11% of the LTCC transcripts in wild-type cerebellar granule cells, whereas Ca(v)1.1 and Ca(v)1.4 are expressed at insignificant levels. Anomalous LTCCs were observed in neurons of Ca(v)1.3-/- mice with a frequency not different from wild type. In the presence of the DHP agonist (+)-(S)-202-791, the typical prepulse-induced reopenings of anomalous LTCCs after repolarization were shorter in Ca(v)1.2DHP-/- neurons than in Ca(v)1.3-/- neurons. Reopenings in Ca(v)1.2DHP-/- neurons in the presence of the DHP agonist were similar to those in wild-type neurons in the absence of the agonist. These data show that Ca(v)1.2alpha1 subunits are the pore-forming subunits of anomalous LTCCs in mouse cerebellar granule cells. Given the evidence that Ca(v)1.2 channels are specifically involved in sustained Ras-MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase)-dependent cAMP response element-binding protein phosphorylation and LTCC-dependent hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) (Moosmang et al., 2005), we discuss the hypothesis that anomalous rather than cardiac-type Ca(v)1.2 channels are specifically involved in LTCC-dependent and gene transcription-dependent LTP.
Stressful experiences in early life are known risk factors for anxiety and depressive illnesses, and they inhibit hippocampal neurogenesis and the expression of GABA(A) receptors in adulthood. Conversely, deficits in GABAergic neurotransmission and reduced neurogenesis are implicated in the etiology of pathological anxiety and diverse mood disorders. Mice that are heterozygous for the gamma2 subunit of GABA(A) receptors exhibit a modest functional deficit in mainly postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors that is associated with a behavioral, cognitive, and pharmacological phenotype indicative of heightened trait anxiety. Here we used cell type-specific and developmentally controlled inactivation of the gamma2 subunit gene to further analyze the mechanism and brain substrate underlying this phenotype. Heterozygous deletion of the gamma2 subunit induced selectively in immature neurons of the embryonic and adult forebrain resulted in reduced adult hippocampal neurogenesis associated with heightened behavioral inhibition to naturally aversive situations, including stressful situations known to be sensitive to antidepressant drug treatment. Reduced adult hippocampal neurogenesis was associated with normal cell proliferation, indicating a selective vulnerability of postmitotic immature neurons to modest functional deficits in gamma2 subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors. In contrast, a comparable forebrain-specific GABA(A) receptor deficit induced selectively in mature neurons during adolescence lacked neurogenic and behavioral consequences. These results suggest that modestly reduced GABA(A) receptor function in immature neurons of the developing and adult brain can serve as a common molecular substrate for deficits in adult neurogenesis and behavior indicative of anxious and depressive-like mood states.
A growing body of animal research suggests that neurons represent information not only in terms of their firing rates but also by varying the timing of spikes relative to neuronal oscillations. Although researchers have argued that this temporal coding is critical in human memory and perception, no supporting data from humans have been reported. This study provides the first analysis of the temporal relationship between brain oscillations and single-neuron activity in humans. Recording from 1924 neurons, we find that neuronal activity in various brain regions increases at specific phases of brain oscillations. Neurons in widespread brain regions were phase locked to oscillations in the theta- (4-8 Hz) and gamma- (30-90 Hz) frequency bands. In hippocampus, phase locking was prevalent in the delta- (1-4 Hz) and gamma-frequency bands. Individual neurons were phase locked to various phases of theta and delta oscillations, but they only were active at the trough of gamma oscillations. These findings provide support for the temporal-coding hypothesis in humans. Specifically, they indicate that theta and delta oscillations facilitate phase coding and that gamma oscillations help to decode combinations of simultaneously active neurons.
Research into the representation and processing of conceptual knowledge has typically associated perceptual facts with sensory brain regions and executive retrieval mechanisms with the left prefrontal cortex. However, this dichotomy between knowledge content and retrieval processes leaves unanswered how the brain supports concepts less reliant on direct sensory experiences. We used neuroimaging methods to investigate whether an increased abstractness in semantic decisions, in contrast to increased response difficulty, is associated with increased left prefrontal activation. Participants were presented with concrete animal names and asked to verify sensory and abstract properties that corresponded only to the animal category. Candidate semantic regions were localized in left inferior, frontopolar, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in contrast to a pseudoword control. Activity in each of these prefrontal regions was associated with significantly increased activity for abstract relative to sensory semantic decisions, regardless of increased response difficulty and even when controlling for the response times of participants. These results suggest that more abstract, or verbally-mediated, semantic knowledge of concrete items, in contrast to more sensory-based properties, is specifically supported by the left prefrontal cortex. Semantic retrieval mechanisms may rely on abstract representations, likely coded through a verbal format, to mediate task demands when perceptual information is insufficient.
Overactivation of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) is believed to play a role in degeneration of striatal medium-sized spiny neurons (MSNs) in Huntington's disease (HD). This hereditary disorder is caused by an expansion &gt;35 in the polyglutamine (polyQ) region of the protein huntingtin (htt). Previous work has shown that NMDAR current, calcium signaling, and/or toxicity are enhanced in striatal MSNs in a variety of transgenic mice and cellular models of HD, but whether the enhancement is specific for MSNs or correlated with mutant htt (mhtt) polyQ length is not known. Furthermore, the mechanism underlying the increase in NMDAR activity has not been elucidated. Here we report polyQ length-dependent enhancement of peak NMDAR current density by mhtt in cultured MSNs, but not cortical neurons, from the yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) transgenic HD mouse model. We also observed a shift of NMDAR subunits NR1 and NR2B from internal pools to the plasma membrane and a significantly faster rate of NMDAR insertion to the surface in YAC72 MSNs. In comparing YAC72 with wild-type striatal tissue, subcellular fractionation revealed a relative enrichment of NR1 C2'-containing NMDARs in the vesicle/microsome-enriched fraction, and coimmunoprecipitation experiments demonstrated an increased proportion of NR1 C2' isoforms associated with NR2 subunits, which may contribute to faster forward trafficking of these receptors. Our results suggest that altered NMDAR trafficking may underlie potentiation of NMDAR-mediated current and toxicity in the YAC72 HD mouse model. This polyQ length-dependent, neuronal-specific change in NMDAR activity induced by mhtt may contribute to selective neuronal degeneration in HD.
Telomeres are DNA-protein complexes at the ends of eukaryotic chromosomes that play an important role in maintaining the integrity of the genome. In proliferative stem cells and cancer cells, telomere length is maintained by telomerase, and telomere structure and functions are regulated by telomere-associated proteins. We find that telomerase levels are high in embryonic cortical neural progenitor cells (NPCs) and low in newly generated neurons (NGNs) and mature neurons (MNs). In contrast, telomere repeat-binding factor 2 (TRF2) expression is undetectable in early brain development in vivo and in cultured NPCs and is expressed at progressively higher levels as NPCs cease proliferation and differentiate into postmitotic neurons. The telomere-disrupting agent telomestatin induces a DNA damage response and apoptosis in NGNs (which have low levels of TRF2 and telomerase), whereas NPCs (which have high levels of telomerase) and MNs (which have high levels of TRF2) are resistant to telomere damage. Overexpression of TRF2 in NGNs protects them against death induced by telomestatin and other DNA-damaging agents. Knockdown of TRF2 expression in MNs and knock-out of telomerase reverse transcriptase in NPCs increased their sensitivity to telomere- and DNA-damaging agents but did not affect the vulnerability of NGNs. These findings suggest that TRF2 and telomerase function as distinct telomere protection mechanisms during the processes of neurogenesis and neuronal maturation and that hypersensitivity of NGNs to telomere damage results from relative deficiencies of both telomerase and TRF2.
Despite the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy, dementia caused by human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection remains a devastating and common neurological disorder. Although the mechanisms governing neurodegeneration during HIV-1 infection remain uncertain, the HIV-1 accessory protein, viral protein R (Vpr), has been proposed as a neurotoxic protein. Herein, we report that Vpr protein and transcript were present in the brains of HIV-infected persons. Moreover, soluble Vpr caused neuronal apoptosis, involving cytochrome c extravasation, p53 induction, and activation of caspase-9 while exerting a depressive effect on whole-cell currents in neurons (p &lt; 0.05), which was inhibited by iberiotoxin. Vpr-activated glial cells secreted neurotoxins in a concentration-dependent manner (p &lt; 0.001). Transgenic (Tg) mice expressing Vpr in brain monocytoid cells displayed the transgene principally in the basal ganglia (p &lt; 0.05) and cerebral cortex (p &lt; 0.01) compared with hindbrain expression. Vpr was released from cultured transgenic macrophages, which was cytotoxic to neurons and was blocked by anti-Vpr antibody (p &lt; 0.05). Neuronal injury was observed in Tg animals compared with wild-type littermates, chiefly affecting GAD65 (p &lt; 0.01) and vesicular acetylcholine transferase (p &lt; 0.001) immunopositive neuronal populations in the basal ganglia. There was also a loss of subcortical synaptophysin (p &lt; 0.001) immunoreactivity as well as an increase in activated caspase-3, which was accompanied by a hyperexcitable neurobehavioral phenotype (p &lt; 0.05). Thus, HIV-1 Vpr caused neuronal death through convergent pathogenic mechanisms with ensuing in vivo neurodegeneration, yielding new insights into the mechanisms by which HIV-1 injures the nervous system.


Social approach is crucial for establishing relationships among individuals. In rodents, social approach has been studied primarily within the context of behavioral phenomena related to sexual reproduction, such as mating, territory defense and parental care. However, many forms of social interaction occur before the onset of reproductive maturity, which suggests that some processes underlying social approach among juvenile animals are probably distinct from those in adults. We conducted a longitudinal study of social investigation (SI) in mice from two inbred strains to assess the extent to which genetic factors influence the motivation for young mice to approach one another. Early-adolescent C57BL/6J (B6) mice, tested 4-6 days after weaning, investigated former cage mates to a greater degree than BALB/cJ (BALB) mice, irrespective of the sex composition within an interacting pair. This strain difference was not due to variation in maternal care, the phenotypic characteristics of stimulus mice or sensitivity to the length of isolation prior to testing, nor was it attributable to a general difference in appetitive motivation. Ultrasonic vocalization (USV) production was positively correlated with the SI responses of mice from both strains. Interestingly, several USV characteristics segregated with the genetic background of young mice, including a higher average frequency and shorter duration for the USVs emitted by B6 mice. An assessment of conditioned place preference responses indicated that there was a strain-dependent difference in the rewarding nature of social contact. As adolescent mice aged, SI responses gradually became less sensitive to genetic background and more responsive to the particular sex of individuals within an interacting pair. We have thus identified a specific, genetic influence on the motivation of early-adolescent mice to approach one another. Consistent with classical theories of motivation, which propose a functional relationship between behavioral approach and reward, our findings indicate that reward is a proximal mechanism through which genetic factors affect social motivation during early adolescence.
The arachidonic acid-generating enzyme cytosolic phospholipase A(2) alpha (cPLA(2)alpha) has been implicated in the progression of excitotoxic neuronal injury. However, the mechanisms of cPLA(2)alpha toxicity have yet to be determined. Here, we used a model system exposing mouse hippocampal slices to NMDA as an excitotoxic injury, in combination with simultaneous patch-clamp recording and confocal Ca(2+) imaging of CA1 pyramidal neurons. NMDA treatment caused significantly greater injury in wild-type (WT) than in cPLA(2)alpha null CA1 neurons. Bath application of NMDA evoked a slow inward current in voltage-clamped neurons (composed of both NMDA receptor-mediated and other conductances) that was smaller in cPLA(2)alpha null than in WT slices. This was not due to down-regulation of NMDA receptor function because NMDA receptor-mediated currents were equivalent in each genotype following brief photolysis of caged glutamate. Current-clamp recordings were made during and following NMDA exposure by eliciting a single action potential with a brief current injection. After NMDA exposure, WT CA1 neurons developed a spike-evoked plateau potential and an increased spike-evoked dendritic Ca(2+) transient. These effects were absent in CA1 neurons from cPLA(2)alpha null mice and WT neurons treated with a cPLA(2)alpha inhibitor. The Ca-sensitive K-channel toxins, apamin and paxilline, caused spike broadening and Ca(2+) enhancement in WT and cPLA(2)alpha null slices. NMDA application in WT and arachidonate applied to cPLA(2)alpha null cells occluded the effects of apamin/paxilline. These results indicate that cPLA(2)alpha activity is required for development of aberrant electrophysiologic events triggered by NMDA receptor activation, in part through attenuation of K-channel function.
Germ cells are required for the successful propagation of sexually reproducing species. Understanding the mechanisms by which these cells are specified and how their totipotency is established and maintained has important biomedical and evolutionary implications. Freshwater planarians serve as fascinating models for studying these questions. They can regenerate germ cells from fragments of adult tissues that lack reproductive structures, suggesting that inductive signaling is involved in planarian germ cell specification. To study the development and regeneration of planarian germ cells, we have functionally characterized an ortholog of nanos, a gene required for germ cell development in diverse organisms, from Schmidtea mediterranea. In the hermaphroditic strain of this species, Smed-nanos mRNA is detected in developing, regenerating, and mature ovaries and testes. However, it is not detected in the vast majority of newly hatched planarians or in small tissue fragments that will ultimately regenerate germ cells, consistent with an epigenetic origin of germ cells. We show that Smed-nanos RNA interference (RNAi) results in failure to develop, regenerate, or maintain gonads in sexual planarians. Unexpectedly, Smed-nanos mRNA is also detected in presumptive testes primordia of asexual individuals that reproduce strictly by fission. These presumptive germ cells are lost after Smed-nanos RNAi, suggesting that asexual planarians specify germ cells, but their differentiation is blocked downstream of Smed-nanos function. Our results reveal a conserved function of nanos in germ cell development in planarians and suggest that these animals will serve as useful models for dissecting the molecular basis of epigenetic germ cell specification.
Serotonergic systems arising from the mid-rostrocaudal and caudal dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) have been implicated in the facilitation of anxiety-related behavioral responses to anxiogenic drugs or aversive stimuli. In this study we attempted to determine a threshold to engage serotonergic neurons in the DR following exposure to aversive conditions in an anxiety-related behavioral test. We manipulated the intensity of anxiogenic stimuli in studies of male Wistar rats by leaving them undisturbed (CO), briefly handling them (HA), or exposing them to an open-field arena for 15-min under low-light (LL: 8-13 lx) or high-light (HL: 400-500 lx) conditions. Rats exposed to HL conditions responded with reduced locomotor activity, reduced time spent exploring the center of the arena, a lower frequency of rearing and grooming, and an increased frequency of facing the corner of the arena compared to LL rats. Rats exposed to HL conditions had small but significant increases in c-Fos expression within serotonergic neurons in subdivisions of the rostral DR. Exposure to HL conditions did not alter c-Fos responses in serotonergic neurons in any other DR subdivision. In contrast, rats exposed to the open-field arena had increased c-Fos expression in non-serotonergic cells throughout the DR compared to CO rats, and this effect was particularly apparent in the dorsolateral part of the DR. We conclude that exposure to HL conditions, compared to LL conditions, increased anxiety-related behavioral responses in an open-field arena but this stimulus was at or below the threshold required to increase c-Fos expression in serotonergic neurons.
What you have seen before helps you see it again. This effect has been shown in visual search studies looking at the consequence of the previous trial: Reaction times are shorter when the features defining a target and distractors are repeated. Here, I explore whether this bias in attentional selection occurs automatically or whether it depends upon the current goals of observers. Participants performed a visual search task, in which both a color singleton and a shape singleton appeared in the search array. The observers were instructed at the beginning of every trial as to which singleton was relevant. The data show that repeating the color or shape from the previous trial benefits performance only when this information is relevant to the observers' current goals.


Convulsive status epilepticus (CSE) in childhood is a medical emergency and its aetiology and outcome mean that it should be studied separately from adult CSE. The incidence in developed countries is between 17 and 23/100,000 with a higher incidence in younger children. Febrile CSE is the commonest single group with a good prognosis in sharp distinction to CSE related to central nervous system infections which have a high mortality. The aim of treatment is to intervene at 5 min and studies indicate that intravenous (i.v.) lorazepam may be a better first-line treatment than rectal diazepam and i.v. phenytoin a better second-line treatment than rectal paraldehyde. An epidemiological study strongly supports the development of prehospital treatment with buccal midazolam becoming a widely used but unlicensed option in the community. More than two doses of benzodiazepines increase the rate of respiratory depression without obvious benefit. The 1 year recurrence rate is 17% and the hospital mortality is about 3%.




Methamphetamine is a substantial public health problem in many communities in the United States and in other parts of the world. In order to bring new knowledge about methamphetamine to policy makers, clinicians and researchers, this volume has compiled a set of articles containing new information about the drug and its effects. The articles contain information presented by researchers at two special methamphetamine meetings sponsored by the National Institute on Drug Abuse in 2005.


Nervous system growth factors potently stimulate cell function and prevent neuronal death. These broad effects on survival and function arise from direct downstream activation of antiapoptotic pathways, inhibition of proapoptotic pathways, and stimulation of functionally important cellular mechanisms including ERK/MAP kinase and CREB. Thus, as a class, growth factors offer the potential to treat neurodegenerative disorders for the first time by preventing neuronal degeneration rather than compensating for cell loss after it has occurred. Different growth factors affect distinct and specific populations of neurons: the first nervous system growth factor identified, nerve growth factor, potentially stimulates the survival and function of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, suggesting that nerve growth factor could be a means for reducing the cholinergic component of cell degeneration in Alzheimer disease. This review will discuss the transition of growth factors from preclinical studies to human clinical trials in Alzheimer disease. The implementation of clinical testing of growth factor therapy for neurologic disease has been constrained by the dual need to achieve adequate concentrations of these proteins in specific brain regions containing degenerating neurons, and preventing growth factor spread to nontargeted regions to avoid adverse effects. Gene therapy is one of a limited number of potential methods for achieving these requirements.

Neuroscience and bioinformatics research on activity-dependent gene expression and brain plasticity in memory and learning are used to reconceptualize a fundamental question of therapeutic hypnosis, &quot;What is a suggestion?&quot; John Kihlstrom's cognitive-behavioral perspective of implicit (unconscious) and explicit (conscious) memory and Eric Kandel's Nobel Prize winning neurobiological research are integrated for a 30-year update of Milton H. Erickson's &quot;neuro-psycho-physiology&quot; of therapeutic hypnosis. Implicit processing heuristics are proposed as a more general framework for Erickson's concept of permissive indirect suggestions in therapeutic hypnosis and psychotherapy. These perspectives are illustrated by utilizing implicit processing heuristics to facilitate the four-stage creative process in converting implicit to explicit memory in a brain-damaged patient.
To date, only the H1 MAPT haplotype has been consistently associated with risk of developing the neurodegenerative disease progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). We hypothesized that additional genetic loci may be involved in conferring risk of PSP that could be identified through a pooling-based genomewide association study of &gt;500,000 SNPs. Candidate SNPs with large differences in allelic frequency were identified by ranking all SNPs by their probe-intensity difference between cohorts. The MAPT H1 haplotype was strongly detected by this methodology, as was a second major locus on chromosome 11p12-p11 that showed evidence of association at allelic (P&lt;.001), genotypic (P&lt;.001), and haplotypic (P&lt;.001) levels and was narrowed to a single haplotype block containing the DNA damage-binding protein 2 (DDB2) and lysosomal acid phosphatase 2 (ACP2) genes. Since DNA damage and lysosomal dysfunction have been implicated in aging and neurodegenerative processes, both genes are viable candidates for conferring risk of disease.
The treatment of mental illness presents an opportunity to examine the heterogeneity of treatment effects. The Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness (CATIE) schizophrenia trial was sponsored by the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) to evaluate the effectiveness of antipsychotic medications for schizophrenia in broad patient populations and in scenarios representative of standard clinical practice. Trial inclusion criteria were broad and exclusion criteria were minimal, allowing for a heterogeneous study population. The majority of patients in each phase 1 treatment group discontinued their randomly assigned treatment owing to inadequate efficacy, intolerable side effects, or other reasons. Phase 2 of CATIE featured 2 treatment pathways (efficacy and tolerability) with randomized follow-up medication based on the reason for discontinuation of the previous antipsychotic drug. Outcome differences between treatment groups and variable responses to medications across the study suggest why multiple medication trials are common and may be necessary in the treatment of schizophrenia. Collectively, the CATIE results highlight variable response in the treatment of schizophrenia and demonstrate the need for individualized therapy based on variations in drug efficacy and tolerability among patients.
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) is a fatal demyelinating disease of the central nervous system resulting from the productive infection of oligodendrocytes by the opportunistic polyomavirus JC virus (JCV). Apoptosis is a host defense mechanism to dispose of damaged cells; however, certain viruses have the ability to deregulate apoptotic pathways to complete their life cycles. One such pathway involves survivin, a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis family, which is abundantly expressed during development in proliferating tissues but should be absent in normal, terminally differentiated cells. Immunohistochemistry performed in 20 cases of PML revealed the presence of survivin in JCV-infected oligodendrocytes and bizarre astrocytes within demyelinated plaques. Survivin up-regulation was also found in oligodendroglial and astrocytic cultures infected with JCV. Cell cycle analysis and DNA laddering demonstrated a significantly lower number of cells undergoing apoptosis on JCV infection compared with noninfected cultures; small interfering RNA inhibition of survivin resulted in a dramatic increase in apoptotic cells in JCV-infected cultures. This is the first report describing the activation of survivin by JCV infection in vitro and in PML clinical cases. These observations provide new insights into the anti-apoptotic mechanisms used by JCV to complete its lytic cycle and may suggest new therapeutic targets for PML.
Active caspase-6 (Csp6) and Tau cleaved by Csp6 (TauDeltaCsp6) are abundant in neuritic plaques (NPs), neuropil threads (NPTs), and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in end-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) (Guo H, Albrecht S, Bourdeau M, Petzke T, Bergeron C, LeBlanc AC: Active caspase-6 and caspase-6 cleaved Tau in neuropil threads, neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer's disease. Am J Pathol 2004, 165:523-531). The goal of this study was to determine whether active Csp6 is present in young and aged noncognitively impaired (NCI); aged mild cognitively impaired (MCI); and aged mild, moderate, severe, and very severe AD individuals. Csp6 activity was assessed with anti-p20Csp6 and TauDeltaCsp6 immunoreactivity. Active Csp6 is present in NFTs, NPTs, and NPs at all stages of AD. Active Csp6 is present in NFTs of all MCI cases and present in NPTs and NPs of some MCI cases. Active Csp6 is present in NFTs and NPTs of all NCI cases but is absent in younger cases. The level of TauDeltaCsp6-positive NFTs and NPTs correlates inversely with global cognitive scores in NCI individuals. Therefore, Csp6 activity can occur with aging in the absence of AD and is always associated with clinical and pathological features of confirmed AD cases. Given the ability of active Csp6 to increase amyloid-beta peptide production and cleave Tau and several synaptic proteins (LeBlanc AC, Liu H, Goodyer C, Bergeron C, Hammond J: Caspase-6 role in apoptosis of human neurons, amyloidogenesis and Alzheimer's disease. J Biol Chem 1999, 274:23426-23436; Petzke TL, Rousselet E, Goodyer C, LeBlanc AC: Substrates of caspase-6 in human primary neurons: a proteomic study. Program No. 80.9. 2005 Abstract Viewer/Itinerary Planner. Washington, DC: Society for Neuroscience. Online), we suggest that active Csp6 could be an early instigator of neuronal dysfunction.
Catecholaminergic neurons of the A2 area play a prominent role in brain stem vagal circuits. It is not clear, however, whether these neurons are noradrenergic or adrenergic, i.e., display tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH) immunoreactivity (-IR) or dopaminergic (i.e., TH- but not DbetaH-IR). Our aims were to investigate whether a subpopulation of neurons in the A2 area was dopaminergic and, if so, to investigate the effects of dopamine (DA) on the membrane of gastric-projecting vagal motoneurons. We observed that although the majority of A2 neurons were both TH- and DbetaH-IR, a small percentage of nucleus tractus solitarius neurons were TH-IR only, suggesting that DA itself may play role in these circuits. Whole cell recordings from thin brain stem slices showed that 71% of identified gastric-projecting motoneurons responded to DA (1-300 microM) with either an excitation (28%) or an inhibition (43%) of the membrane; the remaining 29% of the neurons were unresponsive. The DA-induced depolarization was mimicked by SK 38393 and prevented by pretreatment with SCH 23390. Conversely, the DA-induced inhibition was mimicked by bromoergocryptine and prevented by pretreatment with L741626. When tested on the same neuron, the effects of DA and NE were not always similar. In fact, in neurons in which DA induced a membrane depolarization, 77% were inhibited by NE, whereas 75% of neurons unresponsive to DA were inhibited by NE. Our data suggest that DA modulates the membrane properties of gastric-projecting motoneurons via D1- and D2-like receptors, and DA may play different roles than norepinephrine in brain stem vagal circuits.

Decisions about the classification of eating disorders have significant scientific and clinical implications. The eating disorder diagnoses in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed.; DSM-IV; American Psychiatric Association, 1994) reflect the collective wisdom of experts in the field but are frequently not supported in empirical studies and do not capture the disorders of eating experienced by most people with an eating disorder. Statistical approaches to classification such as latent class analysis and taxometrics can help to create a classification system with greater scientific validity and clinical utility. The field would benefit from direct empirical comparisons of different classification schemes with various clinical and scientific validators. Such studies would enable the creators of the next DSM eating disorder classification to increase understanding of the advantages and disadvantages associated with choosing various diagnostic criteria sets for the eating disorders.
Retroviral components of both exogenous and endogenous origins have been associated with nervous system diseases in both animals and humans. In the present study, the levels of transcripts from elements in the human endogenous retrovirus (HERV) W family were determined in muscle biopsies from patients with motor neuron disease (MND) and control subjects. Transcripts from the HERV-W element on chromosome 7q21.2 encoding syncytin and from the SOD1 gene were detected at elevated levels in biopsies from the most affected muscles from MND patients compared to biopsies from control individuals. According to a recent study, syncytin is expressed in microglia in normal brain and can be up-regulated in macrophages/microglia during inflammation. Although syncytin may have cytotoxic effects, it is therefore more likely that the present findings reflect a macrophage response in the muscles undergoing neurogenic atrophy than a primary pathogenetic event in MND.
Object permanence in Eurasian jays (Garrulus glandarius) was investigated using a complete version of the Uzgiris and Hunt scale 1. Nine hand-raised jays were studied, divided into two groups according to their different developmental stages (experiment 1, older jays: 2-3 months old, n = 4; experiment 2, younger jays: 15 days old, n = 5). In the first experiment, we investigated whether older jays could achieve piagetian stage 6 of object permanence. Tasks were administered in a fixed sequence (1-15) according to the protocols used in other avian species. The aim of the second experiment was to check whether testing very young jays before their development of &quot;neophobia&quot; could influence the achievement times of piagetian stages. Furthermore, in this experiment tasks were administered randomly to investigate whether the jays' achievement of stage 6 follows a fixed sequence related to the development of specific cognitive abilities. All jays tested in experiments 1 and 2 fully achieved piagetian stage 6 and no &quot;A not B&quot; errors were observed. Performance on visible displacement tasks was better than performance on invisible ones. The results of experiment 2 show that &quot;neophobia&quot; affected the response of jays in terms of achievement times; the older jays in experiment 1 took longer to pass all the tasks when compared with the younger, less neophobic, jays in experiment 2. With regard to the achieving order, jays followed a fixed sequence of acquisition in experiment 2, even if tasks were administered randomly, with the exception of one subject. The results of these experiments support the idea that piagetian stages of cognitive development exist in avian species and that they progress through relatively fixed sequences.
Time-space learning reflects an ability to represent in memory event-stimulus properties together with the place and time of the event; a capacity well developed in birds. Homing pigeons were trained in an indoor octagonal arena to locate one food goal in the morning and a different food goal in the late afternoon. The goals differed with respect to their angular/directional relationship to an artificial light source located outside the arena. Further, the angular difference in reward position approximated the displacement of the sun's azimuth that would occur during the same time period. The experimental birds quickly learned the task, demonstrating the apparent ease with which birds can adopt an artificial light source to discriminate among alternative spatial responses at different times of the day. However, a novel midday probe session following successful learning revealed that the light source was interpreted as a stable landmark and not as a surrogate sun that would support compass orientation. Probe sessions following a phase shift of the light-dark cycle revealed that the mechanism employed to make the temporal discrimination was prevailingly based on an endogenous circadian rhythm and not an interval timing mechanism.
The effects of the size of the environment on animals' spatial reorientation was investigated. Domestic chicks were trained to find food in a corner of either a small or a large rectangular enclosure. A distinctive panel was located at each of the four corners of the enclosures. After removal of the panels, chicks tested in the small enclosure showed better retention of geometrical information than chicks tested in the large enclosure. In contrast, after changing the enclosure from a rectangular-shaped to a square-shaped one, chicks tested in the large enclosure showed better retention of landmark (panels) information than chicks tested in the small enclosure. No differences in the encoding of the overall arrangement of landmarks were apparent when chicks were tested for generalisation in an enclosure differing from that of training in size together with a transformation (affine transformation) that altered the geometric relations between the target and the shape of the environment. These findings suggest that primacy of geometric or landmark information in reorientation tasks depends on the size of the experimental space, likely reflecting a preferential use of the most reliable source of information available during visual exploration of the environment.
Stereokinetic illusions have never been investigated in non-human primates, nor in other mammalian species. These illusions consist in the perception of a 3D solid object when certain 2D stimuli are rotated slowly in the plane perpendicular to the line of sight. The ability to perceive the stereokinetic illusion was investigated in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). Four adult marmosets were trained to discriminate between a solid cylinder and a solid cone for food reward. Once learning criterion was reached, the marmosets were tested in sets of eight probe trials in which the two solid objects used at training were replaced by two rotating 2D stimuli. Only one of these stimuli produced, at least to the human observer, the stereokinetic illusion corresponding to the solid object previously reinforced. At test, the general behaviour and the total time spent by the marmosets observing each stimulus were recorded. The subjects stayed longer near the stimulus producing the stereokinetic illusion corresponding to the solid object reinforced at training than they did near the illusion corresponding to the previously non-rewarded stimulus. Hence, the common marmosets behaved as if they could perceive stereokinetic illusions.


Malignant (N-type) neuroblastoma continues to defy current chemotherapeutic regimens. We tested the garlic compounds diallyl sulfide (DAS) and diallyl disulfide (DADS) for induction of apoptosis in human malignant neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Viability of human primary neurons was unaffected after 24 h treatment with 50 and 100 microM DAS and 50 microM DADS but slightly affected with 100 microM DADS. Treatment with 50 and 100 microM DAS or DADS significantly decreased viability in SH-SY5Y cells. Wright staining showed morphological features of apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells treated with 50 and 100 microM DAS or DADS for 24 h. ApopTag assay demonstrated DNA fragmentation in apoptotic cells. Apoptosis was associated with an increase in [Ca(2+)](i), increase in Bax:Bcl-2 ratio, mitochondrial release of cytochrome c, increase in cytosolic Smac/Diablo, and down regulation of inhibitor-of-apoptosis proteins and nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB). Activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3 indicated involvement of intrinsic pathway of apoptosis. Calpain and caspase-3 activities produced 145 kD spectrin break down product (SBDP) and 120 kD SBDP, respectively. Also, caspase-3 activity cleaved inhibitor of caspase-activated DNase (ICAD). Results strongly suggested that the garlic compounds DAS and DADS suppressed anti-apoptotic factors and activated calpain and intrinsic caspase cascade for apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells.
The sympathetic nervous system (SNS), that is activated under condition of physical, psychological and psychosocial stress, affects force production and fatigability of muscles by controlling both muscle blood flow and the intracellular contractile mechanism. In addition SNS may affect motor function by modulating afferent activity from muscle spindles that are highly concentrated in jaw-closing muscles. Possible implications of these actions on masticatory function and myofascial pain are discussed.

We investigated whether performance on a visuospatial line judgment task, the Judgment of Line Angle and Position-15 test (JLAP-15), showed evidence of sensitivity to early sex steroid exposure by examining how it related to sex, as well as to sexual orientation and 2D:4D digit ratios. Participants were drawn from a large Internet study with over 250,000 participants. In the main sample (ages 12-58 years), males outperformed females on the JLAP-15, showing a moderate effect size for sex. In agreement with a prenatal sex hormone hypothesis, line judgment accuracy in adults related to 2D:4D and sexual orientation, both of which are postulated to be influenced by early steroids. In both sexes, better visuospatial performance was associated with lower (more male-typical) digit ratios. For men, heterosexual participants outperformed homosexual/bisexual participants on the JLAP-15 and, for women, homosexual/bisexual participants outperformed heterosexual participants. In children aged 8-10 years, presumed to be a largely prepubertal group, boys also outperformed girls. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that visuospatial ability is influenced by early sex steroids, although they do not rule out alternative explanations or additional influences. More broadly, such results support a prenatal sex hormone hypothesis that degree of androgen exposure may influence the neural circuitry underlying cognition (visuospatial ability) and sexual orientation as well as aspects of somatic (digit ratio) development.

In this review paper, the prevalence and characteristics of central auditory processing disorder (CAPD) are reviewed. The causes, pathology and diagnosis of CAPD are also discussed. Recommendations are made for classroom interventions and a case study is presented. CAPDs are complex, heterogeneous disorders involving the process of auditory stimuli within the mechanisms of the central nervous system that can result in profound personal, social and academic consequences. Specificity in diagnosis, support by family members, neuroscience and allied health professionals and educators, and self-management and advocacy are required for children, adolescents and adults to have successful academic and work outcomes.
When neural events are analyzed as stimuli and responses, functional relations among them and among overt stimuli and responses can be unveiled. The integration of neuroscience and the experimental analysis of behavior is beginning to provide empirical evidence of involvement of neural events in the three-term contingency relating discriminative stimuli, responses, and consequences. This paper is aimed at highlighting exemplar instances in the development of this issue. It has long been known that the electrical stimulation of certain cerebral areas can have a reinforcing function. Extraordinary technological advances in recent years show that neural activity can be selected by consequences. For example, the activity of in vitro isolated neurons that receive dopamine as a reinforcer functions as a cellular analogue of operant conditioning. The in vivo activity of populations of neurons of rats and monkeys can be recorded on an instant-to-instant basis and can then be used to move mechanical arms or track a target as a function of consequences. Neural stimulation acts as a discriminative stimulus for operant responses that are in turn maintained by neural consequences. Together with investigations on the molecular basis of classical conditioning, those studies are examples of possibilities that are being created for the study of behavior-environment interactions within the organism. More important, they show that, as an element in the three-term contingency, neural activity follows the same laws as other events.
Adult Fast (seizure-prone) and Slow (seizure-resistant) kindling rat strains exhibit divergent behaviors in paradigms relevant to attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in humans. Similar dissociations in rodent behavior have been linked to disparities in early life experience, suggesting that differential maternal care or postnatal interactions may underlie these behaviors. Consequently, the authors compared maternal behavior and preweaning pup weights in these 2 strains under control and cross-fostered conditions and examined its effects on subsequent adult offspring behavior. Ultimately, several distinct maternal behaviors were apparent between the 2 strains under control conditions, and some of those behaviors were then malleable by pup condition. Yet, in spite of the resultant complex maternal patterns across groups, all offspring showed behavioral phenotypes akin to their genetic strain. Thus, a specific postnatal environment is unlikely to underwrite ADHD-like behaviors in the seizure-prone Fast rats, which implicates a genetic or prenatal origin for the ADHD phenotype.
Enhanced physical activity is associated with improvements in cognitive function in rodents as well as in humans. The authors examined in detail which aspects of learning and memory are influenced by exercise, using a spatial Y-maze test combined with a 14-day exercise paradigm at different stages of learning. The authors show that 14 days of wheel running promotes memory acquisition, memory retention, and reversal learning. The exercise paradigm that was employed also significantly increased the number of maturing neurons, suggesting that an increase in neurogenesis underlies the positive effects of exercise on Y-maze performance. Finally, the authors show that memory acquisition in itself does not have a major impact on the number of immature neurons. However, memory retention testing and reversal learning both cause a significant reduction in the number of doublecortin and Ser133- phosphorylated pCREB-positive cells, indicating that a decrease in neurogenesis might be a prerequisite for optimal memory retrieval.
To understand the role that sleep may play in memory storage, the authors investigated how fear conditioning affects sleep-wake states by performing electroencephalographic (EEG) and electromyographic recordings of C57BL/6J mice receiving fear conditioning, exposure to conditioning stimuli, or immediate shock treatment. This experimental design allowed us to examine the effects of associative learning, presentation of the conditioning stimuli, and presentation of the unconditioned stimuli on sleep-wake states. During the 24 hr after training, fear-conditioned mice had approximately 1 hr more of nonrapid-eye-movement (NREM) sleep and less wakefulness than mice receiving exposure to conditioning stimuli or immediate shock treatment. Mice receiving conditioning stimuli had more delta power during NREM sleep, whereas mice receiving fear conditioning had less theta power during rapid-eye-movement sleep. These results demonstrate that a single trial of fear conditioning alters sleep-wake states and EEG oscillations over a 24-hr period, supporting the idea that sleep is modified by experience and that such changes in sleep-wake states and EEG oscillations may play a role in memory consolidation.
The present study investigated the efficacy of self-help based on cognitive behaviour therapy in combination with Internet support in the treatment of bulimia nervosa and binge eating disorder. After confirming the diagnosis with an in-person interview, 73 patients were randomly allocated to treatment or a waiting list control group. Treated individuals showed marked improvement after 12 weeks of self-help compared to the control group on both primary and secondary outcome measures. Intent-to-treat analyses revealed that 37% (46% among completers) had no binge eating or purging at the end of the treatment and a considerable number of patients achieved clinically significant improvement on most of the other measures as well. The results were maintained at the 6-month follow-up, and provide evidence to support the continued use and development of self-help programmes.
There is an accumulation of evidence for abnormalities in schizophrenia of both the major neurotransmitter systems of the brain - those of GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) and glutamate. Initial studies have found deficits in the putative neuronal marker, N-acetylaspartate, in a number of brain regions in schizophrenia. The animal models have provided some interesting correlates and discrepancies with these findings. The deficit in inhibitory interneurons within structures implicated in schizophrenic symptomatology may well have direct functional relevance, and can be induced by animal models of the disease such as subchronic phencyclidine administration or social isolation. Their association with these animal models suggests an environmental involvement. A loss of glutamatergic function in schizophrenia is supported by decreases in markers for the neuronal glutamate transporter in striatal structures that receive cortical glutamatergic projections. Deficits in the VGluT1 (vesicular glutamate transporter-1) in both striatal and hippocampal regions support this observation, and the association of VGluT1 density with a genetic risk factor for schizophrenia points to genetic influences on these glutamatergic deficits. Further studies differentiating neuronal loss from diminished activity and improved models allowing us to determine the temporal and causal relationships between GABAergic and glutamatergic deficits will lead to a better understanding of the processes underlying the neuronal pathology of schizophrenia.
It is beyond doubt that the neurotrophin family of proteins plays key roles in determining the fate of the neuron, not only during embryonic development, but also in the adult brain. Neurotrophins such as NGF (nerve growth factor) and BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) can play dual roles: first, in neuronal survival and death, and, secondly, in activity-dependent plasticity. The neurotrophins manifest their effects by binding to two discrete receptor subtypes: the Trk (tropomyosin receptor kinase) family of RTKs (receptor tyrosine kinases) and the p75NTR (p75 neurotrophin receptor). The differential activation of these receptors by the mature neurotrophins and their precursors, the proneurotrophins, renders analysis of the biological functions of these receptors in the adult brain highly complex. Here, we briefly give a broad review of current knowledge of the roles of neurotrophins in the adult brain, including expression of hippocampal plasticity, neurodegeneration and exercise-induced neuroprotection.
Stroke results from a transient or permanent reduction in blood flow to the brain. The mechanisms involving neuronal death following ischemic insult are complex and not fully understood. One signal which may control ischemic neuronal death is the inappropriate activation of cell cycle regulators including cyclins, cyclin dependent kinases (CDKs) and endogenous cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors (CDKIs). In dividing cells, activation of cell cycle machinery induces cell proliferation. In the context of terminally differentiated-neurons, however, aberrant activation of these elements triggers neuronal death. Indeed, there are several lines of correlative and functional evidence supporting this &quot;cell cycle/neuronal death hypothesis&quot;. The objective of this review is to summarize the findings implicating cell cycle machinery in ischemic neuronal death from in vitro and in vivo studies. Importantly, determining and blocking the signaling pathway(s) by which these molecules act to mediate ischemic neuronal death, in conjunction with other targets may provide a viable therapeutic strategy for stroke damage.
The 'silent epidemic' of Alzheimer's disease is becoming a considerable social and economical problem in the developed countries. Especially so, because we still cannot diagnose the disease early enough, and there is no disease-modifying treatment. At present the only available therapeutic option is the use of cholinesterase inhibitors, which have mainly symptomatic short-term benefit for around one third of the patients. The solution to the problem would be the evidence-based design of early therapies, which could reverse/halt the cellular mechanisms that precede the formation of the typical brain pathology. The development of new therapeutic strategies, however, is hindered by limited knowledge of the pathogenic mechanisms that lead to the development of the sporadic form of the disease. Additionally, by the time the disease can be diagnosed, using the currently available diagnostic protocols, the pathology has spread to large areas of the brain, causing irreversible damage and functional disability. It is imperative therefore that we find early biomarkers for sporadic Alzheimer's disease, which could identify patients before substantial pathology develops.
Although neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) formation is a central event in both familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD), neither cellular origin nor functional consequence of the NFTs are fully understood. This largely is due to the lack of available in vivo models for neurofibrillary degeneration (NFD). NFTs have only been identified in transgenic mice, bearing a transgene for a rare hereditary neurodegenerative disease, frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP17). Epidemiological evidence suggests a much higher occurrence of dementia in stroke patients. This may represent the underlying cause of the pathogenesis of sporadic AD, which accounts for the majority of AD cases. We examined pathological markers of AD in a rodent stroke model. Here we show that after transient cerebral ischemia, hyperphosphorylated tau accumulates in neurons of the cerebral cortex in the ischemic area, forms filaments similar to those present in human neurodegenerative tauopathies and colocalizes with markers of apoptosis. As a potential underlying mechanism, we were able to determine that transient ischemia induced tau hyperphosphorylation and NFT-like conformations are associated with aberrant activation of cyclin dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) and can be rescued by delivery of a potent, but non-specific cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor, roscovitine to the brain. Our study further indicates that accumulation of p35 and its calpain-mediated cleavage product, p25 may account for the deregulation of Cdk5 induced by transient ischemia. We conclude that Cdk5 may be the principal protein kinase responsible for tau hyperphosphorylation and may be a hallmark of the tauopathies in this stroke model.
Targeted deletion of the stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 gene (scd1) in mouse causes obesity resistance and a severe skin phenotype. Here, we demonstrate that SCD1 deficiency disrupts the epidermal lipid barrier and leads to uncontrolled transepidermal water loss, breakdown of adaptive thermoregulation and cold resistance, as well as a metabolic wasting syndrome. The loss of omega-hydroxylated very long-chain fatty acids (VLCFA) and ceramides substituted with omega-hydroxylated VLCFA covalently linked to corneocyte surface proteins leads to the disruption of the epidermal lipid barrier in scd1-/- mutants. Artificial occlusion of the skin by topical lipid application largely reconstituted the epidermal barrier and also reversed dysregulation of thermogenesis and cold resistance, as well as the metabolic disturbances. Interestingly, SCD1 deficiency abolished expression of the key transcription factor Lef1, which is essential for interfollicular epidermis, sebaceous glands, and hair follicle development. Finally, the occurrence of SCD1 and a newly described hSCD5 (ACOD4) gene in humans suggests that the scd1-/- mouse mutant might be a valuable animal model for the study of human skin diseases associated with epidermal barrier defects.
Previous studies suggest depression is a risk factor for all cause mortality, with depressed men at greater risk than depressed women. Diminished cardiac vagal control (CVC) in depressed patients has also been found to increase risk of cardiac mortality. Previous research found that depressed women have higher CVC than depressed men suggesting CVC might be related to the discrepancy in mortality rates between depressed men and women. This finding, however, was in the context of a study with several methodological weaknesses. The current study sought to replicate the sex difference in CVC in a sample of 137 medically healthy and clinically diagnosed depressed patients. Main effects of sex and age significantly predicted CVC such that depressed women had greater CVC and CVC decreased with age in the cross-sectional sample. The results suggest greater CVC in depressed women might confer cardioprotective functions, which may partially explain the sex difference in mortality rates in the depressed population.
Allosteric modulators and mutations that slow AMPAR desensitization have additional effects on deactivation and agonist potency. We investigated whether these are independent actions or the natural consequence of slowing desensitization. Effects of cyclothiazide (CTZ), trichlormethiazide (TCM), and CX614 were compared at wild-type GluR1 and &quot;nondesensitizing&quot; GluR1-L497Y mutant receptors by patch-clamp recording with ultrafast perfusion. CTZ, TCM, or L/Y mutation all essentially blocked GluR1 desensitization; however, the effects of L/Y mutation on deactivation and glutamate EC50 were three to five times greater than for modulators. CTZ and TCM further slowed desensitization of L/Y mutant receptors but paradoxically accelerated deactivation and increased agonist EC50. Results indicate that CTZ and TCM target deactivation and agonist potency independently of desensitization, most likely by modifying agonist dissociation (koff). Conversely, CX614 slowed desensitization and deactivation without affecting EC50 in both wild-type and L/Y receptors. The S750Q or combined L497Y-S750Q mutations abolished all CTZ and TCM actions without disrupting CX614 activity. Notably, the S/Q mutation also restored L/Y deactivation and EC50 to wild-type levels without restoring desensitization, further demonstrating that desensitization can be modulated independently of deactivation and EC50 by mutagenesis and possibly by allosteric modulators.
In this paper, we review McCulloch's legacy, from his early work in neurophysiology, and its relationship to his philosophical quest for an 'experimental epistemology' to his role in the cybernetics movement during the 1940s and 1950s and his contributions to the development of computer science and communication theory. There are three parts in chronological sequence. First, the period up to his work at Yale University with Dusser de Barenne, where he concentrated on the experimental study of the functional organization of sensory cortex. Second, the time of his Psychiatric Chair at the University of Chicago and the organization of the Macy Foundation Conferences. To this period corresponds the genesis and publication of the most influential and quoted work by McCulloch and Pitts: A Logical Calculus of the Ideas Immanent in Neurons Activity. Third, the period of his research activity at the Massachussetts Institute of Technology where he, Lettvin, Maturana and Pitts produced epochmaking papers on epistemological neurophysiology, the modelling of the reticular formation and other work with da Fonseca and Moreno-Daz. We finally refer to the International Conference that took place in McCulloch's memory at the 25th anniversary of his death. Our main conclusion is that McCulloch's writings are still a source of inspiration from neurophysiology to artificial intelligence and robotics.
Brain-related researches encompass many fields of studies and usually involve worldwide collaborations. Recognizing the value of these international collaborations for efficient use of resources and improving the quality of brain research, the International Neuroinformatics Coordinating Facility (INCF) started to coordinate the effort of establishing neuroinformatics (NI) centers and portal sites among the different participating countries. These NI centers and portal sites will serve as the conduit for the interchange of information and brain-related resources among different countries. In Japan, several NI platforms under the support of NIJC (NI Japan Center) are being developed with one platform called, Visiome, already operating and publicly accessible at &quot;http://www.platform.visiome.org&quot;. Each of these platforms requires their own set of keywords that represent important terms covering their respective fields of study. One important function of this predefined keyword list is to help contributors classify the contents of their contributions and group related resources. It is vital, therefore, that this predefined list should be properly chosen to cover the necessary areas. Currently, the process of identifying these appropriate keywords relies on the availability of human experts which does not scale well considering that different areas are rapidly evolving. This problem prompted us to develop a tool to automatically filter the most likely terms preferred by human experts. We tested the effectiveness of the proposed approach using the abstracts of the Vision Research Journal (VR) and Investigative Ophthalmology and Visual Science Journal (IOVS) as source files.


Studies of patients with semantic impairments following brain damage offer key insights into the cognitive and neural organization of semantic memory. Especially important in this regard are studies of category-specific semantic impairment. We report a direct comparison of semantic deficits in two groups suffering from different diseases: semantic dementia (SD) and herpes simplex virus encephalitis (HSVE). Although pathology in both disorders is centred on the anterior temporal lobes bilaterally, category-specific semantic impairment is rarely observed in SD yet commonly found in HSVE. Using a combination of neuropsychology and computational neuroscience, we tested the possibility that category-specific deficits for living things depend not solely upon the location of damage within the cortical semantic network but also critically upon the type of impairment. When the semantic representations within the model are degraded or 'dimmed' then a generalized, global semantic impairment results (as found in SD) but when the representations are distorted then a category-specific pattern emerges (as per HSVE). Three novel predictions from this model were tested and confirmed, thereby adding weight to the hypothesis that both type and distribution of pathology can be critical in producing neuropsychological phenomena.
Intrathecal antibody production is a hallmark of multiple sclerosis and humoral immunity is thought to play an important role in the inflammatory response and development of demyelinated lesions. The presence of lymphoid follicle-like structures in the cerebral meninges of some multiple sclerosis patients indicates that B-cell maturation can be sustained locally within the CNS and contribute to the establishment of a compartmentalized humoral immune response. In this study we examined the distribution of ectopic B-cell follicles in multiple sclerosis cases with primary and secondary progressive clinical courses to determine their association with clinical and neuropathological features. A detailed immunohistochemical and morphometric analysis was performed on post-mortem brain tissue samples from 29 secondary progressive (SP) and 7 primary progressive (PP) multiple sclerosis cases. B-cell follicles were detected in the meninges entering the cerebral sulci of 41.4% of the SPMS cases, but not in PPMS cases. The SPMS cases with follicles significantly differed from those without with respect to a younger age at multiple sclerosis onset, irreversible disability and death and more pronounced demyelination, microglia activation and loss of neurites in the cerebral cortex. Cortical demyelination in these SPMS cases was also more severe than in PPMS cases. Notably, all meningeal B-cell follicles were found adjacent to large subpial cortical lesions, suggesting that soluble factors diffusing from these structures have a pathogenic role. These data support an immunopathogenetic mechanism whereby B-cell follicles developing in the multiple sclerosis meninges exacerbate the detrimental effects of humoral immunity with a subsequent major impact on the integrity of the cortical structures.
In the light of accumulating evidence for the occurrence of spontaneous cortical spreading depression and peri-infarct depolarizations in the human brain injured by trauma or aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage, we used DC electrode recording and laser speckle imaging to study the relationship between depolarization events and perfusion in the ischaemic, gyrencephalic brain. In 14 adult male cats anaesthetized with chloralose, one cerebral hemisphere was exposed and the middle cerebral artery occluded. Surface cortical perfusion in core and penumbral territories was imaged semiquantitatively at intervals of 13 s for 4 h. Cortical surface DC potential was recorded. Time interval between changes in DC potential and in perfusion was examined, and this comparison was repeated using microelectrodes for DC potential in five similar experiments in a second laboratory. Mean pre-occlusion perfusion was 11707 +/- 4581 units (equivalent to CBF (cerebral blood flow) approximately 40.5 +/- SD 14.4 ml/100 g/min), and fell on occlusion to 5318 +/- 2916 (CBF approximately 17.1 +/- 8.3), 5291 +/- 3407 (CBF approximately 17.0 +/- 10.1), and 6711 +/- 3271 (CBF approximately 22.2 +/- 9.6), quickly recovering to 8704 +/- 4581 (CBF approximately 29.5 +/- 14.4), 9741 +/- 4499 (CBF approximately 33.3 +/- 14.1) and 10 314 +/- 3762 (CBF approximately 35.4 +/- 11.4) on the core, intermediate and outer penumbral gyri, respectively. Mean perfusion later fell secondarily on core and intermediate gyri but, overall, was preserved on the outer (upper level of perfusion) gyrus during the period of observation. Pattern and severity of transient changes in perfusion associated with depolarization events varied with gyral location; falls in perfusion were sometimes profound and irreversible, and followed rather than preceded depolarization. In this model of occlusive stroke, reductions in perfusion linked to peri-infarct depolarization events contribute to secondary deterioration in penumbral areas. The findings suggest that such events play a central rather than a subsidiary role in cerebral infarction in the gyrencephalic brain.
Transplants of cells obtained from the olfactory system are a potential treatment for spinal cord injury and a number of clinical trials are in progress. However, the extent to which transplants improve recovery of function remains unclear and there are contradictory reports on the extent to which they support axonal regeneration. Here, we have used anatomical and electrophysiological techniques to investigate the repair promoted by olfactory cell transplants after a dorsal column lesion. Since the use of olfactory cells of varying type and origin may contribute to the differing outcomes of previous studies, regeneration of dorsal column axons was compared following transplants of pure olfactory ensheathing cells from neonatal animals and mixed olfactory cells from both neonatal and adult rats. Two to three months after lesioning, numerous regenerating fibres could be seen in each type of transplant. However, tracing of ascending dorsal column fibres showed that few regenerated beyond the lesion, even when transplanted with mixed olfactory cells from the adult olfactory bulb which have previously been reported to support regeneration which bridges a lesion. Despite the absence of axonal regeneration across the injury site, olfactory cell transplants led to improved spinal cord function in sensory pathways investigated electrophysiologically. When cord dorsum potentials (CDPs), evoked by electrical stimulation of the L4/L5 dorsal roots, were recorded from the spinal cord above and below a lesion at the lumbar 3/4 level, CDPs recorded from transplanted animals were significantly larger than those recorded from lesioned controls. In addition, sensory evoked potentials recorded over the sensorimotor cortex were larger and detectable over a more extensive area in transplanted animals. These results provide direct evidence that transplants of olfactory cells preserve the function of circuitry in the region of the lesion site and of ascending pathways originating near the injury. These actions, rather than axonal regeneration, may help ameliorate the effects of spinal cord injury.
Paucity of permissive molecules and abundance of inhibitory molecules in the injured spinal cord of adult mammals prevent axons from successful regeneration and, thus, contribute to the failure of functional recovery. Using an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector, we expressed the regeneration-promoting cell adhesion molecule L1 in both neurons and glia in the lesioned spinal cord of adult mice. Exogenous L1, detectable already 1 week after thoracic spinal cord compression and immediate vector injection, was expressed at high levels up to 5 weeks, the longest time-period studied. Dissemination of L1-transduced cells throughout the spinal cord was wide, spanning over more than 10 mm rostral and 10 mm caudal to the lesion scar. L1 was not detectable in the fibronectin-positive lesion core. L1 overexpression led to improved stepping abilities and muscle coordination during ground locomotion over a 5-week observation period. Superior functional improvement was associated with enhanced reinnervation of the lumbar spinal cord by 5-HT axons. Corticospinal tract axons did not regrow beyond the lesion scar but extended distally into closer proximity to the injury site in AAV-L1-treated compared with control mice. The expression of the neurite outgrowth-inhibitory chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan NG2 was decreased in AAV-L1-treated spinal cords, along with reduction of the reactive astroglial marker GFAP. In vitro experiments confirmed that L1 inhibits astrocyte proliferation, migration, process extension and GFAP expression. Analyses of intracellular signalling indicated that exogenous L1 activates diverse cascades in neurons and glia. Thus, AAV-mediated L1 overexpression appears to be a potent means to favourably modify the local environment in the injured spinal cord and promote regeneration. Our study demonstrates a clinically feasible approach of promising potential.

In 1906 Sir Charles Sherrington published The Integrative Action of the Nervous System, which was a collection of ten lectures delivered two years before at Yale University in the United States. In this monograph Sherrington summarized two decades of painstaking experimental observations and his incisive interpretation of them. It settled the then-current debate between the &quot;Reticular Theory&quot; versus &quot;Neuron Doctrine&quot; ideas about the fundamental nature of the nervous system in mammals in favor of the latter, and it changed forever the way in which subsequent generations have viewed the organization of the central nervous system. Sherrington's magnum opus contains basic concepts and even terminology that are now second nature to every student of the subject. This brief article reviews the historical context in which the book was written, summarizes its content, and considers its impact on Neurology and Neuroscience.
Animal and limited human data suggest an important anticonvulsant role for opioid peptides and their receptors. We aimed to provide direct human in vivo evidence for changes in opioid receptor availability following spontaneous seizures. We scanned nine patients within hours of spontaneous temporal lobe seizures and compared their postictal binding of the non-subtype selective opioid receptor PET radioligand [11C]diprenorphine (DPN), quantified as a volume-of-distribution (VD), with interictal binding and with binding changes in 14 healthy controls, controlling for a range of behavioural variables associated with opioid action. A regionally specific increase of opioid receptor availability was evident in the temporal pole and fusiform gyrus ipsilateral to the seizure focus following seizures (Z 5.01, P &lt; 0.001, 16 432 mm3). Within this region, there was a negative correlation between VD and log10 time since last seizure (r = -0.53, P &lt; 0.03), compatible with an early increase and gradual return to baseline. [11C]DPN VD did not undergo systematic changes between time points in controls. This study provides direct human in vivo evidence for changes in opioid receptor availability over a time course of hours following spontaneous seizures, emphasizing an important role of the opioid system in seizure control.
Recovery of function following traumatic brain injury (TBI) is partly through neuronal plasticity. However plasticity is limited in the adult CNS compared with young animals. In order to test whether treatments that enhance CNS plasticity might improve functional recovery after TBI, a new rat head injury model was developed, in which a computer-controlled impactor produced full thickness lesions of the forelimb region of the sensorimotor cortex. Behavioural deficits were seen in several sensorimotor tasks, most of which recovered spontaneously by 21 days. However, skilled paw reaching behaviour, a task that requires corticospinal function, was only approximately 40% recovered by 28 days. In order to promote plasticity inosine was infused into the lateral ventricles for 28 days. This treatment produced an almost complete recovery of skilled paw reaching ability, associated with sprouting of the uninjured corticospinal axons across the midline into the territory of the lesioned pathway. In the cervical spinal cord the number of corticospinal axons originating from the uninjured cortex that innervated the contralateral cervical cord was five times that of controls, and in the red nucleus the number of contralaterally projecting axons was four times control values. Inosine treatment did not affect recovery in unskilled behavioural tasks, most of which recovered to normal levels by 28 days without treatment. Animals were placed in an enriched environment as an alternative method to promote plasticity. This resulted in more rapid recovery in several tasks including skilled paw function, but by 28 days normally housed animals had caught up to the same level of improvement.
Previous studies have suggested that imitators can reproduce known gestures shown by a model using a semantic, indirect route, and novel gestures using a sublexical, direct route. In the present study we aimed at testing the validity of such a dual-route model of action imitation. Patients with either left-brain damage (LBD) or right-brain damage (RBD) were tested on an action imitation task. Actions were either meaningful (n = 20) or meaningless (n = 20), and were presented in an intermingled list and, on a different day, in separate lists. We predicted that, in the mixed condition, patients would use a direct route to imitate meaningful and meaningless actions, as it allows the imitation of both action types. In the blocked condition, patients were expected to select the semantic route for meaningful actions and the direct route for meaningless actions. As hypothesized, none of the 32 patients showed dissociations between imitation of meaningful and meaningless actions in the mixed presentation. In contrast, eight patients showed a dissociation between imitation of meaningful actions and imitation of meaningless actions in the blocked presentation. Moreover, two of these patients showed a classical double dissociation between the imitation of the two action types. Results were interpreted in support of the validity of a dual-route model for explaining action imitation. We argue that the decrease in imitation of meaningful actions, relative to meaningless actions, is caused by a damage of the semantic route, and that the decline in imitation of meaningless actions, relative to meaningful actions, is produced by a breakdown of the direct route. The brain areas that were lesioned in all six LBD patients who showed a dissociation were in the superior temporal gyrus and the angular gyrus, whereas the two RBD subjects had common lesions of the pallidum and of the putamen. The brain structures affected in our patients with selective apraxia are consistent with those reported before in other neuropsychological reports. They are also in agreement with areas found activated in imaging studies in which the neural mechanisms underlying imitation were examined.
Functional recovery after peripheral nerve repair in humans is often disappointing. A major reason for this is the inaccuracy of re-innervation of muscles and sensory structures. We hypothesized that promoting plasticity in the spinal cord, through digestion of chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans (CSPGs) with chondroitinase ABC (ChABC), might allow the CNS to compensate for inaccurate peripheral re-innervation and improve functional recovery. The median and ulnar nerves were injured and repaired to produce three grades of inaccuracy of peripheral re-innervation by (i) crush of both nerves; (ii) correct repair of median to median and ulnar to ulnar; and (iii) crossover of the median and ulnar nerves. Mapping of the motor neuron pool of the flexor carpi radialis muscle showed precise re-innervation after nerve crush, inaccurate regeneration after correct repair, more inaccurate after crossover repair. Recovery of forelimb function, assessed by skilled paw reaching, grip strength and sensory testing varied with accuracy of re-innervation. This was not due to differences in the number of regenerated axons. Single injections of ChABC into the spinal cord led to long-term changes in the extracellular matrix, with hyaluronan and neurocan being removed and not fully replaced after 8 weeks. ChABC treatment produce increased sprouting visualized by MAP1BP staining and improved functional recovery in skilled paw reaching after correct repair and in grip strength after crossover repair. There was no hyperalgesia. Enhanced plasticity in the spinal cord, therefore, allows the CNS to compensate for inaccurate motor and sensory re-innervation of the periphery, and may be a useful adjunct therapy to peripheral nerve repair.
Both herpes simplex virus encephalitis (HSVE) and semantic dementia (SD) typically affect anterior temporal lobe structures. Using voxel-based morphometry (VBM), this study compared the structural damage in four HSVE patients having a semantic deficit particularly affecting knowledge of living things and six SD patients with semantic impairment across all categories tested. Each patient was assessed relative to a group of control subjects. In both patient groups, left anterior temporal damage extended into the amygdala. In patients with HSVE, extensive grey matter loss was observed predominantly in the medial parts of the anterior temporal cortices bilaterally in SD patients the abnormalities extended more laterally and posteriorly in either the left, right or both temporal lobes. Based on a lesion deficit rationale and converging results from several other sources of evidence, we suggest that (i) antero-medial temporal cortex may be important for processing and differentiating between concepts that are 'tightly packed' in semantic space, such as living things, whereas (ii) inferolateral temporal cortex may play a more general role within the semantic system.
We present two bilingual patients without language disorders in whom involuntary language switching was induced. The first patient switched from Dutch to English during a left-sided amobarbital (Wada) test. Functional magnetic resonance imaging yielded a predominantly left-sided language distribution similar for both languages. The second patient switched from French to Chinese during intraoperative electrocortical stimulation of the left inferior frontal gyrus. We conclude that the observed language switching in both cases was not likely the result of a selective inhibition of one language, but the result of a temporary disruption of brain areas that are involved in language switching. These data complement the few lesion studies on (involuntary or unintentional) language switching, and add to the functional neuroimaging studies of switching, monitoring, and controlling the language in use.
Proverbs tend to have meanings that are true both literally and figuratively (i.e., Lightning really doesn't strike the same place twice). Consequently, discourse contexts that invite a literal reading of a proverb should provide more conceptual overlap with the proverb, resulting in more rapid processing, than will contexts biased towards a non-literal reading. Despite this, previous research has failed to find the predicted processing advantage in reading times for familiar proverbs when presented in a literally biasing context. We investigate this issue further by employing both ERP methodology and a self-paced reading task and, second, by creating an item set that controls for problems with items employed in earlier studies. Our results indicate that although people do not take longer to read proverbs in the literally and proverbially biasing contexts, people have less difficulty integrating the statements in literal than figurative contexts, as shown by the ERP data. These differences emerge at the third word of the proverbs.

A successful cure for muscular dystrophies has yet to be demonstrated, but we could notice spectacular progress for the past few years. Advances have been made in methods of delivering foreign genes into muscle cells, either as naked plasmid DNA or via viral vectors. Among the virus-based methods, results with adeno-associated viral vectors have been the most promising. Systemic administration of anti-sense oligonucleotides has shown incredible success in inducing dystrophin expression and ameliorating muscle pathology via exon skipping in canine models of muscular dystrophy. Biochemical and functional rescue of dystrophic muscle has also been demonstrated with the transplantation of normal or genetically modified myogenic stem cells, as well as with a number of pharmacological approaches in animal models. Here we review the current researches on the treatment of muscular dystrophies and clinical trials on Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
Recent advances in basic neuroscience revealed that functional recovery after brain damages is attributed to vicarious function of neural networks. From clinical point of view, functional neuroimaging and neurophysiological testing also have shown functional reorganization of the damaged neural networks after stroke. Understanding of such neural mechanisms has induced an evolutional progress in strategies for neurorehabilitation. Use-dependent plasticity of the central nervous system is attributed to both dose-dependent and context dependent effects of rehabilitative intervention referred as enriched environment and enriched rehabilitation. For instance constraint-induced movement therapy emphasizes not only forced use of the paretic hand but also &quot;shaping&quot; by which patients are always rewarded in structural and progressive approaches. Principals of motor learning such as task-oriented repetitive and rhythmical approaches, feedback of knowledge of results and mental practice using motor imagery has been also applied to rehabilitative strategies. Robot-assisted rehabilitation also provides useful information about the context of neurorehabilitation. There is accumulative evidence that plasticity of the damaged brain is modified by neuropharmacological intervention and noninvasive and invasive brain stimulation coupled with rehabilitation. Furthermore development of brain-machine interfaces might enable to produce new connections among brain regions, muscles, computer and prosthesis bypassing the damaged area. Efficacy of these strategies is based on the assumption that the damaged areas are stable. However if these strategies results in dramatic enhancement and acceleration of functional recovery, patients with neurological diseases of recurrent or degenerative nature might also have real-world benefit, which is trade-off between gains and progression, from neurorehabilitation.
Understanding the mechanisms of leukocyte trafficking into the brain might provide insights into how to modulate pathologic immune responses or enhance host protective mechanisms in neuroinflammatory diseases such as multiple sclerosis. This review summarized our knowledge about the sites for leukocyte entry into the central nervous system, highlighting the routes from blood into the perivascular space and brain parenchyma through the blood-brain barrier. We further discussed the multistep paradigm of leukocyte-endothelial interactions at the blood-brain barrier, focusing on the adhesion molecules and chemokines involved in leukocyte transmigration. Luminal chemokines, which are immobilized on endothelial surfaces, initiate leukocyte integrin clustering and conformational change, leading to leukocyte arrest. Some leukocytes undergo post-arrest locomotion across the endothelial surface until interendothelial junctions are identified. Leukocytes then extend protrusions through the interendothelial junctions, in search of abluminal chemokines, which will serve as guidance cues for transmigration. Extravasating cells first accumulate in the perivascular space between the endothelial basement membrane and the basement membrane of the glia limitans. Matrix metalloproteases may be involved in leukocyte transverse across glia limitans into the brain parenchyma. The adhesion molecules and chemokine receptors provide attractive targets for neuroinflammatory diseases because of their important role in mediating central nervous system inflammation.
Our understanding of the potential role of sodium channels in multiple sclerosis (MS) has grown substantially in recent years. The channels have long had a recognized role in the symptomatology of the disease, but now also have suspected roles in causing permanent axonal destruction, and a potential role in modulating the intensity of immune activity. Sodium channels might also provide an avenue to achieve axonal and neuronal protection in MS, thereby impeding the otherwise relentless advance of permanent neurological deficit. The symptoms of MS are largely determined by the conduction properties of axons and these, in turn, are largely determined by sodium channels. The number, subtype and distribution of the sodium channels are all important, together with the way that channel function is modified by local factors, such as those resulting from inflammation (eg, nitric oxide). Suspicion is growing that sodium channels may also contribute to the axonal degeneration primarily responsible for permanent neurological deficits. The proposed mechanism involves intra-axonal sodium accumulation which promotes reverse action of the sodium/calcium exchanger and thereby a lethal rise in intra-axonal calcium. Partial blockade of sodium channels protects axons from degeneration in experimental models of MS, and therapy based on this approach is currently under investigation in clinical trials. Some recent findings suggest that such systemic inhibition of sodium channels may also promote axonal protection by suppressing inflammation within the brain.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a unique informational molecule involved in a variety of physiological processes in the central nervous system (SNS). It has been demonstrated that it can exert both protective and detrimental effects in several diseases states of the CNS, including spinal cord injury (SCI). The effects of NO on the spinal cord depend on several factors such as: concentration of produced NO, activity of different synthase isoforms, cellular source of production and time of release. Basically, it has been shown that low NO concentrations may play a role in physiologic processes, whereas large amounts of NO may be detrimental by increasing oxidative stress. However, this does not explain all the discrepancies evidenced studying the effects of NO in SCI models. The analysis of the different synthase isoforms, of their temporal profile of activation and cellular source has shed light on this topic. Two post-injury time intervals can be defined with reference to the NO production: immediately after injury and several hours-to-days later. The initial immediate peak of NO production after injury is due to the up-regulation of the neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) in resident spinal cord cells. The late peak is due primarily to the activity of inducible NOS (nNOS) produced by inflammatory infiltrating cells. High NO levels produced by up-regulated nNOS and iNOS are neurotoxic; the down-regulation of nNOS corresponds temporally to the expression of iNOS. On the bases of the evidence, therapeutic approaches should be aimed: (1) to reduce the NO-elicited damage by inhibition of specific synthases according to the temporal profile of activation; (2) by maintaining physiologic amount of NO to keep the induction of iNOS.
This review summarized the contribution to neurobiology achieved through the use of invertebrate preparations in the second half of the 20th century. This fascinating period was preceded by pioneers who explored a wide variety of invertebrate phyla and developed various preparations appropriate for electrophysiological studies. Their work advanced general knowledge about neuronal properties (dendritic, somatic, and axonal excitability; pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms). The study of invertebrates made it possible to identify cell bodies in different ganglia, and monitor their operation in the course of behavior. In the 1970s, the details of central neural circuits in worms, molluscs, insects, and crustaceans were characterized for the first time and well before equivalent findings were made in vertebrate preparations. The concept and nature of a central pattern generator (CPG) have been studied in detail, and the stomatogastric nervous system (STNS) is a fine example, having led to many major developments since it was first examined. The final part of the review is a discussion of recent neuroethological studies that have addressed simple cognitive functions and confirmed the utility of invertebrate models. After presenting our invertebrate &quot;mice,&quot; the worm Caenorhabditis elegans and the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, our conclusion, based on arguments very different from those used fifty years ago, is that invertebrate models are still essential for acquiring insight into the complexity of the brain.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) is a physiological relevant neurotrophic factor in the nigrostriatal system and hence a promising candidate for the establishment of alternative therapeutic strategies in Parkinson's disease. FGF-2 and its high-affinity receptors (FGFR) display an expression in the developing, postnatal, and adult substantia nigra (SN) and in the striatum. Exogenous application promoted survival, neurite outgrowth and protection from neurotoxin-induced death of dopaminergic (DA) neurons both in vitro and in vivo. In animal models of Parkinson's disease, co-transplantation of fetal DA cells with FGF-2 expressing cells increased survival and functional integration of the grafted DA neurons resulting in improved behavioral performance. Analyzing the physiological function of the endogenous FGF-2 system during development and after neurotoxin-induced lesion revealed for the DA neurons of the SNpc a dependence on FGFR3 signaling during development. In addition, in the absence of FGF-2 an increased number of DA neurons was found, whereas enhanced levels of FGF-2 resulted in a reduced DA cell density. Following neurotoxin-induced lesion of DA neurons, FGF-2-deleted mice displayed a higher extent of DA neuron death whereas in FGF-2 overexpressing mice more DA neurons were protected. According to the data, FGF-2 seems to promote DA neuron survival via FGFR3 during development, whereas absence of this ligand could be compensated by other members of the FGF family. In contrast, in the adult organism, FGF-2 cannot be compensated by other factors under lesion conditions suggesting a central role for this molecule in the nigrostriatal system.
Animal models are extremely useful tools in defining pathogenesis and treatment of human disease. For many years researchers believed that structural damage to the brain of neuropsychiatric (NP) patients lead to abnormal mental function, but this possibility was not extensively explored until recently. Imaging studies of NP-systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) support the notion that brain cell death accounts for the emergence of neurologic and psychiatric symptoms, and evidence suggests that it is an autoimmunity-induced brain disorder characterized by profound metabolic alterations and progressive neuronal loss. While there are a number of murine models of SLE, this article reviews recent literature on the immunological connections to neurodegeneration and behavioral dysfunction in the Fas-deficient MRL model of NP-SLE. Probable links between spontaneous peripheral immune activation, the subsequent central autoimmune/inflammatory responses in MRL/MpJ-Tnfrsf6(lpr) (MRL-lpr) mice and the sequential mode of events leading to Fas-independent neurodegenerative autoimmune-induced encephalitis will be reviewed. The role of hormones, alternative mechanisms of cell death, the impact of central dopaminergic degeneration on behavior, and germinal layer lesions on developmental/regenerative capacity of MRL-lpr brains will also be explored. This model can provide direction for future therapeutic interventions in patients with this complex neuroimmunological syndrome.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) consist of a core protein and glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains. There is enormous structural diversity among CSPGs due to variation in the core protein, the number of GAG chains and the extent and position of sulfation. Most CSPGs are secreted from cells and participate in the formation of the extracellular matrix (ECM). CSPGs are able to interact with various growth-active molecules and this may be important in their mechanism of action. In the normal central nervous system (CNS), CSPGs have a role in development and plasticity during postnatal development and in the adult. Plasticity is greatest in the young, especially during critical periods. CSPGs are crucial components of perineuronal nets (PNNs). PNNs have a role in closure of the critical period and digestion of PNNs allows their re-opening. In the adult, CSPGs play a part in learning and memory and the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system. CSPGs have an important role in CNS injuries and diseases. After CNS injury, CSPGs are the major inhibitory component of the glial scar. Removal of CSPGs improves axonal regeneration and functional recovery. CSPGs may also be involved in the pathological processes in diseases such as epilepsy, stroke and Alzheimer's disease. Several possible methods of manipulating CSPGs in the CNS have recently been identified. The development of methods to remove CSPGs has considerable therapeutic potential in a number of CNS disorders.




Puralpha is a sequence-specific nucleic acid binding protein that is involved in multiple cellular functions including regulation of transcription, initiation of DNA replication, cell cycle progression, and neuronal cell differentiation. Its potential role in DNA repair has not been explored. We have now analyzed the role of Puralpha in the cellular response to replication-associated DNA repair of double-strand breaks (DSBs) using Puralpha knockout mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEFs). We found that Puralpha negative cells are hypersensitive to the DNA replication inhibitor, hydroxyurea (HU), and that HU induces excessive DSBs, which delayed the resumption of cell cycle progression after HU treatment. Reintroduction of Pura into Pura null cells reduced the accumulation of DSBs and enhanced DNA end joining. These results suggest a role for Puralpha as a caretaker protein that is involved in the repair of DSBs induced by stalled replication forks.
The main aims of the international meeting &quot;Immunotherapy of Cancer: Challenges and Needs&quot; were to review the state of the art of cancer immunotherapy and to identify critical issues which deserve special attention for promoting progress of research in this field, with a particular focus on the perspectives of clinical research. Novel concepts and strategies for identifying, monitoring and predicting effective responses to cancer immunotherapy protocols were presented, focused on the use of adjuvants (CpG oligonucleotides) or cytokines (IFN-alpha) to enhance the efficacy of cancer vaccines. Moreover, the possible advantages of using different types of dendritic cells (for active immunization strategies) or T cells (for adoptive immunotherapy protocols) were debated. A consensus was achieved on the need for enhancing the efficacy of cancer vaccines or adoptive cell immunotherapy by combining these strategies with other anti-cancer treatments, including chemotherapy. Finally, initiatives for promoting clinical research by establishing a strategic cooperation in the field of cancer immunotherapy based on the active participation of all the relevant actors, including public institutions responsible of Public Health, National Cancer Institutes, industry, representatives of regulatory bodies, and patients' organizations were proposed.
Fatty acid synthase (FAS), the enzyme responsible for the de novo synthesis of fatty acids, is highly expressed in ovarian cancers and most common human carcinomas. Inhibition of FAS and activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) have been shown to be cytotoxic to human cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. In this report, we explore the cytotoxic mechanism of action of FAS inhibition and show that C93, a synthetic FAS inhibitor, increases the AMP/ATP ratio, activating AMPK in SKOV3 human ovarian cancer cells, which leads to cytotoxicity. As a physiologic consequence of AMPK activation, acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), the rate-limiting enzyme of fatty acid synthesis, was phosphorylated and inhibited whereas glucose oxidation was increased. Despite these attempts to conserve energy, the AMP/ATP ratio increased with worsening cellular redox status. Pretreatment of SKOV3 cells with compound C, an AMPK inhibitor, substantially rescued the cells from C93 cytotoxicity, indicating its dependence on AMPK activation. 5-(Tetradecyloxy)-2-furoic acid, an ACC inhibitor, did not activate AMPK despite inhibiting fatty acid synthesis pathway activity and was not significantly cytotoxic to SKOV3 cells. This indicates that substrate accumulation from FAS inhibition triggering AMPK activation, not end-product depletion of fatty acids, is likely responsible for AMPK activation. C93 also exhibited significant antitumor activity and apoptosis against SKOV3 xenografts in athymic mice without significant weight loss or cytotoxicity to proliferating cellular compartments such as bone marrow, gastrointestinal tract, or skin. Thus, pharmacologic FAS inhibition selectively activates AMPK in ovarian cancer cells, inducing cytotoxicity while sparing most normal human tissues from the pleiotropic effects of AMPK activation.
Emerging evidence has indicated a regulatory role of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) in synaptic plasticity as well as in higher brain functions, such as learning and memory. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the actions of Cdk5 at synapses remain unclear. Recent findings demonstrate that Cdk5 regulates dendritic spine morphogenesis through modulating actin dynamics. Ephexin1 and WAVE-1, two important regulators of the actin cytoskeleton, have both been recently identified as substrates for Cdk5. Importantly, phosphorylation of these proteins by Cdk5 leads to dendritic spine loss, revealing a potential mechanism by which Cdk5 regulates synapse remodeling. Furthermore, Cdk5-dependent phosphorylation of ephexin1 is required for the ephrin-A1 mediated spine retraction, pointing to a critical role of Cdk5 in conveying signals from extracellular cues to actin cytoskeleton at synapses. Taken together, understanding the precise regulation of Cdk5 and its downstream targets at synapses would provide important insights into the multi-regulatory roles of Cdk5 in actin remodeling during dendritic spine development.
In primary sensory afferent neurons, Ca2+ plays a vital role in the regulation of cellular processes including receptor and synaptic plasticity, neurotransmitter and trophic factor release and gene regulation. Current understanding of the mechanisms underlying Ca2+ homeostasis of primary sensory afferent neurons is mostly derived from studies on dorsal root ganglia and nodose ganglia neuron cell bodies. Little is known about Ca2+ homeostasis in trigeminal ganglion neurons (TGNs). To determine what cellular processes contribute to electrically-evoked Ca2+ transients in TGNs, we probed Ca2+ regulatory mechanisms in TGN cell bodies from the ophthalmic division with a panel of pharmacological reagents. Ca2+ transients were evoked in fura-2 loaded TGNs by depolarizing the plasma membrane with brief (500 ms) puffs of 50 mM KCl. Cyclopiazonic acid (CPA; 5 microM), an inhibitor of the sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA), significantly decreased the peak amplitude, and slowed the decay, of the KCl-evoked Ca2+ transients in TGNs. The mitochondrial protonophore, carbonyl cyanide 3-chloro-phenylhydrazone (CCCP; 5 microM) significantly increased the peak amplitude of KCl-evoked Ca2+ transients. These data demonstrate that Ca2+ stores do play a major role in Ca2+ homeostasis in TGN cell bodies. To determine the role of the sodium-calcium exchanger (NCX) in KCl-evoked Ca2+ transients in TGNs, we inhibited the exchanger with KB-R7943 (10 microM), or by replacing Na+ with Li+. NCX inhibition did not affect either the peak amplitude or the decay kinetics of the KCl-evoked Ca2+ transients. Therefore, the NCX does not play a significant role in removing cytosolic Ca2+ from TGNs. To test whether the plasma membrane calcium-ATPase (PMCA) contributes to Ca2+ extrusion, we inhibited its activity by a shift to alkaline pH (9.0). At pH 9.0, both the peak amplitude and decay time of the KCl-evoked Ca2+ transient were increased significantly. These data suggest that, in TGNs, the PMCA is the major mechanism for removing cytosolic Ca2+ following electrical activity.
Strict control of calcium entry through excitatory synaptic receptors is important for shaping synaptic responses, gene expression, and cell survival. Disruption of this control may lead to pathological accumulation of Ca2+. The slow-channel congenital myasthenic syndrome (SCS), due to mutations in muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR), perturbs the kinetics of synaptic currents, leading to post-synaptic Ca2+ accumulation. To understand the regulation of calcium signaling at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) and the etiology of Ca2+ overload in SCS we studied the role of sarcoplasmic Ca2+ stores in SCS. Using fura-2 loaded dissociated fibers activated with acetylcholine puffs, we confirmed that Ca2+ accumulates around wild type NMJ and discovered that Ca2+ accumulates significantly faster around the NMJ of SCS transgenic dissociated muscle fibers. Additionally, we determined that this process is dependant on the activation, altered kinetics, and movement of Ca2+ ions through the AChR, although, surprisingly, depletion of intracellular stores also prevents the accumulation of this cation around the NMJ. Finally, we concluded that the sarcoplasmic reticulum is the main source of Ca2+ and that inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate receptors (IP3R), and to a lesser degree L-type voltage gated Ca2+ channels, are responsible for the efflux of this cation from intracellular stores. These results suggest that a signaling system mediated by the activation of AChR, Ca2+, and IP3R is responsible for localized Ca2+ signals observed in muscle fibers and the Ca2+ overload observed in SCS.
We have used quartz Ca2+-sensitive microelectrodes (CASMs) in large voltage-clamped snail neurones to investigate the inward spread of Ca2+ after a brief depolarisation. Both steady state and [Ca2+]i transients changed with depth of penetration. When the CASM tip was within 20 microm of the far side of the cell the [Ca2+]i transient time to peak was 4.4+/-0.5s, rising to 14.7+/-0.7s at a distance of 80 microm. We estimate that the Ca2+ transients travelled centripetally at an average speed of 6 microm2 s(-1) and decreased in size by half over a distance of about 45 microm. Cyclopiazonic acid had little effect on the size and time to peak of Ca2+ transients but slowed their recovery significantly. This suggests that the endoplasmic reticulum curtails rather than reinforces the transients. Injecting the calcium buffer BAPTA made the Ca2+ transients more uniform in size and increased their times to peak and rates of recovery near the membrane. We have developed a computational model for the transients, which includes diffusion, uptake and Ca2+ extrusion. Good fits were obtained with a rather large apparent diffusion coefficient of about 90+/-20 microm2 s(-1). This may assist fast recovery by extrusion.
Nine-day-old harlequin (Hq) mice carrying the hypomorphic apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF)(Hq) mutation expressed 60% less AIF, 18% less respiratory chain complex I and 30% less catalase than their wild-type (Wt) littermates. Compared with Wt, the infarct volume after hypoxia-ischemia (HI) was reduced by 53 and 43% in male (YX(Hq)) and female (X(Hq)X(Hq)) mice, respectively (P&lt;0.001). The Hq mutation did not inhibit HI-induced mitochondrial release of cytochrome c or activation of calpain and caspase-3. The broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor quinoline-Val-Asp(OMe)-CH(2)-PH (Q-VD-OPh) decreased the activation of all detectable caspases after HI, both in Wt and Hq mice. Q-VD-OPh reduced the infarct volume equally in Hq and in Wt mice, and the combination of Hq mutation and Q-VD-OPh treatment showed an additive neuroprotective effect. Oxidative stress leading to nitrosylation and lipid peroxidation was more pronounced in ischemic brain areas from Hq than Wt mice. The antioxidant edaravone decreased oxidative stress in damaged brains, more pronounced in the Hq mice, and further reduced brain injury in Hq but not in Wt mice. Thus, two distinct strategies can enhance the neuroprotection conferred by the Hq mutation, antioxidants, presumably compensating for a defect in AIF-dependent redox detoxification, and caspase inhibitors, presumably interrupting a parallel pathway leading to cellular demise.
Studies on the axonal transport of neurofilament proteins in cultured neurons have shown they move at fast rates, but their overall rate of movement is slow because they spend most of their time not moving. Using correlative light and electron microscopy, we have shown that these proteins move in the form of assembled neurofilament polymers. However, the polypeptide composition of these moving polymers is not known. To address this, we visualized neurofilaments in cultured neonatal mouse sympathetic neurons using GFP-tagged neurofilament protein M and performed time-lapse fluorescence microscopy of naturally occurring gaps in the axonal neurofilament array. When neurofilaments entered the gaps, we stopped them in their tracks using a rapid perfusion and permeabilization technique and then processed them for immunofluorescence microscopy. To compare moving neurofilaments to the total neurofilament population, most of which are stationary at any point in time, we also performed immunofluorescence microscopy on neurofilaments in detergent-splayed axonal cytoskeletons. All neurofilaments, both moving and stationary, contained NFL, NFM, peripherin and alpha-internexin along&gt;85% of their length. NFH was absent due to low expression levels in these neonatal neurons. These data indicate that peripherin and alpha-internexin are integral and abundant components of neurofilament polymers in these neurons and that both moving and stationary neurofilaments in these neurons are complex heteropolymers of at least four different neuronal intermediate filament proteins.
Protein kinase C interacting protein (PKCI-1) was identified among the potential interactors from a yeast two hybrid screen of human brain library using N terminal of RGSZ1 as a bait. The cysteine string region, unique to the RZ subfamily, contributes to the observed interaction because PKCI-1 interacted with N-terminus of RGS17 and GAIP, but not with that of RGS2 or RGS7 where cysteine string motif is absent. The interaction between RGSZ1 and PKCI-1 was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence. PKCI-1 and RGSZ1 could be detected by coimmunoprecipitation using 14-3-3 antibody in cells transfected with PKCI-1 or RGSZ1 respectively, but when transfected with PKCI-1 and RGSZ1 together, only RGSZ1 could be detected. Phosphorylation of Galphaz by protein kinase C (PKC) reduces the ability of the RGS to effectively function as GTPase accelerating protein for Galphaz, and interferes with ability of Galphaz to interact with betagamma complex. We investigated the roles of 14-3-3 and PKCI-1 in phosphorylation of Galphaz. Phosphorylation of Galphaz by PKC was inhibited by 14-3-3 and the presence of PKCI-1 did not provide any further inhibition. PKCI-1 interacts with mu opioid receptor and suppresses receptor desensitization and PKC related mu opioid receptor phosphorylation [W. Guang, H. Wang, T. Su, I.B. Weinstein, J.B. Wang, Mol. Pharmacol. 66 (2004) 1285.]. Previous studies have also shown that mu opioid receptor co-precipitates with RGSZ1 and influence mu receptor signaling by acting as effector antagonists [J. Garzon, M. Rodriguez-Munoz, P. Sanchez-Blazquez, Neuropharmacology 48 (2005) 853., J. Garzon, M. Rodriguez-Munoz, A. Lopez-Fando, P. Sanchez-Blazquez Neuropsychopharmacology 30 (2005) 1632.]. Inhibition of cAMP by mu opioid receptor was significantly reduced by RGSZ1 and this effect was enhanced in combination with PKCI-1. Our studies thus provide a link between the previous observations mentioned above and indicate that the major function of PKCI-1 is to modulate mu opioid receptor signaling pathway along with RGSZ1, rather than directly mediating the Galphaz RGSZ1 interaction.

Temporal proximity is a critical determinant for cross-modal integration by multisensory neurons. Information content may serve as an additional binding factor for more complex or less natural multisensory information. Letters and speech sounds, which form the basis of literacy acquisition, are not naturally related but associated through explicit learning. We investigated the relative importance of temporal proximity and information content on the integration of letters and speech sounds by manipulating both factors within the same functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) design. The results reveal significant interactions between temporal proximity and content congruency in anterior and posterior auditory association cortex, indicating that temporal synchrony is critical for the integration of letters and speech sounds. The temporal profiles for multisensory integration in the auditory association cortex resemble those demonstrated for single multisensory neurons in different brain structures and animal species. This similarity suggests that basic neural integration rules apply to the binding of multisensory information that is not naturally related but overlearned during literacy acquisition. Furthermore, the present study shows the suitability of fMRI to study temporal aspects of multisensory neural processing.
Slow N-Methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) synaptic currents are assumed to strongly contribute to the persistently elevated firing rates observed in prefrontal cortex (PFC) during working memory. During persistent activity, spiking of many neurons is highly irregular. Here we report that highly irregular firing can be induced through a combination of NMDA- and dopamine D1 receptor agonists applied to adult PFC neurons in vitro. The highest interspike-interval (ISI) variability occurred in a transition regime where the subthreshold membrane potential distribution shifts from mono- to bimodality, while neurons with clearly mono- or bimodal distributions fired much more regularly. Predictability within irregular ISI series was significantly higher than expected from a noise-driven linear process, indicating that it might best be described through complex (potentially chaotic) nonlinear deterministic processes. Accordingly, the phenomena observed in vitro could be reproduced in purely deterministic biophysical model neurons. High spiking irregularity in these models emerged within a chaotic, close-to-bifurcation regime characterized by a shift of the membrane potential distribution from mono- to bimodality and by similar ISI return maps as observed in vitro. The nonlinearity of NMDA conductances was crucial for inducing this regime. NMDA-induced irregular dynamics may have important implications for computational processes during working memory and neural coding.
The physiological conditions that swell mammalian neurons are clinically important but contentious. Distinguishing the neuronal component of brain swelling requires viewing intact neuronal cell bodies, dendrites, and axons and measuring their changing volume in real time. Cultured or dissociated neuronal somata swell within minutes under acutely overhydrated conditions and shrink when strongly dehydrated. But paradoxically, most central nervous system (CNS) neurons do not express aquaporins, the membrane channels that conduct osmotically driven water. Using 2-photon laser scanning microscopy (2PLSM), we monitored neuronal volume under osmotic stress in real time. Specifically, the volume of pyramidal neurons in cerebral cortex and axon terminals comprising cerebellar mossy fibers was measured deep within live brain slices. The expected swelling or shrinking of the gray matter was confirmed by recording altered light transmittance and by indirectly measuring extracellular resistance over a wide osmotic range of -80 to +80 milliOsmoles (mOsm). Neurons expressing green fluorescent protein were then imaged with 2PLSM between -40 and +80 mOsm over 20 min. Surprisingly, pyramidal somata, dendrites, and spines steadfastly maintained their volume, as did the cerebellar axon terminals. This precluded a need for the neurons to acutely regulate volume, preserved their intrinsic electrophysiological stability, and confirmed that these CNS nerve cells lack functional aquaporins. Thus, whereas water easily permeates the aquaporin-rich endothelia and glia driving osmotic brain swelling, neurons tenatiously maintain their volume. However, these same neurons then swell dramatically upon oxygen/glucose deprivation or [K+]0 elevation, so prolonged depolarization (as during stroke or seizure) apparently swells neurons by opening nonaquaporin channels to water.
Acetylcholine (ACh) plays a permissive role in developmental plasticity of fibers from the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) to the primary visual cortex (V1). These fibers remain plastic and express long-term potentiation (LTP) in adult rodents, but it is not known if ACh modulates this form of plasticity in the mature V1. We show that, in anesthetized rats, theta burst stimulation (TBS) of the LGN using 5 or 40 theta cycles produced moderate (approximately 20%) and stronger (approximately 40%) potentiation, respectively, of field postsynaptic potentials recorded in the ipsilateral V1. Basal forebrain stimulation (100 Hz) 5 min after TBS enhanced LTP induced by both weak (5 theta cycles) and strong (40 theta cycles) induction protocols. Both effects were reduced by systemic administration of the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine. Basal forebrain stimulation did not enhance LTP when applied 30 min after or 5 min prior to TBS, suggesting that ACh affects early LTP induction mechanisms. Application of the cholinergic agonist carbachol in V1 by means of reverse microdialysis mimicked the effect of basal forebrain stimulation. We conclude that heterosynaptic facilitation of V1 plasticity by ACh extends beyond early postnatal maturation periods and acts to convert weak potentiation into pronounced, long-lasting increases in synaptic strength.
Recent studies have described muscle synergies as overlapping, multimuscle groups defined by synchronous covariation in activation intensity. A different approach regards a synergy as a fixed temporal sequence of bursts of activity across groups of motoneurons. To pursue this latter definition, the present study used a principal component (PC) analysis tailored to reveal the across-muscle temporal synergies of human hand movement. Electromyographic (EMG) activity was recorded as subjects used a manual alphabet to spell a list of words. The analysis was applied to the EMG waveforms from 27 letter-to-letter transitions of equal duration. The first PC (of 27) represented the main temporal synergy; after practice, it began to account for more of the EMG variance (up to 40%). This main synergy began with a burst in the 4-finger extensor and a silent period in the flexors. There were then progressively later and shorter bursts in the thumb abductor, thumb flexor, little finger abductor, and finally the finger flexors. The results suggest that hand movements may be generated by activity waves unfolding in time. Because finger muscles are under relatively direct cortical control, this suggests a specific form of cortical pattern generation.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and hydroxy-PCB (OH-PCB) metabolites are widely distributed bioaccumulative environmental chemicals and have similar chemical structures to those of thyroid hormones (THs). Previously, we reported that THs are essential for neuronal development and the low doses of two OH-PCBs, namely, 4-OH-2',3,3',4',5'-pentachlorobiphenyl (4'-OH-PeCB-106) and 4-OH-2',3,3',4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (4'-OH-HxCB-159), inhibited the TH-dependent dendritic development of Purkinje cells in mouse cerebellar cultures using serum-free defined medium. To determine which type of OH-PCBs affect neuronal development, we further examined several OH-PCBs and other estrogenic chemicals using this simple and sensitive assay system. Two-way ANOVA was used to assess the effects of OH-PCBs and other chemicals on both factors of their concentrations and with/without T4 in the assay of TH-dependent dendritic development of Purkinje cells. Aside from the two OH-PCBs, 4-OH-2',3,4',5,6'-pentachlorobiphenyl (4'-OH-PeCB-121) and bisphenol A significantly inhibited the TH-dependent dendritic development of Purkinje cells, whereas 4-OH-2',3,3',5',6'-pentachlorobiphenyl (4'-OH-PeCB-112), 4-OH-2',3,3',5,5',6'-hexachlorobiphenyl (4'-OH-HxCB-165), 4-OH-2,2',3,4',5,5',6-heptachlorobiphenyl (4-OH-HpCB-187), progesterone and nonylphenol did not induce any inhibition, but significantly promoted the dendritic extension of Purkinje cells in the absence of THs. Other estrogenic chemicals, including beta-estradiol, diethyl stilbestrol and p-octylphenol did not show significant inhibitory or promoting effects. From these results, it is suggested that exposure to OH-PCBs and other environmental chemicals may disrupt normal neuronal development and cause some developmental brain disorders, such as LD, ADHD, and autism.
Simple sleep-related movement disorders must be distinguished from daytime movement disorders that persist during sleep, sleep-related epilepsy, and parasomnias, which are generally characterized by activity that appears to be simultaneously complex, goal-directed, and purposeful but is outside the conscious awareness of the patient and, therefore, inappropriate. Once it is determined that the patient has a simple sleep-related movement disorder, the part of the body affected by the movement and the age of the patient give clues as to which sleep-related movement disorder is present. In some cases, all-night polysomnography with accompanying video may be necessary to make the diagnosis. Hypnic jerks (ie, sleep starts), bruxism, rhythmic movement disorder (ie, head banging/body rocking), and nocturnal leg cramps are discussed in addition to less well-appreciated disorders such as benign sleep myoclonus of infancy, excessive fragmentary myoclonus, and hypnagogic foot tremor/alternating leg muscle activation.

Too often, insomnia is treated as a symptom without investigation of the cause. Insomnia may be a condition unto itself (primary insomnia), or it may be associated with a medical or psychiatric condition (comorbid insomnia), and it may be acute or chronic. Inadequate treatment often leads to significant frustration and lost productivity. We review the classification, pathophysiology, and treatment of insomnia and discuss how we can minimize its adverse consequences.
Brain monoaminergic neurotransmission is involved in the pathophysiology of various psychiatric disorders including depression. Reliable indicators of central monoaminergic activity might be helpful to specifically identify and differentiate dysfunctions in individual patients in order to selectively adjust medication and predict clinical response. In patients with depression, predictors of treatment response to serotonergic versus non-serotonergic (e.g., noradrenergic) antidepressants could be of considerable clinical relevance by avoiding unfavorable factors such as a prolonged duration of the disorder, risk of suicidality and therapy-resistance. Consequently, these tools might help to decrease direct and indirect costs of treatment. The loudness dependence of the N1/P2 component of auditory evoked potentials (LD) has been proposed as a noninvasive neurophysiological indicator of central serotonergic function. This review focuses on recent studies providing evidence for the validity of LD as an indirect serotonergic marker and highlights data on the clinical application in terms of prediction of treatment response in patients with depression.
Monoaminergic challenge tests allow investigating central nervous changes in humans under acute depletion of specific neurotransmitters (5-HT, DA, NE). Along with studies using alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine test (AMPT) and phenylalanine/tyrosine depletion test (APTD), the tryptophan depletion test (ATDT) represents the currently most established human challenge tool for the assessment of brain serotonin functioning. Neurophysiological studies in healthy and clinical samples may contribute to the search for a non-invasive and reliable biological marker of monoaminergic vulnerability or dysfunction. In the design of these studies, various biochemical and methodological aspects have to be taken into account. This article focuses on electrophysiological methodology and results of monoamine depletion studies (i.e., electroencephalography, magnetoencephalography, polysomnography, auditory evoked potentials and startle response).
A four-step approach for developing diagnostic tests in psychiatry is proposed. Step 1, a biological variable is observed to be deviant from healthy controls in a particular patient population. The demonstration of test retest reliability of the finding using blinding procedures is an essential component of this early step. Step 2, is the demonstration of potential clinical usefulness of the specific finding. The two most important objectives at this step are demonstration of difference between the target patient population and appropriate control groups (these should be groups of patients with diagnoses that commonly appear on the differential diagnostic lists of the target disorder). Estimation of the effect size of the finding could be a reasonable guide to which findings should be considered good candidates for Step 3 studies. During Step 3 the performance characteristics of the test should be established. Specifically, the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of the biological marker should be examined. Step 4 defines the clinical application of the test and helps standardize the technique used in large and multicenter clinical trials. Multicenter trials should pave the road towards standardization of laboratory procedures used to conduct the test, as well as providing data regarding cost effectiveness and impact on both short-term and long-term clinical outcomes.
1. Application of the nitric oxide (NO) donor, sodium nitrite and the NO synthase substrate l-arginine had no effect on nerve-evoked transmitter release in the rat isolated phrenic nerve/hemidiaphragm preparation; however, when adenosine A(1) receptors were blocked with the adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX) prior to application of sodium nitrate or l-arginine, a significant increase in transmitter release was observed. In addition, the NO donor s-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) significantly increased transmitter release in the presence of DPCPX. In the present study, we have made the assumption that these NO donors elevate the level of NO in the tissue. Future studies should test other NO-donating compounds and also monitor the NO concentrations in the tissue to ensure that these effects are, in fact, NO induced. 2. Elevation of cGMP in this preparation with the guanylyl cyclase activator 3-(5'-hydroxymethyl-2'-furyl)-1-benzyl indazole (YC-1) significantly enhanced transmitter release. In the presence of DPCPX and the selective guanylyl cyclase inhibitor 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), which blocks the production of cGMP, the excitatory effects of sodium nitrite and l-arginine were abolished. 3. These results suggest that NO serves to enhance transmitter release at the rat neuromuscular junction (NMJ) via a cGMP pathway and this facilitation of transmitter release can be blocked with adenosine. Previously, we demonstrated that adenosine inhibits N-type calcium channels. Because NO only affects transmitter release when adenosine A(1) receptors are blocked, we suggest that NO enhances transmitter release by enhancing calcium influx via N-type calcium channels. Further studies are needed to confirm that NO alters transmitter release via cGMP and that this action involves the N-type calcium channel. 4. The results of the present study are consistent with a model of NO neuromodulation that has been proposed for the mammalian vagal-atrial junction. This model suggests that NO acts on NO-sensitive guanylyl cyclase to increase the intracellular levels of cGMP. In turn, cGMP inhibits phosphodiesterase-3, increasing levels of cAMP, which then acts on the N-type calcium channels to enhance calcium influx, leading to an increase in transmitter release. Our only modification to this model for the NMJ is that adenosine serves to block the modulation of transmitter release by NO.





There is an increasing body of evidence implicating a role for alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4 isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA) receptors in major depression and in the actions of antidepressant drugs. Alterations in AMPA receptors and other ionotropic glutamate receptors have been reported in depression, and following antidepressant treatment. Compounds which augment signaling through AMPA receptors (AMPA receptor potentiators) exhibit antidepressant-like behavioral effects in animal models, and produce neuronal effects similar to those produced by currently available antidepressants, including neurotrophin induction and increases in hippocampal progenitor cell proliferation. Additionally, the antidepressant fluoxetine has been found to alter AMPA receptor phosphorylation in a manner that is expected to increase AMPA receptor signaling. Data from mutant mice suggest that AMPA receptors may regulate the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, a neurotrophin which has been implicated in the actions of antidepressant therapies. Combined, these data suggest that AMPA receptors may be in a key position to regulate mood disorders, and that compounds which target AMPA receptors may prove useful in the clinical management of depression.
Current treatments for depression are less than optimal in terms of onset of action, response and remission rates, and side-effect profiles. Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter controlling synaptic excitability and plasticity in most brain circuits, including limbic pathways involved in depression. Thus, drugs that target glutamate neuronal transmission offer novel approaches to treat depression. Recently, the NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine has demonstrated clinical efficacy in a randomized clinical trial of depressed patients. Metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors function to regulate glutamate neuronal transmission by altering the release of neurotransmitter or modulating the post-synaptic responses to glutamate. Accumulating evidence from biochemical and behavioral studies support the idea that the regulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission via mGlu receptors is linked to mood disorders and that these receptors may serve as novel targets for the discovery of small molecule modulators with unique antidepressant properties. For example, mGlu receptor modulation can facilitate neuronal stem cell proliferation (neurogenesis) and the release of neurotransmitters that are associated with treatment response to depression in humans (serotonin, norepinephrine, dopamine). In particular, compounds that antagonize mGlu2, mGlu3 and/or mGlu5 receptors (e.g. LY341495, MSG0039, MPEP) have been linked to the above pharmacology and have also shown in vivo activity in animal models predictive of antidepressant efficacy such as the forced-swim test. The in vivo actions of these agents can be antagonized by compounds that block AMPA receptors, suggesting that their actions are direct downstream consequences of the enhancement of glutamate neuronal transmission in brain regions involved in depression. These data provide new approaches to finding mechanistically distinct drugs for depression that may have advantages over current therapies for some patients. Moreover, since the mood disorders encompase a non-homogenous set of symptoms, comorbid disorders, and potential etiologies, the rich arsensel that exists within the mGlu receptor families provides an opportunity for both broad and customized therapeutics.
In the present paper we report the performance on object use and on semantic tasks of two patients, D.L. with probable semantic dementia, and A.M. with an atypical onset of dementia of Alzheimer, assessed twice two years apart. In particular, we investigated whether the patients' ability to use objects degraded as a function of their semantic knowledge about those objects. Results from the two assessments in 2002 and in 2004 confirmed that both patients had a selective loss of the lexical-semantic knowledge, despite a relative preservation of the other cognitive abilities including object use. This pattern of results suggests that semantic knowledge is not necessarily involved in the correct use of objects.
Internal models are neural mechanisms that can mimic the input-output properties of controlled objects. Our studies have shown that: 1) an internal model for a novel tool is acquired in the cerebellum (Imamizu et al., 2000); 2) internal models are modularly organized in the cerebellum (Imamizu et al., 2003); 3) their outputs are sent to the premotor regions after learning (Tamada et al., 1999); and 4) the prefrontal and parietal regions contribute to the blending of the outputs (Imamizu et al., 2004). Here, we investigated changes in global neural networks resulting from the acquisition of a new internal model. Human subjects manipulated three types of rotating joystick whose cursor appeared at a position rotated 60 degrees, 110 degrees, or 160 degrees around the screen's center. In a pre-test after long-term training (5 days) for the 60 degrees and 160 degrees joysticks, brain activation was scanned during manipulation of the three joysticks. The subjects were then trained for the 110 degrees for only 25 min. In a post-test, activation was scanned using the same method as the pre-test. Comparisons of the post-test to the pre-test revealed that the volume of activation decreased in most of the regions where activation for the three rotations was observed. However, there was an increase in volume at a marginally significant level (p &lt; .08) only in the inferior-lateral cerebellum and only for the 110 degrees joystick. In the cerebral cortex, activation related to 110 degrees decreased in the prefrontal and parietal regions but increased in the premotor and supplementary motor area (SMA) regions. These results can be explained by a model in which outputs of the 60 degrees and 160 degrees internal models are blended by prefrontal and parietal regions to cope with the novel 110 degrees joystick before the 25-minute training; after the acquisition within the cerebellum of an internal model for the 110 degrees, output is directly sent to the premotor and SMA regions, and activation in these regions increases.
Several studies have reported an involvement of the stomatognathic system in the course of fibromyalgia (FM) similar to that which characterizes temporomandibular disorders (TMD). The aim of this study was to investigate and compare the clinical features of stomatognathic dysfunction in patients with FM and TMD. Ninety-three FM patients underwent an assessment according to the RDC/TMD guidelines. Prevalence of the different RDC/TMD diagnoses and some clinical parameters of FM patients were compared with those of 181 patients affected by TMD. Seventy-four (79.6%) FM patients presented at least one RDC/TMD diagnosis and showed lower mean maximum voluntary and passive mouth opening values than TMD patients. Moreover, 34 FM patients presented with trigger and/or tender points. Results of the present study confirm the high rate of involvement of the stomatognathic system in the course of FM and support the need for a careful multidisciplinary approach to patients with TMD, including the rheumatologist.
Cerebrovascular dysfunction contributes to the cognitive decline and dementia in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and may precede cerebral amyloid angiopathy and brain accumulation of the Alzheimer's neurotoxin, amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta). The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is critical for brain Abeta homeostasis and regulates Abeta transport via two main receptors, the low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 (LRP1) and the receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE). According to the neurovascular hypothesis of AD, faulty BBB clearance of Abeta through deregulated LRP1/RAGE-mediated transport, aberrant angiogenesis and arterial dysfunction may initiate neurovascular uncoupling, Abeta accumulation, cerebrovascular regression, brain hypoperfusion and neurovascular inflammation. Ultimately these events lead to BBB compromise and chemical imbalance in the neuronal 'milieu', and result in synaptic and neuronal dysfunction. Based on the neurovascular hypothesis, we suggest an array of new potential therapeutic approaches that could be developed for AD to reduce neuroinflammation, enhance Abeta clearance and neurovascular repair, and improve cerebral blood flow. RAGE-based and LRP1-based therapeutic strategies have potential to control brain Abeta in AD, and possibly related familial cerebrovascular beta-amyloidoses. In addition, we have identified two vascularly restricted genes, GAX (growth arrest-specific homeobox), which controls LRP1 expression in brain capillaries and brain angiogenesis, and MYOCD (myocardin), which controls contractility of cerebral arterial smooth muscle cells and influences cerebral blood flow. These findings provide insights into new pathogenic pathways for the vascular dysfunction in AD and point to new therapeutic targets for AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease for which there are no highly effective therapies. A novel therapeutic approach to the treatment of AD is the use of agonists of the nuclear receptor, peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma). PPARgamma is a ligand activated transcription factor whose best described roles are to regulate lipid metabolism and inflammation. Agonists of PPARgamma have been shown to ameliorate AD-related pathology in animal models of AD and improve cognition. A number of potential mechanisms have been advanced to account for these effects. PPARgamma agonists act as insulin sensitizers, facilitating insulin action. In addition, PPARgamma agonists have been shown to inhibit inflammatory gene expression, alter Abeta homeostasis and exhibit neuroprotective effects. Importantly, recent clinical trials of FDA approved PPARgamma agonists have been shown to improve cognition and memory in AD patients. Thus, PPARgamma agonists represent a new and potentially efficacious treatment of AD.
Brain imaging has played a major role in exploring abnormalities of brain structure and function in aging and dementia. Recently, with reports linking obesity to cognitive decline and dementia, magnetic resonance imaging has been used to investigate how brain structure may be altered with obesity. These studies have convincingly demonstrated both generalized and regional brain atrophy and changes in white matter in association with obesity. These results do not appear to be simply explained by links to cardiovascular disease. However, the mechanisms underlying these alterations are unclear and could be accounted for by a number of different processes that are known to alter brain structure and which could also be related to obesity. Application of additional imaging methods could help to establish the pathway through which obesity produces cognitive decline and dementia.

Attention and memory cannot operate without each other. In this review, we discuss two lines of recent evidence that support this interdependence. First, memory has a limited capacity, and thus attention determines what will be encoded. Division of attention during encoding prevents the formation of conscious memories, although the role of attention in formation of unconscious memories is more complex. Such memories can be encoded even when there is another concurrent task, but the stimuli that are to be encoded must be selected from among other competing stimuli. Second, memory from past experience guides what should be attended. Brain areas that are important for memory, such as the hippocampus and medial temporal lobe structures, are recruited in attention tasks, and memory directly affects frontal-parietal networks involved in spatial orienting. Thus, exploring the interactions between attention and memory can provide new insights into these fundamental topics of cognitive neuroscience.
Reinforcement learning algorithms have provided some of the most influential computational theories for behavioral learning that depends on reward and penalty. After briefly reviewing supporting experimental data, this paper tackles three difficult theoretical issues that remain to be explored. First, plain reinforcement learning is much too slow to be considered a plausible brain model. Second, although the temporal-difference error has an important role both in theory and in experiments, how to compute it remains an enigma. Third, function of all brain areas, including the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, brainstem and basal ganglia, seems to necessitate a new computational framework. Computational studies that emphasize meta-parameters, hierarchy, modularity and supervised learning to resolve these issues are reviewed here, together with the related experimental data.
Object perception seems effortless to us, but it depends on intensive neural processing across multiple stages in ventral pathway visual cortex. Shape information at the retinal level is hopelessly complex, variable and implicit. The ventral pathway must somehow transform retinal signals into much more compact, stable and explicit representations of object shape. Recent findings highlight key aspects of this transformation: higher-order contour derivatives, structural representation in object-based coordinates, composite shape tuning dimensions, and long-term storage of object knowledge. These coding principles could help to explain our remarkable ability to perceive, distinguish, remember and understand a virtual infinity of objects.
Recently, there has been renewed interest in the organization and neurobiology of remote memory, and the pace of work in this area has accelerated. Yet the recent literature does not suggest that a consensus is developing, and there is disagreement about both facts and their interpretation. This article undertakes a comprehensive review of the three kinds of evidence that have been most prominent in recent discussion: studies of retrograde amnesia in memory-impaired patients who have well-characterized lesions, neuroimaging of healthy volunteers, and work with experimental animals including lesion studies, imaging and mouse genetics. The available evidence tells a coherent story and leads to some straightforward conclusions about the neuroscience of remote memory.
The lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC), which is important for higher cognitive activity, is also concerned with motivational operations; this is exemplified by its activity in relation to expectancy of rewards. In the LPFC, motivational information is integrated with cognitive information, as demonstrated by the enhancement of working-memory-related activity by reward expectancy. Such activity would be expected to induce changes in attention and, subsequently, to modify behavioral performance. Recently, the effects of motivation and emotion on neural activities have been examined in several areas of the brain in relation to cognitive-task performance. Of these areas, the LPFC seems to have the most important role in adaptive goal-directed behavior, by sending top-down attention-control signals to other areas of the brain.
One of the most salient ways in which our behavior changes during childhood and adolescence is that we get better at working towards long-term goals, at ignoring irrelevant information that could distract us from our goals, and at controlling our impulses - in other words, we exhibit improvements in cognitive control. Several recent magnetic resonance imaging studies have examined the developmental changes in brain structure and function that underlie improvements in working memory and cognitive control. Increased recruitment of task-relevant regions in the prefrontal cortex, parietal cortex and striatum over the course of development is associated with better performance in a range of cognitive tasks. Further work is needed to assess the role of experience in shaping the neural circuitry that underlies cognitive control.

Delay discounting refers to the degree to which immediate outcomes exhibit more influence over behavior than outcomes which are delayed. Impulsive choice, in the context of delay discounting, is generally considered as an increased preference for immediate over delayed outcomes, even where the delayed outcomes are more advantageous. In the past decade, there has been increasing use of delay-discounting paradigms to elucidate the physiological, pharmacological, and behavioral aspects of the putative neural circuitry underlying impulsive choice. This unit describes the assessment of impulsive choice in the rat using a delay-discounting procedure involving an operant response choice between a small reinforcer delivered immediately and a larger reinforcer delivered after a delay, which is progressively increased within a session. Variations of some of the main task parameters are also discussed, as well as their significance and interpretation.
Median fins, unpaired appendages in fish, are fundamental locomotory organs that are believed to have evolved before paired lateral appendages in vertebrates. However, the early process of median fin development remains largely unknown. We investigated the early development of the median fin fold, a rudiment of median fins, and report here the process in zebrafish embryos and the function of FGF signaling in the process. Using expressions of three genes, dlx5a, sp9 and fgf24, as markers of different phases of fold development, our findings suggest that the early process of median fin fold development can be divided into two steps, specification of the median fin fold territory and construction of the fold structure. Both loss-of-function and gain-of-function assays revealed that FGF signaling plays roles in each step, suggesting a common mechanism for the development of median appendages and paired lateral appendages.
Genetic and pharmacological studies demonstrate that Endothelin1 (Edn1) is a key signaling molecule for patterning the facial skeleton in fish, chicks, and mice. When Edn1 function is reduced early in development the ventral lower jaw and supporting structures are reduced in size and often fused to their dorsal upper jaw counterparts. We show that schmerle (she) encodes a zebrafish ortholog of Phospholipase C, beta 3 (Plcbeta3) required in cranial neural crest cells for Edn1 regulation of pharyngeal arch patterning. Sequencing and co-segregation demonstrates that two independent she (plcbeta3) alleles have missense mutations in conserved residues within the catalytic domains of Plcbeta3. Homozygous plcbeta3 mutants are phenotypically similar to edn1 mutants and exhibit a strong arch expression defect in Edn1-dependent Distalless (Dlx) genes as well as expression defects in several Edn1-dependent intermediate and ventral arch domain transcription factors. plcbeta3 also genetically interacts with edn1, supporting a model in which Edn1 signals through a G protein-coupled receptor to activate Plcbeta3. Mild skeletal defects occur in plcbeta3 heterozygotes, showing the plcbeta3 mutations are partially dominant. Through a morpholino-mediated deletion in the N-terminal PH domain of Plcbeta3, we observe a partial rescue of facial skeletal defects in homozygous plcbeta3 mutants, supporting a hypothesis that an intact PH domain is necessary for the partial dominance we observe. In addition, through mosaic analyses, we show that wild-type neural crest cells can efficiently rescue facial skeletal defects in homozygous plcbeta3 mutants, demonstrating that Plcbeta3 function is required in neural crest cells and not other cell types to pattern the facial skeleton.
In order to gain insight into the evolution of the genetic control of the development of cranial neurogenic placodes and cranial sensory ganglia in vertebrates, we cloned and analysed the spatiotemporal expression pattern of six transcription factor genes in a chondrichthyan, the shark Scyliorhinus canicula (lesser-spotted dogfish/catshark). As in other vertebrates, NeuroD is expressed in all cranial sensory ganglia. We show that Pax3 is expressed in the profundal placode and ganglion, strongly supporting homology between the separate profundal ganglion of elasmobranchs and basal actinopterygians and the ophthalmic trigeminal placode-derived neurons of the fused amniote trigeminal ganglion. We show that Pax2 is a conserved pan-gnathostome marker for epibranchial and otic placodes, and confirm that Phox2b is a conserved pan-gnathostome marker for epibranchial placode-derived neurons. We identify Eya4 as a novel marker for the lateral line system throughout its development, expressed in lateral line placodes, sensory ridges and migrating primordia, neuromasts and electroreceptors. We also identify Tbx3 as a specific marker for lateral line ganglia in shark embryos. We use the spatiotemporal expression pattern of these genes to characterise the development of neurogenic placodes and cranial sensory ganglia in the dogfish, with a focus on the epibranchial and lateral line placodes. Our findings demonstrate the evolutionary conservation across all gnathostomes of at least some of the transcription factor networks underlying neurogenic placode development.
The cerebral cortex is a complex laminated structure generated by the sequential migration of developing neurons from the ventricular zone. One of the molecules that may play a role in cortical morphogenesis is N-cadherin since its blocking causes disruption of the ordered arrangement of cells in other neural tissues, such as the neural retina. Here, we show that when the N-cadherin gene had been conditionally deleted in the mouse cerebral cortex, the intra-cortical structures were nearly completely randomized; e.g., mitotic cells and postmitotic cells were scattered throughout the cortex without any order. These defects seemed to mainly originate from the disruption of the adherens junctions (AJs) localized in the apical end of neuroepithelial cells, where N-cadherin is normally most highly concentrated. In the absence of N-cadherin, neuroepithelial or radial glial cells could not expand their bodies or processes to span the distance between the ventricular and pial surfaces and therefore terminated them in the middle zone of the cortex. These results demonstrate that N-cadherin is essential for maintaining the normal architecture of neuroepithelial or radial glial cells and that their disruption randomizes the internal structures of the cortex.
Neural activity regulates dendrite and synapse development, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are unclear. Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is an important sensor of synaptic activity, and the scaffold protein liprinalpha1 is involved in pre- and postsynaptic maturation. Here we show that synaptic activity can suppress liprinalpha1 protein level by two pathways: CaMKII-mediated degradation and the ubiquitin-proteasome system. In hippocampal neurons, liprinalpha1 mutants that are immune to CaMKII degradation impair dendrite arborization, reduce spine and synapse number, and inhibit dendritic targeting of receptor tyrosine phosphatase LAR, which is important for dendrite development. Thus, regulated degradation of liprinalpha1 is important for proper LAR receptor distribution, and could provide a mechanism for localized control of dendrite and synapse morphogenesis by activity and CaMKII.
Members of the Zic family of zinc finger transcription factors play critical roles in a variety of developmental processes. They are involved in development of neural tissues and the neural crest, in left-right axis patterning, in somite development, and in formation of the cerebellum. In addition to their roles in cell-fate specification, zic genes also promote cell proliferation. Further, they are expressed in postmitotic cells of the cerebellum and in retinal ganglion cells. Efforts to determine the role of individual zic genes within an array of developmental and cellular processes are complicated by overlapping patterns of zic gene expression and strong sequence conservation within this gene family. Nevertheless, substantial progress has been made. This review summarizes our knowledge of the molecular events that govern the activities of zic family members, including emerging relationships between upstream signaling pathways and zic genes. In addition, advancements in our understanding of the molecular events downstream of Zic transcription factors are reviewed. Despite significant progress, however, much remains to be learned regarding the mechanisms through which zic genes exert their function in a variety of different contexts.
The explosion in neuroscientific knowledge has profound implications for education, and we advocate the establishment of the new discipline of 'pedagogical neuroscience' designed to combine psychological, medical, and educational perspectives. We propose that specific learning disabilities provide the crucible in which the discipline may be forged, illustrating the scope by consideration of developmental dyslexia. Current approaches have failed to establish consensus on fundamental issues such as theoretical causes, diagnostic methods, and treatment strategies. We argue that these difficulties arise from diagnosis via behavioural or cognitive symptoms, even though they may arise from diverse causes. Rather than an inconvenience, variability of secondary symptoms within and across learning disabilities can inform both diagnosis and treatment. We illustrate how brain-based theories lead to radical restructuring of diagnostic methods and propose that there is an urgent need to develop genetic and brain-based diagnostic methods designed to lead to individually-appropriate remediation and treatment methods.
The neuropsychological and clinical histories of three male siblings affected by pyridoxine-dependent seizures with known homozygous antiquitin mutations are presented. Neuropsychological evaluation is reported from when the siblings were 11, 9, and 7 years of age. Two of the siblings had received early pyridoxine treatment (antenatal, 2-4 wks into pregnancy) and one had received late treatment (2mo postnatal). However, there was no differential effect on cognitive outcome, with all three siblings having moderate to severe learning disability. Unlike previously reported cases that received early postnatal treatment, none of the siblings had relatively preserved non-verbal cognitive skills. Equally, their intellectual performance over time did not increase above the 1st centile despite high maintenance doses of vitamin B6 (range 16-26 mg/kg/d), and mild sensory neuropathy was reported on nerve conduction studies. The findings in these siblings challenge assumptions that early and high dose pyridoxine treatment can benefit cognition in this population and suggest routine electromyography monitoring may be beneficial.
Research efforts to deduce the function of the prion protein (PrPc) in knock-out mouse mutants have revealed that large deletions in the PrPc genome result in the ectopic neuronal expression of the prion-like protein Doppel (Dpl). In our analysis of one such line of mutant mice, Ngsk Prnp0/0 (NP0/0), we demonstrate that the ectopic expression of Dpl in brain neurons induces significant levels of cerebellar Purkinje cell (PC) death as early as six months after birth. To investigate the involvement of the mitochondrial proapoptotic factor BAX in the Dpl-induced apoptosis of PCs, we have analyzed the progression of PC death in aging NP0/0:Bax-/- double knockout mutants. Quantitative analysis of cell numbers showed that significantly more PCs survived in NP0/0:Bax-/- double mutants than in the NP0/0:Bax+/+ mutants. However, PC numbers were not restored to wildtype levels or to the increased number of PCs observed in Bax-/- mutants. The partial rescue of NP0/0 PCs suggests that the ectopic expression of Dpl induces both BAX-dependent and BAX-independent pathways of cell death. The activation of glial cells that is shown to be associated topographically with Dpl-induced PC death in the NP0/0:Bax+/+ mutants is abolished by the loss of Bax expression in the double mutant mice, suggesting that chronic inflammation is an indirect consequence of Dpl-induced PC death.
Male leopard geckos that hatch from eggs incubated at a female-biased temperature (Tf) behave differently when compared with males hatching at a temperature which produces a male-biased sex ratio (Tm). We investigated the effect of incubation temperature and androgen implantation on aspects of the dopaminergic system of Tf and Tm males. Our data suggest that more dopamine (DA) is stored in the nucleus accumbens of naive Tf males compared with nave Tm males when they encounter a receptive female conspecific across a barrier. No difference was measured in the preoptic area and the ventral tegmental area (VTA). This difference in intracellular DA levels in a motivation-related brain nucleus might be correlated with differences in sociosexual behavior observed between the two morphs. There were no differences in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expressing cell numbers in the VTA of cholesterol (CH)-implanted naive castrated Tf and Tm males. Only Tf males implanted with testosterone had significantly higher TH immunopositive cell numbers in the VTA compared with CH- and dihydrotestosterone-implanted Tf males. These data indicate that both the embryonic environment as well as the circulating hormonal milieu can modulate neurochemistry, which might in turn be a basis for individual variation in behavior.
The fly eye provides an attractive substrate for genetic studies, and critical transport activities for synaptic transmission and pigment biogenesis in the insect visual system remain unknown. We therefore screened for transporters in Drosophila melanogaster that are down-regulated by genetically ablating the eye. Using a large panel of transporter specific probes on Northern blots, we identified three transcripts that are down-regulated in flies lacking eye tissue. Two of these, CG13794 and CG13795, are part of a previously unknown subfamily of putative solute carriers within the neurotransmitter transporter family. The third, CG4476, is a member of a related subfamily that includes characterized nutrient transporters expressed in the insect gut. Using imprecise excision of a nearby transposable P element, we have generated a series of deletions in the CG4476 gene. In fast phototaxis assays, CG4476 mutants show a decreased behavioral response to light, and the most severe mutant behaves as if it were blind. These data suggest an unforeseen role for the &quot;nutrient amino acid transporter&quot; subfamily in the nervous system, and suggest new models to study transport function using the fly eye.
Electric fish communicate with electric organ (EO) discharges (EODs) that are sexually dimorphic, hormone-sensitive, and often individually distinct. The cells of the EO (electrocytes) of the weakly electric fish Sternopygus possess delayed rectifying K+ currents that systematically vary in their activation and deactivation kinetics, and this precise variation in K+ current kinetics helps shape sex and individual differences in the EOD. Because members of the Kv1 subfamily produce delayed rectifier currents, we cloned a number of genes in the Kv1 subfamily from the EO of Sternopygus. Using our sequences and those from genome databases, we found that in teleost fish Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 exist as duplicate pairs (Kv1.1a&amp;b, Kv1.2a&amp;b) whereas Kv1.3 does not. Using real-time quantitative RT-PCR, we found that Kv1.1a and Kv1.2a, but not Kv1.2b, expression in the EO is higher in high EOD frequency females (which have fast EO K+ currents) than in low EOD frequency males (which have slow EO K+ currents). Systemic treatment with dihydrotestosterone decreased Kv1.1a and Kv1.2a, but not Kv1.2b, expression in the EO, whereas treatment with human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) increased Kv1.2a but not Kv1.1a or Kv1.2b expression in the EO. Thus, systematic variation in the ratios of Kv1 channels expressed in the EO is correlated with individual differences in and sexual dimorphism of a communication signal.
Neuronal synapse formation is a multistep process regulated by several pre- and postsynaptic adhesion and signaling proteins. Recently, we found that agrin acts as one such synaptogenic factor at neuronal synapses in the PNS by demonstrating that structural synapse formation is impaired in the superior cervical ganglia (SCG) of z+ agrin-deficient mice and in SCG cultures derived from those animals. Here, we tested whether synaptic function is defective in agrin-null (AGD-/-) ganglia and began to define agrin's mechanism of action. Our electrophysiological recordings of compound action potentials showed that presynaptic stimulation evoked action potentials in approximately 40% of AGD-/- ganglionic neurons compared to 90% of wild-type neurons; moreover, transmission could not be potentiated as in wild-type or z+ agrin-deficient ganglia. Intracellular recordings also showed that nerve-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials in AGD-/- neurons were only 1/3 the size of those in wild-type neurons and mostly subthreshold. Consistent with these defects in transmission, we found an approximately 40-50% decrease in synapse number in AGD-/- ganglia and cultures, and decreased levels of differentiation at the residual synapses in culture. Furthermore, surface levels of acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) were equivalent in cultured AGD-/- and wild-type neurons, and depolarization reduced the synaptic localization of AChRs in AGD-/- but not wild-type neurons. These findings provide the first direct demonstration that agrin is required for proper structural and functional development of an interneuronal synapse in vivo. Moreover, they suggest a novel role for agrin, in stabilizing the postsynaptic density of nAChR at nascent neuronal synapses.
Pattern formation along the proximal-distal (PD) axis in the developing limb bud serves as a good model for learning how cell fate and regionalization of domains, which are essential processes in morphogenesis during development, are specified by positional information. In the present study, detailed fate maps for the limb bud of the chick embryo were constructed in order to gain insights into how cell fate for future structures along the PD axis is specified and subdivided. Our fate map revealed that there is a large overlap between the prospective autopod and zeugopod in the distal limb bud at an early stage (stage 19), whereas a limb bud at this stage has already regionalized the proximal compartments for the prospective stylopod and zeugopod. A clearer boundary of cell fate specifying the prospective autopod and zeugopod could be seen at stage 23, but cell mixing was still detectable inside the prospective autopod region at this stage. Detailed analysis of HOXA11 AND HOXA13 expression at single cell resolution suggested that the cell mixing is not due to separation of some different cell populations existing in a mosaic. Our findings suggest that a mixable unregionalized cell population is maintained in the distal area of the limb bud, while the proximal region starts to be regionalized at the early stage of limb development.
The discovery of the endocannabinoid system (ECS) has raised a large interest in the scientific community providing us with a strikingly long list of apparently independent multi organ effects. As a result, in most reviews on this issue the main function of the ECS is considered as modulatory. Unfortunately, this vision does not add much to our understanding of the specific biological function of the ECS. Thus, modulatory is what in general all biological systems are or should be. In this review we will show that the apparent inconsistent puzzle of the very different tissue specific effects of endocannabinoids (ECs) can be reconstructed in one unitary picture. This picture clearly shows that all the different CB1-mediated effects of ECs sub-serve one major physiological function: to facilitate and increase energy storage. We will also analyze the implications of this unitary vision of the ECS in different contexts. First, in the context of the systems that regulate energy balance, introducing a new systematization based on two homeostatic systems: an endostatic and an exostatic system. Second, in the context of evolution, showing how the function of the ECS has shifted from essential to survival to almost pathological in current times. Finally, in a pathophysiological context, introducing the new concept of &quot;proactive evolution diseases&quot;, which can explain the current obesity epidemic and the role the ECS plays in it.

DNA damage caused by reactive oxygen species is ubiquitous to all living organisms. More than 60 different base lesions have been identified, and the majority of these are removed via the base excision repair pathway. This pathway appears to represent a highly conserved and ancient mechanism of defence counteracting spontaneous DNA decay. In this review, we describe in more detail the Ogg1 enzyme and its conserved action of removing the oxidised base, 7,8-dihydro-8-oxoguanine (oxo(8)G). Recent updates include the cancer-prone ogg1/myh double knockout mouse and an elegant study which looks at the ability of hOgg1 to distinguish between the mutagenic lesion, oxo(8)G, and the vast majority of normal bases.
The hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD OMIM #168600) is the degeneration of the nigral dopaminergic system affecting approximately 1% of the human population older than 65. In pursuit of genetic factors contributing to PD, linkage and association studies identified several susceptibility genes. The majority of these genes are expressed by the dopamine-producing neurons in the substantia nigra. We, therefore, propose expression by these neurons as a selection criterion, to narrow down, in a rational manner, the number of candidate genes in orphan PD loci, where no mutation has been associated thus far. We determined the corresponding human chromosome locations of 1435 murine cDNA fragments obtained from murine expression analyses of nigral dopaminergic neurons and combined these data with human linkage studies. These fragments represent 19 genes within orphan OMIM PD loci. We used the same approach for independent association studies and determined the genes in neighborhood to the peaks with the highest LOD score value. Our approach did not make any assumptions about disease mechanisms, but it, nevertheless, revealed alpha-synuclein, NR4A2 (Nurr1), and the tau genes, which had previously been associated to PD. Furthermore, our transcriptome analysis identified several classes of candidate genes for PD mutations and may also provide insight into the molecular pathways active in nigral dopaminergic neurons.
Mammalian mitochondrial dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLDH, EC 1.8.1.4) catalyzes NAD(+)-dependent oxidation of dihydrolipoamide in vivo and can also act as a diaphorase catalyzing in vitro nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (reduced form) (NADH)-dependent reduction of electron-accepting molecules such as ubiquinone and nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT). In this paper, we report a gel-based method for histochemical staining and quantification of DLDH diaphorase activity using blue native PAGE (BN-PAGE). Rat brain mitochondrial extracts, used as the source of DLDH, were resolved by nongradient BN-PAGE (9%), which was followed by diaphorase activity staining using NADH as the electron donor and NBT as the electron acceptor. It was shown that activity staining of DLDH diaphorase was both protein amount- and time-dependent. Moreover, this in-gel activity-staining method was demonstrated to be in good agreement with the conventional spectrophotometric method that measures DLDH dehydrogenase activity using dihydrolipoamide as the substrate. The method was applied to determine levels of DLDH diaphorase activity in several rat tissues other than the brain, and the results indicated a similar level of DLDH diaphorase activity for all the tissues examined. Finally, the effects of thiol-reactive reagents such as N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) and nitric oxide donors on DLDH diaphorase activity were evaluated, demonstrating that, with this method, DLDH diaphorase activity can be determined without having to remove these thiol-reactive reagents that may otherwise interfere with spectrophotometric measurement of DLDH dehydrogenase activity. The gel-based method can also be used as a means to isolate mitochondrial DLDH that is to be analyzed by mass spectral techniques in studying DLDH post-translational modifications.
Because appetite, hypothalamic gene expression, reproductive function, and adrenal function are highly sensitive to acute changes in plasma glucose levels, it has been hypothesized hypothalamic neurons sensitive to glucose play a role in regulating these functions. To assess this hypothesis, we examined these neuronendocrine functions in mice in which the glucokinase gene, which plays an essential role in neuroendocrine glucose sensing, has been ablated. Haploinsufficiency in heterozygous glucokinase knockout mice produced effects similar to those produced by hypoglycemia: impaired reproductive function, elevated plasma corticosterone, increased food intake, and hypothalamic gene expression similar to that observed in fasted or leptin-deficient obese mice (increased hypothalamic neuropeptide Y mRNA and reduced hypothalamic proopiomelanocortin mRNA). Plasma glucose was elevated 2-fold in glucokinase knockout mice, consistent with a maturity-onset diabetes of the young phenotype, but plasma insulin and leptin levels were normal. These data support the hypothesis that glucokinase plays a key role in the neuroendocrine regulation of metabolic economy.
Neural developmental disorders, such as autism, Rett Syndrome, Fragile X syndrome, and Angelman syndrome manifest during early postnatal neural development. Although the genes responsible for some of these disorders have been identified, how the mutations of these genes affect neural development is currently unclear. Emerging evidence suggest that these disorders share common underlying defects in neuronal morphology, synaptic connectivity and brain plasticity. In particular, alterations in dendritic branching and spine morphology play a central role in the pathophysiology of most mental retardation disorders, suggesting that common pathways regulating neuronal function may be affected. Epigenetic modulations, mediated by DNA methylation, RNA-associated silencing, and histone modification, can serve as an intermediate process that imprints dynamic environmental experiences on the &quot;fixed&quot; genome, resulting in stable alterations in phenotypes. Disturbance in epigenetic regulations can lead to inappropriate expression or silencing of genes, causing an array of multi-system disorders and neoplasias. Rett syndrome, the most common form of mental retardation in young girls, is due to l mutation of MECP2, encoding a methylated DNA binding protein that translates DNA methylation into gene repression. Angelman syndrome is due to faulty genomic imprinting or maternal mutations in UBE3A. Fragile X Syndrome, in most cases, results from the hypermethylation of FMR1 promoter, hence the loss of expression of functional FMRP protein. Autism, with its complex etiology, may have strong epigenetic link. Together, these observations strongly suggest that epigenetic mechanisms may play a critical role in brain development and etiology of related disorders. This report summarizes the scientific discussions and major conclusions from a recent conference that aimed to gain insight into the common molecular pathways affected among these disorders and discover potential therapeutic targets that have been missed by looking at one disorder at a time.


Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a congenital syndrome characterized by the widespread development of benign tumors in multiple organs, caused by mutations in one of the tumor suppressor genes, TSC1 or TSC2. About 80% of affected patients have a new mutation, and the remaining 20% have inherited a TSC gene mutation from a parent. The disorder affects approximately 1 in 6000 individuals. Cortical tubers are the neuropathological hallmark of TSC. The most common neurological manifestations of TSC are epilepsy, mental retardation, and autistic behavior. Epilepsy occurs in up to 80-90% of patients and is often intractable, with a poor response to anticonvulsant medications. While the molecular basis of TSC is well established, far less is known about the mechanisms of epilepsy in this disorder. In this article, we first summarize known clinical aspects of TSC with emphasis on its neurological features. Then, based on the molecular, pathological, immunohistochemical, neurochemical, and physiological properties of tubers in patients with TSC and in animal models, we discuss possible mechanisms of seizures and epileptogenesis in TSC. Finally, we provide an updated literature review and a consensus statement from the Tuberous Sclerosis Complex Working Group for future research into the mechanisms of epilepsy in TSC.



Epilepsia Partialis Continua (EPC), a subtype of status epilepticus has varied etiology and the outcome depends on the cause. The aim of this study was to analyze the demographic, semiology, etiology, radiological findings, therapeutic response and outcome of EPC. This is a retrospective analysis of 76 patients (M:F: 46:30; mean age: 30.2+/-23.4 years; median age: 26 years) evaluated at our center over last 14 years. Twenty-three subjects (30.3%) had epilepsy for a mean of 25.8+/-52.3 months (range: 1-81 years; median: 14) before developing EPC and in half of them, seizures were controlled with anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs). Rest 53 (69.3%) manifested as de novo. The mean duration of EPC was 47.02+/-188.2 days (range: 1h to 48 months; median: 3 days). One patient of generalized convulsive SE (GCSE) evolved into EPC while five patients of EPC evolved into GCSE. CT scan of brain (n-76) was abnormal in 53 (69.7%) while all the 11 MRI scans which were available were abnormal. EEG (n-21) was abnormal in all but one, however it was non-specific in 7. The diagnoses were-idiopathic: 17, ischemic stroke: 15, meningo-encephalitis: 8, Rasmussen's encephalitis (RE): 7, granuloma: 6, diabetic-non-ketotic-hyperosmolar-coma (DNKHC): 6, CNS malignancies (primary/secondary): 4, birth injury: 4, cerebral venous thrombosis: 3, CNS tuberculosis: 2, and cerebritis, HIV-related, toxemia of pregnancy, and MERRF one each. Patients of &gt;40 years (n=21) had stroke (10), idiopathic (6), DNKHC (4) and metastasis (1) as common causes. Only 12 of them received single AED, while others required 2 or more AEDs to control the seizures. The outcome (n=72) was-controlled: 43 (59.7%); uncontrolled: 26 (36.1%) (RE: 7, idiopathic: 5, birth injury: 4, encephalitis: 3, malignancy: 2, granuloma and MERRF: 1 each) and three patients succumbed (encephalitis: 2, idiopathic: 1). Causes of EPC are varied and it depends on age. Underlying cause determined the outcome and could be refractory in RE, idiopathic, and when associated with birth injury, malignancy and encephalitis. Treatment of underlying cause is essential in addition to AEDs.
The life expectancy of the general population is increasing. This has meant that more elderly patients are requiring aortic valve replacement (AVR). The choice of valve replacement and its durability are important. Bioprosthetic (tissue) heart valves were introduced into clinical use in the 1960s and were developed primarily to reduce the complications associated with thromboembolism (TE) and the need for lifelong oral anticoagulation, due to their low thrombogenicity compared to mechanical prostheses. This makes them suitable for use in elderly patients (aged&gt;65 years) and in others where the risks of anticoagulation are higher or anticoagulation is contraindicated. There is thought to be a higher risk of TE for up to 90 days following bioprosthetic AVR. Guidelines for the management of patients with valvular heart disease published by the American College of Cardiology (ACC)/American Heart Association (AHA), the American College of Chest Physicians (ACCP) and the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) all recommend the use of an anticoagulation regimen for the first 3 months following bioprosthetic AVR. However, there is division of opinion and practice, despite these recommendations, and more recent studies have not supported the evidence for these guidelines. In this article, we review the literature on the use of anticoagulation in the first 90 days following bioprosthetic AVR.
A 66-year-old right-handed man developed pure anarthria following pure word deafness. In addition to language disorders, his behavior gradually changed and finally included violence against his wife. Brain magnetic resonance imagings revealed atrophy of the left perisylvian area, which included the inferior half of the precentral gyrus and the upper portion of the superior temporal gyrus, consistent with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). It has been documented as either a disorder of expressive language or as an impaired understanding of word meaning. Unlike with pure anarthria, pure word deafness is not included in the clinical diagnostic current criteria for FTD. However, a large variety of language symptoms can appear in FTD according to the distribution of pathological changes in the frontotemporal cortices. This case suggests that pure word deafness could be a prodomal symptom of FTD.
To determine the frequency, and demographic and clinical correlates of dangerous behaviours in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We assessed a consecutive series of 278 patients with AD and 45 age-comparable healthy controls with a comprehensive psychiatric and neuropsychological evaluation. Caregivers rated the frequency of patients' exposure to dangerous situations or commission of dangerous behaviours. The frequency of dangerous behaviours was 16% in the AD group and 2% in the healthy control group. The presence of anosognosia was associated with a threefold increase in the risk of dangerous behaviours, but there was no significant association between dangerous behaviours and patients' age, years of education, diagnosis of major or minor depression and presence of suicide ideation. Sixteen per cent of a consecutive series of patients with AD had dangerous behaviours during the month preceding the clinical evaluation. Anosognosia was the main clinical correlate of dangerous behaviours in this population.
Error-processing research has demonstrated that the brain uses a specialized neural network to detect errors during task performance but the brain regions necessary for conscious awareness of an error are poorly understood. In the present study we show that two well-known error-related event-related potential (ERP) components, the error-related negativity (ERN) and error positivity (Pe) have a differential relationship with awareness during performance of a manual response inhibition task optimized to examine error awareness. While the ERN was unaffected by the participants' conscious experience of errors, the Pe was only seen when participants were aware of committing an error. Source localization of these components indicated that the ERN was generated by a caudal region of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) while the Pe was associated with contributions from a more anterior ACC region and the posterior cingulate-precuneus. Tonic EEG measures of cortical arousal were correlated with individual rates of error awareness and showed a specific relationship with the amplitude of the Pe. The latter finding is consistent with evidence that the Pe represents a P3-like facilitation of information processing modulated by subcortical arousal systems. Our data suggest that the ACC might participate in both preconscious and conscious error detection and that cortical arousal provides a necessary setting condition for error awareness. These findings may be particularly important in the context of clinical studies in which a proper understanding of self-monitoring deficits requires an explicit measurement of error awareness.
The lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) is important for working memory (WM) task performance. Neuropsychological and neurophysiological studies in monkeys suggest that the lateral prefrontal cortex is functionally segregated based on the working memory domain (spatial vs. non-spatial). However, this is not supported by most human neuroimaging studies, and the discrepancy might be due to differences in methods and/or species (monkey neuropsychology/physiology vs. human neuroimaging). We used positron emission topography to examine the functional segregation of the lateral prefrontal cortex of Japanese macaques (Macaca fuscata) that showed near 100% accuracy on spatial and non-spatial working memory tasks. Compared with activity during the non-working memory control tasks, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) was more active during the non-spatial, but not during the spatial, working memory task, although a muscimol microinjection into the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex significantly impaired the performance of both working memory tasks. A direct comparison of the brain activity between the two working memory tasks revealed no differences within the lateral prefrontal cortex, whereas the premotor area was more active during the spatial working memory task. Comparing the delay-specific activity, which did not include task-associated stimulus/response-related activity, revealed more spatial working memory-related activity in the posterior parietal and premotor areas, and more non-spatial working memory-related activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. These results suggest that working memory in the monkey brain is segregated based on domain, not within the lateral prefrontal cortex but rather between the posterior parietal-premotor areas and the dorsolateral prefrontal-hippocampus areas.
Increased dietary intake of choline early in life improves performance of adult rats on memory tasks and prevents their age-related memory decline. Because neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus also declines with age, we investigated whether prenatal choline availability affects hippocampal neurogenesis in adult Sprague-Dawley rats and modifies their neurogenic response to environmental stimulation. On embryonic days (ED) 12-17, pregnant rats ate a choline-supplemented (SUP-5 g/kg), choline sufficient (SFF-1.1 g/kg), or choline-free (DEF) semisynthetic diet. Adult offspring either remained in standard housing or were given 21 daily visits to explore a maze. On the last ten exploration days, all rats received daily injections of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU, 100 mg/kg). The number of BrdU+ cells was significantly greater in the dentate gyrus in SUP rats compared to SFF or DEF rats. While maze experience increased the number of BrdU+ cells in SFF rats to the level seen in the SUP rats, this enriching experience did not alter cell proliferation in DEF rats. Similar patterns of cell proliferation were obtained with immunohistochemical staining for neuronal marker doublecortin, confirming that diet and exploration affected hippocampal neurogenesis. Moreover, hippocampal levels of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were increased in SUP rats as compared to SFF and DEF animals. We conclude that prenatal choline intake has enduring effects on adult hippocampal neurogenesis, possibly via up-regulation of BDNF levels, and suggest that these alterations of neurogenesis may contribute to the mechanism of life-long changes in cognitive function governed by the availability of choline during gestation.
To investigate the somatotopic organization of the cerebellum, we analysed multisynaptic inputs to the primary motor cortex (MI) using retrograde transneuronal transport of rabies virus. At 3 days after rabies injections into proximal forelimb, distal forelimb and hindlimb representations of the macaque MI, second-order neurons via the thalamus were labeled in the deep cerebellar nuclei, including the dentate (DN), anterior interpositus (AIN) and posterior interpositus nuclei. In the DN, the labeling of both the forelimb and hindlimb was seen mainly in the dorsal aspect. The labeling of the hindlimb was located rostral to that of the forelimb and the labeling of the proximal forelimb was located slightly rostral to that of the distal forelimb. The same rostrocaudal arrangement was observed in the AIN. In the posterior interpositus nucleus, however, labeling from the MI hindlimb and forelimb representations largely overlapped. At the 4-day postinjection period, third-order labeling occurred in Purkinje cells of the cerebellar hemisphere. The Purkinje cell labeling from the forelimb representation, including the proximal and distal regions, was observed primarily in lobules IV-VI and crus I. The proximal forelimb labeling was both rostral and lateral to that of the distal forelimb within lobules IV-VI. However, the hindlimb labeling was seen both rostral and lateral to that of the proximal forelimb within lobules III-VI. These results indicate that the hindlimb, proximal forelimb and distal forelimb are arranged rostrocaudally in the DN and AIN, whereas there is dual somatotopy along the rostrocaudal and lateromedial axes in the cerebellar cortex.
Glycoprotein 120 (gp120) from the T-tropic strain of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 has been shown to cause neuronal apoptosis through activation of the chemokine receptor CXCR4. Therefore, reducing CXCR4 expression may prevent gp120-mediated apoptosis. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is known to reduce both gp120 neurotoxicity and CXCR4 expression in vitro. The scope of this work is to establish whether BDNF is neuroprotective against gp120 in vivo and, if so, whether this effect correlates with its ability to down-regulate CXCR4. Serotype 2 adeno-associated viral vector encoding for BDNF (rAAV-BDNF) or control vector was microinjected into the striata of adult rats. Two weeks later gp120 was injected into the same striatum, and apoptosis determined. Pretreatment with rAAV-BDNF prior to gp120 microinjection prevented caspase-3 activation as well as in situ terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labelling in the striatum and substantia nigra. In addition, rAAV-BDNF reversed the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity induced by gp120 in both areas. CXCR4 expression was then determined by immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR, and found to be decreased in striata of rAAV-BDNF-treated rats. Conversely, BDNF heterozygous mice exhibited an increase in CXCR4 mRNA levels compared to wild-type littermates. Our data suggest that down-regulation of CXCR4 expression may contribute to the neuroprotective activity of BDNF against gp120 toxicity in the basal ganglia.
The Wld(s) gene (slow Wallerian degeneration) specifically delays axonal degeneration following injury and in several models of neurodegenerative diseases. It thus provides an interesting tool to study mechanisms of neurodegeneration. We previously crossed the Wld(s) mice with a mouse mutant that has a motoneuron disease (pmn for progressive motor neuronopathy) and showed that the Wld(s) gene prevented axonal loss, increased the life-span and prolonged the survival of the motoneuron cell bodies. In this study we show that spinal motoneurons of pmn/pmn mice, as opposed to axons, die by apoptosis that cannot be prevented by the Wld(s) gene. However, this same gene could partially rescue the proteasome impairment observed in motoneuron cell bodies and axons of pmn/pmn mice. We conclude that the neuroprotective effect of the Wld(s) gene is not related to an inhibition of apoptosis but could possibly be linked to a regulation in proteasome expression.
Event-related potential (ERP) studies of developmental prosopagnosia (DP) are rare. Previous ERP investigations have reported smaller N170 amplitude differences between faces and objects in at least three prosopagnosics. The present study is based on a combination of behavioural and electrophysiological assessment of face processing. The aim was to investigate the face-specificity of the N170 in both healthy subjects and a group of DP individuals (N = 4), using famous and nonfamous faces, caricatures and houses as stimuli. All prosopagnosic subjects showed impairments in recognition of famous faces, memory for faces and learning new faces in behavioural assessment. In healthy subjects the largest effects were found at parieto-occipital electrode positions (PO7 and PO8), along with a familiarity effect at these electrode positions. Thus, parieto-occipital areas appear to play an important role in face processing. Three prosopagnosics showed reliable N170 amplitude differences between faces and nonface stimuli, whereas one DP individual showed significantly reduced amplitude differences between faces and nonface objects. The behavioural and electrophysiological data support the idea that DP reflects a heterogeneous impairment and that face processing deficits are not necessarily correlated with a lack of face-specific N170.
Chronic cocaine self-administration can produce either tolerance or sensitization to certain cocaine-regulated behaviours, but whether differential alterations develop in the biochemical response to cocaine is less clear. We measured cocaine-induced phosphorylation of multiple cAMP-dependent and -independent protein substrates in mesolimbic dopamine terminal regions following chronic self-administration. Changes in self-administering rats were compared to changes produced by passive yoked injection to identify reinforcement-related regulation, whereas acute and chronic yoked groups were compared to identify the development tolerance or sensitization in the biochemical response to cocaine. Microwave-fixed brain tissue was collected immediately following 4 h of intravenous cocaine administration, and subjected to Western blot analysis of phosphorylated and total protein substrates. Chronic cocaine produced region- and substrate-specific tolerance to cAMP-dependent protein phosphorylation, including GluR1(S845) phosphorylation in striatal and amygdala subregions and NR1(S897) phosphorylation in the CA1 subregion of the hippocampus. Tolerance also developed to cAMP-independent GluR1(S831) phosphorylation in the prefrontal cortex. In contrast, sensitization to presynaptic regulation of synapsin(S9) phosphorylation developed in the hippocampal CA3 subregion while cAMP-dependent tyrosine hydroxylase(S40) phosphorylation decreased in striatal dopamine terminals. Cocaine-induced ERK and CREB(S133) phosphorylation were dissociated in many brain regions and failed to develop either tolerance or sensitization with chronic administration. Positive reinforcement-related correlations between cocaine intake and protein phosphorylation were found only in self-administering animals, while negative dose-related correlations were found primarily with yoked administration. These regional- and substrate-specific adaptations in cocaine-induced protein phosphorylation are discussed in view of their potential impact on the development of cocaine addiction.
Pressure above 1.1 MPa induces in mammals and humans the high pressure neurological syndrome (HPNS). HPNS is characterized by cognitive and motor decrements associated with sleep disorders, EEG changes, tremor, and convulsions that ultimately may lead to death. Previous theories proposed that augmented response of the glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) or reduced GABAergic inhibition may be involved. Recently, we have reported that isolated NMDAR response was augmented at high pressure. We now test whether this augmentation induces neuronal hyperexcitability. We studied high pressure effects on pharmacologically isolated NMDAR field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) and on their efficacy in generating population spikes (PSs). Sprague-Dawley male rats were used. Hippocampal coronal brain slices were prepared, constantly superfused with physiological solutions, gas-saturated at normobaric pressure, and compressed up to 10.1 MPa with helium. fEPSPs and PSs were recorded from the dendritic and the somatic layers of CA1 pyramidal neurons in response to Schaefer collaterals stimulation with trains of five stimuli at 25 Hz. Pressure caused PSs to appear earlier in the train. However, PS delay, rise time and decay time were increased and PS amplitude, frequency, and number were decreased in the last responses in the train. The decrease in late fEPSPs was associated with a reduction of the total number of PSs in the train, apparently without a change in the synaptic efficacy. These results may partially explain the neuronal hyperexcitability observed at pressure. Therefore, it is postulated that significant hyperexcitability is attained at pressure only when the normal fast fEPSP is intact.
Damage to the adult CNS often causes permanent deficits. Based on a lesion model of septohippocampal pathway aspiration in the rat, we attempted to promote neuronal cell survival and post-traumatic recovery by using a pharmacological treatment combining aminoguanidine and putrescine (AGP). The functional recovery was followed over 15 weeks before morphological analysis. AGP treatment produced a persistent attenuation (approximately 50%) of the lesion-induced hyperactivity, a reduction (approximately 60%) in the sensorimotor impairments and an improved performance in the water-maze task which did not, however, rely upon improved memory capabilities. AGP weakened the lesion-induced decrease in ChAT-positive neurons in the medial septum and the extent of thalamic retrograde necrosis (by approximately 30% in each case) and resulted in a partial cholinergic reinnervation of the dentate gyrus. These promising results support the idea that coadministration of putrescine and aminoguanidine might become a potent way to foster structural and functional recovery (or compensation) in the adult mammalian CNS after injury.
The mushroom body (MB) is an important part of the Drosophila brain, and is involved in many behaviors, including olfactory learning and memory and some visual cognition. However, the physiological properties of MB neurons remain elusive. Here we used a calcium-imaging technique to study calcium signals in Drosophila MB. We found that, rather than increasing calcium spread, electrical stimuli dramatically decreased calcium signals in the terminals of MB fibers. This novel calcium decrease occurred at all developmental stages from larvae to adults, but was specific for certain regions of the MB neurons. GABA receptor blockade promoted calcium propagation through the MB fibers, but did not disrupt the stimulus-induced decrease in calcium. Furthermore, this decrease in calcium was independent of extracellular calcium concentration and was not due to altered uptake by intracellular calcium stores and mitochondria. Rather, we found that inhibition of sodium-calcium exchangers significantly attenuated the stimulus-induced decrease in calcium, whereas the decrease persisted when membrane calcium pumps were blocked. Our findings indicate that MB neurons exhibit a novel stimulus-induced calcium efflux, which may be importantly regulated by sodium-calcium exchangers in the Drosophila MB.
This study examines the effect of intravenous self-administration (SA) of either heroin or the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 on levels and functionality of mu-opioid (MOR) and CB1-cannabinoid receptors (CB1R) in reward-related brain areas, such as the prefrontal cortex (PFC), nucleus accumbens (NAc), caudate putamen (CP), hippocampus (Hippo), amygdala (Amy), hypothalamus (Hypo) and ventral tegmental area (VTA). [3H]DAMGO and [3H]CP-55,940 autoradiography and agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding were performed on brain sections of rats firmly self-administering heroin or WIN 55,212-2. Animals failing to acquire heroin or cannabinoid SA behaviour as well as drug-nave animals never exposed to experimental apparatus or procedure (home-control group) were used as controls. With respect to control groups, which displayed very similar values, rats SA heroin showed increased MOR binding in the NAc (+174%), CP (+165%), Hippo (+121%), VTA (+175%), an enhanced CB1R density localized in the Amy (+147%) and VTA (+37%), and a widespread increased CB1 receptor functionality in the PFC (+95%), NAc (+313%), CP (+265%), Hippo (+38%), Amy (+221%). In turn, cannabinoid SA differently modulates CB1R binding in the Amy (+47%), Hypo (+94%), Hippo (-23%), VTA (-15%), and increases MOR levels (PFC: +124%; NAc: +68%; CP: +80%; Hippo: +73%; Amy: +99%) and efficiency (Hippo: +518%; Amy: +173%; Hypo: +188%). These findings suggest that voluntary chronic intake of opioids or cannabinoids induces reciprocal but differential regulation of MORs and CB1Rs density and activity in brain structures underlying drug-taking and drug-seeking behaviour, which could represent long-term neuroadaptations contributing to the development of drug addiction and dependence.
During sexual differentiation males and females are exposed to different levels of testosterone, which promotes sex differences in the adult brain and in behavior. Testosterone can act after aromatization or reduction via a number of steroid hormone receptors. Here we provide new evidence that the androgen receptor (AR) is essential for sexual differentiation in mice. We used mice carrying the testicular feminization (Tfm) mutation of the AR. Adult Tfm males, wild-type male and female littermates were gonadectomized and given subcutaneous estradiol implants. In all sexually dimorphic traits, Tfm males had responses equivalent to females and different from males. In simultaneous choice tests, males spent significantly more time investigating female-soiled bedding, whereas females and Tfm males preferred to investigate male-soiled bedding. Tfm males and females did not have a partner preference in tests with awake stimulus animals, whereas males showed a preference for females over males. Exposure to male-soiled, but not clean, bedding produced a significant increase in c-Fos-immunoreactive cells in the medial preoptic area and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in Tfm males and females, no increase was noted in males. Masculine sexual behavior (mounting and thrusting) was not sexually dimorphic, and all groups displayed these behaviors. Our results support data collected in humans suggesting a role for the androgen receptor in sexual differentiation of social preferences and neural responses to pheromones.


Despite decades of research, the question of whether the rapid eye movements (REMs) of paradoxical sleep (PS) are equivalent to waking saccades and whether their direction is congruent with visual spatial events in the dream scene is still very controversial. We gained an insight into these questions through the study of a right brain damaged patient suffering attentional neglect for the left side of space and drop of the optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) with alternating rightward slow/leftward fast phases evoked by rightward optic flow. During PS the patient had frequent Nystagmoid REMs with alternating leftward slow/rightward fast phases and reported dreams with visual events evoking corresponding OKN such as a train running leftward. By contrast, just as in waking OKN, Nystagmoid REMs with alternating rightward slow/leftward fast phases were virtually absent. REMs followed by staring eye position or by consecutive REMs were also observed: these showed no asymmetry comparable to that of Nystagmoid ones. The selective disappearance of Nystagmoid REMs in one horizontal direction proves, for the first time, that in humans different types of REMs exists and that these are driven by different premotor mechanisms. Concomitant drop of OKN and Nystagmoid REMs toward the same horizontal direction demonstrates that phylogenetically ancient oculomotor mechanisms, such as the OKN, are shared by waking and PS. On this evidence and converging findings from animal, neuropsychological and brain imaging studies, a new evolutionary account of dream bizarreness is proposed. Classification and labelling of the different types of REMs are also provided.
Humans use the same representations to code self-produced and observed actions. Neurophysiological evidence for this view comes from the discovery of the so-called mirror neurons in premotor cortex of the macaque monkey. These neurons respond when the monkey performs a particular action but also when it observes the same behavior in another individual. In humans, such direct links between perception and action seem to mediate action priming, where a response is facilitated when a similar action is observed. An issue that has not been fully resolved concerns the role of selective attention in these processes. Action priming appears to be an automatic process in the sense that the observed action can be irrelevant to the observer's task and nevertheless prime similar responses. However, it is not known whether attention has to be oriented to the action for these processes to be engaged. It is demonstrated here that spatial attention indeed has to be oriented to the action related body site for action priming to take place. Furthermore, if attention is oriented to the appropriate body site, there need be no visual cues to action for action priming to emerge.
We have previously shown that viewing simulated rotary self-motion during treadmill locomotion causes immediate strategic modifications (Richards et al. in Presence Teleoper Vir Real 13:371-384, 2004) as well as an after effect reflecting adaptive modification of the control of position and trajectory during over-ground locomotion (Mulavara et al. in Exp Brain Res 166:210-219, 2005). The process of sensorimotor adaptation is comprised of both strategic and adaptive control mechanisms. Strategic control involves cognitive, on-line corrections to motor outputs once one is aware of a sensory discordance. Over an extended period of exposure to the sensory discordance, new strategic sensorimotor coordination patterns are reinforced until they become more automatic, and therefore adaptive in nature. The objective of this study was to investigate how strategic changes in trunk control during exposure to simulated rotary self-motion during treadmill walking influences adaptive modification of locomotor heading direction during over-ground stepping. Subjects (n = 10) walked on a motorized linear treadmill while viewing a wide field-of-view virtual scene for 24 min. The scene was static for the first 4 min and then, for the last 20 min, depicted constant rate self-motion equivalent to walking in a counter-clockwise, circular path around the perimeter of a room. Subjects performed five stepping trials both before and after the exposure period to assess after effects. Results from our previous study showed a significant change in heading direction (HD) during post-exposure step tests that was opposite to the direction in which the scene rotated during the adaptation period. For the present study, we quantified strategic modifications in trunk movement control during scene exposure using normalized root mean square (R(P)) variation of the subject's 3D trunk positions and normalized sum of standard deviations (R (O)) variation of 3D trunk orientations during scene rotation relative to that during static scene presentation. Associated 95% confidence intervals, CI(P) and CI(O), were calculated to investigate the variation of strategic modifications during scene exposure. Repeated measures ANOVA and individual subject regression analyses showed that R(P) and R(O) (i.e. strategic modifications) for trunk fore/aft (X) positions and yaw rotations, respectively, decreased significantly over the exposure period. Furthermore, we found a significant correlation between the magnitude change in HD and the rate at which the variation of strategic modifications in trunk X decreased. We also found evidence of a correlation between HD and the rate at which strategic modifications in trunk yaw decreased. We infer that adaptive recalibration of locomotor trajectory using optic flow stimuli depends on the rate at which kinematic variability associated with strategic control is reduced.
Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a debilitating motor function disorder due primarily to a loss of midbrain dopaminergic neurons and a subsequent reduction in dopaminergic innervation of the striatum. Several attempts have been made to generate dopaminergic neurons from progenitor cell populations in vitro for potential use in cell replacement therapy for PD. However, expanding cells from fetal brain with retained potential for dopaminergic differentiation has proven to be difficult. In this study, we sought to generate mesencephalic dopaminergic (mesDA) neurons from an expanded population of fetal mouse ventral midbrain (VM) progenitors through the use of retroviral gene delivery. We over-expressed Ngn2 and Nurr1, two genes present in the ventral midbrain and important for normal development of mesDA neurons, in multi-passaged neurosphere-expanded midbrain progenitors. We show that over-expression of Ngn2 in these progenitors results in increased neuronal differentiation but does not promote mesDA formation. We also show that over-expression of Nurr1 alone is sufficient to generate tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expressing cells with an immature morphology, however the cells do not express any additional markers of mesDA neurons. Over-expression of Nurr1 and Ngn2 in combination generates morphologically mature TH-expressing neurons that also express additional mesencephalic markers.
The benefits of using thyroxine (T4) plus triiodothyronine (T3) in combination in thyroid hormone replacement are unproven but many individuals continue to be treated with this regime. When T3 is used alone for hypothyroidism, it results in wide fluctuations of thyroid hormone levels. However, only limited data exists on combined T3/T4 therapy. In this study, we have compared 24-hour profiles of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), free T4 (fT4) and free T3 (fT3) and cardiovascular parameters in 10 hypothyroid patients who had been on once daily combined T3/T4 therapy for more than 3 months with 10 patients on T4 alone. Twenty patients, who were part of a larger study, investigating the long-term benefits of combined T3/T4 therapy, were recruited into this sub-study. Over 24-hours, 12 samples were taken for thyroid hormones. Their 24-hour pulse and BP is also monitored on a separate occasion. On T4 alone, a modest 16% rise in fT4 with no change in fT3 was seen in the first 4-hours post-dose. In contrast, on combined treatment, fT3 levels showed a marked rise of 42% within the first 4-hours post-dose (T3/T4:T4=6.24: 4.63 mU/L, p&lt;0.001). Mean exposure to fT3 calculated by area under the curve (AUC) was higher (T3/T4:T4=1148:1062, p&lt;0.0001) on T3. Circadian rhythm of TSH was maintained on both treatments. No difference in pulse or blood pressure over the 24-hours was seen between the groups. Our data suggests that despite chronic combined T3/T4 therapy, wide peak-to-trough variation in fT3 levels persists. Although no immediate cardiovascular effects were seen, the long-term consequences for patients on combined therapy are unknown.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the major cause of non-preventable blindness. Severe forms of AMD involve breaching of the retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) barrier by underlying choroidal endothelial cells (CECs), followed by migration into, and subsequent neovascularization of the neurosensory retina. However, little is known about the interactions between RPE and CECs and the signaling events leading to CEC transmigration. While soluble chemotactic factors secreted from RPE can contribute to inappropriate CEC transmigration, other unidentified stimuli may play an additional role. Using a coculture model that maintains the natural structural orientation of CECs to the basal aspect of RPE, we show that &quot;contact&quot; with RPE and/or RPE extracellular matrix increases CEC transmigration of the RPE barrier. From a biochemical standpoint, contact between CECs and RPE results in an increase in the activity of the GTPase Rac1 within the CECs; this increase is dependent on upstream activation of PI 3-K and Akt1. To confirm a link between these signaling molecules and increased CEC transmigration, we performed transmigration assays while inhibiting both PI 3-K and Rac1 activity, and observed that both decreased CEC transmigration. We hypothesize that contact between CECs and RPE stimulates a signaling pathway involving PI 3-K, Akt1, and Rac1 that facilitates CEC transmigration across the RPE barrier, an important step in the development of neovascular AMD.
Excitotoxicity is well recognised as a mechanism underlying neuronal cell death in several brain injuries. To investigate age-dependent differences in neurodegeneration, edema formation and astrogliosis, intrastriatal N-methyl-d-aspartate injections were performed in young (3 months) and aged (22-24 months) male Wistar rats. Animals were sacrificed at different times between 12h and 14 days post-lesion (DPL) and cryostat sections were processed for Toluidine blue, Fluoro-Jade B staining, NeuN and GFAP immunohistochemistry. Our results show that both size of tissue injury and edema were reduced in the old subjects only up to 1DPL, correlating with a slower progression of neurodegeneration with peak numbers of degenerating neurons at 3DPL in the aged, contrasting with maximum neurodegeneration at 1DPL in the young. However, old animals showed an earlier onset of astroglial response, seen at 1DPL, and a larger area of astrogliosis at all time-points studied, including a greater glial scar. In conclusion, after excitotoxic striatal damage, progression of neurodegeneration is delayed in the aged but the astroglial response is earlier and exacerbated. Our results emphasize the importance of using aged animals and several survival times for the study of acute age-related brain insults.
In the serum and cerebrospinal fluid of a patient with recurrent acute episodes of respiratory crises, autonomic symptoms and total insomnia (agrypnia), we identified a novel anti-neural complement fixing antibody directed against GABA(B) receptor (GABA(B)R). Patient purified IgG recognized a band of approximately 110 kDa on protein extracts of mouse cerebellum, cortex and brainstem and immunolabelled cultured Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, transfected with human GABA(B)R1 and rat GABA(B)R2 receptors. Western blot analysis of transfected CHO homogenates showed the same band using both patient purified IgG and anti-GABA(B)R1 antibody. In order to verify the pathogenic role of these purified antibodies, we injected patient IgG intrathecally into cisterna magna of C57BL/6 mice pre-implanted with EEG electrodes and we observed severe ataxia followed by breathing depression and total suppression of slow wave sleep, as evidenced by EEG recording, in a dose-dependent manner. Immunohistochemistry on brain sections of mice injected with patient IgG showed the simultaneous presence of bound human IgG and C5b-9 deposits on Purkinje cells and cerebellar granular layer. After incubation with anti-GABA(B)R antibody, a marked reduction of receptor immunostaining was found with relative sparing of neuronal architecture. In conclusion we recognized an anti-neuronal autoantibody directed against GABA(B)R that is associated with autoimmune agrypnia and we showed that our patient purified IgG was able to induce in mice experimental autoimmune agrypnia characterized by a complex neurological syndrome affecting several CNS functions.
Affymetrix GeneChip technology and quantitative real-time PCR (Q-PCR) were used to examine changes in gene expression in the adult murine substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) following lentiviral glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) delivery in adult striatum. We identified several genes that were upregulated after GDNF treatment. Among these, the gene encoding the transmembrane protein Delta-like 1 homologue (Dlk1) was upregulated with a greater than 4-fold increase in mRNA encoding this protein. Immunohistochemistry with a Dlk1-specific antibody confirmed the observed upregulation with increased positive staining of cell bodies in the SNc and fibers in the striatum. Analysis of the developmental regulation of Dlk1 in the murine ventral midbrain showed that the upregulation of Dlk1 mRNA correlated with the generation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons. Furthermore, Dlk1 expression was analyzed in MesC2.10 cells, which are derived from embryonic human mesencephalon and capable of undergoing differentiation into dopaminergic neurons. We detected upregulation of Dlk1 mRNA and protein under conditions where MesC2.10 cells differentiate into a dopaminergic phenotype (41.7+/-7.1% Dlk1+ cells). In contrast, control cultures subjected to default differentiation into non-dopaminergic neurons only expressed very few (3.7+/-1.3%) Dlk1-immunopositive cells. The expression of Dlk1 in MesC2.10 cells was specifically upregulated by the addition of GDNF. Thus, our data suggest that Dlk1 expression precedes the appearance of TH in mesencephalic cells and that levels of Dlk1 are regulated by GDNF.
Ethanol exposure profoundly affects learning and memory and neural plasticity. Key players underlying these functions are neurotrophins. The present study explored the effects of ethanol on the distribution of neurotrophins in the cerebral cortex of the adult rat. Age- and weight-matched pairs of adult male, Long-Evans rats were fed a liquid, ethanol-containing (6.7% v/v) diet or pair-fed an isocaloric control diet three consecutive days per week for 6, 12, 18, or 24 weeks. Brains were processed immunohistochemically for nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression and for the expression of three neurotrophin receptors, p75, trkA, and trkB. Total numbers of immunolabeled neurons in specific layers of somatosensory cortex of ethanol- and control-fed animals were determined stereologically. Ethanol exposure induced an increase in the numbers of NGF- or BDNF-expressing neurons and in neurotrophin content per somata. These changes were (a) time and (b) laminar dependent. In contrast, the number of receptor-expressing neurons did not change due to ethanol exposure or to length of time on the ethanol diet. Thus, ethanol induces the recruitment of cortical neurons to express neurotrophins and an increase in the amount of neurotrophin expression per neuron.
Numerous cell culture protocols have been described for the proliferation of multipotent human neural progenitor cells (HNPCs). The mitogen combinations used to expand HNPCs vary, and it is not clear to what extent this may affect the subsequent differentiation of these cells. In this study human foetal cortical tissue was cultured in the presence of either EGF, or FGF-2, or a combination of both using a unique chopping method in which cell to cell contact is maintained. The differentiation potential of neurospheres following mitogen withdrawal was assessed at early (8 weeks) and late (20 weeks) times of expansion, both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, changes in gene expression with time were analysed by microarray experiments. Results show that the presence of FGF-2 was highly predictive of neuronal differentiation after short term culture both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, time in culture had a significant effect on transplant size and neural constituents suggesting that cells have a limited life span and restricted lineage potential. Array analysis confirms that following extensive time in culture cells are entering growth arrest with fundamental expression changes in genes associated with cell cycle regulation, apoptosis and immune functions.
Theta-burst stimulation of the stratum radiatum induces a negative shift in the reversal potential (RP) of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic postsynaptic currents (PSCs) in hippocampal CA1 neurons in brain slices from rats of age groups 3-4 days, 6-9 days and 3-4 weeks. Furosemide reversed the shift in the RP. The amplitude of the evoked PSC appeared to increase following the theta-burst stimulation but this increase was secondary to the change in the RP. These results indicate that the RP for GABA-ergic PSCs undergoes an activity-dependent plasticity in not only neonatal but also adult neurons presumably through an up-regulation of a K(+)-Cl(-) co-transporter. This plasticity can have significant implications for neuronal network activity in the central nervous system. Furthermore, these results indicate that studies on GABA-ergic synaptic efficacy require a careful, parallel monitoring of the RP.
Reduced insulin sensitivity following chronic alcohol consumption may contribute to alcohol-induced brain damage although the underlying mechanism(s) has not been elucidated. This study was designed to examine the effect of chronic alcohol intake on insulin signaling in mouse cerebral cortex. FVB mice were fed with a 4% alcohol diet for 16 weeks. Insulin receptor substrates (IRS-1, IRS-2) and post-receptor signaling molecules Akt, mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), ribosomal p70s6 kinase (p70s6k) and the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E)-binding protein 1 (4E-BP1) as well as the apoptotic marker caspase-3 were evaluated using Western blot analysis. Chronic alcohol intake significantly dampened whole body glucose tolerance, enhanced expression of caspase-3 and mTOR, reduced p70s6k and 4E-BP1 with little effect on Akt signaling in alcohol-consuming mice. These data suggest that chronic alcohol intake may contribute to cerebral cortex dysfunction through mechanisms related, at least in part, to dampened post insulin receptor signaling at the levels of mTOR, p70s6k and 4E-BP1.
Transcription factors (TFs) are responsible for the specification and fate determination of cells as they develop from progenitor cells into specific types of cells in the brain. Sox-2 and Pax-6 are TFs with key functional roles in the developing brain, although less is known about TFs in the rudimentary germinal zones in the adult human brain. In this study we have investigated the distribution and characterization of Sox-2 and Pax-6 in the human subventricular zone (SVZ). Sox-2 immunoreactivity showed a nuclear labeling pattern and colocalised on GFAP immunoreactive cells as well as on bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells, whereas Pax-6 immunoreactivity was detectable in the nucleus and the cytoplasm of SVZ cells and colocalised with PSA-NCAM-positive progenitor cells. Thus, our data surprisingly reveal that these TFs are differentially expressed in the adult human SVZ where Sox-2 and Pax-6 specify a glial and neuronal fate, respectively.
Failed Back Surgery Syndrome (FBSS) is commonly encountered in pain-treatment settings in the United States. We tested whether potential key factors in this syndrome, such as extracellular concentrations of excitatory amino acids (EAAs), are increased in the dorsal horn by synaptic release due to unintentional stretch and/or deformation/compression/transection of dorsal spinal structures during surgery. We hypothesized that pharmacological nerve block as a form of preemptive analgesia prior to any insult to dorsal root neurons will prevent an abnormally high increase in extracellular concentrations of EAAs in the dorsal horn and ultimately the establishment of central sensitization during back surgery. The L4 and L5 dorsal roots were cut bilaterally near the spinal cord to provide an adequate model to test for preemptive analgesia. Amino acid concentrations were measured by dorsal horn microdialysis sampling; EAAs aspartate and glutamate were significantly increased by 80% and 65% respectively, as were other amino acids compared to sham control values. Topical application of 1% Lidocaine, a voltage-gated Na(+) channel blocker, for 10 min prior to L4 and L5 bilateral dorsal rhizotomy (BDR) significantly attenuated the increase in EAA concentrations such that their values were not different from sham controls. Behavioral tests demonstrated significant hindlimb mechanical allodynia after BDRs that was significantly attenuated by Lidocaine pretreatment. Thus, Lidocaine pretreatment could offer a safe measure for prevention of chronic pain for back surgical procedures if given by intramuscular injection, topical administration onto spinal nerves and/or the dorsal spinal surface during surgical procedures that include nerve entrapment release, intervertebral disc modification and laminectomies.
Interest in the biology of the microtubule-associated protein tau, not only as a pathologic marker, but as a therapeutic target has surged considerably over the last few years. This is due, in part, to the discovery of mutations in tau causing a group of aggressively degenerative neurologic disorders characterized by abnormalities of tau very similar to what is seen in Alzheimer's disease where mutations in tau are absent. As these same mutations also precipitate authentic forms of neurofibrillary degeneration in tau transgenic mice, the gateways to testing therapeutic ideas preclinically have opened. Other Alzheimer's disease animal models have been notoriously bare of this feature, limiting their predictive power for clinical success. In this review, the authors discuss some of the main therapeutic ideas presently advanced in the field and their molecular rationales.

The N-formyl peptide receptors (FPRs) are a family of G-protein coupled receptors that respond to proinflammatory N-formylated bacterial peptides (e.g., formyl-Met-Leu-Phe, fMLF) and, thus, contribute to the host response to bacterial infection. Paradoxically, a growing body of evidence suggests that some members of this receptor family may also be targets for certain anti-inflammatory molecules, including annexin A1 (ANXA1), which is an important mediator of glucocorticoid (GC) action. To explore further the potential role of FPRs in mediating ANXA1 actions, we have focused on the pituitary gland, where ANXA1 has a well-defined role as a cell-cell mediator of the inhibitory effects of GCs on the secretion of corticotrophin (ACTH), and used molecular, genetic, and pharmacological approaches to address the question in well-established rodent models. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis identified mRNAs for four FPR family members in the mouse anterior pituitary gland, Fpr-rs1, Fpr-rs2, Fpr-rs6, and Fpr-rs7. Functional studies confirmed that, like dexamethasone, ANXA1 and two ANXA1-derived peptides (ANXA1(1-188) and ANXA1(Ac2-26)) inhibit the evoked release of ACTH from rodent anterior pituitary tissue in vitro. Fpr1 gene deletion failed to modify the pituitary responses to dexamethasone or ANXA1(Ac2-26). However, lipoxin A4 (LXA4, 0.02-2 microM, a lipid mediator with high affinity for Fpr-rs1) mimicked the inhibitory effects of ANXA1 on ACTH release as also did fMLF in high (1-100 microM) but not lower (10-100 nM) concentrations. Additionally, a nonselective FPR antagonist (Boc1, 100 microM) overcame the effects of dexamethasone, ANXA1(1-188), ANXA1(Ac2-26), fMLF, and LXA4 on ACTH release, although at a lower concentration (50 microM), it was without effect. Together, the results suggest that the actions of ANXA1 in the pituitary gland are independent of Fpr1 but may involve other FPR family members, in particular, Fpr-rs1 or a closely related receptor. They thus provide the first evidence for a role of the FPR family in the regulation of neuroendocrine function.

Oligodendrocytes have the highest rate of metabolic activity in the brain and are highly vulnerable to oxidative stress. In this work we determined the protective effect of Trolox, a water-soluble analogue of vitamin E, and insulin, a peptide shown to be neuroprotective, in oligodendrocyte lesion induced by hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Exposure of primary cultures of rat oligodendrocytes to H(2)O(2) dose-dependently decreased their reducing capacity, as determined by the MTT assay. H(2)O(2) (100 muM) had no effect on Bax levels, active-caspase-3, DNA fragmentation or lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage. Nevertheless, under these conditions, H(2)O(2) decreased the levels of myelin basic protein (MBP), used as a marker for oligodendrocyte myelin membrane. Treatment with insulin alone increased MBP levels, but no changes were observed in the presence of insulin plus H(2)O(2). In contrast, incubation with Trolox completely prevented H(2)O(2)-induced decrease in MBP expression, suggesting that vitamin E analogues may prevent against oligodendrocyte oxidative damage.
Interoceptive feedback signals from the body are transmitted to hypothalamic neurons that control pituitary hormone release. This review article describes the organization of central neural pathways that convey ascending visceral sensory signals to endocrine neurons in the paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic nuclei (SON) of the hypothalamus in rats. A special emphasis is placed on viscerosensory inputs to corticotropin releasing factor (CRF)-containing PVN neurons that drive the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and on inputs to magnocellular PVN and SON neurons that release vasopressin (AVP) or oxytocin (OT) from the posterior pituitary. The postnatal development of these ascending pathways also is considered.
The network of Paediatric Clinical Investigation Centres (CIC.P) consists of eight research centres integrated into teaching hospitals. They collaborate with all medical and surgical departments, medico-technical departments, INSERM research units, and with university research units. The aims of the network were to conduct paediatric clinical research in the areas of drug evaluation and pathophysiology (primarily growth and neurosciences) and contribute to technical innovations. The CIC.P Network provides support to investigators, from design through the conduct of investigator-initiated or industrially sponsored clinical research protocols. It also provides physicians, pharmacists and nurses with specific training in paediatric clinical research. It has facilities specifically designed for the conduct of research in children. In accordance with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines, the CIC Network also supports parents and their children during participation in medical research.
The upper limb kinematics were assessed during the execution of a functional task in healthy adults, children and in children with motor disabilities (i.e. hemiplegic cerebral palsy (HCP) and movement disorders (MD)). The quantitative assessment was performed considering the time durations, the amplitude of movements at different joints and the periodicity of the acceleration patterns. Compared to adults, healthy children showed increased motion amplitudes both at the head and at the trunk; this is suggestive of a reduced ability to stabilize the head during reaching. Furthermore, healthy children showed a reduced periodicity of the acceleration patterns which is interpreted as an indication of the on-going maturation process of the central nervous system. Subjects with HCP and MD showed increased movement duration; however this general finding does not account for specific differences. Indeed, children with HCP showed reduced range of motion (ROM) of the shoulder on the frontal plane which is counterbalanced by the introduction of compensatory movements of the trunk. Conversely, in children with MD, the ROM is well-preserved whereas the movements of the head are increased especially at higher speed. Finally, the periodicity of the end-effect is dramatically reduced both in HCP and MD. This suggests the existence of out-of-phase corrective strokes that may indicate an increased variability of the motor control commands. The results of this study reinforce the evidence that kinematic analysis may add valuable information to understand the developmental process in healthy children and to differentiate distinct levels of impairment in children with neurological disorders.

Gene therapy may be a promising approach for treatment of brain ischemia. We and others previously demonstrated that increased activity of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) contributes to the tissue damage that results from ischemic injury. The proteolysis of MMPs is tightly controlled by tissue inhibitors of MMPs (TIMPs). In this study, we examined whether adenoviral-mediated gene transfer of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 could protect against neuronal damage induced by global cerebral ischemia in mice. An adenovirus expressing TIMP-1 or TIMP-2 (AdTIMP-1 or AdTIMP-2) or a control adenovirus (RAd60) or vehicle was injected into the striatum 3 days before transient global cerebral ischemia. The extent of neuronal damage was quantified 3 days post-ischemia. There was no significant difference in the extent of neuronal damage in vehicle as compared to RAd60-treated mice. In contrast, neuronal damage was reduced, by approximately 50%, after gene transfer of AdTIMP-1 (P&lt;0.001) and AdTIMP-2 (P&lt; 0.01) as compared to controls. This study provides the first in vivo evidence of the protective effects of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 via gene transfer in global ischemia.
The development of cell-type-specific mini-promoters for genetic studies is complicated by a number of issues. Here, we describe a general method for the relatively rapid screening of specific promoter activity in cell culture, in acute brain slice preparations and in vivo. Specifically, we examine the activity of an approximately 3 kb promoter region from the neuroactive peptide cholecystokinin (CCK) compared to the commonly used cytomegalovirus promoter. We find a high degree of cell-type selectivity in vivo using lentiviral approaches in rats and traditional transgenic approaches in mice. Appropriate colocalization of Cre-recombinase and CCK gene expression is found within the hippocampus, when the CCK promoter is driving either the expression of Cre-recombinase or green fluorescent protein. We also demonstrate fluorescent identification of CCK-positive interneurons that allows for cell-type-specific electrophysiologic studies in rats and mice. In conclusion, these studies identify a functional mini-promoter for the CCK gene and outline a novel and sensitive general method to test activity of selective promoters in vitro and in vivo. This approach may allow for the more rapid identification of specific promoters for use with transgenic animals, in genetically modified viruses, and in the design of targeted, therapeutic gene-delivery systems.
Uric acid (UA) has been demonstrated to reduce damage to neurons elicited by oxidative stress. However, our studies utilizing cultures derived from embryonic rat spinal cord indicate that an astroglia-mediated mechanism is involved in the effects of UA to protect neurons from glutamate toxicity. The damage elicted by glutamate to neurons in a mixed culture of spinal cord cells can be reversed by UA. Furthermore, addition of UA after the termination of glutamate exposure suggests that UA plays an active role in mediating neuroprotection rather than purely binding peroxynitrite, as previously thought. Importantly, in pure neuron cultures from the same tissue, UA does not protect against glutamate toxicity. Addition of astroglia to the pure neuron cultures restores the ability of UA to protect the neurons from glutamate-induced toxicity. Our results also suggest that glia provide EAAT-1 and EAAT-2 glutamate transporters to protect neurons from glutamate, that functional EAATs may be necessary to mediate the effects of UA, and that treatment with UA results in upregulation of EAAT-1 protein. Taken together, our data strongly suggest that astroglia in mixed cultures are essential for mediating the effects of UA, revealing a novel mechanism by which UA, a naturally produced substance in the body, may act to protect neurons from damage during insults such as spinal cord injury.
It is generally believed that molecular mimicry between bacterial lipooligosaccharide (LOS) and nerve glycolipids may play an important pathogenic role in immune-mediated peripheral neuropathy. One of the putative infectious agents is Campylobacter jejuni (C. jejuni). To elucidate the structural basis for the molecular mimicry, we investigated the structure of the lipooligosaccharide (LOS) fraction of C. jejuni, strain HS19, and found that it includes at least two components, characterized as fast-and slow-moving bands (LF and LS) by thin-layer chromatography as revealed by cholera toxin B subunit (Ctxb) overlay. Structural analysis of the oligosaccharide portion of LS established that it had the following structure: Gal-GalNAc-(NeuAc)Gal-Hep-(Glc;PO(3)H)Hep-Kdo. The GM1-like epitope was validated by a terminal tetrasaccharide unit within this structure. On the other hand, analysis of LF revealed an entirely different structure: 1, 4'-bisphosphoryl glucosamine disaccharide N, N'-acylated by 3-(2-hydroxytetracosanoyloxy)octadecanoic acid at 2- and 2'-positions, which is consistent with that of lipid A. No GM1-like epitope was observed in LF. Both LS and LF interacted with Ctxb as demonstrated by TLC-overlay and sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Surprisingly, LF does not have the basic GM1 structure for interacting with Ctxb. Instead, the affinity of LF to Ctxb required that one or both of the phosphate groups be present in the glucosamine disaccharide residue because after alkaline phosphatase treatment the dephosphorylated LF was unable to bind to Ctxb. We conclude that LS is likely the component contributing to GM1-mimicry in autoimmune peripheral neuropathy and that the role of LF is not clear but may be associated with the initial activation of autoreactive T cells.
Therapeutic angiogenesis is one of the major approaches in designing new therapies for cardiovascular diseases. vpVEGF was purified from Vipera palestinae venom using two steps of reverse-phase HPLC. Structurally, vpVEGF belongs to the VEGF-F1 family of snake venom proteins, and potently stimulated dHMVEC proliferation in a VEGFR-2 dependent manner. This growth factor appeared to be a chemoattractant for migration of these cells and stimulated their radial migration in a collagen gel. The stimulatory effect on dHMVEC was correlated with activation of the MAPK Erk1/2 signaling pathway. In vivo vpVEGF induced angiogenesis in a Japanese quail assay and in a Matrigel plug assay in mice. Although in the quail assay vpVEGF showed lower activity than hrVEGF-A165 in mammalian-related systems there were no significant differences. The experiments with dHMVEC, as well as angiogenesis in vivo suggest that the pro-angiogenic effect of vpVEGF is related to its interaction with VEGFR-2 (flk-1).


Men and women exhibit different neural, genital, and subjective arousal responses to visual sexual stimuli. The source of these sex differences is unknown. We hypothesized that men and women look differently at sexual stimuli, resulting in different responses. We used eye tracking to measure looking by 15 male and 30 female (15 normal cycling (NC) and 15 oral contracepting (OC)) heterosexual adults viewing sexually explicit photos. NC Women were tested during their menstrual, periovulatory, and luteal phases while Men and OC Women were tested at equivalent intervals, producing three test sessions per individual. Men, NC, and OC Women differed in the relative amounts of first looks towards, percent time looking at, and probability of looking at, defined regions of the pictures. Men spent more time, and had a higher probability of, looking at female faces. NC Women had more first looks towards, spent more time, and had a higher probability of, looking at genitals. OC Women spent more time, and had a higher probability of, looking at contextual regions of pictures, those featuring clothing or background. Groups did not differ in looking at the female body. Menstrual cycle phase did not affect women's looking patterns. However, differences between OC and NC groups suggest hormonal influences on attention to sexual stimuli that were unexplained by subject characteristic differences. Our finding that men and women attend to different aspects of the same visual sexual stimuli could reflect pre-existing cognitive biases that possibly contribute to sex differences in neural, subjective, and physiological arousal.
Recent evidence suggests a role for corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) in the regulation of pair bonding in prairie voles. We have previously shown that monogamous and non-monogamous vole species have dramatically different distributions of CRF receptor type 1 (CRF(1)) and CRF receptor type 2 (CRF(2)) in the brain and that CRF(1) and CRF(2) receptor densities in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) are correlated with social organization. Monogamous prairie and pine voles have significantly lower levels of CRF receptor type 1 (CRF(1)), and significantly higher levels of type 2 (CRF(2)) binding, in NAcc than non-monogamous meadow and montane voles. Here, we report that microinjections of CRF directly into the NAcc accelerate partner preference formation in male prairie voles. Control injections of CSF into NAcc, and CRF into caudate-putamen, did not facilitate partner preference. Likewise, CRF injections into NAcc of non-monogamous meadow voles also did not facilitate partner preference. In prairie voles, this CRF facilitation effect was blocked by co-injection of either CRF(1) or CRF(2) receptor antagonists into NAcc. Immunocytochemical staining for CRF and Urocortin-1 (Ucn-1), two endogenous ligands for CRF(1) and CRF(2) receptors in the brain, revealed that CRF, but not Ucn-1, immunoreactive fibers were present in NAcc. This supports the hypothesis that local CRF release into NAcc could activate CRF(1) or CRF(2) receptors in the region. Taken together, our results reveal a novel role for accumbal CRF systems in social behavior.
In previous work (Penny et al., [2005]: Neuroimage 24:350-362) we have developed a spatially regularised General Linear Model for the analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging data that allows for the characterisation of regionally specific effects using Posterior Probability Maps (PPMs). In this paper we show how it also provides an approximation to the model evidence. This is important as it is the basis of Bayesian model comparison and provides a unified framework for Bayesian Analysis of Variance, Cluster of Interest analyses and the principled selection of signal and noise models. We also provide extensions that implement spatial and anatomical regularisation of noise process parameters.
There is a need for mechanistic understanding of the lasting ill health reported in several studies of workers exposed to organophosphorus (OP) pesticide. Although the acute toxicity is largely explicable by acetylcholinesterase inhibition and the lasting effects of frank poisoning by direct excitotoxicity or indirect consequences of the cholinergic syndrome, effects at lower levels of exposure would not be predicted from these mechanisms. Similarly, reversible interactions with nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in adults would not predict continuing ill health. Many OP pesticides produce protein adduction, and the lasting nature of this makes it a candidate mechanism for the production of continuing ill health. We found significant adduction of partially characterized protein targets in both rat brain and thymus by azamethiphos, chlorfenvinphos, chlorpyrifos-oxon, diazinon-oxon, dichlorvos and malaoxon, in vitro and pirimiphos-methyl in vivo. The diversity in the adduction pattern seen across these agents at low dose levels means that any longer term effects of adduction would be specific to specific organophosphates, rather than generic. This presents a challenge to epidemiology, as most exposures are to different agents over time. However, some adducted proteins are also expressed in blood, notably albumin, and so may provide exposure measures to increase the power of future epidemiological studies.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a promising vehicle for gene therapy, which will rely on the generation of high-titer, high-purity recombinant vectors. However, numerous purification protocols can involve challenging optimization or scalability issues, and most AAV serotypes do not bind heparin or sialic acid, used for AAV2/3 or AAV4/5 purification, requiring the development of new chromatography strategies. Immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC) allows for robust protein purification via affinity tags such as the hexahistidine (His(6)) sequence. Through the combination of a diverse AAV2 library and rational peptide insertions, we have located an optimal His(6) tag insertion site within the viral capsid. This mutant and a related AAV8 variant can be purified from clarified cell lysate in a single gravity column step at infectious particle yields exceeding 90%. Furthermore, injection of IMAC-purified vector into the brain demonstrates that it mediates high-efficiency gene delivery in vivo, equivalent to that of wild-type capsid, with minimal immune cell activation. This affinity chromatography method may offer advantages in ease of purification, final vector purity, and process scalability. Moreover, a combined rational design and high-throughput library selection approach can aid in the design of enhanced viral gene delivery vectors.
Mitochondrial abnormalities represent a major cytopathology in Huntington's disease (HD), a fatal neurodegenerative disease caused by CAG repeat expansions in the gene encoding huntingtin (Htt). In the present study, we investigated whether defects in the mitochondrial respiratory function are consequences of the expression of mutant Htt or they promote the formation of Htt aggregates. To take advantage of existing mitochondrial DNA mutants, we developed human osteosarcoma 143B cells expressing mutant Htt in an inducible manner and found that cells expressing mutant Htt but not wild-type Htt exhibited a reduced activity of complex III and an increased activity of complex IV. Conversely, pharmacological treatments that inhibited complex III activity significantly promoted the formation of Htt aggregates. This complex III-mediated modulation of Htt aggregates was also observed in a neuronal progenitor RN33B cell line transduced by lentivirus carrying mutant Htt. This effect of complex III inhibition on the Htt aggregates appeared to be mediated by the inhibition of proteasome activity, but not by ATP depletion or production of reactive oxygen species. Accordingly, complex III mutant cells also showed decreased proteasome activity. These results suggest the presence of a feedback system connecting the mitochondrial respiratory complex III and the production of Htt aggregates. Our results suggest that therapeutic interventions targeting complex III and/or proteasome could ameliorate the progress of HD.
The imagination of motor actions forms not only a theoretical challenge for cognitive neuroscience but may also be seen as a novel therapeutic tool in neurological rehabilitation, in that it can be used for relearning motor control after damage to the motor system. However, since the majority of rehabilitation patients consist of older individuals it is relevant to know whether the capacity of mental imaging is compromised by age. Scores on the vividness of movement imagery questionnaire were obtained for 333 participants, divided in three age groups. Results showed that elderly participants were slightly worse in motor imagery capacity than younger participants, particularly in relation to motor imagery from an internal (first person) perspective. Furthermore, a possible relation between the level of physical activities and motor imagery capacity is discussed.
We have proposed that the stability of bimanual coordination is influenced by the complexity of the representation of the task goals. Here, we present two experiments to explore this hypothesis. First, we examined whether a temporal event structure is present in continuous movements by having participants vocalize while producing bimanual circling movements. Participants tended to vocalize once per movement cycle when moving in-phase. In contrast, vocalizations were not synchronized with anti-phase movements. While the in-phase result is unexpected, the latter would suggest anti-phase continuous movements lack an event structure. Second, we examined the event structure of movements marked by salient turn-around points. Participants made bimanual wrist flexion movements and were instructed to move 'in synchrony' with a metronome, without specifying how they should couple the movements to the metronome. During in-phase movements, participants synchronized one hand cycle with every metronome beat; during anti-phase movements, participants synchronized flexion of one hand with one metronome beat and extension of the other hand with the next beat. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the instability of anti-phase movements is related to their more complex (or absent) event representation relative to that associated with in-phase movements.
Image registration methods play a crucial role in computational neuroanatomy. This paper mainly contributes to the field of image registration with the use of nonlinear spatial transformations. Particularly, problems connected to matching magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain image data obtained from various subjects and with various imaging conditions are solved here. Registration is driven by local forces derived from multimodal point similarity measures which are estimated with the use of joint intensity histogram and tissue probability maps. A spatial deformation model imitating principles of continuum mechanics is used. Five similarity measures are tested in an experiment with image data obtained from the Simulated Brain Database and a quantitative evaluation of the algorithm is presented. Results of application of the method in automated spatial detection of anatomical abnormalities in first-episode schizophrenia are presented.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a progressive loss of cognitive function. Existing evidence indicates that abnormal processing and extracellular deposition of the longer form of the amyloid peptide Abeta(1-42), a proteolytic derivative of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), is a key step in the pathogenesis of AD. Active immunization with Abeta(1-42) has been shown to decrease brain beta deposition and improve cognitive performance in mouse models of AD. In the present study, we sought to express the synthetic gene encoding AB in Escherichia coli to enable rapid production of the antigen and its purification. The synthetic gene has been constructed from six oligonucleotides by employing overlapping PCR strategy and expressed in E. coli using the T7 promoter system. The recombinant peptide has been purified to homogeneity by a single step Ni+2 affinity chromatography. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using polyclonal anti-Abeta(1-42) sera confirms that the corresponding linear B-cell epitopic sequences are available for immunorecognition in the recombinant peptide. This methodology enables rapid, continuous production and purification in bulk amounts of human Abeta sequence by employing bacterial expression system









Type-specific persistent infection with Human Papillomavirus (HPV) is a significant risk factor for the development of cervical diseases. Persistent infection could be further refined by a sequencing approach to detect early cervical lesions that are at high risk of developing an invasive squamous cervical cancer. The aim of the present study is to investigate the clinical utility of detecting mRNA transcripts of HPV oncogenes E6/E7 by using a Real-time NASBA technology (mRNA test) and to identify women with low-grade cytological disease but with an increased risk of developing high-grade cervical abnormalities or invasive squamous cervical cancer. Our preliminary results show that E6/E7 is detected in only a subset of HR-HPV-positive cases. Since viral persistence is considered to be the true precursor of neoplastic progression, only the detection of E6/E7 mRNA can identify the infection which is more likely to persist and induce neoplasia in future. For these reasons we believe that this test would be useful for the characterization of women with HR-HPV DNA positivity who should be effectively treated because at high-risk of developing a high grade cervical lesion or an invasive squamous cervical cancer.
Recent work from our laboratory has demonstrated that human white blood cells make morphine and that substances of abuse, i.e. nicotine, alcohol and cocaine have the ability to release this endogenous substance, suggesting a common mechanism of action. We now demonstrate that the nicotinic process is more complex than formerly envisioned. The incorporation rate of 125I-labeled morphine into PMN and MN are 7.85+/-0.36%, 1.42+/-0.19%, respectfully, suggesting in MN this process is of low activity. Separate incubations of PMN with varying concentrations of nicotine or the nicotine agonist epibatidine resulted in a statistically significant enhancement of 125I-trace labeled morphine released into the extracellular medium. In order to ascertain the specificity of the nicotine stimulated morphine release the following experiments were performed. Co-incubation of hexamethonium dichloride (5 microg/ml and at 10 microg/ml), which preferentially blocks nicotinic receptors at autonomic ganglia, with nicotine, exerted a very weak inhibitory effect. Co-incubation of alpha-BuTx or atropine or chlorisondamine diiodide or dihydro-Beta-erythroidine hydrobromide, an alpha4Beta2 receptor antagonist, did not block nicotine induced morphine release alone or in combination, suggesting either the response was not specific or it was mediated by a novel nicotinic receptor. Human leukocyte total RNA isolated from whole blood were analyzed, using the Human Genome Survey microarray (Applied Biosystems), for cholinergic receptor expression. PMN nicotinic receptor gene expression was present and contained numerous variants (eight). The number of variants suggests that indeed a novel nicotinic receptor may be mediating this effect, while simultaneously demonstrating the significance of the cholinergic receptor expression in these immune cells.
Previous studies have revealed significant differences in performance on nonlanguage dependent cognitive tests across international settings among younger individuals, with less pronounced differences evident among older individuals (&gt;54 years of age). The present study examined a broad range of cognitive performance as well as electrophysiological indices of brain function in a multisite and international context. A total of 200 individuals in the United States, 233 individuals in Europe, and 829 individuals in Australia were administered a standardized computerized neuropsychological battery, and complementary electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings were completed. Results revealed no significant differences in cognitive function or electrophysiology across the three continents. Similarly, although there was a main effect for age, the interaction between age and continent was not significant in any of the omnibus analyses. These findings indicate a high degree of similarity in neurocognitive and electrophysiological function among individuals residing in developed Western cultures, consistent with a traitlike status and the high heritability of the EEG.
The success of functional neuroimaging methods in picturing distinct cerebral activation profiles for different psychological functions has led many specialists and many more non-specialists to speculate that it will soon be possible for neuroimaging experts to sit in front of the screen of a functional brain imaging device and &quot;read&quot; in the changing patterns of brain activity, displayed there in real-time, what the person whose brain is imaged is experiencing from one moment to the next. This apparently reasonable scenario presupposes that each concrete experience is associated with a distinct and unique brain activity pattern, and that these patterns are, at least in principle, discernible through functional neuroimaging. It will be argued that, for reasons of an epistemological order, even if the first assumption was true, that pattern could not be discernible, and therefore readable, even with ideal neuroimaging devices. It will also be argued that the only epistemologically, therefore, in principle, also technically feasible feat is to discern and decipher patterns of the brain activity corresponding not to concrete experiences, but to types or &quot;kinds&quot; of experiences, that is, to general concepts. Moreover, it will be shown that we could, in principle, discern only such patterns for the very same reason that we can know objectively only concepts, that is, the invariant features common to sets of concrete, fleeting and unrepeatable single experiences.
The Cartesian System is a fundamental conceptual and analytical framework related and interwoven with the concept and applications of Newtonian Dynamics. In order to analyze quantum processes physicist moved to a Probabilistic Cartesian System in which the causality principle became a probabilistic one. This means the trajectories of particles (obeying quantum rules) can be described only with the concept of cloudy wave packets. The approach to the brain-body-mind problem requires more than the prerequisite of modern physics and quantum dynamics. In the analysis of the brain-body-mind construct we have to include uncertain causalities and consequently multiple uncertain causalities. These multiple causalities originate from (1) nonlinear properties of the vegetative system (e.g. irregularities in biochemical transmitters, cardiac output, turbulences in the vascular system, respiratory apnea, nonlinear oscillatory interactions in peristalsis); (2) nonlinear behavior of the neuronal electricity (e.g. chaotic behavior measured by EEG), (3) genetic modulations, and (4) additional to these physiological entities nonlinear properties of physical processes in the body. The brain shows deterministic chaos with a correlation dimension of approx. D(2)=6, the smooth muscles approx. D(2)=3. According to these facts we propose a hyper-probabilistic approach or a hyper-probabilistic Cartesian System to describe and analyze the processes in the brain-body-mind system. If we add aspects as our sentiments, emotions and creativity to this construct, better said to this already hyper-probabilistic construct, this &quot;New Cartesian System&quot; is more than hyper-probabilistic, it is a nebulous system, we can predict the future only in a nebulous way; however, despite this chain of reasoning we can still provide predictions on brain-body-mind incorporations. We tentatively assume that the processes or mechanisms of the brain-body-mind system can be analyzed and predicted similar to the metaphor of &quot;finding the walking path in a cloudy or foggy day&quot;. This is meant by stating &quot;The Nebulous Cartesian System&quot; (NCS). Descartes, at his time undertaking his genius step, did not possess the knowledge of today's physiology and modern physics; we think that the time has come to consider such a New Cartesian System. To deal with this, we propose the utilization of the Heisenberg S-Matrix and a modified version of the Feynman Diagrams which we call &quot;Brain Feynman Diagrams&quot;. Another metaphor to consider within the oscillatory approach of the NCS is the &quot;string theory&quot;. We also emphasize that fundamental steps should be undertaken in order to create the own dynamical framework of the brain-body-mind incorporation; suggestions or metaphors from physics and mathematics are useful; however, the grammar of the brains intrinsic language must be understood with the help of a new biologically founded, adaptive-probabilistic Cartesian system. This new Cartesian System will undergo mutations and transcend to the philosophy of Henri Bergson in parallel to the Evolution theory of Charles Darwin to open gateways for approaching the brain-body-mind problem.
The classic alpha rhythm, recorded intracortically, consists of alternating surface-negative troughs and briefer surface-positive peaks. The troughs are associated with neuronal hyperpolarization, the peaks with brief depolarization and burst firing. Each hyperpolarization is mainly a potassium potential, lasting approximately 100 ms. Depolarization and burst firing arise when this inactivates. In the desynchronized state, membrane potential is poised just below threshold. Firing in vivo is somewhat irregular and non-bursting. It is suggested that EEG bistability (classic alpha vs desynchronization) corresponds to bistability of single pyramidal cells. In vitro, paired pulses lead to depression of synaptic transmission in synapses linking two pyramidal cells, but to facilitation in synapses linking pyramidal cells to inhibitory neurones. These effects should be recruited by burst firing in vivo. Thus, enhancement of inhibitory and excitatory transmission occur respectively during the classic alpha rhythm, and the desynchronized state. As a result both states tend to be self-sustaining. In the desynchronized state high frequency (gamma or beta) activity predominates. In simulations, gamma activity has been modeled as the behaviour of cortical networks where populations of excitatory and inhibitory neurones interact. These simulations assume conduction times between neurones to be negligible. However, this is not true for long-distance interactions. Introduction into the models of plausible conduction delays should slow the oscillation frequency. The activated cortex can then produce not only gamma activity but also beta, and sometimes alpha activity. Thus, alpha frequencies can arise both in the &quot;idling&quot; cortex (classic alpha), and in the activated cortex, although the respective mechanisms are quite different.


The role of the external ear in sonar target localization for prey capture was studied by deflecting the tragus of six big brown bats, Eptesicus fuscus. The prey capture performance of the bat dropped significantly in the tragus-deflection condition, compared with baseline, control, and recovery conditions. Target localization error occurred in the tragus-deflected bat, and mainly in elevation. The deflection of the tragus did not abolish the prey capture ability of the bat, which suggests that other cues are available used for prey localization. Adaptive vocal and motor behaviors were also investigated in this study. The bat did not show significant changes in vocal behaviors but modified its flight trajectories in response to the tragus manipulation. The tragus-deflected bat tended to attack the prey item from above and had lower tangential velocity and larger bearing from the side, compared with baseline and recovery conditions. These findings highlight the contribution of the tragus to vertical sound localization in the free-flying big brown bat and demonstrate flight adaptations the bat makes to compensate altered acoustic cues.
Sound source localization on the horizontal plane is primarily determined by interaural time differences (ITDs) for low-frequency stimuli and by interaural level differences (ILDs) for high-frequency stimuli, but ITDs in high-frequency complex stimuli can also be used for localization. Of interest here is the relationship between the processing of high-frequency ITDs and that of low-frequency ITDs and high-frequency ILDs. A few similarities in human performance with high- and low-frequency ITDs have been taken as evidence for similar ITD processing across frequency regions. However, such similarities, unless accompanied by differences between ITD and ILD performance on the same measure, could potentially reflect processing attributes common to both ITDs and ILDs rather than to ITDs only. In the present experiment, both learning and variability patterns in human discrimination of ITDs in high-frequency amplitude-modulated tones were examined and compared to previously obtained data with low-frequency ITDs and high-frequency ILDs. Both patterns for high-frequency ITDs were more similar to those for low-frequency ITDs than for high-frequency ILDs. These results thus add to the evidence supporting similar ITD processing across frequency regions, and further suggest that both high- and low-frequency ITD processing is less modifiable and more noisy than ILD processing.



The relationship between psychoanalysis and attachment theory is complex indeed. A brief review of the psychoanalytic literature as it concerns attachment theory and research, and of the attachment literature as it pertains to psychoanalytic ideas, demonstrates an increasing interest in attachment theory within psychoanalysis. Some of the difficulties that attachment theory faces in relation to psychoanalytic ideas are traced to its links to the now dated cognitive science of the 1960s and 1970s. Today, however, a second-generation cognitive neuroscience seeks neurobiologically plausible accounts in which links with brain and body are seen as shaping mind and consciousness, which increasingly are seen as &quot;embodied&quot;, as emerging from or serving the needs of a physical being located in a specific time, place, and social context. This idea has also been at the core of much psychoanalytic thinking, which has historically affirmed the rootedness of symbolic thought in sensory, emotional, and enacted experience with objects. Now neurobiological advances supporting the concept of embodied cognition offer an opportunity to forge powerful links between the hitherto separate domains of attachment theory and psychoanalysis. Speculations about the nature of language are presented that emphasize the origin of internal working models (and of representations in general) in early sensorimotor and emotional experiences with a caregiver. It is argued that language and symbolic thought may be phylogenetically and ontogenetically embodied, built on a foundation of gestures and actions, and are thus profoundly influenced by the experience of early physical interaction with the primary object. Finally, the clinical and research implications of these ideas are discussed.
In human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) latently infected cells, NF-kappaB (NF-kappaB) plays a critical role in the transcriptional induction of the HIV-1 promoter. The trans-activating ability of NF-kappaB can be modified by another nuclear factor C/EBPbeta that can physically bind to NF-kappaB and regulate its activity. Because the HIV-1 promoter also contains a C/EBPbeta site adjacent to the NF-kappaB site, the present study examined cooperative functional in vivo interaction of the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB and C/EBPbeta, and the impact of Tat in this event. We demonstrated that ectopic expression of p65 along with Tat increases p65 binding to HIV-1 LTR, and that this increase correlates with enhanced HIV-1 promoter activity. Further, co-expression of C/EBPbeta and Tat leads to a decrease in p65 binding, which allows C/EBPbeta to bind more efficiently to the LTR. Inhibition of p65 expression by siRNA significantly decreases C/EBPbeta-binding and LTR expression. Using ChIP assay, we confirmed the existence of an interchange between p65 and C/EBPbeta and their abilities to bind to the LTR in vivo. These observations demonstrate that a delicate balance of interaction between p65, C/EBPbeta, and Tat can dictate the level of HIV-1 LTR transcription.
The glutamate-glutamine cycle is thought to be of paramount importance in the mature brain; however, its significance is likely to vary with regional differences in distance between astrocyte and synapse. The present study is aimed at evaluating the role of this cycle in cultures of cerebellar neurons, mainly consisting of glutamatergic granule cells. Cells were incubated in medium containing [U-13C]glutamate or [U-13C]glutamine in the presence and absence of unlabeled glutamine and glutamate, respectively. Cell extracts and media were analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and gas chromatography combined with mass spectrometry (GC/MS). Both [U-13C]glutamate and [U-13C]glutamine were shown to be excellent precursors for synthesis of neuroactive amino acids and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates. Labeling from [U-13C]glutamate was higher than that from [U-13C]glutamine in all metabolites measured. The presence of [U-13C]glutamate plus unlabeled glutamine in the experimental medium led to labeling very similar to that from [U-13C]glutamate alone. However, incubation in medium containing [U-13C]glutamine in the presence of unlabeled glutamate almost abolished labeling of metabolites. Thus, it could be shown that glutamate is the preferred substrate for intermediary metabolism in cerebellar neurons. Label distribution indicating TCA cycle activity showed more prominent cycling from [U-13C]glutamine than from [U-13C]glutamate. Labeling of succinate was lower than that of the other TCA cycle intermediates, indicating an active role of the gamma-amino butyric acid shunt in these cultures. It can be concluded that the cerebellar neurons rely more on reuptake of glutamate than supply of glutamine from astrocytes for glutamate homeostasis.
In acute stroke, the target of therapy is the severely hypoxic but salvageable tissue. Previous human studies using 18F-fluoromisonidazole and positron emission tomography (18F-FMISO PET) have shown high tracer retention indicative of tissue hypoxia, which had normalized at repeat scan &gt;48 h later. In the only validation study of 18F-FMISO, using ex vivo autoradiography in thread middle cerebral artery occluded (MCAo) rats, there was unexpected high uptake as late as 22 h after reperfusion, raising questions about the use of 18F-FMISO as a hypoxia tracer. Here we report a pilot study of 18F-FMISO PET in experimental stroke. Spontaneous hypertensive rats were subjected to distal clip MCAo. Three-hour dynamic PET was performed in 7 rats: 3 normals, 1 with permanent MCAo (two sessions: 30 mins and 48 h after clip), and 3 with temporary MCAo (45 mins, n=1; 120 mins, n=2; scanning started 30 mins after clip removal). Experiments were terminated by perfusion-fixation for standard histopathology. Late tracer retention was assessed by both compartmental modelling and simple side-to-side ratios. In the initial PET session of the permanent MCAo rat, striking trapping of 18F-FMISO was observed in the affected cortex, which had normalized 48 h later; histopathology revealed pannecrosis. In contrast, there was no demonstrable tracer retention in either temporary MCAo models, and histopathology showed ischemic changes only. These results document elevated 18F-FMISO uptake in the stroke area only in the early phase of MCAo, but not after early reperfusion nor when tissue necrosis has developed. These findings strongly support the validity of 18F-FMISO as a marker of viable hypoxic tissue/penumbra after stroke.
The effects of hypoxia-ischemia (HI) on proliferation and differentiation in the immature (postnatal day 9) and juvenile (postnatal day 21) mouse hippocampus were investigated by injecting bromodeoxyuridine (50 mg/kg) daily for 7 days after the insult and evaluating the labeling 5 weeks after HI. Phenotypic differentiation was evaluated using NeuN, Iba1, APC, and S100beta as markers of neurons, microglia, oligodendrocytes, and astrocytes, respectively. The basal proliferation, in particular neurogenesis, was higher in the immature than in the juvenile hippocampus. Hypoxia-ischemia did not increase neurogenesis significantly in the immature dentate gyrus (DG), but it increased several-fold in the juvenile brain, reaching the same level as in the normal, noninjured immature brain. This suggests that the immature hippocampus is already working at the top of its proliferative capacity and that even though basal neurogenesis decreased with age, the injury-induced generation of new neurons in the juvenile hippocampus could not increase beyond the basal level of the immature brain. Generation of glial cells of all three types after HI was significantly more pronounced in the cornu ammonis of the hippocampus region of the juvenile hippocampus. In the DG, only microglia production was greater in the juvenile brain. Increased microglia proliferation correlated with increased levels of the proinflammatory cytokines MCP-1 and IL-18 3 days after HI, indicating that the inflammatory response is stronger in the juvenile hippocampus. In summary, contrary to what has been generally assumed, our results indicate that the juvenile brain has a greater capacity for neurogenesis after injury than the immature brain.
The role of angiogenesis after stroke is unclear; if angiogenesis supports long-term recovery of blood flow, then microvessel hyperdensity consequent to angiogenesis should persist in infarcted cortex. Here, we assess the long-term stability of ischemia-induced microvessels after 2-h transient rat middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAo) followed by 30, 90, or 165 days of reperfusion. Stereological measures of microvessel density were taken adjacent to and within cortical cysts. Vascular permeability was documented by extravasation of immunoglobulin (IgG) and of fluorescein-dextran. After 30 days reperfusion, a significantly increased microvessel volume density (V(V)) was restricted to the inner margin of cystic infarcts as compared with the region external to the infarct or contralateral control cortex (F=42.675, P&lt;0.001). The hyperdense ischemic vasculature was abnormally leaky to IgG and fluorescein-dextran. Between 30 and 90 days of reperfusion, this vessel hyperdensity regressed significantly and then regressed further but less drastically between 90 and 165 days. Phagocytic macrophages were restricted to the infarct and dynamic changes in their number correlated with microvessel regression. Additional ED-1 labeled inflammatory cells were widely distributed inside and external to the infarct, even after 165 days of reperfusion. These data show that ischemia evoked angiogenesis results, at least in part, in transient populations of leaky microvessels and phagocytic macrophages. This suggests that a major role of this angiogenesis is for the removal of necrotic brain tissue.
The development of a HPLC method using a monolithic C18 column is described using fluorescence detection for the assay of 21 amino acids and related substances with derivatisation using ortho-phthaldialdehyde (OPA) in the presence of 3-mercaptopropionic acid (3-MPA). The method employs a tertiary gradient and has a run time of 24 min. Linearity (r2) for each amino acid was found to be greater than 0.99 up to a 10 microM concentration; reproducibility across all analyses (relative standard deviation (R.S.D.)) was between 0.97 and 6.7% and limit of detection (LOD) between 30 and 300 fmol on column. This method has been applied to the analysis of amino acids in both spinal microdialysis and cerebral spinal fluid samples.
Patients with damage to the ventromedial prefrontal cortices (VMPC) commonly manifest blatant behavioral navigation defects in the real world, but it has been difficult to measure these impairments in the clinic or laboratory. Using a set of &quot;strategy application&quot; tasks, which were designed by Shallice and Burgess (1991) to be ecologically valid for detecting executive dysfunction, we investigated the hypothesis that VMPC damage would be associated with defective performance on such tasks, whereas damage outside the VMPC region would not. A group of 9 patients with bilateral VMPC damage was contrasted with comparison groups of participants with (a) prefrontal brain damage outside the VMPC region (n = 8); (b) nonprefrontal brain damage (n = 17); and (c) no brain damage (n = 20). We found support for the hypothesis: VMPC patients had more impaired performances on the strategy application tasks, especially on a Multiple Errands Test that required patients to execute a series of unstructured tasks in a real-world setting (shopping mall). The results are consistent with the notion that efficacious behavioral navigation is dependent on the VMPC region. However, the strategy application tasks were relatively time consuming and effortful, and their diagnostic yield over and above conventional executive functioning tests may not be sufficient to warrant their inclusion in standard clinical assessment.

Kikuchi's disease is a rare self-limiting lymphoproliferative condition of unknown aetiology, characterised by acute or subacute necrotising lymphadenitis. It is a benign condition that can mimic malignant lymphoma. In this report, a case of Kikuchi's disease associated with a chromosomal abnormality is described. This is the first report in the literature of such a case and it highlights an important learning point; benign lymphoproliferative conditions can be associated with chromosomal abnormalities that are more typically associated with malignant lymphoproliferative conditions such as malignant lymphoma. The report illustrates the necessity for interpreting cytogenetic data in the relevant clinical and histopathological context in a multidisciplinary setting to avoid misdiagnosis and inappropriate treatment.

Subtypes of depression need to be recognized and diagnosed in order to properly treat patients who have depression but present with different symptoms from one another. Different pharmacotherapuetic strategies may work better for different subtypes. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) have been studied for the treatment of atypical depression. To date, MAOIs have been shown to be the most efficacious agents in treating atypical depression; however, many MAOIs nonselectively and irreversibly inhibit both MAO substrates, require tyramine-restricted diets, and may produce weight gain, cardiovascular side effects, or sexual dysfunction. A newer MAOI, the transdermal formulation of selegiline, may provide all of the efficacy of the older MAOIs in treating atypical depression without causing as great of adverse events and no diet restrictions.
Reorienting of visuospatial attention can be investigated by comparing reaction times to validly and invalidly cued targets (&quot;validity effect&quot;). The cholinergic agonist nicotine reduces the validity effect and neural activity in the posterior parietal cortex. Behavioral effects of nicotine in nonsmokers are weak and it has been suggested that differences in baseline behavior before nicotine exposure may influence the effect of nicotine. This study investigates whether individual differences in reorienting-related neural activity under placebo may be used to predict individual nicotine effects. Individual nicotine effects are defined as the behavioral effects under nicotine that cannot be predicted by the behavioral data under placebo. Fifteen nonsmoking subjects were given either placebo or nicotine gum (2 mg) prior to performing a cued target detection task inside a magnetic resonance imaging scanner. The results of a partial least square analysis suggest that neural data under placebo can be used to predict individual behavioral effects of nicotine. Neural activity in the left posterior cingulate cortex, the right superior parietal cortex, the right dorsal medial prefrontal cortex, and the left ventral medial prefrontal cortex significantly contributes to that prediction. We conclude that nicotine effects on reorienting attention depend on individual differences in reorienting-related neural activity under placebo and suggest that functional magnetic resonance imaging data can contribute to the prediction of individual drug effects.
Purkinje cells in the cerebellum express the antigen zebrin II (aldolase C) in many vertebrates. In mammals, zebrin is expressed in a parasagittal fashion, with alternating immunopositive and immunonegative stripes. Whether a similar pattern is expressed in birds is unknown. Here we present the first investigation into zebrin II expression in a bird: the adult pigeon (Columba livia). Western blotting of pigeon cerebellar homogenates reveals a single polypeptide with an apparent molecular weight of 36 kDa that is indistinguishable from zebrin II in the mouse. Zebrin II expression in the pigeon cerebellum is prominent in Purkinje cells, including their dendrites, somata, axons, and axon terminals. Parasagittal stripes were apparent with bands of Purkinje cells that strongly expressed zebrin II (+ve) alternating with bands that expressed zebrin II weakly or not at all (-ve). The stripes were most prominent in folium IXcd, where there were seven +ve/-ve stripes, bilaterally. In folia VI-IXab, several thin stripes were observed spanning the mediolateral extent of the folia, including three pairs of +ve/-ve stripes that extended across the lateral surface of the cerebellum. In folium VI the zebrin II expression in Purkinje cells was stronger overall, resulting in less apparent stripes. In folia II-V, four distinct +ve/-ve stripes were apparent. Finally, in folia I (lingula) and X (nodulus) all Purkinje cells strongly expressed zebrin II. These data are compared with studies of zebrin II expression in other species, as well as physiological and neuroanatomical studies that address the parasagittal organization of the pigeon cerebellum.
Hypothalamic neural activity is modulated by viscerosensory signals that are carried in large part by noradrenergic (NA) inputs to the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). The present study examined the ultrastructural relationship of NA axon varicosities with the somata and dendrites of identified gastric preautonomic PVN neurons in adult male rats. NA varicosities were visualized by immunoperoxidase labeling of dopamine beta hydroxylase (DbH), and gastric preautonomic PVN neurons were identified by immunogold labeling of pseudorabies virus (PRV) transported retrogradely and transneuronally from injection sites in the stomach wall. Among 1,136 DbH-positive varicosities identified within the parvocellular PVN in four rats, approximately 36% formed either a close apposition or a synaptic contact with a somatic or dendritic profile. The majority of identified contacts between DbH- and PRV-positive profiles were classified as close appositions that lacked clear synaptic specializations. Approximately 65% of identified synaptic contacts between DbH- and PRV-positive profiles were classified as symmetric (Gray's type II) synapses. DbH-positive terminals formed close appositions and synaptic contacts with dendritic and somatic compartments of PRV-positive neurons, although dendrites were contacted nearly five times more often than somata. These findings invite continued work to delineate the functional role of NA signaling pathways in conveying interoceptive signals to preautonomic PVN neurons under normal and pathophysiological conditions.
Although odor receptors have been implicated in establishing the topography of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) in the olfactory bulb (OB), it is likely other molecules are also involved. The cadherins (CDHs) are a large family of cell adhesion molecules that mediate cell:cell interactions elsewhere in the central nervous system. However, their distribution and role in the olfactory system have remained largely unexplored. We previously demonstrated that intracellular binding partners of cadherins, the catenins, have unique spatiotemporal patterns of expression in the developing olfactory system. To further our understanding of cadherin function within the developing olfactory system, we now report on the localization of 11 classical cadherins-CDH1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 11, 13, and 15. We demonstrate the expression of all but CDH5 and CDH15 in neuronal and/or glial cells in primary olfactory structures. CDH1 and CDH2 are expressed by OSNs; CDH2 expression closely parallels that seen for gamma-catenin in OSN axons. CDH3 and CDH11 are expressed by olfactory ensheathing glia, which surround OSN axons in the outer OB. CDH2, CDH4, and CDH6 are expressed within neuropil. CDH2, CDH4, CDH6, CDH8, CDH10, CDH11, and CDH13 are expressed by projection neurons within the main and accessory OBs. We conclude that cadherin proteins in the developing olfactory system are positioned to underlie the formation of the odorant map and local circuits within the OB.
Neurotrophins and their receptors, the Trks, are differentially expressed among the cell types that make up neuromuscular and other synapses, but the function and directionality of neurotrophin signaling at synapses are poorly understood. Here we demonstrate, via immunostaining, Western blotting, and RT-PCR analyses, that TrkC, the receptor for neurotrophin-3 (NT3), is expressed by mouse perisynaptic and myelinating Schwann cells from birth through adulthood and is unaltered after denervation. Analyses of transgenic mice in which the NT3 coding sequence is replaced by lacZ showed that NT3 is expressed in motor neurons and Schwann cells during perinatal development, but not in adult mice. In muscle, NT3 is expressed by intrafusal muscle fibers within spindles, as has been previously reported. Surprisingly, NT3 is also expressed in extrafusal muscle fibers during perinatal life and in adults. Genetic approaches were used to explore the roles of NT3 and TrkC signaling at neuromuscular synapses. Overexpression of NT3 in muscle fibers during development resulted in an increased number of perisynaptic Schwann cells at neuromuscular synapses, without altering synaptic size, suggesting that muscle-derived NT3 might act as a mitogen or trophic factor for Schwann cells. Conditional deletion of NT3 from motor neurons did not alter the number of Schwann cells or other aspects of neuromuscular synaptic structure, suggesting that motor-neuron-derived NT3 is not required for normal development of perisynaptic Schwann cells or synapses. Together, these results demonstrate that NT3 expression is developmentally regulated in skeletal muscle and may modulate the number of Schwann cells at neuromuscular synapses.
Diabetic neuropathy (DN) is a common severe complication of type 2 diabetes. The symptoms of chronic pain, tingling, and numbness are generally attributed to small fiber dysfunction. However, little is known about the pathology among innervation to distal extremities, where symptoms start earliest and are most severe, and where the innervation density is the highest and includes a wide variety of large fiber sensory endings. Our study assessed the immunochemistry, morphology, and density of the nonvascular innervation in glabrous skin from the hands of aged nondiabetic rhesus monkeys and from age-matched monkeys that had different durations of spontaneously occurring type 2 diabetes. Age-related reductions occurred among all types of innervation, with epidermal C-fiber endings preferentially diminishing earlier than presumptive Adelta-fiber endings. In diabetic monkeys epidermal innervation density diminished faster, became more unevenly distributed, and lost immunodetectable expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide and capsaicin receptors, TrpV1. Pacinian corpuscles also deteriorated. However, during the first few years of hyperglycemia, a surprising hypertrophy occurred among terminal arbors of remaining epidermal endings. Hypertrophy also occurred among Meissner corpuscles and Merkel endings supplied by Abeta fibers. After longer-term hyperglycemia, Meissner corpuscle hypertrophy declined but the number of corpuscles remained higher than in age-matched nondiabetics. However, the diabetic Meissner corpuscles had an abnormal structure and immunochemistry. In contrast, the expanded Merkel innervation was reduced to age-matched nondiabetic levels. These results indicate that transient phases of substantial innervation remodeling occur during the progression of diabetes, with differential increases and decreases occurring among the varieties of innervation.
Mutations in the gene encoding methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) are the primary cause of the neurodevelopmental disorder Rett syndrome (RTT). Mecp2-deficient mice develop a neurological phenotype that recapitulates many of the symptoms of RTT, including postnatal onset of the neurological deficits. MeCP2 has two isoforms, MeCP2e1 and MeCP2e2, with distinct amino termini, which are generated by alternative splicing. We examined the distribution of the Mecp2 splice variants in the postnatal mouse brain by in situ hybridization and found regional and age-related differences in transcript abundance. In newborn mice, signals for total Mecp2 and the Mecp2e2 transcripts were widely distributed, with overlapping expression patterns throughout the brain. Expression of the Mecp2e2 splice variant became largely restricted to nuclei within the dorsal thalamus (DT) and cortical layer V in juvenile animals, a pattern that was maintained into adulthood. In contrast, the total Mecp2 riboprobe only weakly labeled the DT and cortical layer V in juvenile and adult animals, although it heavily labeled surrounding brain regions, suggesting that Mecp2e1 is the predominant transcript outside the thalamus. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to measure Mecp2e1 and Mecp2e2 abundance in the diencephalon of adult mice, demonstrating significantly more Mecp2e2 in the DT than in the hypothalamus, which is in agreement with the Mecp2e2 in situ hybridization. The differential distribution of the Mecp2e1 and Mecp2e2 transcripts indicates regional and developmental regulation of Mecp2 splicing in the postnatal mouse brain.
Visually evoked escape flight initiation in Drosophila, according to the accepted account, involves a rapid extension of the middle legs that propels the fly into the air while the wings are still folded. This description has remained unchallenged and is accounted for in terms of the activation of a simple neural circuit, the Giant fibre (GF) system. The accepted description of escape is however inconsistent with the sequence of events recorded when the GF system is stimulated. Specifically, previous electrophysiological recordings have shown that the wing depressor muscles are activated before the wings are in a position to be depressed because they have not yet been elevated. Here we show that the accepted behavioural description is wrong. Escape flight initiation actually begins with wing elevation. The current model of the GF system is revised to account for the actual sequence of events that occur when a fly escapes.
Individuals of many species experience marked seasonal variation in environmental conditions and must adapt to potentially large fluctuations in energy availability and expenditure. Seasonal changes in immunity have likely evolved as an adaptive mechanism to cope with seasonal stressors. In addition, these changes may be constrained by seasonal fluctuations in energy availability. The goal of this study was to assess the role of energetic trade-offs associated with seasonal variation in immunity. In addition to body fat stores, metabolic fuels (e.g., glucose) may affect immune function in seasonally breeding rodents. In this study we experimentally reduced energy availability via injections of the metabolic inhibitor 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) in long- and short-day housed Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) and then examined antigen-specific antibody production. Metabolic stress decreased antibody response compared with control animals in long days. In contrast, no difference was observed between treatment groups in short days. These data suggest that reductions in energy availability suppress immunity and short days buffer organisms against glucoprivation-induced immunosuppression.
The mechanism of switching activity patterns in a central pattern generator is fundamental to the generation of diverse motor behaviors. Based on what is known about a brainstem substrate mediating the oral components of ingestion and rejection, we use computational techniques to construct a hypothetical multifunctional network that switches between the motor outputs of ingestion (licking) and rejection (gaping). The network was constructed using single-compartment conductance-based models for individual neurons based on Hodgkin-Huxley formalism. Using a fast-slow reduction and geometric analysis we describe a mechanism for pattern switching between licks and gapes. The model supports the hypothesis that a single configuration of network connections can produce both activity patterns. It further predicts that prolonged inhibition of some network neurons could lead to a switch in network activity from licks to gapes.
To explore non-synaptic mechanisms in paroxysmal discharges, we used a computer model of a simplified hippocampal pyramidal cell, surrounded by interstitial space and a &quot;glial-endothelial&quot; buffer system. Ion channels for Na+, K+, Ca2+ and Cl- ion antiport 3Na/Ca, and &quot;active&quot; ion pumps were represented in the neuron membrane. The glia had &quot;leak&quot; conductances and an ion pump. Fluxes, concentration changes and cell swelling were computed. The neuron was stimulated by injecting current. Afterdischarge (AD) followed stimulation if depolarization due to rising interstitial K+ concentration ([K+]o) activated persistent Na+ current (INa.P). AD was either simple or self-regenerating; either regular (tonic) or burst-type (clonic); and always self-limiting. Self-regenerating AD required sufficient INa.P to ensure re-excitation. Burst firing depended on activation of dendritic Ca2+ currents and Ca-dependent K+ current. Varying glial buffer function influenced [K+]o accumulation and afterdischarge duration. Variations in Na+ and K+ currents influenced the threshold and the duration of AD. The data show that high [K+]o and intrinsic membrane currents can produce the feedback of self-regenerating afterdischarges without synaptic input. The simulated discharge resembles neuron behavior during paroxysmal firing in living brain tissue.
Olfactory cues are among the sensory inputs that crayfish use in establishing dominance hierarchies. Throughout their lives, new neurons are continuously added into brain cell clusters 9 and 10, which contain somata of olfactory local and projection interneurons, respectively. Using markers for DNA synthesis (bromodeoxyuridine) and mitosis (phospho-histone-3), we tested juvenile crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) to examine effects of pairwise social experience on proliferation and survival of cells in these brain regions. Proliferating and mitotic cells appeared within restricted neurogenic areas in both clusters and in ;tails' extending from them. These tails, embedded in tubulin-positive strands, are linked by a patch of cells. Neither cell proliferation nor mitotic activity was affected by social dominance. Cell survival of neuronal precursors was affected by dominance: compared to dominants, subordinates had fewer newborn cells surviving in cluster 9 after 14 days of social experience. Social experience also affected body growth rate, but the effect of social experience on neurogenesis remained when differences in body growth rate were statistically controlled. We conclude that social domination enhances survival of new olfactory interneuronal precursors compared to social subordination but not compared to social isolation.
Lobsters (Homarus americanus) in the wild inhabit ocean waters where temperature can vary over a broad range (0-25 degrees C). To examine how environmental thermal variability might affect lobster physiology, we examine the effects of temperature and thermal change on the acid-base status of the lobster hemolymph. Total CO(2), pH, P(CO)2 and HCO(-)(3) were measured in hemolymph sampled from lobsters acclimated to temperature in the laboratory as well as from lobsters acclimated to seasonal temperatures in the wild. Our results demonstrate that the change in hemolymph pH as a function of temperature follows the rule of constant relative alkalinity in lobsters acclimated to temperature over a period of weeks. However, thermal change can alter lobster acid-base status over a time course of minutes. Acute increases in temperature trigger a respiratory compensated metabolic acidosis of the hemolymph. Both the strength and frequency of the lobster heartbeat in vitro are modulated by changes in pH within the physiological range measured in vivo. These observations suggest that changes in acid-base status triggered by thermal variations in the environment might modulate lobster cardiac performance in vivo.
Posterior scleritis is a rare cause of ocular pain, due to scleral inflammation, presenting with periocular pain, pain on movement and decreased vision. Although anterior scleritis may be associated with this condition, ocular signs may be absent. We report a case of posterior scleritis, presenting with right-sided ocular and periocular pain, exacerbated by ocular movements, irradiating to the ipsilateral temple and zygoma, not associated with visual disturbances at onset. Diagnosis was made with ultrasonography and confirmed by brain and orbital MRI. Differential diagnosis of facial pain, in particular, affecting the periorbital region, is discussed. In the presence of ocular pain, even in the absence of ocular signs, an ophthalmologic consultation should be performed.
Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) is an essential cofactor for all isoforms of nitric oxide synthase. While it is well established that BH4 deficiency states are associated with impairment of dopamine, serotonin and phenylalanine metabolism, less is known with regard to the effects of deficiency of the cofactor upon nitric oxide (NO) metabolism. In this study, we have evaluated the effects of partial BH4 deficiency upon (a) tissue availability of the antioxidant glutathione, (b) basal NO production and (c) NO generation following exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which is known to increase expression of the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase. Using the hph-1 mouse, which displays a partial BH4 deficiency owing to impaired activity of GTP cyclohydrolase, we report decreased levels of glutathione in brain and kidney and evidence for decreased basal generation of nitric oxide in the periphery (as judged by the plasma nitrate plus nitrite concentration). Following LPS administration, peripheral NO generation increases. However, the concentration of plasma nitrate plus nitrite achieved was significantly decreased in the hph-1 mouse. Furthermore, LPS administration caused loss of glutathione in both wild-type and hph-1 liver and kidney. It is concluded that cofactor replacement, sufficient to fully correct a cellular BH4 deficiency, may be of benefit to patients with inborn errors of BH4 metabolism.


The identification of the Wlds gene that delays axonal degeneration in several models of neurodegenerative disease provides an interesting tool to study mechanisms of axonal loss. We showed that crossing a mouse mutant with a motoneuron disease (pmn for progressive motor neuronopathy) with mice that express the Wlds gene delayed axonal loss, increased the life span, partially rescued axonal transport deficit and prolonged the survival of the motoneuron cell bodies. To determine factors involved in the neuroprotective effect of Wlds, we combined laser capture microdissection and microarray analysis to identify genes that are differentially regulated at a pre-symptomatic age in motoneuron cell bodies in pmn/pmn,Wlds/Wlds mice as compared with pmn/pmn mice. Only 56 genes were de-regulated; none of the 'classical' genes implicated in apoptosis were de-regulated. Interestingly, a large proportion of these genes are related to axonal function and to retrograde and anterograde transport (i.e. members of the dynactin complex and kinesin family). These results were confirmed by real-time PCR, in situ hybridization and at protein level in sciatic nerves. Thus, genes related to axonal function and in particular to axonal transport may be involved at an early stage in the neuroprotective property of the Wlds gene and confirm the importance of axonal involvement in this model of motor neuron disease.
High glucose concentrations cause oxidative injury and programmed cell death in neurons, and can lead to diabetic neuropathy. Activating the type 3 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR3) prevents glucose-induced oxidative injury in dorsal root ganglion neurons co-cultured with Schwann cells. To determine the mechanisms of protection, studies were performed in rat dorsal root ganglion neuron-Schwann cell co-cultures. The mGluR3 agonist 2R,4R-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate prevented glucose-induced inner mitochondrial membrane depolarization, reactive oxygen species accumulation, and programmed cell death, and increased glutathione (GSH) concentration in co-cultured neurons and Schwann cells, but not in neurons cultured without Schwann cells. Protection was diminished in neurons treated with the GSH synthesis inhibitor l-buthionine-sulfoximine, suggesting that mGluR-mediated protection requires GSH synthesis. GSH precursors and the GSH precursor GSH-ethyl ester also protected neurons from glucose-induced injury, indicating that GSH synthesis in Schwann cells, and transport of reaction precursors to neurons, may underlie mGluR-mediated neuroprotection. These results support the conclusions that activating glial mGluR3 protects neurons from glucose-induced oxidative injury by increasing free radical scavenging and stabilizing mitochondrial function, through increased GSH antioxidant defense.
The growing use of N-acetylaspartate as an indicator of neuronal viability has fostered interest in the biological function(s) of this unusual amino acid derivative. In considering the various physiological roles that have been proposed for this relatively abundant molecule one is obliged to take into account its unusual metabolic compartmentalization, according to which synthesis and storage occur in the neuron and hydrolytic cleavage in the oligodendrocyte. The latter reaction, catalyzed by aspartoacylase (ASPA), produces acetyl groups plus aspartate and has been proposed to occur in both soluble and membranous subfractions of white matter. Our study supports such bimodal occurrence and we now present immunoblot, proteomic, and biochemical evidence that the membrane-bound form of ASPA is intrinsic to purified myelin membranes. This was supported by a novel TLC-based method for the assay of ASPA. That observation, together with previous demonstrations of numerous lipid-synthesizing enzymes in myelin, suggests utilization of acetyl groups liberated by myelin-localized ASPA for lipid synthesis within the myelin sheath. Such synthesis might be selective and could explain the deficit of myelin lipids in animals lacking ASPA.
The relationship between an initial mechanical event causing brain tissue deformation and delayed neurodegeneration in vivo is complex because of the multiplicity of factors involved. We have used a simplified brain surrogate based on rat hippocampal slices grown on deformable silicone membranes to study stretch-induced traumatic brain injury. Traumatic injury was induced by stretching the culture substrate, and the biological response characterized after 4 days. Morphological abnormalities consistent with traumatic injury in humans were widely observed in injured cultures. Synaptic function was significantly reduced after a severe injury. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 attenuated neuronal damage, prevented loss of microtubule-associated protein 2 immunoreactivity and attenuated reduction of synaptic function. In contrast, the NMDA receptor antagonists 3-[(R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) and GYKI53655, were neuroprotective in a moderate but not a severe injury paradigm. Nifedipine, an L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel antagonist was protective only after a moderate injury, whereas omega-conotoxin attenuated damage following severe injury. These results indicate that the mechanism of damage following stretch injury is complex and varies depending on the severity of the insult. In conclusion, the pharmacological, morphological and electrophysiological responses of organotypic hippocampal slice cultures to stretch injury were similar to those observed in vivo. Our model provides an alternative to animal testing for understanding the mechanisms of post-traumatic delayed cell death and could be used as a high-content screen to discover neuroprotective compounds before advancing to in vivo models.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) formed by brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMVEC) regulates the passage of molecules and leukocytes in and out of the brain. Oxidative stress is a major underlying cause of neurodegenerative and neuroinflammatory disorders and BBB injury associated with them. Using human BMVEC grown on porous membranes covered with basement membrane (BM) matrix (BBB models), we demonstrated that reactive oxygen species (ROS) augmented permeability and monocyte migration across BBB. ROS activated matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-1, -2, and -9) and decreased tissue inhibitors of MMPs (TIMP-1 and -2) in a protein tyrosine kinase (PTK)-dependent manner. Increase in MMPs and PTK activities paralleled degradation of BM protein and enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of tight junction (TJ) protein. These effects and enhanced permeability/monocyte migration were prevented by inhibitors of MMPs, PTKs, or antioxidant suggesting that oxidative stress caused BBB injury via degradation of BM protein by activated MMPs and by PTK-mediated TJ protein phosphorylation. These findings point to new therapeutic interventions ameliorating BBB dysfunction in neurological disorders such as stroke or neuroinflammation.
In addition to its well-known activational mechanism, the steroid hormone 17-beta-estradiol (E2) has been shown to rapidly activate various signal transduction pathways that could participate in estrogen-mediated regulation of synaptic plasticity. Although the mechanisms underlying these effects are not clearly understood, it has been repeatedly suggested that they involve a plasma membrane receptor which has direct links to several intracellular signaling cascades. To further address the question of whether E2 acts directly at the synapse and through membrane-bound receptors, we studied the effects of E2 and of ligands of estrogen receptors on various signaling pathways in cortical synaptoneurosomes. Our results demonstrate that E2 elicits N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor phosphorylation and activates the extracellular signal-regulated kinase and the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt signal transduction pathways in this cortical membrane preparation. Furthermore, we provide evidence for the presence of a membrane-bound estrogen receptor responsible for these effects in cortical synaptoneurosomes. Our study demonstrates that E2 directly acts at cortical synapses, and that synaptoneurosomes provide a useful system to investigate the mechanisms by which E2 regulates synaptic transmission and plasticity.
In immature neurones, high basal [Cl(-)](i) results in membrane depolarisation following GABA(A) receptor activation, which is critical for various developmental processes including steroid-mediated sexual differentiation of the hypothalamus. Previously, we demonstrated that oestradiol enhances GABA-mediated Ca(2+) influx in neonate hypothalamus and that Ca(2+) induced activation of the transcription factor, cyclicAMP response element binding protein (CREB), was higher in male (high oestradiol) relative to female neonate hypothalamus. Based on these results, we hypothesised that expression of developmentally regulated chloride cotransporters may be sexually dimorphic. Here, we investigate the expression of the chloride cotransporters, NKCC1 (Na-K-2Cl(-)) and KCC2 (K-Cl(-)) in neonate mediobasal hypothalamus of male and female rats. The NKCC1 transporter moves Cl(-) into cells and helps maintain depolarising GABA action while the KCC2 transporter has the opposite effect by moving Cl(-) out of cells. NKCC1 mRNA levels were higher in males than females on the day of birth (postnatal day 0; PND 0) and total NKCC1 protein levels were significantly higher in males than females on embryonic day (ED) 20 and PND0. Levels of activated phosphorylated NKCC1 (pNKCC1) were not sexually dimorphic. Females were treated with a masculinising dose of oestradiol benzoate (EB; 100 microg; EB-females) on PND0. Total NKCC1 protein levels in tissue processed on PND1 and PND2 were similar in EB-females and oil-treated PND0 males and females. However, pNKCC1 protein levels measured on PND2 (but not PND1) were significantly higher in EB-treated females relative to oil-treated males and females. By contrast, KCC2 mRNA levels were significantly lower in males relative to females on PND0. KCC2 protein was not detectable on ED20 or PND0 but was significantly lower in males relative to females on PND5. These results suggest a complex relationship between KCC2 and NKCC1 mRNA and protein in developing brain that is not easily linked to regulation by oestradiol.
Oestradiol and progesterone act in the brain to elicit profound effects on behaviour and physiology. One physiological function of oestradiol is the induction of progesterone receptor (PR) expression in a variety of behaviourally relevant brain regions, including the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN), the medial preoptic nucleus of the preoptic area (MPOA), the arcuate nucleus (ARC) and the medial central grey (MCG). Ligand-dependent transcriptional activity of steroid receptors, including oestrogen receptors (ER) and Pr, is dramatically influenced by nuclear receptor coactivators. In previous studies, we have found that two of these nuclear receptor coactivators, steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1) and CREB-binding protein (CBP), are important in ER-mediated induction of PR in the VMN and in steroid-dependent behaviours. For nuclear receptor coactivators to function in hormone-dependent transcription in the brain and regulate behaviour, both receptor and coactivator must be expressed in the same cell. In the present study, we used a dual-label immunohistochemical technique to investigate if individual cells in behaviourally relevant brain regions coexpress nuclear receptor coactivators and steroid receptors. Confocal analysis revealed that in oestrogen-primed rats, most of the E-induced PR cells in the VMN (89.6%), MPOA (63%), ARC (82.6%), and many in the MCG (39%), also express SRC-1. In addition, the majority of the cells containing E-induced PR in the VMN (78.3%), MPOA (83.1%), ARC (83.6%), and MCG (60%) also express CBP. These results, taken together with the findings that virtually all oestradiol-induced PR containing cells in the brain express ER, suggest that these neurones represent sites of functional interaction of nuclear receptor coactivators with ovarian steroid receptors in the brain. The present findings provide neuroanatomical evidence that nuclear receptor coactivators are integral in mediating steroid hormone action in behaviourally relevant brain regions.

Although the central nervous system (CNS) is thought to be immunoprivileged, under special circumstances it can produce antibody. Antibody production within the CNS, called intrathecal antibody production (ITAbP), is a prominent feature of neurological infections and inflammatory diseases, and is thought to possibly contribute to disease in multiple sclerosis (MS), but it has not been extensively studied. We investigated ITAbP in a viral model of MS. ELISpot, real-time RT-PCR for IgG mRNA in CNS tissue, and CSF analysis were used to assess ITAbP in two types of SJL mice infected with one of two strains of Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV). The amplitude of ITAbP increased during the first 4 months of infection. TMEV viral load remained high during the course of the infection, which likely was the main stimulus for ITAbP, since within samples of infected CNS tissues, levels of IgG gene expression were highly correlated with viral RNA levels, and a large percentage of intrathecally produced antibody was directed against TMEV. This study provides the first extensive analysis of ITAbP in TMEV infection, and demonstrates that, in this animal model of MS, antibody production within the CNS is likely driven by the presence of the causative pathogen.
A proportion of patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) do not have antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor (AChR). Some of these patients have antibodies to muscle specific kinase (MuSK), whereas others have neither antibody (seronegative MG, SNMG). Both MuSK antibody positive MG (MuSK-MG) and SNMG are antibody-mediated diseases but how they cause neuromuscular junction failure is not clear. One possibility is that they reduce the clustering and expression of AChRs. We looked at the effects of MuSK-MG and SNMG sera/IgG on surface AChR distribution and expression, and AChR subunit and MuSK mRNA by quantitative RT-PCR, in TE671 and C2C12 myotubes. In TE671 cells MuSK-MG sera reduced AChR expression by about 20%, but had no effect on AChR subunit or MuSK mRNA expression. In C2C12 myotubes, MuSK-MG sera caused a reduction in the number of agrin-induced clusters, but the clusters became larger and there was no significant effect on total surface AChR numbers or AChR subunit or MuSK mRNA. By contrast, SNMG sera not only reduced AChR numbers by about 20% in TE671 cells, but modestly upregulated AChR gamma subunit expression in TE671 cells and both AChR gamma subunit and MuSK expression in C2C12 myotubes. Thus, although these results have, disappointingly, demonstrated little effect of MuSK antibodies on AChR expression, they do imply that SNMG antibodies act on AChR-associated pathways.
Blood-brain barrier (BBB) compromise and transendothelial migration of HIV-infected leukocytes into the central nervous system (CNS) underlies the neuropathogenesis of HIV-1 infection. How this occurs is incompletely understood. We used a proteomic platform integrating difference gel electrophoresis and tandem mass spectrometry peptide sequencing to determine the effects that HIV-1-infected macrophages have on human brain microvascular endothelial cell (HBMEC) protein profiles. HIV-1 infected monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) induced the upregulation of over 200 HBMEC proteins. These included metabolic, voltage-gated ion channels, heat shock, transport, cytoskeletal, regulatory, and calcium binding proteins. Results were validated by Western blot analysis. We conclude that HIV-1-infected MDM affect the HBMEC proteome and, in this way, affect BBB dysfunction and the development of HIV-1 CNS disease.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS), is mediated by autoantigen-specific T-helper1 (Th1) cells. IL-12, an inducer of Th1 cell development, exerts immunomodulatory effects in EAE. Programmed death-1 (PD-1) and PD-1 ligand (PD-L), new members of the B7 superfamily of costimulatory molecules, play a critical role in regulating EAE. Whether the interaction of IL-12 and the PD-1/PD-L pathway regulates EAE is unclear. We have previously shown that IL-12 suppresses EAE induced by MOG35-55 in C57BL/6 mice, but not in IFN-gamma-deficient mice, suggesting that IFN-gamma is required for the inhibitory effects of IL-12 on EAE. In the current study, PD-L1 expression is up-regulated following IL-12 treatment in wild-type mice, but not in IFN-(-deficient EAE mice. Similarly, IL-12 induces IFN-gamma and PD-L1 expression in cultured MOG-specific T cells from wild-type mice but not from IFN-gamma-deficient mice. Furthermore, PD-L1 expression increased specifically in CD11b+ antigen presenting cells (APCs) after IL-12 administration. These data suggest that one mechanism of IL-12 suppression of EAE is mediated by PD-1/PD-L signaling downstream of IFN-gamma induction in CD11b+ APCs. The regulation of PD-1/PD-L1 may have potential therapeutic effects for EAE and MS.

Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an important demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, the aetiology of which may possibly have a viral component at some stage. In this study we investigated the possible involvement in MS of the human herpes virus Epstein Barr Virus (EBV). Utilising both fluorescent and non-fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) techniques, we examined human post mortem tissues obtained from a tissue bank for the presence of immediate early and late viral gene and protein expression in MS patient normal appearing white matter (NAWM), lesional tissue and normal control brain samples. The technique of mRNA FISH showed that many of the tissues were largely degraded and therefore could not provide any evidence of viral gene expression. Some weak scattered signals, however, were seen in mRNA ISH for both lytic and latent gene transcription in all three tissue categories. The failure of IF and mRNA FISH in the majority of samples alongside the poor signal for mRNA ISH precluded any definite conclusions to be made as to the possible ongoing involvement of EBV in MS. While certainly not ruling out a possible role of EBV in MS, especially in the context of a 'hit and run' mechanism, these studies illustrate the difficulties of using autopsy tissues for molecular studies when tissue preservation is sub-optimal. Nevertheless, the limited data obtained did not provide any positive evidence of EBV involvement.
Mirror writing (MW) refers to the production of individual letters or whole word strings in reversed direction. When held to a mirror, these letters or words can be read normally. We observed MW in a considerable number of stroke patients. Of the 86 patients screened 15 (17.5%) showed at least one instance of mirror writing in any of the tasks. Both right (14% of 36 patients) and left (20% of 50 patients) hemisphere damaged patients produced reversed letters only when writing with their left hand, respectively the contralesional and ipsilesional hand. The dissociated performance between the two hands in brain damaged patients is relevant to the interpretation of MW because, unlike all other peripheral dysgraphias, MW affects the non-dominant hand only. Importantly, healthy elderly also showed MW solely when writing with their left hand (6.9% of 86 participants). MW in controls was less frequent but qualitatively similar to that observed in brain damaged patients. This finding is consistent with the motor interpretation of MW that assumes an inability to transform the stored letter forming programmes for left hand writing. However, several cases have been reported in the literature of a more pervasive form of MW whereby patients mirror reverse entire words or sentences. This pattern has been observed in children learning to write but it has never been observed in healthy adult volunteers. We propose that the diagnosis of MW should be limited to the reversal of whole words, multi-digit numbers and full sentences, which reveal a disorder in coding the correct direction of writing rather than an inability to accomplish the correct spatial orientation of single letters.
No clinical data have yet been presented to show that a lesion localized to the primary motor area (M1) can cause severe transient impairment of articulation, although a motor representation for articulation has been suggested to exist within M1. Here we describe three cases of patients who developed severe dysarthria, temporarily mimicking speech arrest or aphemia, due to a localized brain lesion near the left face representation of the human primary motor cortex (face-M1). Speech was slow, effortful, lacking normal prosody, and more affected than expected from the degree of facial or tongue palsy. There was a mild deficit in tongue movements in the sagittal plane that impaired palatolingual contact and rapid tongue movements. The speech disturbance was limited to verbal output, without aphasia or orofacial apraxia. Overlay of magnetic resonance images revealed a localized cortical region near face-M1, which displayed high intensity on diffusion weighted images, while the main portion of the corticobulbar fibers arising from the lower third of the motor cortex was preserved. The cases suggest the existence of a localized brain region specialized for articulation near face-M1. Cortico-cortical fibers connecting face-M1 with the lower premotor areas including Broca's area may also be important for articulatory control.
A case of pathologically confirmed progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy presenting with unilateral parkinsonism and cognitive decline that significantly improved over a 12-month period without any treatment is described. The patient had a background of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, but had been in complete remission for 4 years at the time of diagnosis. This case is highly unusual not only in terms of the mode of clinical presentation in an apparently immunocompetent patient but also in that the patient spontaneously improved without any intervention. Progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy should therefore be considered in the differential diagnosis of movement disorders developing in patients with a history of lymphoproliferative disease, even if they are in remission. Furthermore, such cases may not always require treatment, as the patient's immune system may overcome the viral disease process with spontaneous resolution of their neurological disorder.



In Aplysia, mutually antagonistic ingestive and egestive behaviors are produced by the same multifunctional central pattern generator (CPG) circuit. Interestingly, higher-order inputs that activate the CPG do not directly specify whether the resulting motor program is ingestive or egestive because the slow dynamics of the network intervene. One input, the commandlike cerebral-buccal interneuron 2 (CBI-2), slowly drives the motor output toward ingestion, whereas another input, the esophageal nerve (EN), drives the motor output toward egestion. When the input is switched from EN to CBI-2, the motor output does not switch immediately and remains egestive. Here, we investigated how these slow dynamics are implemented on the interneuronal level. We found that activity of two CPG interneurons, B20 and B40, tracked the motor output regardless of the input, whereas activity of another CPG interneuron, B65, tracked the input regardless of the motor output. Furthermore, we show that the slow dynamics of the network are implemented, at least in part, in the slow dynamics of the interaction between the input-representing and the output-representing neurons. We conclude that 1) a population of CPG interneurons, recruited during a particular motor program, simultaneously encodes both the input that is used to elicit the motor program and the output elicited by this input; and 2) activity of the input-representing neurons may serve to bias the future motor programs.
The intrinsic function of the brain stem-spinal cord networks eliciting the locomotor synergy is well described in the lamprey-a vertebrate model system. This study addresses the role of tectum in integrating eye, body orientation, and locomotor movements as in steering and goal-directed behavior. Electrical stimuli were applied to different areas within the optic tectum in head-restrained semi-intact lampreys (n = 40). Motions of the eyes and body were recorded simultaneously (videotaped). Brief pulse trains (&lt;0.5 s) elicited only eye movements, but with longer stimuli (&gt;0.5 s) lateral bending movements of the body (orientation movements) were added, and with even longer stimuli locomotor movements were initiated. Depending on the tectal area stimulated, four characteristic response patterns were observed. In a lateral area conjugate horizontal eye movements combined with lateral bending movements of the body and locomotor movements were elicited, depending on stimulus duration. The amplitude of the eye movement and bending movements was site specific within this region. In a rostromedial area, bilateral downward vertical eye movements occurred. In a caudomedial tectal area, large-amplitude undulatory body movements akin to struggling behavior were elicited, combined with large-amplitude eye movements that were antiphasic to the body movements. The alternating eye movements were not dependent on vestibuloocular reflexes. Finally, in a caudolateral area locomotor movements without eye or bending movements could be elicited. These results show that tectum can provide integrated motor responses of eye, body orientation, and locomotion of the type that would be required in goal-directed locomotion.
Recordings were made from small and medium diameter dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons that expressed transient receptor potential (TRP) proteins. Physiologically characterized skin nociceptors expressed either TRPV1 (type 2) or TRPV2 (type 4) in isolation. Other nociceptors co-expressed both TRP proteins and innervated deep tissue sites (gastrocnemius muscle, distal colon; type 5, type 8) and skin (type 8). Subpopulations of myelinated (type 8) and unmyelinated (type 5) nociceptors co-expressed both TRPs. Cells that expressed TRPV1 were excellent transducers of intense heat. Proportional inward currents were obtained from a threshold of approximately 46.5 to approximately 56 degrees C. In contrast, cells expressing TRPV2 alone (52 degrees C threshold) did not reliably transduce the intensity of thermal events. Studies were undertaken to assess the capacity of skin and deep nociceptors to exhibit sensitization to repeated intense thermal stimuli [heat-heat sensitization (HHS)]. Only nociceptors that expressed TRPV2, alone or in combination with TRPV1, exhibited HHS. HHS was shown to be Ca(2+) dependent in either case. Intracellular Ca(2+) dependent pathways to HHS varied with the pattern of TRP protein expression. Cells co-expressing both TRPs modulated heat reactivity through serine/threonine phosphorylation or PLA(2)-dependent pathways. Cells expressing only TRPV2 may have relied on tyrosine kinases for HHS. We conclude that heat sensitization in deep and superficial capsaicin and capsaicin-insensitive C and Adelta nociceptors varies with the distribution of TRPV1 and TRPV2 proteins. The expression pattern of these proteins are specific to subclasses of physiologically identified C and A fiber nociceptors with highly restricted tissue targets.
In this paper, we demonstrate that when a peripheral object is foveated by a sequence of multiple saccades, the initial saccade in the sequence is initiated markedly faster than a single accurate saccade to the same object. We suggest that multiple saccades represent a more automatic form of oculomotor planning that may be the result of a reduced influence from the cerebral cortex. To test this, we compared single and multiple saccade characteristics across development. We find that in contrast to the reduction in the latency of single saccades that is observed across development, the latency of initial saccades in multiple saccade sequences is remarkably stable across all age groups. Moreover, the longer the latency of this initial saccade, the more accurate it is, suggesting that there is a relation between the degree of procrastination and the accuracy of the response. Finally, the frequency with which multiple saccades occurred within each age group was positively correlated with the tendency to generate erroneous saccades during a fixation control task. Taken together, the present data suggest that multiple saccades are generated in a more automatic manner than single saccades.
The present study examined neural activity in the shoulder/elbow region of primary motor cortex (M1) during a whole-limb postural task. By selectively imposing torques at the shoulder, elbow, or both joints we addressed how neurons represent changes in torque at a single joint, multiple joints, and their interrelation. We observed that similar proportions of neurons reflected changes in torque at the shoulder, elbow, and both joints and these neurons were highly intermingled across the cortical surface. Most torque-related neurons were reciprocally excited and inhibited (relative to their unloaded baseline activity) by opposing flexor and extensor torques at a single joint. Although coexcitation/coinhibition was occasionally observed at a single joint, it was rarely observed at both joints. A second analysis assessed the relationship between single-joint and multijoint activity. In contrast to our previous observations, we found that neither linear nor vector summation of single-joint activities could capture the breadth of neural responses to multijoint torques. Finally, we studied the neurons' directional tuning across all the torque conditions, i.e., in joint-torque space. Our population of M1 neurons exhibited a strong bimodal distribution of preferred-torque directions (PTDs) that was biased toward shoulder-extensor/elbow-flexor (whole-limb flexor) and shoulder-flexor/elbow-extensor (whole-limb extensor) torques. Notably, we recently observed a similar bimodal distribution of PTDs in a sample of proximal arm muscles. This observation illustrates the intimate relationship between M1 and the motor periphery.
N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) play a critical role in transducing neuronal activity patterns into changes in synaptic strength. However, how they mediate this transduction in response to physiological stimuli has remained elusive. In particular, it has been debated whether different NMDAR subtypes play opposing signaling roles in synaptic plasticity. Using perforated patch-clamp recordings from pairs of synaptically connected glutamatergic neurons in dissociated hippocampal culture, we found that spike-timing-dependent potentiation induced by pairing pre- and postsynaptic spikes required the activation of a fast component of NMDAR current that is likely to be mediated by NR2A-containing NMDARs (NR2A-NRs). In contrast, spike-timing-dependent depression required a slow component of NMDAR current carried by NR2B-containing NMDARs (NR2B-NRs). CV analysis showed that the locus of this depression was primarily presynaptic in pairs of cells making strong synaptic connections, whereas weaker synapses showed no clear preference for pre- or postsynaptic expression. This depression was not significantly reduced by antagonism of the CB1 receptor, in contrast to spike-timing-dependent depression in the neocortex that requires presynaptic CB1 signaling. With blockade of NR2B-NRs, spike triplets that contained both potentiating and depressing spike-timing components induced net potentiation. However, when the putative NR2A-NR population is inhibited, these spike triplets resulted in either depression or no net change, depending on the temporal order of the spike-timing components. These results imply a dynamic competition between signaling modules that can be biased by differentially antagonizing NMDAR subtypes during the induction of spike-timing-dependent plasticity. Using a simple model, we show that such a modular competition recapitulates our observations.
In the Aplysia mechanoafferent B21, afferent transmission is in part regulated via the control of active spike propagation. When B21 is peripherally activated at its resting membrane potential, spikes fail to propagate to an output process, and afferent transmission does not occur. In this report, we show that the propagation failure is in part a result of the fact that the somatic region of B21 is relatively inexcitable. We isolate this region and demonstrate that net currents evoked by depolarizing pulses are outward. Furthermore, we show that all-or-none spikes are not triggered when current is injected. Previous reports have, however shown that spiking is triggered when current is somatically injected and cells are intact. We demonstrate that spikes evoked under these circumstances do not originate in the soma. Instead they originate in an adjacent part of the neuron that is excitable (the medial process). In summary, we show that the mechanoafferent B21 consists of excitable input and output processes separated by a relatively inexcitable somatic region. A potential advantage of this arrangement is that somatic depolarization can be used to modify spike propagation from the input to the output processes without altering the encoding of peripherally generated activity.
SubCoeruleus (SubC) neurons, which are thought to modulate rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep, were recorded in brain stem slices from 7- to 20-day rats and found to manifest spikelets, indicative of electrical coupling. Spikelets occurred spontaneously or could be induced by superfusion of the cholinergic agonist carbachol. Whole cell recordings revealed that carbachol induced membrane oscillations and spikelets in the theta frequency range in SubC neurons in the presence of fast synaptic blockers. Electrical coupling in neurons is mediated by the gap junction protein connexin 36 (Cx 36). We found that Cx 36 gene expression and protein in the mesopontine tegmentum decreased during development. Cx 36 protein levels specifically in the SubC decreased in concert with the developmental decrease in REM sleep. The presence of electrical coupling in the SubC introduces a novel potential mechanism of action for the regulation of sleep-wake states.
The sensorimotor calibration of visually guided reaching changes on a trial-to-trial basis in response to random shifts in the visual feedback of the hand. We show that a simple linear dynamical system is sufficient to model the dynamics of this adaptive process. In this model, an internal variable represents the current state of sensorimotor calibration. Changes in this state are driven by error feedback signals, which consist of the visually perceived reach error, the artificial shift in visual feedback, or both. Subjects correct for &gt; or =20% of the error observed on each movement, despite being unaware of the visual shift. The state of adaptation is also driven by internal dynamics, consisting of a decay back to a baseline state and a &quot;state noise&quot; process. State noise includes any source of variability that directly affects the state of adaptation, such as variability in sensory feedback processing, the computations that drive learning, or the maintenance of the state. This noise is accumulated in the state across trials, creating temporal correlations in the sequence of reach errors. These correlations allow us to distinguish state noise from sensorimotor performance noise, which arises independently on each trial from random fluctuations in the sensorimotor pathway. We show that these two noise sources contribute comparably to the overall magnitude of movement variability. Finally, the dynamics of adaptation measured with random feedback shifts generalizes to the case of constant feedback shifts, allowing for a direct comparison of our results with more traditional blocked-exposure experiments.
The authors investigated the effect of diazepam on clinically relevant measures from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) examinations. Twenty volunteers were scanned twice. Using a double-blind randomized study design, the volunteers received placebo on one occasion, and on the other, 5 mg of diazepam. Three functional tests were used: motor, word generation, and working memory. Images were analyzed individually for each subject and the number of activated voxels and the laterality index were calculated. No significant effects related to the drug were detected. In contrast, the motor and working memory tasks showed a significant decrease in the number of activated voxels between Sessions 1 and 2, independently of diazepam administration. These results indicate that diazepam may be administered for premedication prior to fMRI investigations.
The effects of inadequate thyroid hormone availability to the brain on adult cognitive function are poorly understood. This study assessed the effects of hypothyroidism on cognitive function using a standard neuropsychological battery in 14 patients suffering from untreated hypothyroidism and complaining of subjective cognitive difficulties in comparison with 10 age-matched healthy comparison subjects. Significant differences between groups were limited to verbal memory retrieval as measured by the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT). On short delay free recall, long delay free recall, and long delay cued recall, significant differences remained between groups despite the limited statistical power of this study. There were no significant results found between groups on attentional or nonverbal tasks. Results suggest that hypothyroid-related memory deficits are not attributable to an attentional deficit but rather to specific retrieval deficits.
Psychiatric disorders frequently complicate recovery and rehabilitation from traumatic brain injury (TBI). This study reviews the literature from 1978 to 2006 on psychosis, depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, mania, and aggression following nonpenetrating TBI. The studies were reviewed using the American Academy of Neurology's criteria for classification of articles on diagnostic methods. No studies were found to be Class I or II. Of the 66 studies reviewed, the majority were Class IV. There are significant gaps in the literature on post-TBI psychiatric conditions with respect to nosology, epidemiology, and risk factors. Larger multicenter prospective studies using standardized diagnostic instruments are needed to further clarify the nosology, risk factors, and clinical course of these disorders. Specific directions for research are provided.
Understanding hippocampal participation in memory processes is one of the goals in neuroscience research. By blocking the hippocampus unilaterally in Wistar rats, we assessed the contribution of this brain structure to memory in a passive avoidance task. Subjects were distributed into four groups. Group 1 received tetrodotoxin (TTX) in the right hippocampus during acquisition and retrieval phases. Group 2 had the same procedure as group 1, except that the contralateral hippocampus was blocked during retrieval. Subjects from group 3 acquired the task with saline (both hippocampi intact) and retrieved with the right hippocampus inactivated. Finally, group 4 received TTX unilaterally 2 min after acquisition to determine the hippocampal role in consolidation. Results showed that group 2 was impaired, compared with the other groups, during retrieval. These findings reveal that the hippocampal contribution to this task differs from that in other tasks considered to be hippocampus dependent.
Oxidative DNA lesions, such as 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG), accumulate in nuclear and mitochondrial genomes during aging, and such accumulation can increase dramatically in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). To counteract oxidative damage to nucleic acids, human and rodents are equipped with three distinct enzymes. One of these, MTH1, hydrolyzes oxidized purine nucleoside triphosphates, such as 8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine triphosphate and 2-hydroxy-2'-deoxyadenosine triphosphate, to their monophosphate forms. The other two enzymes are 8-oxoG DNA glycosylase encoded by the OGG1 gene and adenine/2-hydroxyadenine DNA glycosylase encoded by the MUTYH gene. We have shown a significant increase in 8-oxoG in mitochondrial DNA as well as an elevated expression of MTH1, OGG1, and MUTYH in nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons of PD patients, suggesting that the buildup of these lesions may cause dopamine neuron loss. We established MTH1-null mice and found that MTH1-null fibroblasts were highly susceptible to cell death caused by H(2)O(2) characterized by pyknosis and electron-dense deposits in the mitochondria, and that this was accompanied by an ongoing accumulation of 8-oxoG in nuclear and mitochondrial DNA. We also showed that MTH1-null mice exhibited an increased accumulation of 8-oxoG in striatal mitochondrial DNA, followed by more extreme neuronal dysfunction after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine administration than that of wild-type mice. In conclusion, oxidative damage in nucleic acids is likely to be a major risk factor for Parkinson's disease, indicating that a solid understanding of the defense mechanisms involved will enable us to develop new strategies for protecting the brain against oxidative stress.
Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) has been used to monitor regional cerebral oxygen saturation (rSO2) in patients at risk of cerebral desaturation during surgical and neurointerventional procedures. However, the quantitative capabilities of the method have been questioned, as has its validation compared with jugular bulb oximetry. Here, we compare NIRS data acquired during coil embolization procedures with incidence of vasospasm as detected from angiography. Thirty-two subarachnoid hemorrhage patients underwent embolization. Bilateral SomaSensor strips (Invos 4100, Somanetics) were affixed to the forehead at constant anatomic positions, avoiding frontal sinuses and scalp hair. Mean arterial pressure, SaO2, end-tidal pCO2, temperature and Hb were held within a narrow range during the procedure. Ipsilateral angiography was performed every 10 to 15 minutes. An independent neuroradiologist classified any vasospasm in the parent vessel as mild (25% baseline), moderate (50%), severe (75%), or total (100%). Of all, 15/32 (46.9%) patients developed spasm; in 2 it was severe or total. There was no significant association between World Federation of Neurological Surgeons grade and baseline rSO2 signal (either ipsilateral or contralateral to the side of the aneurysm) (P=0.598). There was no significant association between side of aneurysm and baseline rSO2 signal (P=0.243). However, episodes of angiographic spasm were strongly associated with reduction in trend ipsilateral NIRS signal (P&lt;0.001); furthermore, the degree of spasm (especially more than 75% vessel diameter reduction) was associated with a greater reduction in same-side NIRS signal (P&lt;0.001) (2-level random effects regression model, Stata 8.2, Stata Corp, TX). NIRS may have a useful role to play in the detection of cerebral desaturation secondary to vasospasm during neuroendovascular procedures.
Minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) has been traditionally used to measure the potency of an inhalational anesthetic agent. Recently, bispectral index (BIS) derived from the frontal cortical electroencephalogram has been used frequently for quantifying the hypnotic component of anesthesia. The present study was designed to examine the BIS values produced by equi-MAC concentrations of halothane and isoflurane. In 34 patients undergoing spinal surgery, BIS and spectral edge frequency (SEF95) were recorded at 3 different concentrations of halothane and isoflurane--namely 0.5, 0.75, and 1.0 MAC. The measurements were made both during wash-in and wash-out phases of the anesthetic agent. Eighteen patients received halothane and 16 received isoflurane. Heart rate, mean arterial pressure, oxygen saturation, and end tidal carbon dioxide pressure values were not different between the 2 groups at various MAC concentrations of the anesthetic agents. BIS and SEF95 values decreased significantly with increasing concentrations of both the anesthetic agents (P&lt;0.001). At any given MAC concentration of the anesthetic, BIS and SEF(95) values were significantly lower under isoflurane compared with halothane anesthesia both during wash-in and wash-out phases (P&lt;0.001). For a given anesthetic agent, BIS values were comparable at equi-MAC concentrations during wash-in and wash-out phases. In conclusion, BIS values are significantly lower under isoflurane compared with halothane anesthesia at similar MAC concentrations. For a given anesthetic agent and a given MAC concentration, the BIS values are similar during wash-in and wash-out phases of anesthesia.
Increased levels of glutamate and aspartate have been detected after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) that correlate with neurological status. The NMDA receptor antagonist felbamate (FBM; 2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate) is an anti-epileptic drug that elicits neuroprotective effects in different experimental models of hypoxia-ischemia. The aim of this dose-response study was to evaluate the effect of FBM after experimental SAH in rats on (1) behavioral deficits (employing a battery of assessment tasks days 1-5 post-injury) and (2) blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability changes (quantifying microvascular alterations according to the extravasation of protein-bound Evans Blue by a spectrophotofluorimetric technique 2 days post-injury). Animals were injected with 400 muL of autologous blood into the cisterna magna. Within 5 min, rats received daily oral administration of FBM (15, 30, or 45 mg/kg) for 2 or 5 days. Results were compared with sham-injured controls treated with oral saline or FBM (15, 30, or 45 mg/kg). FBM administration significantly ameliorated SAH-related changes in Beam Balance scores on days 1 and 2 and Beam Balance time on days 1-3, Beam Walking performance on days 1 and 2, and Body Weight on days 3-5. FBM also decreased BBB permeability changes in frontal, temporal, parietal, occipital, and cerebellar cortices; subcortical and cerebellar gray matter; and brainstem. This study demonstrates that, in terms of behavioral and microvascular effects, FBM is beneficial in a dose-dependent manner after experimental SAH in rats. These results reinforce the concept that NMDA excitotoxicity is involved in the cerebral dysfunction that follows SAH.
Functional deficits following spinal cord injury (SCI) result from a disruption of corticofugal projections at the lesion site. Not only direct regeneration of the severed axons but also anatomical re-organization of spared corticofugal pathways can reestablish connections between the supraspinal and spinal motor centers. We have previously shown that delayed transplantation of fetal spinal cord tissue and neurotrophin administration by two weeks after SCI supported recovery of forelimb function in adult rats. The current study determined whether the same intervention enhances plasticity of corticofugal fibers at the midbrain and spinal cord level. Anterograde tracing of the left corticorubral fibers revealed that the animals with transplants and neurotrophins (BDNF or NT-3) increased the extent of the traced fibers crossing to the right red nucleus (RN), of which the axons are spared by a right cervical overhemisection lesion. More neurons in the left motor cortex were recruited by the treatment to establish connections with the right RN. The right corticorubral projections also increased the density of midline crossing fibers to the axotomized left RN in response to transplants and neurotrophins. Transplants plus NT-3, but not BDNF, significantly increased the amount of spared corticospinal fibers in the left dorsolateral funiculus at the spinal level both rostral and caudal to the lesion. These results suggest that corticofugal projections retain the capacity until at least two weeks after injury to undergo extensive reorganization along the entire neuraxis in response to transplants and neurotrophins. Targeting anatomical plasticity of corticofugal projections may be a promising strategy to enhance functional recovery following incomplete SCI.
Brazil has the largest number of HIV cases of any single country in Latin America - over 600,000. Recently, investigators have begun to characterize the extent of neurological morbidity due to HIV in this country. During 2005 and 2006, the U.S. National Institute of Mental Health cosponsored two meetings of experts aimed at summarizing existing knowledge of HIV and its neurological complications in Brazil. Topics addressed ranged from clinical neurobehavioral aspects to molecular biology. Experts attending the meeting considered fruitful directions for future research.

We investigate the spatiotemporal dynamics of depth filling in on an illusory surface by measuring the temporal asynchrony of perceived depth between an illusory neon-colored surface and real contours. We temporally modulated the horizontal disparity at vertical edges of the illusory surface and measured the perceptual delay for the interpolated surface's depth under two different boundary conditions: disparity given at both sides, or disparity given at one side and a free boundary at the other side. The results showed that the amount of the delay depends on the spatial distance between the measured point and the edges where disparity was physically given. Importantly, the observed delay as a function of spatial distance was clearly different under the two boundary conditions. We found that this difference can be fairly well explained by a model based on a diffusion equation under different boundary conditions. These results support the existence of locally represented depth information and an interpolation process based on mutual interaction of this information.
Neck extension because of contraction of cervical extensor muscles often brings about a lower-positioned tongue secondary to jaw opening in patients with congenital myopathy (CM). We hypothesized that neck extension in control subjects would reproduce the lower position of the tongue similar to that found in a CM patient. A simple method was formulated to evaluate the tongue position in terms of tongue pressure on the maxillary molar. A pair of pressure sensors was attached to the buccal and lingual surfaces of the upper molar for both the CM patient and four control subjects. Changes in the buccal and tongue pressures were recorded at the neck extension position for the CM patient and during both the natural head position and neck extension for the control subjects. There was a remarkable difference between buccal and tongue pressures in the neck extension position in the CM patient: tongue pressure was not detected at all, indicating there was no contact between tongue and upper molar. The buccal and tongue pressures were approximately equal in the natural head position in the control subjects. However, both buccal and tongue pressures were reduced during neck extension in the control subjects, with a greater decrease in the tongue pressure than the buccal pressure. These findings suggest that neck extension in a control subject reproduces the lower position of the tongue observed in CM patients. We propose that the pressure sensor enables evaluation of the tongue position, but further investigation is required.
Phenserine (PS) was designed as a selective acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor, with a tartrate form (PST) for oral administration in mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent phase 3 trials of PST in Europe indicate that any clinically relevant activity of PST may be limited by its duration of action. Like many oral drugs, bioavailability and plasma concentrations of PST are regulated by hepatic and gastrointestinal first-pass effects. To minimize the kinetic limitations of first-pass metabolism, transdermal formulations of PS and PST (ointment/patch) were developed and characterized in vitro and in vivo. Initial in vitro kinetic characterization of PS or PST formulations used a diffusion cell chamber and skin samples isolated from hairless mice. Liquid paraffin and fatty alcohol/propylene glycol (FAPG) were found to be suitable vehicles for ointment formulation. Addition of a penetration enhancer, 1-[2-(decylthio)ethyl]-azacyclopentane-2-one (HPE-101), improved stratum corneum permeability. Application of the optimal formulation of PS/HPE-101/FAPG to the shaved back of rats resulted in significantly lowered plasma and brain AChE activities and improved cognitive performance in animals with scopolamine-induced cognitive impairment. These results suggest that the transdermal application of AChE inhibitors may represent an effective therapeutic strategy for AD. Particular benefits over oral therapies might include avoiding first-pass metabolic effects and improved dosing compliance.
Alterations in the intracellular signal transduction pathway in primary afferents may contribute to pain hypersensitivity. Recently, we have reported that the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) occurs in primary afferent neurons in response to noxious stimulation of the peripheral tissue, i.e., activity-dependent activation of ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. In the present study, we investigated the phosphorylation of ERK5, also known as big MAPK1, in the DRG by noxious stimulation using immunohistochemistry. Capsaicin injection induced phosphorylated ERK5 (p-ERK5) in small-to-medium diameter sensory neurons with a peak at 2 min after capsaicin injection. Furthermore, we examined the p-ERK5 labeling in the DRG after noxious heat and cold stimuli and found a stimulus intensity-dependent increase in the number of activated neurons. Most of these p-ERK5-immunoreactive neurons were small- and medium-sized neurons, which coexpressed transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channel TRPV1 and TRPA1 after noxious heat and cold stimuli, respectively. In contrast, there was no change in ERK5 phosphorylation in the spinal dorsal horn. The i.t. administration of ERK5 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide reversed heat hyperalgesia, but not mechanical allodynia, produced by capsaicin injection. Taken together, these findings suggest that the in vivo activation of the ERK5 signaling pathway in sensory neurons by noxious stimulation may be, at least in part, correlated with functional activity and, further, involved in the development of pain hypersensitivity.
There is an increasing demand for a novel non-nicotinic, nondopaminergic therapeutic approach to nicotine addiction. GABAergic mechanisms have been implicated in drug dependence. Recently, a novel GABAB receptor allosteric-positive modulator, GS39783, was characterized. There are no investigations to date on the effects of GABAB receptor-positive modulators in animal models of nicotine reinforcement. Conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigms are based on the principle that animals, like humans, would learn to seek environmental stimuli that have been previously associated with rewarding events. Here we show that nicotine (0.06 mg/kg s.c.) induced a robust CPP response. Furthermore, GS39783 (30-100 mg/kg p.o.) during the conditioning phase blocked the rewarding effects of nicotine in the CPP paradigm in rats. However, GS39783 did not significantly alter the CPP effects of nicotine when given only immediately before the CPP test. A growing body of evidence suggests that repeated administration of drugs of abuse induced long-term molecular changes in brain plasticity, most notably an accumulation of DeltaFosB, in the striatal complex that contribute to the manifestation of dependence. There was a significant accumulation of DeltaFosB in the nucleus accumbens, but not in the dorsal striatum, of rats treated daily for 5 days with nicotine (0.06 mg/kg i.p.). GS39783 completely (30-100 mg/kg p.o.) counteracted these nicotine-induced molecular adaptations when given before the CPP acquisition phase but not when administered immediately before the test phase. Taken together, the behavioral and molecular changes induced by nicotine occur in concert and are concomitantly amenable to reversal by GABAB receptor-positive modulators.
Using the novel apparatus KUROBOX, learning and memory behaviors, as well as various parameters of movement activity, were reevaluated in mice deficient for nociceptin/orphanin FQ receptor (NOP-/- mice) or mu-opioid receptor (MOP-/- mice). This method has the advantages that no handling procedures are required throughout the experiments performed over 3 days, positive cue paradigms are used without water or shock stress, and the method does not disturb the nocturnal habit of mice. NOP-/- mice displayed a significant enhancement of learning and memory under stress-free conditions, but there were no changes in the various physical and psychological parameters of movement activity (nest stay ratio, distance moved, speed and angle in the movement) and biological rhythm that were measured. Enhancement of nocturnal learning was observed during the first 12-h dark cycle, and enhancement of memory was observed at the beginning of the second dark cycle in NOP-/- mice. In contrast, MOP-/- mice showed no significant change in learning and memory behaviors or in physical and psychological parameters of movement activity, except for speed, MOP-/- mice showed a significant decrease in speed of movement. Thus, the KUROBOX apparatus provides a useful alternative method to evaluate learning and memory activity under the more physiological conditions. In addition, this apparatus has an advantage that various physical and psychological parameters of movement activity affecting learning and memory behavior are also evaluated at the same time.
Group II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor agonists, including (1S,2S,5R,6S)-2-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylate monohydrate (LY354740) and (-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate (LY379268), have demonstrated efficacy in animal models of anxiety and schizophrenia, and LY354740 decreased anxiety in human subjects. Herein, we report the in vitro pharmacological profile and pharmacokinetic properties of another potent, selective, and structurally novel mGlu2/3 receptor agonist, (-)-(1R,4S,5S,6S)-4-amino-2-sulfonylbicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylic acid (LY404039) and provide comparisons with LY354740. Similar to LY354740, LY404039 is a nanomolar potent agonist at recombinant human mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptors (K(i) = 149 and 92, respectively) and in rat neurons expressing native mGlu2/3 receptors (Ki = 88). LY404039 is highly selective for mGlu2/3 receptors, showing more than 100-fold selectivity for these receptors, versus ionotropic glutamate receptors, glutamate transporters, and other receptors targeted by known anxiolytic and antipsychotic medications. Functionally, LY404039 potently inhibited forskolin-stimulated cAMP formation in cells expressing human mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptors. Electrophysiological studies indicated that LY404039 suppressed electrically evoked excitatory activity in the striatum, and serotonin-induced l-glutamate release in the prefrontal cortex; effects reversed by LY341495. These characteristics suggest LY404039 modulates glutamatergic activity in limbic and forebrain areas relevant to psychiatric disorders; and that, similar to LY354740, it works through a mechanism that may be devoid of negative side effects associated with current antipsychotics and anxiolytics. Interestingly, despite the slightly lower potency (approximately 2-5-fold) of LY404039 versus LY354740 in binding, functional, and electrophysiological assays, LY404039 demonstrated higher plasma exposure and better oral bioavailability in pharmacokinetic experiments. Collectively, the current data indicate that LY404039 may be valuable in the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders, including anxiety and psychosis.

Synaptic plasticity at corticostraital synapses is proposed to fine tune movment and improve motor skills. We found paired-pulse plasticity at corticostriatal synapses reflected variably expressed short-term facilitation blended with a consistent background of longer-lasting depression. Presynaptic modulation via neuotransmitter receptor activation was ruled out as a mechanism for long-lasting paired-pulse depression by examining the effect of selective receptor antagonists. EPSC amplitude and paired-pulse plasticity, however, was influenced by block of D2 dopamine receptors. Block of glutamate transport with l-transdicarboxylic acid (PDC) reduced EPSCs, possibly through a mechanism of AMPA receptor desensitization. Removal of AMPA receptor desensitization with cyclothiazide reduced the paired-pulse depression at long-duration interstimulus intervals (ISIs), indicating that AMPA receptor desensitization participates in corticostriatal paired-pulse plasticity. The low-affinity glutamate receptor antagonist cis-2,3-piperidine dicarboxylic acid (PDA) increased paired-pulse depression, suggesting that a presynaptic component also exists for long-lasting paired-pulse depression. Low Ca(2+)-high Mg(2+) or BAPTA-AM dramatically reduced the amplitude of corticostriatal EPSCs and both manipulations increased the expression of facilitation and, to a lesser extent, they reduced long-lasting paired-pulse depression. EGTA-AM produced a smaller reduction in EPSC amplitude and it did not alter paired-pulse facilitation, but in contrast to low Ca(2+) and BAPTA-AM, EGTA-AM increased long-lasting paired-pulse depression. These experiments suggest that facilitation and depression are sensitive to vesicle depletion, which is dependent upon changes in peak Ca(2+) (i.e. low Ca(2+)-high Mg(2+) or BAPTA-AM). In addition, the action of EGTA-AM suggests that basal Ca(2+) regulates the recovery from long-lasting paired-pulse depression, possibly thourgh a Ca(2+)-sensitive process of vesicle delivery.
Melatonin has different interactions with opioids including the enhancement of the analgesic effects of morphine and also reversal of tolerance and dependence to morphine. The present study assessed the effect of melatonin on morphine reward in mice using a conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm. Our data showed that subcutaneous administration of morphine (1-7.5 mg/kg) significantly increased the time spent in the drug-paired compartment in a dose-dependent manner. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of melatonin (1-40 mg/kg) alone did not induce either CPP or conditioned place aversion (CPA), while the combination of melatonin (5-20 mg/kg) and sub-effective dose of morphine (0.5 mg/kg) led to rewarding effect. We further investigated the involvement of the nitric oxidergic pathway in the enhancing effect of melatonin on morphine CPP, by a general nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). L-NAME (1 and 5 mg/kg, i.p.) alone or in combination with morphine (0.5 mg/kg) did not show any significant CPP or CPA. Co-administration of L-NAME (5 mg/kg) with an ineffective combination of melatonin (1 mg/kg) plus morphine (0.5 mg/kg) produced significant CPP that may imply the similarity of action of melatonin and L-NAME and involvement of the nitric oxidergic pathway in this regard. Our results indicate that pretreatment of animals with melatonin enhances the rewarding properties of morphine via a mechanism which may involve the nitric oxidergic pathway.
In the present study, we evaluated the effect of melatonin, a well-known free radical scavenger and neuroprotector, against rotenone-induced oxidative stress in a hemiparkinsonian rat model. The effect of melatonin on glutathione (GSH) depletion caused by unilateral, intranigral infusion of rotenone was investigated employing a spectrofluorimetric procedure. We also studied the effect of melatonin on rotenone-induced changes in the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase in the cytosolic fractions of substantia nigra (SN), employing spectrophotometric procedures. Rotenone-induced hydroxyl radicals (*OH) in the isolated mitochondria, as measured employing a sensitive HPLC-electrochemical method, were significantly scavenged by melatonin. Melatonin treatment restored the rotenone-induced decrease in GSH level and changes in antioxidant enzyme (SOD and catalase) activities in the SN. Our results strongly indicate melatonin's beneficial use in Parkinson's disease therapy as an antioxidant.
Child abuse and violence are significant public health problems. Research indicates a strong correlation between early childhood abuse and enduring neurobiological changes in specific regions of the brain. These neurobiological changes are often reflected in psychopathology and lifelong maladaptive behaviors. However, emerging research suggests that these neurobiological changes may be modified through specific evidence-based interventions. Nurses must be able to evaluate the current research and translate the findings into their practice, remembering that prevention is the most effective remedy for abuse and violence.

This article examines the association between the organizational characteristics of drug abuse treatment programs for offenders and the provision of wraparound services and three types of treatment orientations. Data are from the National Criminal Justice Treatment Practices Survey, which was conducted with program directors (N = 217). A greater number of wraparound services provided were associated with inpatient treatment, specialized treatment facilities, community setting (vs. correctional), services provided for more types of client populations, college-educated staff, and planned treatment for &gt; 180 days. Therapeutic community orientation was associated with prison-based treatment and specialized treatment facilities. Cognitive-behavioral therapy orientation was associated with higher perceived importance of community treatment, more perceived staff influence on treatment, and treatment for 91-180 days. The 12-step orientation was most strongly associated with having staff specialized in substance abuse. Study findings have implications for developing effective reentry programs for offenders that bridge correctional and community treatment.
Recent studies in chronobiology and the neurosciences have led to rapid growth in our understanding of the molecular biology of the human timekeeping apparatus and the neuroanatomic sites involved in signaling between the &quot;master clock&quot; in the hypothalamus and other parts of the brain. The circadian axis comprises a central clock mechanism and a downstream network of hypothalamic relay stations that modulate arousal, feeding, and sleeping behavior. Communication between the clock and these hypothalamic signaling centers is mediated, in part, by diffusible substances that include ligands of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Preclinical studies reveal that EGFR ligands such as transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) inhibit hypothalamic signaling of rhythmic behavior; clinical observations show that elevated levels of TGF-alpha are associated with fatigue, flattened circadian rhythms, and loss of appetite in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. These data support the hypothesis that a symptom cluster of fatigue, appetite loss, and sleep disruption commonly seen in cancer patients may be related to EGFR ligands, released either by the cancer itself or by the host in response to the stress of cancer, and suggest that further examination of their role in the production of symptom clustering is warranted.





Undergraduate neuroscience laboratory activities frequently focus on exercises that build student's wet/dry laboratory skills, foster critical thinking, and provide opportunities for hands-on experiences. Such activities are, without a doubt, extremely important, but sometimes fall short of modeling actual research and often lack the 'unknown' hypothetical nature accompanying empirical studies. In this article we report a series of research activities using an animal model of Korsakoff's syndrome in a Physiological Psychology course. The activities involve testing hypotheses regarding performance of animals with experimentally-induced Korsakoff's syndrome and the effectiveness of glucose as a memory-enhancer in this model. Students were given a set of 24 articles for use in answering a series of laboratory report questions regarding the activities. At the conclusion of the course, students were asked to complete a questionnaire designed to assess the effectiveness of the laboratory activities. Results of the laboratory exercises indicated that locomotor activity, environmental habituation, and anxiety were unaffected in the Korsakoff condition, and glucose had no effect. Results of performance in the T-maze indicated that Korsakoff animals had significantly fewer spontaneous alternations than controls, but Korsakoff animals given glucose did not reveal this difference. Results of the student assessments indicated that the activities were considered educational, challenging, and more interesting than standard laboratory activities designed to reproduce reliable phenomena.
The principles of neurophysiology continue to be challenging topics to teach in the context of undergraduate neuroscience education. Laboratory classes containing neurophysiological demonstrations and exercises are, therefore, an important and necessary complement for covering those subjects taught in lecture-based courses. We developed a number of simple yet very instructive exercises, described below, which make use of extracellular recordings from different sensory systems of the cockroach (Periplanta americana). The compendium we developed provides students with hands-on demonstrations of several commonly taught topics of neurophysiology including sensory coding by neural activity.
This article provides an overview of the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine's Pipeline Neuroscience Program, a multi-tiered mentorship and education program for Philadelphia high school students in which University of Pennsylvania undergraduates are integrally involved. The Pipeline Neuroscience Program provides mentorship and education for students at all levels. High school students are taught by undergraduates, who learn from medical students who, in turn, are guided by neurology residents and fellows. Throughout a semester-long course, undergraduates receive instruction in neuroanatomy, neuroscience, and clinical neurology as part of the Pipeline's case-based curriculum. During weekly classes, undergraduates make the transition from students to community educators by integrating their new knowledge into lesson plans that they teach to small groups of medically and academically underrepresented Philadelphia high school students. The Pipeline program thus achieves the dual goals of educating undergraduates about neuroscience and providing them with an opportunity to perform community service.
Case studies have been the cornerstone of many discoveries in neurology and continue to be an indispensable source of knowledge. Attaching a name, face, and story to the study of neurological disorders makes them more &quot;real&quot; and memorable. This article describes the value of the case study methodology and its advantages as a pedagogical approach. It also illustrates how the seminal case of H.M. can be used to highlight the advantages and disadvantages of the case study methodology. Three exercises are described for incorporating case studies into neuroscience courses. The first exercise requires students to conduct a literature review regarding their assigned case and then design an experiment to address a lingering question regarding that neurological disorder. Survey results of 90 students provide quantitative and qualitative support for this approach. The vast majority of students indicated this exercise was a valuable learning experience; sparked interest in the topic and in biopsychology; increased their knowledge and stimulated critical thinking. The second exercise discusses how students might conduct their own case studies. The third exercise emphasizes the use of case studies as a platform to examine competing hypotheses regarding neurological conditions and their treatment. A table listing case studies appropriate for undergraduate neuroscience courses is included. Cases are categorized by the type of neurological disorder and notes regarding the nature of and content of each case are provided.
The workshop &quot;Introduction to FUN Electrophysiology Labs&quot; was organized by Patsy Dickinson (Bowdoin College), Steve Hauptman (Bowdoin College), Bruce Johnson (Cornell University), and Carol Ann Paul (Wellesley College). It took place July 27-30 2006 at Bowdoin College. There were fifteen participants, most of whom were junior faculty at college and universities around the country. This article describes the workshop content, the incorporation of lab exercises at home institutions, and the faculty learning community that has resulted from the workshop.
Missing data are a major problem in the behavioral neurosciences, particularly when data collection is costly. Often researchers exclude cases with missing data, which can result in biased estimates and reduced power. Trying to avoid the deletion of a case because of a missing data point can be conducted, but implementing a nave missing data method can result in distorted estimates and incorrect conclusions. New approaches for handling missing data have been developed but these techniques are not typically included in undergraduate research methods texts. The topic of missing data techniques would be useful for teaching research methods and for helping students with their research projects. This paper aimed to illustrate that estimating missing data is often more efficacious than complete case analysis, otherwise known as listwise deletion. Longitudinal data was obtained from an experiment examining the effects of an anorectic drug on food consumption in a small sample (n=17) of rats. The complete dataset was degraded by removing a percentage of datapoints (1-5%, 10%). Four missing data techniques: listwise deletion, mean substitution, regression, and expectation-maximization (EM) were applied to all six datasets to ensure that each approach was applied to the same missing data points. P-values, effect sizes, and Bayes factors were computed. Results demonstrated listwise deletion was the least effective method. EM and regression imputation were the preferred methods when more than 5% of the data were missing. Based on these findings it is recommended that researchers avoid using listwise deletion and consider alternative missing data techniques.
We have recently planned and taught an advanced undergraduate seminar at our respective institutions that uses a unique mechanism to explore topics that are on the cutting edge of neuroscience. The course material is centered on the topics of presentations scheduled for the Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience held each fall. The instructor and students (15) select several topics that are the subject of special lectures, panels, and keynote addresses included in the Program for the Annual Meeting. Each week the class reads and discusses several articles on the topic of one of the lectures, panels or addresses. By the time the Annual Meeting is held, the class is intimately familiar with the content of the planned presentations. The class then travels to the Annual Meeting and attends these presentations along with events of personal interest and keeps a journal of what they learn. Upon returning from the Annual Meeting, the students discuss the assigned presentations and also prepare and deliver their own presentation on a neuroscience topic of personal interest using information obtained at the meeting. Students also prepare an in-depth final paper on their presentation topic in the form of a Current Opinions in Neurobiology review article. The outcomes for the students are many fold: Students explore topics on the cutting edge of neuroscience through the review of primary literature and experience a major scientific conference first hand, which is attended by over 30,000 neuroscientists from around the world. This experience helps neuroscience &quot;come alive&quot; for the students and provides them with valuable opportunities to meet world-renowned researchers, prospective graduate mentors, and possibly future employers. Students also have the chance to develop important professional skills through critical evaluation of research, exposure to different presentation styles, and preparation of an in-depth research paper and oral presentation.
Findings from longitudinal and cross-sectional studies suggest an association between high blood pressure and dementia, and in turn the use of antihypertensives has been suggested to reduce incidence of dementia. Alzheimer's disease, the most common cause of dementia, is characterised in part by the deposition of amyloid beta protein (Abeta) in the brain. Reduction of Abeta load is now a major therapeutic strategy. In recent years the renin-angiotensin system, already of recognised importance in the pathogenesis of hypertension, has become a source of interest in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. This review explores molecular, genetic, and clinical studies that might help explain the relation between the renin-angiotensin system, hypertension, and Alzheimer's disease and whether treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and similar treatment strategies have a part to play in the management of the disease.

In most functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies, brain activity is localized by observing changes in the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal that are believed to arise from capillaries, venules and veins in and around the active neuronal population. However, the contribution from veins can be relatively far downstream from active neurons, thereby limiting the ability of BOLD imaging methods to precisely pinpoint neural generators. Hemodynamic measures based on apparent diffusion coefficients (ADCs) have recently been used to identify more upstream functional blood flow changes in the capillaries, arterioles and arteries. In particular, we recently showed that, due to the complementary vascular sensitivities of ADC and BOLD signals, the voxels conjointly activated by both measures may identify the capillary networks of the active neuronal areas. In this study, we first used simultaneously acquired ADC and BOLD functional imaging signals to identify brain voxels activated by ADC only, by both ADC and BOLD and by BOLD only, thereby delineating voxels relatively dominated by the arterial, capillary, and draining venous neurovascular compartments, respectively. We then examined the event-related fMRI BOLD responses in each of these delineated neurovascular compartments, hypothesizing that their event-related responses would show different temporal componentries. In the regions activated by both the BOLD and ADC contrasts, but not in the BOLD-only areas, we observed an initial transient signal reduction (an initial dip), consistent with the local production of deoxyhemoglobin by the active neuronal population. In addition, the BOLD-ADC overlap areas and the BOLD-only areas showed a clear poststimulus undershoot, whereas the compartment activated by only ADC did not show this component. These results indicate that using ADC contrast in conjunction with BOLD imaging can help delineate the various neurovascular compartments, improve the localization of active neural populations, and provide insight into the physiological mechanisms underlying the hemodynamic signals.
There is increasing interest in obtaining quantitative imaging parameters to aid in the assessment of tumor responses to treatment. In this study, the feasibility of performing integrated diffusion, perfusion and permeability magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for characterizing responses to dexamethasone in intracranial tumors was assessed. Eight patients with glioblastoma, five with meningioma and three with metastatic carcinoma underwent MRI prior to and 48-72 h following dexamethasone administration. The MRI protocol enabled quantification of the volume transfer constant (K(trans)), extracellular space volume fraction (nu(e)), plasma volume fraction (nu(p)), regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF), regional cerebral blood volume (rCBV), longitudinal relaxation time (T(1)) and mean diffusivity (D(av)). All subjects successfully completed the imaging protocol for the presteroid and poststeroid scans. Significant reductions were observed after the treatment for K(trans), nu(e) and nu(p) in enhancing tumor as well as for T(1) and D(av) in the edematous brain in glioblastoma; on the other hand, for meningioma, significant differences were seen only in edematous brain T(1) and D(av). No significant difference was observed for any parameter in metastatic carcinoma, most likely due to the small sample size. In addition, no significant difference was observed for enhancing tumor rCBF and rCBV in any of the tumor types, although the general trend was for rCBV to be reduced and for rCBF to be more variable. The yielded parameters provide a wealth of physiologic information and contribute to the understanding of dexamethasone actions on different types of intracranial tumors.


Accurate classification of magnetic resonance images according to tissue type or region of interest has become a critical requirement in diagnosis, treatment planning, and cognitive neuroscience. Several authors have shown that finite mixture models give excellent results in the automated segmentation of MR images of the human normal brain. However, performance and robustness of finite mixture models deteriorate when the models have to deal with a variety of anatomical structures. In this paper, we propose a nonparametric Bayesian model for tissue classification of MR images of the brain. The model, known as Dirichlet process mixture model, uses Dirichlet process priors to overcome the limitations of current parametric finite mixture models. To validate the accuracy and robustness of our method we present the results of experiments carried out on simulated MR brain scans, as well as on real MR image data. The results are compared with similar results from other well-known MRI segmentation methods.
The French public-private partnerships known as &quot;competitive clusters&quot; [ples de comptitivit (PdC)] are intended to be novel and ambitious engines of regional growth, employment and biomedical innovation. Partly funded by government and local councils, they aim to capitalize on regional expertise by bringing together basic scientists, clinicians, innovative entrepreneurs and local decision-makers around specific themes that have become too costly and complex for any of these actors to tackle alone. Clusters provide the critical mass required both to underpin innovation potential and to authenticate regional claims to international competitiveness. Medicen is a biomedicine and therapeutics cluster comprising 120 partners from four broad &quot;colleges&quot; in the greater Paris region: major industry, small and medium-sized businesses, teaching hospitals/State research bodies, and local councils. Chief among its cooperative R&amp;D projects is the neuroscience subcluster, in which &quot;TransAl&quot; the neurodegenerative disease project, counts Sanofi-Aventis, Servier and the French Atomic Energy Commission [Commissariat  l'Energie Atomique (CEA)] as key partners. One main aim is to develop an experimental model in rhesus monkeys in which a putative cause of Alzheimer's disease, intracerebral accumulation of b-amyloid peptide, is generated by impairing the peptide's clearance. The other aim, in which the nuclear medicine expertise of the CEA will be crucial, is to identify, characterize and validate markers for magnetic resonance and positron emission tomography imaging, and to source biomarkers from cerebrospinal fluid proteomics. A human biological resource centre (DNA and tissue banks) project dedicated to neurological and psychiatric disease should be up and running in 2007. Only through fundamental restructuring of resources on such a large cooperative scale are solutions likely to be found to the major problems of modern medicine, bringing healthcare and regional socioeconomic benefits in its wake.


Shrew-1 was previously isolated from an endometriotic cell line in our search for invasion-associated genes. It proved to be a membrane protein that targets to the basolateral membrane of polarized epithelial cells, interacting with E-cadherin-catenin complexes of adherens junctions. Paradoxically, the existence of adherens junctions is incompatible with invasion. To investigate whether shrew-1 can indeed influence cellular invasion, we overexpressed it in HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells. This resulted in enhanced invasiveness, accompanied by an increased matrix metalloprotease (MMP)-9 level in the supernatant, raising the question about the role of shrew-1 in this process. Logic suggested we looked for an interaction with CD147, a known promoter of invasiveness and MMP activity. Indeed, genetics-based, biochemical, and microscopy experiments revealed shrew-1- and CD147-containing complexes in invasive endometriotic cells and an interaction in epithelial cells, which was stronger in MCF7 tumor cells, but weaker in Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. In contrast to the effect mediated by overexpression, small interfering RNA-mediated down-regulation of either shrew-1 or CD147 in HeLa cells decreased invasiveness without affecting the proliferation behavior of HeLa cells, but the knockdown cells displayed decreased motility. Altogether, our results imply that shrew-1 has a function in the regulation of cellular invasion, which may involve its interaction with CD147.
Recent studies show that intracellular cholesterol levels can modulate the processing of amyloid precursor protein to Abeta peptide. Moreover, cholesterol-rich apoE-containing lipoproteins may also promote Abeta clearance. Agonists of the liver X receptor (LXR) transcriptionally induce genes involved in intracellular lipid efflux and transport, including apoE. Thus, LXR agonists have the potential to both inhibit APP processing and promote Abeta clearance. Here we show that LXR agonist, TO901317, increased hippocampal ABCA1 and apoE and decreased Abeta42 levels in APP transgenic mice. TO901317 had no significant effects on levels of Abeta40, full length APP, or the APP processing products. Next, we examined the effects of TO901317 in the contextual fear conditioning paradigm; TO901317 completely reversed the contextual memory deficit in these mice. These data demonstrate that LXR agonists do not directly inhibit APP processing but rather facilitate the clearance of Abeta42 and may represent a novel therapeutic approach to Alzheimer's disease.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) induces an acute sensitization of nociceptive DRG neurons, in part, through sensitization of the capsaicin receptor TRPV1 via the high affinity trkA receptor. The mechanisms linking trkA and TRPV1 remain controversial with several candidate signaling pathways proposed. Utilizing adult rat and mouse DRG neurons and CHO cells co-expressing trkA and TRPV1, we have investigated the signaling events underlying acute TRPV1 sensitization by NGF combining biochemical, electrophysiological, pharmacological, mutational and genetic knockout approaches. Pharmacological interference with p42/p44 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) or phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K), but not PLC abrogated sensitization of capsaicin responses. Co-expression of TRPV1 with wild-type or Y785F (PLC signal deficient) mutant human trkA reconstituted NGF sensitization. In contrast, TRPV1 co-expressed with MAPK signaling deficient Y490A or PI3K signaling deficient Y751F trkA mutants exhibited weaker sensitization. Biochemical analysis of p42/p44 and Akt phosphorylation confirmed the specificity of pharmacological agents and trkA mutants. Finally, NGF sensitization of capsaicin responses was greatly reduced in neurons from p85alpha (regulatory subunit of PI3K) null mice. These data strongly suggest that PI3K and MAPK pathways, but not the PLC pathway underlie the acute sensitization of TRPV1 by NGF.
The vulnerability of motor neurons in transgenic SOD1G93A mice, a model of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), may depend on the failure of these cells to activate survival mechanisms in response to the toxic mutant SOD1. To test this we investigated whether defects in the PI3K/Akt pathway, a survival signal, and of its neuron-specific activator, Rai, were important for motor neuron degeneration in these mice. No substantial changes were found in the levels of Rai, PI3K(p85) or phosphorylated Akt (P-Akt) in the ventral horn of spinal cord of SOD1G93A mice during disease progression. P-Akt immunoreactivity was the same in degenerating and healthy motor neurons. Rai ablation in SOD1G93A mice slightly accelerated the motor dysfunction without affecting their life span. Thus, motor neurons in SOD1G93A mice do not lose the pro-survival PI3K/Akt signal nor increase it in order to suppress the cell death mechanisms.

In central neurons, the cell-surface distribution of cannabinoid receptor subtype-1 (CB(1)) is highly polarized toward axons and is associated with synaptic terminals, in which it is well-positioned to modulate neurotransmitter release. It has been suggested that high levels of constitutive activity mediate CB(1) receptor axonal targeting, leading to domain-specific endocytosis. We have investigated further the mechanisms that underlie CB(1) receptor axonal polarization in hippocampal neurons and found that constitutive activity is not an essential requirement for this process. We demonstrate that the cell-surface distribution of an N-terminally tagged, fluorescent CB(1) receptor fusion-protein is almost exclusively localized to the axon when expressed in cultured hippocampal neurons. Inhibition of endocytosis by cotransfection with a dominant-negative dynamin-1 (K44A) mutant traps both recombinant and endogenous CB(1) receptors at the somatodendritic cell surface. However, this effect could not be mimicked by inhibiting constitutive activity or receptor activation, either by expressing mutant receptors that lack these properties or by treatment with CB(1) receptor antagonists possessing inverse agonist activity. These data are consistent with a revised model in which domain-specific endocytosis regulates the functional polarization of CB(1) receptors, but this process is distinct from constitutive activity.
Disrupted-in-schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is a gene disrupted by a (1;11) (q42.1;q14.3) translocation that segregates with major psychiatric disorders in a Scottish family. To investigate how DISC1 confers susceptibility to psychiatric disorders, we previously identified fasciculation and elongation protein zeta-1 and Kendrin as DISC1-interacting molecules in a yeast two-hybrid screen of a human brain complementary DNA library. Here, we have further identified a novel DISC1-interacting protein, termed DISC1-Binding Zinc-finger protein (DBZ), which has a predicted C(2)H(2)-type zinc-finger motif and coiled-coil domains. DBZ was co-immunoprecipitated with DISC1 in lysates of PC12 cells and rat brain tissue. The domain of DISC1 interacting with DBZ was close to the translocation breakpoint in the DISC1 gene. DBZ messenger RNA (mRNA) was expressed in human brains, but not in peripheral tissues. In situ hybridization revealed high expression of DBZ mRNA in the hippocampus, olfactory tubercle, cerebral cortex and striatum in rats. Because this pattern of localization was similar to that of the pituitary adenylate cyclase (PAC(1)) receptor for pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), which has recently been implicated in neuropsychological functions, we examined whether DISC1/DBZ interaction was involved in the PACAP signaling pathway. PACAP upregulated DISC1 expression and markedly reduced the association between DISC1 and DBZ in PC12 cells. A DISC1-binding domain of DBZ reduced the neurite length in PC12 cells after PACAP stimulation and in primary cultured hippocampal neurons. The present results provide some new molecular insights into the mechanisms of neuronal development and neuropsychiatric disorders.
Our knowledge about the neurobiology of suicide is limited. It has been proposed that suicidal behavior generally requires biological abnormalities concomitant with the personality trait of impulsivity/aggression, besides an acute psychiatric illness or psychosocial stressor. We investigated fronto-limbic anatomical brain abnormalities in suicidal and non-suicidal adult female patients with unipolar depression. Our sample consisted of seven suicidal unipolar patients, 10 non-suicidal unipolar patients and 17 healthy female comparison subjects. The criterion for suicidality was one or more documented lifetime suicide attempts. A 1.5T GE Signa Imaging System running version Signa 5.4.3 software was used to acquire the magnetic resonance imaging images. All anatomical structures were measured blindly, with the subjects' identities and group assignments masked. We used analysis of covariance with age and intracranial volume as covariates and the Tukey-Kramer procedure to compare suicidal patients, non-suicidal patients and healthy comparison subjects. Suicidal patients had smaller right and left orbitofrontal cortex gray matter volumes compared with healthy comparison subjects. Suicidal patients had larger right amygdala volumes than non-suicidal patients. Abnormalities in the orbitofrontal cortex and amygdala in suicidal patients may impair decision-making and predispose these patients to act more impulsively and to attempt suicide.
Family and twin studies have revealed that genetic factors play a major role in psychiatric disorders, however, attempts to find susceptibility genes for these complex disorders have been largely unsuccessful. Therefore, new research strategies are required to tackle the complex interactions of genes, developmental, and environmental events. Here, we will address a behavioural domain concept that focuses on the genetics of behavioural domains relevant to both animal behaviour and across human psychiatric disorders. We believe that interspecies trait genetics rather than complex syndrome genetics will optimize genotype-phenotype relationships for psychiatric disorders and facilitate the identification of biological substrates underlying these disorders.
A detailed understanding of injury mechanisms in peripheral nerve fibers will help guide successful design of therapies for peripheral neuropathies. This study was therefore undertaken to examine the ionic mechanisms of Ca2+ overload in peripheral myelinated fibers subjected to chemical inhibition of energy metabolism. Myelinated axons from rat dorsal roots were co-loaded with Ca2+-sensitive (Oregon Green BAPTA-1) and Ca2+-insensitive (Alexa Fluor 594) dextran-conjugated fluorophores and imaged using confocal laser scanning microscopy. Axoplasmic regions were clearly outlined by the Ca2+-insensitive dye, from which axonal Ca2+-dependent fluorescence changes (FCa.ax) were measured. Block of Na+-K+ ATPase (ouabain), opening of Na+ channels (veratridine), and inhibiting energy metabolism (iodoacetate + NaN3) caused a rapid rise in FCa.ax to 96% above control after 30 min. Chemical ischemia (iodoacetate + NaN3) caused a more gradual increase in FCa.ax (54%), which was almost completely dependent on bath Ca2+, indicating that most of the Ca2+ accumulation occurred via influx across the axolemma. Na+ channel block (tetrodotoxin) reduced ischemic FCa.ax rise (14%); however, inhibition of L-type Ca2+ channels (nimodipine) had no effect (60%). In contrast, Na+-Ca2+ exchange inhibition (KB-R7943) significantly reduced ischemic FCa.ax rise (18%). Together our results indicate that the bulk of Ca2+ overload in injured peripheral myelinated axons occurs via reverse Na+-Ca2+ exchange, driven by axonal Na+ accumulation through voltage-gated tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na+ channels. This mechanism may represent a viable therapeutic target for peripheral neuropathies.
We report a patient who experienced progressive diplopia and distal weakness of the upper limbs. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed extensive white matter lesions and analysis of cerebrospinal fluid revealed acute human T-lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-I) infection. Myasthenia gravis (MG) was evidenced by electromyography (EMG) and antibodies against acetylcholine receptor. This unusual case of MG associated with HTLV-I infection and brain-restricted lesions underscores the possible link between viruses and MG pathogenesis.
The neuroanatomical and neurophysiological development of the embryo and fetus and unique features of the physiological environment of the fetal brain, features which are lost at birth, support recent conclusions that under normal circumstances awareness (or consciousness) is probably not exhibited by the ovine embryo-fetus before birth and that it appears for the first time only after birth. However, there has apparently been no evaluation of whether or not similar mechanisms modulate awareness-related functions in domestic chicks before and after hatching. This comparative review, in seeking to rectify this, arrived at the following conclusions. First, the neural apparatus of both lambs and chicks appears to be too immature to support any states resembling awareness during at least the first half of pregnancy or incubation. Second, electroencephalographic (EEG) activity, which evolves subsequently, shows that states of sleep-like unconsciousness are likely to be continuously present in lambs until after birth, and that such states at least predominate in chicks until after hatching. Third, as in fetal lambs, epochs of so-called 'wakefulness' previously reported in chick embryos do not seem likely to represent short periods of awareness in ovo. Fourth, several neurosuppressive mechanisms, with some unique features, also operate or have the potential to operate in chicks before hatching, but a dearth of published information currently hinders a full comparison with those demonstrated to operate in fetal lambs. Fifth, contradicting the intuitive perception that vocalisation pre-hatching by the chick indicates the presence of awareness, published evidence suggests that vocalisation before and during hatching occurs mostly during EEG states indicating sleep-like unconsciousness. Sixth, as seems to be the case for newborn lambs after birth, it is possible that demonstrable awareness may appear for the first time only after hatching in chicks, presumably through waning neurosuppression and burgeoning neuroactivation, but such awareness seems to take longer to manifest itself. However, additional research in chicks is recommended to further assess this suggestion. Particular attention should be given to the status of vocal interactions between hen and chick which begin several days before hatching, and to the operation of neurosuppressive and neuroactivating mechanisms throughout the last 40% of incubation and during and after hatching.


As part of the most important contributions to the understanding of viral immunity, Michael Oldstone recounts his pioneering work on lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus.
Intracranial transplantation of neural stem cells (NSCs) delayed disease onset, preserved motor function, reduced pathology and prolonged survival in a mouse model of Sandhoff disease, a lethal gangliosidosis. Although donor-derived neurons were electrophysiologically active within chimeric regions, the small degree of neuronal replacement alone could not account for the improvement. NSCs also increased brain beta-hexosaminidase levels, reduced ganglioside storage and diminished activated microgliosis. Additionally, when oral glycosphingolipid biosynthesis inhibitors (beta-hexosaminidase substrate inhibitors) were combined with NSC transplantation, substantial synergy resulted. Efficacy extended to human NSCs, both to those isolated directly from the central nervous system (CNS) and to those derived secondarily from embryonic stem cells. Appreciating that NSCs exhibit a broad repertoire of potentially therapeutic actions, of which neuronal replacement is but one, may help in formulating rational multimodal strategies for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.

What is the relationship between sodium channel function, neuronal function and clinical status in channelopathies of the nervous system? Given the central role of sodium channels in the generation of neuronal activity, channelopathies involving sodium channels might be expected to cause either enhanced sodium channel function and neuronal hyperexcitability associated with positive clinical manifestations such as seizures, or attenuated channel function and neuronal hypoexcitability associated with negative clinical manifestations such as paralysis. In this article, I review observations showing that changes in neuronal function and clinical status associated with channelopathies are not necessarily predictable solely from the altered physiological properties of the mutated channel itself. I discuss evidence showing that cell background acts as a filter that can strongly influence the effects of ion channel mutations.
The thalamus provides fundamental input to the neocortex. This input activates inhibitory interneurons more strongly than excitatory neurons, triggering powerful feedforward inhibition. We studied the mechanisms of this selective neuronal activation using a mouse somatosensory thalamocortical preparation. Notably, the greater responsiveness of inhibitory interneurons was not caused by their distinctive intrinsic properties but was instead produced by synaptic mechanisms. Axons from the thalamus made stronger and more frequent excitatory connections onto inhibitory interneurons than onto excitatory cells. Furthermore, circuit dynamics allowed feedforward inhibition to suppress responses in excitatory cells more effectively than in interneurons. Thalamocortical excitatory currents rose quickly in interneurons, allowing them to fire action potentials before significant feedforward inhibition emerged. In contrast, thalamocortical excitatory currents rose slowly in excitatory cells, overlapping with feedforward inhibitory currents that suppress action potentials. These results demonstrate the importance of selective synaptic targeting and precise timing in the initial stages of neocortical processing.
The study of age-related memory impairment (AMI) has been hindered by a lack of AMI-specific mutants. In a screen for such mutants in Drosophila melanogaster, we found that heterozygous mutations of DCO (DCO/+), which encodes the major catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), delay AMI more than twofold without affecting lifespan or memory at early ages. AMI is restored when a DCO transgene is expressed in mushroom bodies, structures important for olfactory memory formation. Furthermore, increasing cAMP and PKA activity in mushroom bodies causes premature AMI, whereas reducing activity suppresses AMI. In Drosophila AMI consists of a specific reduction in memory dependent on the amnesiac (amn) gene. amn encodes putative neuropeptides that have been proposed to regulate cAMP levels in mushroom bodies. Notably, both the memory and AMI defects of amn mutants are restored in amn;DCO/+ double mutants, suggesting that AMI is caused by an age-related disruption of amn-dependent memory via PKA activity in mushroom bodies.
Animals, in particular humans, frequently punish other individuals who behave negatively or uncooperatively towards them. In animals, this usually serves to protect the personal interests of the individual concerned, and its kin. However, humans also punish altruistically, in which the act of punishing is personally costly. The propensity to do so has been proposed to reflect the cultural acquisition of norms of behaviour, which incorporates the desire to uphold equity and fairness, and promotes cooperation. Here, we review the proximate neurobiological basis of punishment, considering the motivational processes that underlie punishing actions.
(-)-Noradrenaline and (-)-CGP12177 activate beta(1)-adrenoceptors through a high (H)- and low-affinity (L) site, respectively. The positive inotropic effects of (-)-noradrenaline are blunted by phosphodiesterase4 (PDE4) but not PDE3, while both PDE isoenzymes, acting in concert, prevent the effects of (-)-CGP12177 through beta(1)-adrenoceptors in rat ventricle. We sought to unravel the role of PDE3 and PDE4 on signals through the H and L sites in human myocardium. The kinetics of matching positive inotropic effects of (-)-noradrenaline (20 nM) and (-)-CGP12177 (100 nM) were investigated on human atrial trabeculae in the absence and presence of the PDE3 inhibitor cilostamide (300 nM), PDE4 inhibitor rolipram (1 microM) or both. The influence of cilostamide and rolipram on agonist-evoked cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) increases were also compared in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing recombinant human beta1 -adrenoceptors. (-)-Noradrenaline and (-)-CGP12177 caused matching inotropic responses that faded during a 60-min time course. Cilostamide, but not rolipram, increased the positive inotropic effects and abolished the time dependent fade of both agonists. In CHO cells, rolipram, but not cilostamide, enhanced the cAMP signals caused by both (-)-noradrenaline and (-)-CGP12177. PDE3, but not PDE4, blunts the positive inotropic effects of both (-)-noradrenaline and (-)-CGP12177 through H and L sites, respectively, of human atrial beta1 -adrenoceptors. However, in CHO cells, PDE4 blunts the cAMP signals of both (-)-noradrenaline and (-)-CGP12177. Neither CHO cells nor the rat ventricle are appropriate models for the beta1 -adrenoceptor-evoked signalling to PDE3 observed in human atrium.
REM or dreaming sleep is one of three states of consciousness. It is characterized by rapid eye movements, muscle atonia, desynchronized EEG, and autonomic dysregulation. A dysfunction of one of these four cardinal traits explains the primary disorders of REM sleep, including REM sleep behavior disorder and narcolepsy. Although seen in other stages, sleep apnea syndrome, coronary syndromes, and stroke are strongly triggered by the autonomic dysregulation of REM sleep. REM sleep has an antiepileptic effect, which has not yet been used in clinical practice. It favors procedural memory, but not declarative memory. While present neurophysiologic theories, backed up by new neuroimaging techniques, preferentially explore the genesis of REM sleep, psychodynamic theories have searched for its raison d'tre by focusing on mentally stabilizing or purifying effects of dreaming. The exploding interest in dreaming sleep, images, and imaging may also yield a harvest for clinical medicine, and further perplexing findings, such as RBD as harbinger of parkinsonism should be expected.
The brain extracts useful features from a maelstrom of sensory information, and a fundamental goal of theoretical neuroscience is to work out how it does so. One proposed feature extraction strategy is motivated by the observation that the meaning of sensory data, such as the identity of a moving visual object, is often more persistent than the activation of any single sensory receptor. This notion is embodied in the slow feature analysis (SFA) algorithm, which uses &quot;slowness&quot; as a heuristic by which to extract semantic information from multidimensional time series. Here, we develop a probabilistic interpretation of this algorithm, showing that inference and learning in the limiting case of a suitable probabilistic model yield exactly the results of SFA. Similar equivalences have proved useful in interpreting and extending comparable algorithms such as independent component analysis. For SFA, we use the equivalent probabilistic model as a conceptual springboard with which to motivate several novel extensions to the algorithm.


We have shown that neuropeptide Y (NPY) regulates neurogenesis in the normal dentate gyrus (DG) via Y(1) receptors (Howell, O.W., Scharfman, H.E., Herzog, H., Sundstrom, L.E., Beck-Sickinger, A. and Gray, W.P. (2003) Neuropeptide Y is neuroproliferative for post-natal hippocampal precursor cells. J Neurochem, 86, 646-659; Howell, O.W., Doyle, K., Goodman, J.H., Scharfman, H.E., Herzog, H., Pringle, A., Beck-Sickinger, A.G. and Gray, W.P. (2005) Neuropeptide Y stimulates neuronal precursor proliferation in the post-natal and adult dentate gyrus. J Neurochem, 93, 560-570). This regulation may be relevant to epilepsy, because seizures increase both NPY expression and precursor cell proliferation in the DG. Therefore, the effects of NPY on DG precursors were evaluated in normal conditions and after status epilepticus. In addition, potentially distinct NPY-responsive precursors were identified, and an analysis performed not only of the DG, but also the caudal subventricular zone (cSVZ) and subcallosal zone (SCZ) where seizures modulate glial precursors. We show a proliferative effect of NPY on multipotent nestin cells expressing the stem cell marker Lewis-X from both the DG and the cSVZ/SCZ in vitro. We confirm an effect on proliferation in the cSVZ/SCZ of Y(1) receptor(-/-) mice and demonstrate a significant reduction in basal and seizure-induced proliferation in the DG of NPY(-/-) mice.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive decline in cognitive function associated with the neuropathological hallmarks amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Because aging is the major risk factor for AD, and dietary energy restriction can retard aging processes in the brain, we tested the hypothesis that two different energy restriction regimens, 40% calorie restriction (CR) and intermittent fasting (IF) can protect against cognitive decline in the triple-transgenic mouse model of AD (3xTgAD mice). Groups of 3xTgAD mice were maintained on an ad libitum control diet, or CR or IF diets, beginning at 3 months of age. Half of the mice in each diet group were subjected to behavioral testing (Morris swim task and open field apparatus) at 10 months of age and the other half at 17 months of age. At 10 months 3xTgAD mice on the control diet exhibited reduced exploratory activity compared to non-transgenic mice and to 3xTgAD mice on CR and IF diets. Overall, there were no major differences in performance in the water maze among genotypes or diets in 10-month-old mice. In 17-month-old 3xTgAD mice the CR and IF groups exhibited higher levels of exploratory behavior, and performed better in both the goal latency and probe trials of the swim task, compared to 3xTgAD mice on the control diet. 3xTgAD mice in the CR group showed lower levels of Abeta1-40, Abeta1-42 and phospho-tau in the hippocampus compared to the control diet group, whereas Abeta and phospho-tau levels were not decreased in 3xTgAD mice in the IF group. IF may therefore protect neurons against adverse effects of Abeta and tau pathologies on synaptic function. We conclude that CR and IF dietary regimens can ameliorate age-related deficits in cognitive function by mechanisms that may or may not be related to Abeta and tau pathologies.
Neuronal degeneration linked to apoptosis can be inhibited by a family of proteins known as inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (IAPs). We examined three members of the IAP family that are implicated in the regulation of neuronal death. We assessed NAIP, XIAP, and cIAP-2 protein levels in the entorhinal cortex of non-demented, cognitively impaired and Alzheimer's disease cases. Levels of paired helical filament-1 (PHF-1), a marker of neurofibrillary tangles, were assessed to determine their relationship to IAP levels. NAIP was decreased in AD cases compared to mildly impaired and unimpaired cases, and this decrease was associated with increased PHF-1 levels. Low NAIP levels were associated with higher Braak and Braak tangle stage and cognitive dysfunction. XIAP levels were higher in AD cases and cIAP-2 levels did not vary with clinical status. Our data suggest that decreased NAIP may place neurons at risk for the development of tangles and apoptosis.
Exogenously provided NGF enhances cognitive performance in impaired rodents and humans and is currently a promising compound for the treatment of dementia. To investigate whether NGF-dependent cognitive improvement may be due in part to increased hippocampal neurogenesis, adult and aged male rats were treated with NGF or vehicle intracerebroventricularly for 6 or 20 days followed by evaluation of cholinergic parameters and hippocampal neurogenesis. We show that NGF increases hippocampal cholinergic activity as rapidly as 3 days after initiation of treatment. NGF treatment for 6 days did not affect proliferation of progenitor cells in the dentate gyrus granule cell layer (GCL). However, continuous NGF infusion enhanced survival of new neurons in the GCL of young adult, but not aged rats. Taken together, these findings suggest that NGF, likely mediated through increased cholinergic tone, promotes neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus, which may relate to the nootropic action of NGF.
We report a patient with a focal degenerative disorder and very circumscribed neuropsychological deficits, the evolution of which we were able to study over a lengthy period. For years, he presented with only a speech production impediment that clinical observations and experimental studies enabled us to identify as a phonological buffer disorder. Subsequently, he developed agrammatism that appeared to be largely due to his inability to produce pronouns and auxiliary verbs. Remarkably, throughout our studies, even when he was virtually rendered mute, his ability to name objects on demand in writing remained intact. We discuss his case from clinical and theoretical perspectives.
NPY is present in the retina of different species but its role is not elucidated yet. In this work, using different rat retina in vitro models (whole retina, retinal cells in culture, microglial cell cultures, rat Mller cell line and retina endothelial cell line), we demonstrated that NPY staining is present in the retina in different cell types: neurons, macroglial, microglial and endothelial cells. Retinal cells in culture express NPY Y(1), Y(2), Y(4) and Y(5) receptors. Retina endothelial cells express all NPY receptors except NPY Y(5) receptor. Moreover, NPY is released from retinal cells in culture upon depolarization. In this study we showed for the first time that NPY is present in rat retina microglial cells and also in rat Mller cells. These in vitro models may open new perspectives to study the physiology and the potential pathophysiological role of NPY in the retina.
The effect of latrunculin A microperfusion on hippocampal extracellular concentrations of glutamate, aspartate, glycine and GABA, as measured by in vivo microdialysis, was investigated. Latrunculin A (4 microg/ml) was perfused for three consecutive days (8h a day) to promote in vivo F-actin depolymerization. Intrahippocampal latrunculin A microdialysis induced seizures during the second and third day of perfusion, and the animals started showing spontaneous seizures 1 month after lartrunculin A administration. Hippocampal glutamate levels were significantly increased during the first day of latrunculin A microperfusion without significant changes during the second and third day of perfusion. Aspartate levels were significantly increased during the first and second days of treatment. The rise on glutamate and asparate levels was partially reversed by perfusion of NMDA antagonist MK-801. Glycine concentrations were significantly increased during the 3 days of latrunculin A microdialyis, but no significant effect was observed on baseline GABA levels. One month after latrunculin A microperfusion, no significant differences in glutamate and aspartate extracellular concentrations were detected as compared to controls, however, significant increases in glycine and GABA extracellular concentrations were observed. The immediate increases in glutamate, aspartate and glycine levels indicate a modulatory effect of the F-actin cytoskeleton on extracellular concentrations of glutamate, aspartate and glycine. The chronic elevations in GABA and glycine levels are more likely to be related with long-term epileptogenesis processes. Our results suggest that the in vivo biochemical study of actin-dependent processes seems to be a promising approach to the neuropathology and neuropharmacology of epileptic seizures.
Metabolic alterations are a key player involved in the onset of Alzheimer disease pathophysiology and, in this review, we focus on diet, metabolic rate, and neuronal size differences that have all been shown to play etiological and pathological roles in Alzheimer disease. Specifically, one of the earliest manifestations of brain metabolic depression in these patients is a sustained high caloric intake meaning that general diet is an important factor to take in account. Moreover, atrophy in the vasculature and a reduced glucose transporter activity for the vessels is also a common feature in Alzheimer disease. Finally, the overall size of neurons is larger in cases of Alzheimer disease than that of age-matched controls and, in individuals with Alzheimer disease, neuronal size inversely correlates with disease duration and positively associates with oxidative stress. Overall, clarifying cellular and molecular manifestations involved in metabolic alterations may contribute to a better understanding of early Alzheimer disease pathophysiology.
Since the discovery of the significance of the cholesterol-carrying apolipoprotein E and cholesterolaemia as major risk factors for Alzheimer's Disease (AD) there has been a mounting interest in the role of this lipid as a possible pathogenic agent. In this review we analyse the current evidence linking cholesterol metabolism and regulation in the CNS with the known mechanisms underlying the development of Alzheimer's Disease. Cholesterol is known to affect amyloid-beta generation and toxicity, although it must be considered that the results studies using the statin class of drugs to lower plasma cholesterol may be affected by other effects associated with these drugs. Finally, we report some of our results pointing at the interplay between neurons and astrocytes and NADPH oxidase activation as a new candidate mechanism linking cholesterol and AD pathology.
Within the central nervous system, tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) is an essential cofactor for dopamine and serotonin synthesis. In addition, BH4 is now established to be an essential cofactor for all isoforms of nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Inborn errors of metabolism affecting BH4 availability are well documented and the clinical presentation can be attributed to a paucity of dopamine, serotonin, and nitric oxide (NO) generation. In this article, we have focussed upon the sensitivity of BH4 to oxidative catabolism and the observation that when BH4 is limiting some cellular sources of NOS may generate superoxide whilst other BH4 saturated NOS enzymes may be generating NO. Such a scenario could favor peroxynitrite generation. If peroxynitrite is not scavenged, e.g., by antioxidants such as reduced glutathione, irreversible damage to critical cellular enzymes could ensue. Such targets include components of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, alpha ketoglutarate dehydrogenase and possibly pyruvate dehydrogenase. Such a cascade of events is hypothesized, in this article, to occur in neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease.
NAD(P)H autofluorescence was used to verify establishment of metabolic anoxia using primary cultures of cortical neurons and astrocytes. Cells on cover slips were placed in a chamber and O(2) was displaced by continuous infusion of argon. Perfusion with medium at PO(2) &lt; 0.4 mm Hg caused an increase in NAD(P)H fluorescence, albeit to levels lower than that obtained with cyanide. Addition of the nitric oxide-generating agent DETA-NO to the hypoxic medium further increased fluorescence to the level with cyanide. Fluorescence under anoxia remained high in the presence of glucose, but declined in neurons and not in astrocytes when glucose was substituted with 2-deoxyglucose. Reoxygenation of neurons resulted in a decline in fluorescence and a loss in fluorescent gradient between fully reduced and fully oxidized (plus respiratory uncoupler). We conclude that (1) DETA-NO is useful for generating metabolic anoxia in the presence of argon (2) Exogenous glucose is necessary to maintain NAD(P)H in a reduced state during metabolic anoxia in neurons but not astrocytes (3) Neurons undergo a partially irreversible decline in NAD(P)H fluorescence during metabolic anoxia and reoxygenation that could contribute to prolonged metabolic failure.
Loss of oligodendrocytes (OLs) is often associated with demyelination. PDGF-AA, bFGF, NT3 and IGF-1 are known to regulate OL proliferation, survival and/or differentiation. Following cuprizone-induced demyelination in mice a combination of above four growth factors (GF) was intracranially injected to stimulate remyelination in vivo. Activation of cell signaling and transcription factors involved in cell proliferation, survival and differentiation was observed in response to GF. Increased cell proliferation and migration occurred in corpus callosum, lateral ventricles, rostral migratory stream and cerebri at 2-5 days post injection (dpi) of GF cocktail. The fate of these newly formed nestin or bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) positive progenitors was traced to proteoglycan NG2 and glutathione transferase (GST) pi positive cells, early and mature OL lineage markers, respectively. Immunostaining for myelin showed the presence of more myelinated fibers in GF-injected brains at 21 dpi. Remyelination in response to GF was confirmed by electron microscopy. In conclusion, this combination of GF is a promising tool to consider for remyelination strategies.
In this review, I discuss the possibility that Abeta42 has a physiologic function in blood vessel homeostasis and the consequences that this might have for theories concerning the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and for treatment.
Intraneuronal deposition of filamentous tau is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related tauopathies. We developed previously a cellular model recapitulating such tau anomaly and demonstrated therein consistent production of 70-kD tau. Importantly, the 70-kD species appears to derive from tau fragments with carboxy-terminal truncation and is larger than intact tau in size, suggesting the oligomeric nature in its assembly from tau. To generate the 70-kD tau in sufficient quantity for its characterization at the molecular level, we explored and demonstrated herein that cytosine beta-D-arabinofuranoside is a useful paradigm modifier to increase production of the 70-kD tau. Such oligomeric tau was enriched thereafter by immunoprecipitation to remove tau species with intact carboxy-terminus. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed that the 70-kD tau has an isoelectric point of 5.8-6.0. Future elucidation of key aggregates will provide valuable insights into the natural history of neurofibrillary degeneration and identify novel targets to develop therapeutic interventions.
Nitric oxide has been strongly implicated in the development of tissue infarction in response to focal cerebral ischemia. Nitric oxide and its derivatives can inhibit components of the electron transport chain, providing a likely target for these substances in ischemic and post-ischemic brain. Lactate content is increased during post-ischemic reperfusion in tissue destined to become infarcted, consistent with impairment of mitochondrial respiration. To investigate the possible involvement of nitric oxide in generating these changes, we have tested the effect of 7-nitroindazole, a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, on the content of lactate and other metabolites during early reperfusion following temporary focal ischemia. This treatment inhibited total NOS by approximately 50%. However, the treatment did not significantly affect the marked increases in lactate in post-ischemic brain nor did it alter the recovery of other energy-related metabolites. These findings indicate that inhibition of oxidative metabolism is probably not the primary site of the deleterious effects of nitric oxide and derivatives during early post-ischemic reperfusion.
The structure and function of neurons is dynamic during development and in adaptive responses of the adult nervous system to environmental demands. The mechanisms that regulate neuronal plasticity are poorly understood, but are believed to involve neurotransmitter and neurotrophic factor signaling pathways. In the present article, I review emerging evidence that mitochondria play important roles in regulating developmental and adult neuroplasticity. In neurons, mitochondria are located in axons, dendrites, growth cones and pre- and post-synaptic terminals where their movements and functions are regulated by local signals such as neurotrophic factors and calcium influx. Mitochondria play important roles in fundamental developmental processes including the establishment of axonal polarity and the regulation of neurite outgrowth, and are also involved in synaptic plasticity in the mature nervous system. Abnormalities in mitochondria are associated with neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders, suggesting a therapeutic potential for approaches that target mitochondrial mechanisms.

Normal gastrointestinal (GI) motility is required to mix digestive enzymes and food and to move content along the GI tract. Underlying the complex motor patterns of the gut are electrical events that reflect ion flux across cell membranes. Smooth muscle electrical activity is directly influenced by GI interstitial cells of Cajal, whose rhythmic oscillations in membrane potential in part determine the excitability of GI smooth muscle and its response to neuronal input. Coordinated activity of the ion channels responsible for the conductances that underlie ion flux in both smooth muscle and interstitial cells is a requisite for normal motility. These conductances are regulated by many factors, including mechanical stress. Recent studies have revealed mechanosensitivity at the level of the ion channels, and the mechanosensor within the channel has been identified in many cases. This has led to better comprehension of the role of mechanosensitive conductances in normal physiology and will undoubtedly lead to understanding of the consequences of disturbances in these conductances.
Leucine-rich repeat kinase 1 gene (LRRK1) on chromosome 15q26.3 is a paralog of LRRK2 in which multiple substitutions were recently linked to Parkinson's disease. We have examined the exon-intron structure of the gene and the expressed mRNA sequence in brain. LRRK1 sequencing analysis in 95 probands from families with autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease identified 23 variants, 14 of which are novel, with four resulting in non-synonymous amino acid substitutions. These four substitutions are rare and do not clearly segregate with disease within our families or associate with sporadic Parkinson's disease in a US case-control series. Subsequent sequencing of exon 26 encoding the kinase activation segment in an additional 360 probands identified one further synonymous variant, suggesting that LRRK1 variants are not a frequent cause of Parkinson's disease. The relative absence of substitutions within LRRK1 highlights a greater conservation of sequence than observed for LRRK2. Comparison of evolutionary interspecies sequences of LRRK1 and LRRK2 suggests they diverged from a common founder gene.
Sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by progressive death of dopaminergic neurons within the substantia nigra. However, pathological cell death within this nucleus is not uniform. In PD, the lateral tier of the substantia nigra (SNl) degenerates earlier and more severely than the more medial nigral component (SNm). The cause of this brain regional vulnerability remains unknown. We have used DNA oligonucleotide microarrays to compare gene expression profiles from the SNl to those of the SNm in both PD and control cases. Genes expressed more highly in the PD SNl included the cell death gene, p53 effector related to PMP22, the tumour necrosis factor (TNF) receptor gene, TNF receptor superfamily, member 21, and the mitochondrial complex I gene, NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) 1beta subcomplex, 3, 12 kDa (NDUFbeta3). Genes that were more highly expressed in PD SNm included the dopamine cell signalling gene, cyclic adenosine monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein, 21 kDa, the activated macrophage gene, stabilin 1, and two glutathione peroxidase (GPX) genes, GPX1 and GPX3. Thus, there is increased expression of genes encoding pro-inflammatory cytokines and subunits of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, and there is a decreased expression of several glutathione-related genes in the SNl suggesting a molecular basis for pathoclisis. Importantly, some of the genes that are differentially regulated in the SNl are known to be expressed highly or predominantely in glial cells. These findings support the view that glial cells can be primarily affected in PD emphasizing the importance of using a whole tissue approach when investigating degenerative CNS disease.
Using the ER-fMRI technique, the present study was designed to investigate the neural substrates of language switching among second-language learners. Twelve Chinese college students who were learning English were scanned when they performed language switching tasks (naming pictures in their first [L1, Chinese] and second [L2, English] languages according to response cues). Compared to non-switching conditions, language switching elicited greater activation in the right superior prefrontal cortex (BA9/10/32), left middle and superior frontal cortex (BA8/9/46), and right middle cingulum and caudate (BA11). When the direction of switching was considered, forward switching (from L1 to L2), but not backward switching (from L2 to L1), activated several brain regions related to executive functions (i.e., bilateral frontal cortices and left ACC) relative to non-switching conditions. These results suggest that neural correlates of language switching differ depending on the direction of the switch and that there does not seem to be a specific brain area acting as a &quot;language switch&quot;.
Gamma activity to stationary grating stimuli was studied non-invasively using MEG recordings in humans. Using a spatial filtering technique, we localized gamma activity to primary visual cortex. We tested the hypothesis that spatial frequency properties of visual stimuli may be related to the temporal frequency characteristics of the associated cortical responses. We devised a method to assess temporal frequency differences between stimulus-related responses that typically exhibit complex spectral shapes. We applied this methodology to either single-trial (induced) or time-averaged (evoked) responses in four frequency ranges (0-40, 20-60, 40-80 and 60-100 Hz) and two time windows (either the entire duration of stimulus presentation or the first second following stimulus onset). Our results suggest that stimuli of varying spatial frequency induce responses that exhibit significantly different temporal frequency characteristics. These effects were particularly accentuated for induced responses in the classical gamma frequency band (20-60 Hz) analyzed over the entire duration of stimulus presentation. Strikingly, examining the first second of the responses following stimulus onset resulted in significant loss in stimulus specificity, suggesting that late signal components contain functionally relevant information. These findings advocate a functional role of gamma activity in sensory representation. We suggest that stimulus specific frequency characteristics of MEG signals can be mapped to processes of neuronal synchronization within the framework of coupled dynamical systems.
One of the most remarkable disorders following brain damage is prosopagnosia, the inability to recognize faces. While a number of cases of prosopagnosia have been described at the behavioral level, the functional neuroanatomy of this face recognition impairment, and thus the brain regions critically involved in normal face recognition, has never been specified in great detail. Here, we used anatomical and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to present the detailed functional neuroanatomy of a single case of acquired prosopagnosia (PS; Rossion, B., Caldara, R., Seghier, M., Schuller, A.-M., Lazeyras, F., Mayer, E., 2003a. A network of occipito-temporal face-sensitive areas besides the right middle fusiform gyrus is necessary for normal face processing. Brain 126, 2381-95; Rossion, B., Joyce, C.A., Cottrell, G.W., Tarr, M.J., 2003b. Early lateralization and orientation tuning for face, word, and object processing in the visual cortex. Neuroimage 20, 1609-24) with normal object recognition. First, we clarify the exact anatomical location and extent of PS' lesions in relation to (a) retinotopic cortex, (b) face-preferring regions, and (c) other classical visual regions. PS' main lesion - most likely causing her prosopagnosia - is localized in the posterior part of the right ventral occipitotemporal cortex. This lesion causes a left superior paracentral scotoma, as frequently observed in cases of prosopagnosia. While the borders of the early visual areas in the left hemisphere could be delineated well, the extensive posterior right-sided lesion hampered a full specification of the cortical representation of the left visual field. Using multiple scanning runs, face-preferring activation was detected within the right middle fusiform gyrus (MFG) in the so-called 'fusiform face area' ('FFA'), but also in the left inferior occipital gyrus (left 'OFA'), and in the right posterior superior temporal sulcus (STS). The dorsal part of the lateral occipital complex (LOC) and the human middle temporal cortex (hMT+/V5) were localized bilaterally. The color-preferring region V4/V8 was localized only in the left hemisphere. In the right hemisphere, the posterior lesion spared the ventral part of LOC, a region that may be critical for the preserved object recognition abilities of the patient, and the restriction of her deficit to the category of faces. The presumptive functions of both structurally damaged and preserved regions are discussed and new hypotheses regarding the impaired and preserved abilities of the patient during face and non-face object processing are derived. Fine-grained neurofunctional analyses of brain-damaged single cases with isolated recognition deficits may considerably improve our knowledge of the brain regions critically involved in specific visual functions, such as face recognition.
This study compared the patterns of brain activation elicited by single-digit addition and multiplication problems. 20 Chinese undergraduates were asked to verify whether arithmetic equations were true or false during functional magnetic resonance imaging. Results showed that both addition and multiplication were supported by a broad neural system that involved regions within SMA, precentral gyrus, intraparietal sulcus, occipital gyri, superior temporal gyrus, and middle frontal gyrus, as well as some subcortical structures. Nevertheless, addition problems elicited more activation in the intraparietal sulcus and middle occipital gyri at the right hemisphere, and superior occipital gyri at both hemispheres, whereas multiplication had more activation in precentral gyrus, supplementary motor areas, and posterior and anterior superior temporal gyrus at the left hemisphere. This pattern of dissociated activation supports our hypothesis that addition has greater reliance on visuospatial processing and multiplication on verbal processing.
The macaque striate cortex (V1) contains neurons that respond preferentially to various hues. The properties of these hue-selective neurons have been studied extensively at the single-unit level, but it is unclear how stimulus hue is represented by the distribution of activity across neuronal populations in V1. Here we use the intrinsic optical signal to image V1 responses to spatially uniform stimuli of various hues. We found that (1) each of these stimuli activates an array of patches in the supragranular layers of the parafoveal V1; (2) the patches activated by different hues overlapped partially; 3) the peak locations of these patches were determined by stimulus hue. The peaks associated with various hues form well-separated clusters, in which nearby peaks represent perceptually similar hues. Each cluster represents a full gamut of hue in a small cortical area ( approximately 160 microm long). The hue order is preserved within each peak cluster, but the clusters have various geometrical shapes. These clusters were co-localized with regions that responded preferentially to chromatic gratings compared with achromatic ones. Our results suggest that V1 contains an array of hue maps, in which the hue of a stimulus is represented by the location of the peak response to the stimulus. The orderly, organized hue maps in V1, together with the recently discovered hue maps in the extrastriate cortical area V2, are likely to play an important role in hue perception in primates.
Identifying the sequence of computations which constitute a cognitive task is a fundamental problem in neuroscience. Here we show, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), that we can parse, at the time scale of about 100 ms, the different stages of brain activations which compose a complex sequential task. To identify timing information from the slow blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal response, we use a simple analytic method, based on periodic stimulation and an analysis of covariation of the spectral parameters (phase and power spectrum at the stimulation frequency) with the different experimental conditions. We implement this strategy in a sequential task, where the onset and duration of different stages are under experimental control. We are able to detect changes in onset latency and in the duration of the response, in an invariant fashion across different brain regions, and reconstruct the stream of activations consistent with five distinct stages of processing of the task. Sensory and motor clusters activate in the expected order and for the expected duration. The timing of sensory activations is more precise than the timing of motor activation. We also parse in time the reading-verbal network: visual extrastriate and phonological access regions (supramarginal gyrus) activate at the time of word presentation, while the inferior frontal gyrus, the anterior cingulate and the supplementary motor area are activated during the rehearsal period.
We present a novel system for storing and manipulating microscopic images from sections through the brain and higher-level data extracted from such images. The system is designed and built on a three-tier paradigm and provides the research community with a web-based interface for facile use in neuroscience research. The Oracle relational database management system provides the ability to store a variety of objects relevant to the images and provides the framework for complex querying of data stored in the system. Further, the suite of applications intimately tied into the infrastructure in the application layer provide the user the ability not only to query and visualize the data, but also to perform analysis operations based on the tools embedded into the system. The presentation layer uses extant protocols of the modern web browser and this provides ease of use of the system. The present release, named Functional Anatomy of the Cerebro-Cerebellar System (FACCS), available through The Rodent Brain Workbench (http:// rbwb.org/), is targeted at the functional anatomy of the cerebro-cerebellar system in rats, and holds axonal tracing data from these projections. The system is extensible to other circuits and projections and to other categories of image data and provides a unique environment for analysis of rodent brain maps in the context of anatomical data. The FACCS application assumes standard animal brain atlas models and can be extended to future models. The system is available both for interactive use from a remote web-browser client as well as for download to a local server machine.
This note describes a software utility, called X-batch which addresses two pressing issues typically faced by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) neuroimaging laboratories (1) analysis automation and (2) data management. The first issue is addressed by providing a simple batch mode processing tool for the popular SPM software package (http://www.fil.ion. ucl.ac.uk/spm/; Welcome Department of Imaging Neuroscience, London, UK). The second is addressed by transparently recording metadata describing all aspects of the batch job (e.g., subject demographics, analysis parameters, locations and names of created files, date and time of analysis, and so on). These metadata are recorded as instances of an extended version of the Protg-based Experiment Lab Book ontology created by the Dartmouth fMRI Data Center. The resulting instantiated ontology provides a detailed record of all fMRI analyses performed, and as such can be part of larger systems for neuroimaging data management, sharing, and visualization. The X-batch system is in use in our own fMRI research, and is available for download at http://X-batch.sourceforge.net/.
We present our initial experience with the high field (1.5T) intra-operative magnetic resonance imaging, the operating room set-up, our initial cases, the difficulties we faced and how this tool affected a change in the surgical strategy intra-operatively and finally our results. 11 patients were operated on from June 1st to August 1st 2006 of which there were astrocytomas (7), pituitary adenoma (1), craniopharyngioma (1) and meningiomas (2) Localization and lesion targeting were accurate, intra-operative imaging helped to assess the resection volumes, enable corrections for brain shift, perform further tumor resection at the same sitting and help preserve eloquent cortical areas. Gliomas formed 63.6% of the tumors operated on and in 71.4% of these, our surgical strategy changed intra-operatively. Meningiomas formed 9.1% of the tumors operated and image guidance enabled a minimally invasive approach, although no change in our surgical plan was required. One pituitary adenoma and a craniopharyngioma were also operated on with good outcome.
The authors report a rare case of acute ipsilateral blindness that occurred after a standard fronto-temporal craniotomy for aneurysm in supine position. Posterior ischemic optic neuropathy caused by external pressure on the ipsilateral eye, its differentials and subsequent medico-legal implications are discussed.
Recurrence of coiled aneurysm usually due to coil compaction is a known phenomenon. Extent of recurrence and its relation to re-bleeding is not known. The authors report a case of spontaneous asymptomatic extrusion of guglielmi detachable coils from the dome of a previously ruptured anterior communicating artery aneurysm two years after the initial endovascular obliteration. The initial aneurysm had a suitable neck-aspect ratio for endovascular obliteration with uncomplicated coiling procedure. Extreme degree of coil compaction with subsequent expulsion of the coils from the dome due to water-hammer effect of blood flow is thought to be the main pathogenic mechanism of this rare but worrying complication. Surgical management includes clipping at the neck ensuring complete obliteration of the aneurysm. Postoperative angiogram to confirm its satisfactory obliteration is advised.


In order to characterize, at the clinical, molecular and imaging level, myopathies due to MYH7 gene mutations, MYH7 gene analysis was conducted by RT-PCR/SSCP/sequencing in two patients diagnosed with myosin storage myopathy and 17 patients diagnosed with scapulo-peroneal myopathy of unknown etiology. MYH7 gene studies revealed the 5533C&gt;T mutation (Arg1845Trp) in both myosin storage myopathy and in 2 of the 17 scapulo-peroneal patients studied. 5533C&gt;T segregation analysis in the mutation carrier families identified 11 additional patients. The clinical spectrum in our cohort of patients included asymptomatic hyperCKemia, scapulo-peroneal myopathy and proximal and distal myopathy with muscle hypertrophy. Muscle MRI identified a unique pattern in the posterior compartment of the thigh, characterized by early involvement of the biceps femoris and semimembranosus, with relative sparing of the semitendinosus. Muscle biopsy revealed hyaline bodies in only half of biopsied patients (2/4). In conclusion, phenotypic and histopathological variability may underlie MYH7 gene mutation and the absence of hyaline bodies in muscle biopsies does not rule out MYH7 gene mutations.
CART (cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript) peptides appear to be mediators or modulators of psychostimulant drugs. An interesting result in the nucleus accumbens has been that injection of CART peptide has no effect by itself on locomotor activity, but it reduces the locomotor activity induced by cocaine or amphetamine. However, in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), injections of CART peptide have been shown to increase locomotor activity, although to a lesser degree [Kimmel, H.L., Gong, W., Vechia, S.D., Hunter, R.G., Kuhar, M.J., 2000. Intra-ventral tegmental area injection of rat cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptide 55-102 induces locomotor activity and promotes conditioned place preference. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 294, 784-792]. This study was carried out to clarify the interaction of intra-VTA CART 55-102 and systemic cocaine on locomotor activity. The CART-cocaine interaction has been examined using the rigorous isobolographic approach. This type of analysis permits an assessment of additivity, subadditivity, or synergism of two substances. By measuring locomotor activity and using a range of doses of CART peptide and cocaine, both alone and together, with different dosing strategies, clear evidence of subadditivity was found. CART reduced the locomotor activating effects of systemic cocaine, especially at higher doses of CART. These results imply that intra-VTA CART is not simply acting in the same manner as cocaine, and is likely to oppose the action of cocaine. This has implications for the physiological significance of CART-DA (dopamine) interactions and for medications development.
Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptors (S1P1-5) are activated by the endogenous agonist S1P and are expressed in the central nervous system. In astrocytes, activation of S1P receptors leads to phosphorylation of extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK), a signaling cascade which plays intimate roles in cell proliferation. Fingolimod (FTY720) is in phase III clinical trials for the treatment of multiple sclerosis and its phosphorylated version (FTY720P) activates S1P receptors. We examined the effects of FTY720P on ERK phosphorylation and determined which S1P receptor subtype(s) mediated this signaling event. FTY720P augmented ERK phosphorylation in cortical cultures prepared from embryonic day 18 rat brains and was blocked by an MEK inhibitor or by pertussis toxin. Co-localisation of phosphorylated ERK occurred in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) positive astrocytes but not neurons or oligodendrocytes. Furthermore, FTY720P stimulated ERK phosphorylation in highly enriched astrocyte cultures made from postnatal day 2 rat cortices. The effects of FTY720P were mimicked by selective S1P1 receptor agonists and blocked by S1P1 receptor antagonists. Collectively, these results demonstrate that FTY720P mediates ERK phosphorylation in astrocytes via the activation of S1P1 receptors.
Improgan, a chemical congener of cimetidine, is a highly effective non-opioid analgesic when injected into the CNS. Despite extensive characterization, neither the improgan receptor, nor a pharmacological antagonist of improgan has been previously described. Presently, the specific binding of [(3)H]cimetidine (3HCIM) in brain fractions was used to discover 4(5)-((4-iodobenzyl)thiomethyl)-1H-imidazole, which behaved in vivo as the first improgan antagonist. The synthesis and pharmacological properties of this drug (named CC12) are described herein. In rats, CC12 (50-500nmol, i.c.v.) produced dose-dependent inhibition of improgan (200-400nmol) antinociception on the tail flick and hot plate tests. When given alone to rats, CC12 had no effects on nociceptive latencies, or on other observable behavioral or motor functions. Maximal inhibitory effects of CC12 (500nmol) were fully surmounted with a large i.c.v. dose of improgan (800nmol), demonstrating competitive antagonism. In mice, CC12 (200-400nmol, i.c.v.) behaved as a partial agonist, producing incomplete improgan antagonism, but also limited antinociception when given alone. Radioligand binding, receptor autoradiography, and electrophysiology experiments showed that CC12's antagonist properties are not explained by activity at 25 sites relevant to analgesia, including known receptors for cannabinoids, opioids or histamine. The use of CC12 as an improgan antagonist will facilitate the characterization of improgan analgesia. Furthermore, because CC12 was also found presently to inhibit opioid and cannabinoid antinociception, it is suggested that this drug modifies a biochemical mechanism shared by several classes of analgesics. Elucidation of this mechanism will enhance understanding of the biochemistry of pain relief.
The pentameric 5-HT(3) receptor complex is a ligand-gated ion channel that mediates fast synaptic transmission in the brain. Expression of two subunits (5-HT(3A) and 5-HT(3B) subunits) gives rise to at least two receptor isoforms (homomeric 5-HT(3A) and heteromeric 5-HT(3A/3B) receptors), which differ in their biophysical characteristics, although expression of these proteins has not been investigated in human brain. The expression of h5-HT(3A) and 5-HT(3B) subunits in the human hippocampus was investigated using selective polyclonal antibodies (SDS-PAGE/Western blotting, immunohistochemistry), with expression of each subunit verified by PCR detection of subunit transcripts. 5-HT(3A) and 5-HT(3B) subunit immunoreactivity was identified within the human hippocampus. The cellular pattern of expression for each subunit was similar, with predominant immunoreactivity associated with pyramidal neurones in CA fields 2 and 3, and also the relatively large neurones within the hilus (CA4 field). Transcripts for each subunit were also identified in human hippocampal tissue. These findings indicate that human hippocampal neurones are capable of forming at least two, functionally different, isoforms of the 5-HT(3) receptor. Furthermore the expression pattern of 5-HT(3A) and 5-HT(3B) subunits in human hippocampus appears to differ with the rodent counterpart, which may underlie the differences in some of the behavioural effects of 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists between these species.
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is a common, typically persistent, and disabling condition that is often not recognised, or treated in an evidence-based manner. Current pharmacological and psychological treatment approaches have a number of drawbacks, including a delay in onset of clinical effect, varying relative efficacy against psychological or somatic symptoms of anxiety, potentially troublesome adverse effects, and discontinuation symptoms on stopping treatment. Pregabalin is a structural analog of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) but is thought to exert its anxiolytic effects through binding in a state-dependent manner to the alpha-2-delta sub-unit of voltage-gated calcium channels in &quot;over-excited&quot; pre-synaptic neurones, reducing release of excitatory neurotransmitters such as glutamate and substance P. At fixed doses of 200 mg/day or greater, it has consistent proven efficacy in acute treatment of DSM-IV-defined GAD, with some evidence of an early onset of clinical effect, and of efficacy across psychological and somatic anxiety symptom clusters. A pregabalin dosage of 450 mg/day is efficacious in the prevention of relapse. There is at present no published direct comparison with an SSRI. The current known adverse effect profile and studies in healthy volunteers together suggest that pregabalin may have some tolerability advantages over benzodiazepines and venlafaxine, at least in short-term treatment.
GABA(A) receptors mediate both fast phasic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and slower tonic extrasynaptic inhibition. Hyperpolarizing phasic GABAergic inhibition requires the activity of neuron-specific chloride-extruding potassium-chloride cotransporter KCC2 in adult CNS. However, the possible role of KCC2 in tonic GABAergic inhibition and the associated behaviors is unknown. Here, we have examined the role of KCC2 in phasic vs tonic GABA inhibition by measuring the behavioral effects of pharmacological agents that presumably enhance phasic vs tonic inhibition in mice that retain 15-20% of normal KCC2 protein levels. These KCC2-deficient mice show decreased sensitivity to diazepam-induced sedation and motor impairment consistent with the reported role for KCC2 in fast hyperpolarizing inhibition. In contrast, the mice exhibit normal responses to low-dose alcohol-induced motor impairment, gaboxadol-induced sedation, and neurosteroid-induced hypnosis; behaviors thought to be associated with tonic GABAergic inhibition. Electrophysiological recordings show that the tonic conductance is not affected. The results suggest that KCC2 activity is more critical for behaviors dependent on phasic than tonic GABAergic inhibition.
Recent hypotheses suggest that changes in neuronal structure and connectivity may underlie the etiology of depression. The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is affected by depression and shows neuronal remodeling during adulthood. This plasticity may be mediated by the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), which is intensely expressed in the adult mPFC. As the expression of PSA-NCAM is increased by serotonin in other cerebral regions, antidepressants acting on serotonin reuptake may influence PSA-NCAM expression and thus counteract the effects of depression by modulating neuronal structural plasticity. Using immunohistochemistry, we have studied the relationship between serotoninergic fibers and PSA-NCAM expressing neurons in the adult rat mPFC and the expression of serotonin receptors in these cells. The effects of fluoxetine treatment for 14 days on mPFC PSA-NCAM expression have also been analyzed. Although serotoninergic fibers usually do not contact PSA-NCAM immunoreactive neurons, most of these cells express 5-HT3 receptors. In general, chronic fluoxetine treatment induces significant increases in the number of PSA-NCAM immunoreactive neurons and in neuropil immunostaining and coadministration of the 5-HT3 antagonist ondansetron blocks the effects of fluoxetine on PSA-NCAM expression. These results indicate that fluoxetine, acting through 5-HT3 receptors, can modulate PSA-NCAM expression in the mPFC. This modulation may mediate the structural plasticity of this cortical region and opens new perspectives on the study of the molecular bases of depression.
Effects of the opioid receptor like-1 (ORL-1) receptor agonist Ro 64-6198 (0.1, 0.3, and 1.0 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.)) on operant ethanol self-administration and activation of self-administration by ethanol deprivation were studied in male Wistar rats. Acute administration of Ro 64-6198 caused a dose-dependent reduction of ethanol self-administration. In comparison, the opioid antagonist naltrexone (0.1, 0.3, and 1.0 mg/kg i.p.) inhibited ethanol self-administration at all doses tested. Ethanol deprivation for 10 days significantly increased ethanol self-administration during the first 2 days after deprivation. Daily pretreatment with Ro 64-6198 (0.3 mg/kg) or naltrexone (0.3 mg/kg) during the last 3 days of ethanol deprivation abolished the deprivation-induced increase in ethanol intake. Thus, stimulation of the ORL-1 receptors by Ro 64-6198 reduced the acute reinforcing effects of ethanol and prevented relapse-like behavior in the ethanol-deprivation model in a similar manner as a blockade of opioid receptors by naltrexone. Ro 64-6198 at 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg doses did not alter self-administration of 0.2% saccharin solution, indicating an apparent selectivity of this compound in modification of ethanol reward. These findings add further support to the idea that Ro 64-6198 and potentially other synthetic ORL-1 receptor agonists are as effective as naltrexone in blocking the actions of ethanol important for its addictive potential in animal experiments, and therefore may have therapeutic value in the treatment of alcoholism.
The present study examined the effects of N-desmethylclozapine (NDMC), a biologically active metabolite of the atypical antipsychotic clozapine, at cloned human opioid receptors stably expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells and at native opioid receptors present in NG108-15 cells and rat brain. In CHO cells expressing the delta-opioid receptor (CHO/DOR), NDMC behaved as a full agonist both in stimulating [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding (pEC(50)=7.24) and in inhibiting cyclic AMP formation (pEC(50)=6.40). NDMC inhibited [(3)H]naltrindole binding to CHO/DOR membranes with competition curves that were modulated by guanine nucleotides in an agonist-like manner. Determination of intrinsic efficacies by taking into consideration both the maximal [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding stimulation and the extent of receptor occupancy at which half-maximal effect occurred indicated that NDMC had an efficacy value equal to 82% of that of the full delta-opioid receptor agonist DPDPE, whereas clozapine and the other clozapine metabolite clozapine N-oxide displayed much lower levels of agonist efficacy. NDMC exhibited poor agonist activity and lower affinity at the kappa-opioid receptor and was inactive at mu-opioid and NOP receptors. In NG108-15 cells, NDMC inhibited cyclic AMP formation and stimulated the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 by activating the endogenously expressed delta-opioid receptor. Moreover, in membranes of different brain regions, NDMC stimulated [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding and regulated adenylyl cyclase activity and the effects were potently antagonized by naltrindole. These data demonstrate for the first time that NDMC acts as a selective and efficacious delta-opioid receptor agonist and suggest that this unique property may contribute, at least in part, to the clinical actions of the atypical antipsychotic clozapine.
Although originally developed as an antidepressant, long-term bupropion (BUP) treatment was recently shown to cause 5-8% weight loss over placebo in clinical trials with obese adults. BUP's antidepressant properties probably stem from its ability to increase extracellular brain dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) levels by inhibiting their reuptake, although the mechanism of BUP-induced weight loss is unknown. Consequently, the acute effects of DA and NE reuptake inhibition on energy homeostasis were determined by measuring food intake and body weight in mice following peripheral (intraperitoneal (i.p.)) administration of either BUP, a selective DA (GBR12783), or a selective NE (nisoxetine (NIS)) reuptake inhibitor. BUP, GBR12783, and NIS all dose-dependently decreased acute food intake in fasted lean mice. The ability of BUP to decrease food intake was independent of its ability to cause a temporary increase in locomotor activity. The inhibitory effects of acute GBR12783 and NIS on short-term food intake were additive. Subchronic (via mini-osmotic pump) administration of GBR12783 and NIS produced a transient nonadditive effect on food intake, but produced an additive reduction in body weight (8-10%). Because obesity can affect catecholaminergic signaling, we determined the effects of i.p. BUP, GBR12783, and NIS on short-term food intake in obese mice. Acute BUP, GBR12783, and NIS dose-dependently reduced acute food intake, and the additive effect of GBR12783 and NIS on acute food intake was preserved in obese mice. These results demonstrate that combined DA and NE reuptake inhibition produces additive effects on energy balance in lean and obese mice on both standard and high-fat diet, providing a foundation for further research on the effects of BUP and similar compounds on energy balance in mice.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), cognitive decline is linked to cholinergic dysfunctions in the basal forebrain (BF), although the earliest neuronal damage is described in the entorhinal cortex (EC). In rats, selective cholinergic BF lesions or fiber-sparing EC lesions may induce memory deficits, but most often of weak magnitude. This study investigated, in adult rats, the effects on activity and memory of both lesions, alone or in combination, using 192 IgG-saporin (OX7-saporin as a control) and L-N-methyl-D-aspartate to destroy BF and EC neurons, respectively. Rats were tested for locomotor activity in their home cage and for working- and/or reference-memory in various tasks (water maze, Hebb-Williams maze, radial maze). Only rats with combined lesions showed diurnal and nocturnal hyperactivity. EC lesions impaired working memory and induced anterograde memory deficits in almost all tasks. Lesions of BF cholinergic neurons induced more limited deficits: reference memory was impaired in the probe trial of the water-maze task and in the radial maze. When both lesions were combined, performance never improved in the water maze and the number of errors in the Hebb-Williams and the radial mazes was always larger than in any other group. These results (i) indicate synergistic implications of BF and EC in memory function, (ii) suggest that combined BF cholinergic and fiber-sparing EC lesions may model aspects of anterograde memory deficits and restlessness as seen in AD, (iii) challenge the cholinergic hypothesis of cognitive dysfunctions in AD, and (iv) contribute to open theoretical views on AD-related memory dysfunctions going beyond the latter hypothesis.
In the rodent somatosensory system, stimulus information received by the whiskers is relayed to the barrel cortex via two parallel pathways, the lemniscal pathway and the paralemniscal pathway. The lemniscal pathway includes the principal trigeminal nucleus (Pr5) and the ventral posteromedial thalamic nucleus (VPm). The paralemniscal pathway includes the spinal trigeminal subnucleus interpolaris (Sp5i) and the medial division of posterior thalamic nucleus (POm). The purpose of this study was to investigate the roles of those pathways in perceptions of the direction of the single-whisker stimulation in the rat. Rats were trained to perform a go/no-go task that required the discrimination of forward or backward stimulation applied to their single whisker. When a selective lesion was made in VPm or Pr5, error rate for the task performance increased significantly. In contrast, when a selective lesion was made in POm or Sp5i, we found no significant change in performance. These results suggest that the lemniscal pathway plays more important roles in a discrimination of stimulus direction applied to the single whisker.
Limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2A (LGMD2A) is caused by mutations in CAPN3, which encodes an intracellular cysteine protease. To elucidate the fundamental molecular changes that may be responsible for the pathological features of LGMD2A, we employed cDNA microarray analysis. We divided LGMD2A muscles into two groups according to specific pathological features: an early-stage group characterized by the presence of active necrosis and a regeneration process and a later-stage group characterized by the presence of lobulated fibers. After comparing the gene expression profiles of the two groups of LGMD2A muscles with control muscles, we identified 29 genes whose mRNA expression profiles were specifically altered in muscles with lobulated fibers. Interestingly, this group included genes that encode actin filament binding and regulatory proteins, such as gelsolin, PDZ and LIM domain 3 (PDLIM3) and troponin I1. Western blot analysis confirmed the upregulation of these proteins. From these results, we propose that abnormal increased expression of actin filament binding proteins may contribute to the changes of the intra-myofiber structures, observed in lobulated fibers in LGMD2A.
The role of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in neurodegeneration is as yet unclear as mGluR1/5 antagonists and agonists yielded contradictory effects in different disease models. In the present study, we examined the neuroprotective potency of the selective mGluR5 agonist, (R,S)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG), in endothelin-1(ET-1)-induced focal ischemia in rats. In addition to the effect of CHPG on the histologically defined infarct size, we studied its influence on sensorimotor impairments in the ladder rung walking test at late time points up to 4 weeks after the ischemic insult. Rats were treated i.c.v. with an injection of 1mM CHPG beginning 10min after the application of ET-1. Histological analyses 4 weeks after ET-1-induced ischemia demonstrated only a small, insignificant reduction in infarct size after CHPG application. In accordance with this result, there were no significant effects of the used CHPG concentration on sensorimotor impairments in the ladder rung walking test. In conclusion, our data point to the restricted value of CHPG as a neuroprotectant after transient focal ischemia and to the importance of evaluating neuroprotective effects at late post-ischemic time points.





Lumbar discectomy is the most common operative technique at neurosurgery clinics around the world. The complications of lumbar disc operation include infections, dural tear, bleeding, vascular, and intestinal injuries. Infectious complications of lumbar disc surgery are superficial and profound tissue infections, meningitides, and epidural abscess. Although retained surgical sponges (gossypiboma) are well known intraoperative complications in other surgical branches, they have not been widely reported in neurosurgery. In this report, we present a case of retained surgical sponge at the operation site and discuss with the literature.
Eosinophilic granuloma (EG) is a well-recognized benign form of Langerhans-cell histiocytosis. The estimated incidence of EG is 3-4 per million of the population. More patients are children and adolescents between the ages of 1-15 years. In this report, we present an adult patient. A 37-year-old male was admitted with headache and right parietal swelling that was present for 2 months together with epileptic attacks. Cranial CT scan revealed a right parietal osteolytic lesion with large epidural and subcutaneous mass, causing brain compression. Total removal of the mass was carried out with cranioplasty. Histopathological examination disclosed Langerhans cell histiocytosis and immunohistochemical detection of S-100 antigen. At follow-up, he had no neurological deficits, and control CT was normal. For symptomatic solitary calvarial EG, surgical excision is the main treatment option. Surgical treatment is simple, quick, and allows histological diagnosis of the osteolytic lesions.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) may sometimes present as a mass lesion that is clinically and radiologically indistinguishable from brain tumor. The initial recognition of such cases is essential to avoid a surgical intervention and supplementary treatment. Sometimes areas adjacent to a tumor may present similar histopathological features with non-neoplastic demyelinating lesions. Thus, the proper preparation of the specimen is the key for correct pathological diagnosis. We report a case of MS with large cranial involvement showing a mass effect. The operative procedure associated with medical treatment was performed, and a good result was obtained. Our case presentation and others in the literature suggest strategies for detecting MS presenting as a mass lesion.
A 39-year-old male patient known to have neurofibromatosis-1, presented with sciatica and low back pain. At the age of 27, an MRI of the spine revealed widening of the lumbar canal due to posterior scalloping of the last 4 lumbar vertebrae. Repeat MRI and simple lateral lumbosacral plain film at the age of 39, revealed significant progression of the lumbosacral lesion. In view of the progression of the disease during the last 15 years, we opted for insertion of a lumbo-peritoneal (LP) shunt to decrease the CSF pressure, which is the most probable cause of scalloping. We shied away from lumbar fixation as we thought that this would not stop the vertebral erosion. The LP shunt affected good symptomatic and radiologic outcome over a 2-year follow up.
Cases of non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) induced by tiagabine (TGB) were occasionally reported. Almost all had a prior history of epilepsy. We describe here, the clinical and EEG findings in a patient, without history of seizures, who after the start of TGB developed NCSE. A 53-year-old man with history of paranoid schizophrenia, presented with &quot;alteration of his mental state.&quot; Three weeks early, TGB was added to his psychiatric regimen. On the second day of admission, he became unresponsive with a blank stare. Concomitant EEG showed abundant sharp and slow wave complexes. The episode lasted for 4 hours and was aborted by the intravenous administration of lorazepam. The TGB was discontinued without recurrence of subsequent seizure activity. This case supports the contention that TGB can induce NCSE in subjects not previously known to have seizures.
Trochlear nerve palsy is rarely encountered in children and only 5% are truly isolated. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is also extremely uncommon in children. This report describes an otherwise healthy 10-year-old boy who presented with a 5-day history of vertical diplopia with associated dizziness, decreased appetite, and unsteadiness. He had no recent history of infection and no previous history of neurological symptoms. Ophthalmologic assessment revealed full ocular ductions and right hyperdeviation in primary gaze during alternate cover test. This hyperdeviation increased during left gaze, and right head tilt consistent with paresis of the right oblique muscle. Brain MRI revealed multiple well-defined hyperintense T2 lesions in the periventricular and subcortical white matter, and brainstem, suggestive of MS. His symptoms resolved after 2 weeks with no treatment. To conclude, isolated trochlear nerve palsy can be the initial clinical manifestation of childhood MS. Long term follow up is needed to confirm the diagnosis of MS.










The association of psychiatric disorders and pediatric epilepsy is under appreciated by clinicians. Behavioral disorders, especially depression, are often perceived as &quot;reactionary&quot; processes. In fact, these comorbid disorders can be more disabling than the epilepsy itself. This review discusses the common behavioral comorbidities associated with epilepsy including autistic spectrum disorders, psychosis, attention deficit hyperactivity disorders, and mood disorders.
Despite increasing experience and improved material, endovascular treatment of cerebral aneurysms still has risks linked to the technique itself and to the specificity of the pathology treated. The purpose of this report is to examine procedural technical and clinical negative events, even minimal ones, occurring in this type of treatment. We considered 557 procedures carried out from January 1994 to December 2005 in 533 patients harboring 550 aneurysms. Of the patients, 448 presented with SAH and 85 with unruptured aneurysms. All procedures were performed under general anesthesia. The GDC-10 system was routinely used. Additional devices like the balloon remodeling technique, Trispan and stents were also occasionally used. Every procedural complication occurring during or soon after treatment was registered. Endovascular treatment was completed in 539 out of 557 procedures. There were 18 failures (3.3%). Occlusion of the aneurysm was judged complete in 343 (64%), near complete in 184 (34%) and incomplete in 12 (2%). Procedural complications occurred in 72 (13%) of the cases. The most frequent negative events were thromboembolisms (6.6%) and ruptures (3.9%). Other types (coil migration, transient occlusions of the parent vessel, dissections and early rebleeding) were rarer (2.5%). In the majority of cases there were no clinical consequences. Procedural morbidity and mortality were 1.1 and 1.8%, respectively. Considering the 449 procedures performed in ruptured and the 90 in the unruptured aneurysms separately, morbidity and mortality were 1.1 and 2.2% in the former group and 1.1 and 0% in the latter. Many factors influence the risk of complications. Being progressively aware of this and with increasing experience, the frequency can be limited. Negative events linked to the procedure have more significant serious clinical consequences in patients admitted in a critical clinical condition after SAH, because of the already present changes involving the brain parenchyma and cerebral circulation.
In his book, De humani corporis fabrica, published in 1543, Andreas Vesalius refuted the existence of the rete mirabile in humans. At the same time, it was through dissection of sheep that he continued to demonstrate its existence in some animals, thereby proving that its absence in humans was not owing to erroneous dissection. Radically breaking with Galenic dogma, Vesalius would not accept the idea that some scientific expositions are resignedly accepted as true because dogmatic reasons rendered their being subjected to anatomic verification impossible. He epitomized the awakening of the critical spirit and the onset of modern anatomy. In this study, we aimed to comprehend the approach that led Andreas Vesalius to his denial that the rete mirabile existed in humans. We attempted to restore Vesalius's verification procedures through our dissection &quot; la Vesalius&quot; of the rete mirabile in sheep. Was it not utterly imperative for him to dare to believe more of what is seen than what is written? In the same spirit, wishing to verify inherited ideas and to avoid meaningless phrases, we have taken it upon ourselves to translate the Latin commentaries to Figures 16 and 17 of the seventh book of the Fabrica.






Episodic ataxia type 1 is a paroxysmal neurological disorder characterized by short-lived attacks of recurrent midline cerebellar dysfunction and continuous motor activity. Mutations in KCN1A, the gene encoding Kv1.1, a voltage-gated neuronal potassium channel, are associated with the disorder. Although rare, the syndrome highlights the fundamental features of genetic ion-channel diseases and serves as a useful model for understanding more common paroxysmal disorders, such as epilepsy and migraine. This review examines our current understanding of episodic ataxia type 1, focusing on its clinical and genetic features, pathophysiology, and treatment.


We assessed the validity of the PDQ-39, a disease-specific health-related quality of life instrument for patients with Parkinson's disease, in patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA). Two hundred and seventy-nine patients completed the PDQ-39, the EQ-5D, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, and scales of life satisfaction and disease severity. Ceiling and floor effects were noted in some dimensions, and Mobility was skewed towards the severe end of the spectrum. Apart from the dimension of Social Support, all dimensions had high internal consistency. The factor structure of the PDQ-39 in MSA was stable, and convergent and divergent validity with other measures of quality of life and mental health were good. However, many of the specific features of MSA are not reflected in the PDQ-39. Higher order factor analysis did not support the use of a single summary index. We conclude that the PDQ-39 has only limited validity in patients with MSA.
The molecular clockwork in mammals involves various clock genes with specific temporal patterns of expression. Synchronization of the master circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei is accomplished mainly via daily resetting of the phase of the clock by light stimuli. Phase shifting responses to light are correlated with induction of Per1 and Per2 within the suprachiasmatic cells. The timing of peripheral oscillators is controlled by the suprachiasmatic clock when food is available ad libitum. Time of feeding, as modulated by temporal restricted feeding, is a potent Zeitgeber (synchronizer) for peripheral oscillators with no clear synchronizing influence on the suprachiasmatic clockwork. However, a timed calorie restriction (i.e. when only a hypocaloric diet is given each day at the same time) can modify the temporal organization generated by the suprachiasmatic nuclei and reset by the light-dark cycle. Such a situation of conflict between photic and feeding synchronizers alters timing of clock gene expression within the suprachiasmatic nuclei and timing of circadian outputs, indicating that the suprachiasmatic clock is sensitive to nutritional cues.
Several functional neuroimaging studies have been performed exploring the sensorimotor function in children with neurologic disorders. However, little is known about normal activation patterns of the sensorimotor system at a young age. We explored brain representation of active and passive hand movements in school-age children and young adults. Nine healthy children (7-15 y) and six adults were studied. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data were acquired on a 1.5-T scanner in block designs. Active movement consisted of repetitive opening and closing of the hand; passive movement consisted of the same movement performed by the examiner. Both hands were assessed separately. The pattern of brain activation (contralateral primary sensorimotor cortex (SMC), ipsilateral cerebellum, supplementary motor area (SMA), and lateral premotor cortex (PMC) was generally more widespread in the adult group, suggesting a developmental course in the organization of both motor and sensory cortex. Surprisingly, no difference was generally detected when contrasting active versus passive tasks. Our results suggest that active and passive hand movements can be used for the exploration of the sensorimotor system in children. Passive and active tasks confirmed to be tightly coupled, thus supporting the idea of the former as a helpful performance-independent paradigm in the study of brain reorganization and presurgical assessment.
The cloning of melanocortin (MC) receptors in distant species has provided us tools to get insight in how the ligand-receptors interactions in the MC system have evolved. We have however lacked studies on pharmacology of native ancient melanocortin peptides at the ancient MC receptors. In this paper we synthesized melanocortin peptides from both the sea lamprey (Petromyzon marinus) and spiny dogfish (Squalus acanthias) and tested them on the MC3 and MC4 receptors from spiny dogfish. The results show that both the dogfish and lamprey ACTH peptides have similar or higher affinity than the dogfish alpha-, beta- and gamma-MSH peptides to the dogfish MC3 and MC4 receptors. Moreover, both the dogfish and lamprey ACTH peptides have more than 10-fold higher affinity than alpha-MSH to the dogfish MC4 receptor. We also show that dogfish delta-MSH is able to bind to MC receptors and its potency is higher than of dogfish beta-MSH, which is considered to be its precursor. Our results provide the first evidence that native ACTH ligands from dogfish and lamprey have a preference above native MSH peptides to ancient version of the MC3 and MC4 receptors. This further strengthens the hypotheses that the ligand contributing to the first version of the melanocortin ligand-receptor system resembled ACTH.

Models of dependence-induced increases in ethanol self-administration will be critical in increasing our understanding of the processes of addiction and relapse, underlying mechanisms, and potential therapeutics. One system that has received considerable attention recently is the CRF(1) system that may mediate the link between anxiety states and relapse drinking. C57BL/6J mice were trained to lever press for ethanol, were made dependent and then were allowed to self-administer ethanol following a period of abstinence. The effect of the CRF(1) antagonist, antalarmin, was examined on this abstinence-induced self-administration in a separate group of mice. Finally, dependence-induced changes in ethanol self-administration were examined in CRF(1) knockout and wild type mice. The results indicated that ethanol self-administration was increased following the induction of dependence, but only after a period of abstinence. This increase in ethanol self-administration was blocked by antalarmin. Furthermore, CRF(1) knockout mice did not display this increased ethanol self-administration following dependence and abstinence. These studies, using both a pharmacological and genetic approach, support a critical role for the CRF(1) system in ethanol self-administration following dependence. In addition, a model is presented that may be useful for studies examining underlying mechanisms of the ethanol addiction process as well as for testing potential therapeutics.
Bidirectional cross-tolerance develops between opioids and Ca(2+) channel blockers relating to their antinociceptive effects; however, the role of hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis on this action has not been elucidated yet. We examined the analgesic cross-tolerance between morphine and nifedipine, a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, in intact and adrenalectomized (ADX) rats and also evaluated modification of HPA activity during this phenomenon. The tail-flick test was used to assess the nociceptive threshold. The plasma level of corticosterone, as a marker of HPA function, was measured by radioimmunoassay. Our results showed that, in sham operated rats which were chronically treated with morphine, nifedipine failed to affect nociceptive threshold but it could induce significant antinociceptive effect in ADX morphine treated animals. This effect was reversed by corticosterone replacement. Furthermore, morphine could not induce analgesic effect either in sham operated or in ADX animals that received chronic nifedipine. Chronic morphine inhibited the effect of nifedipine on corticosterone secretion but nifedipine treatment had no effect on morphine-induced corticosterone secretion. Based on these results, we can conclude that HPA axis is involved in the induction of cross-tolerance between morphine and nifedipine due to chronic morphine and not nifedipine treatment.
According to a recent account of addiction, dopaminergic effects of drugs like cocaine mimic the neuronal signal that occurs when a natural reward has a larger value than expected. Consequently, the drug's expected reward value increases with each administration, leading to an over-selection of drug-seeking behavior. One prediction of this hypothesis is that the blocking effect, a cornerstone of contemporary learning theory, should not occur with drug reinforcers. To test this prediction, two groups of rats were trained to self-administer cocaine with a nose-poking response. For 5 sessions, a tone was paired with each self-administered injection (blocking group), or no stimulus was paired with injection (non-blocking group). Then, in both groups, the tone and a light were both paired with each injection for 5 sessions. In subsequent testing, the light functioned as a conditioned reinforcer for a new response (lever-pressing) in the non-blocking group, but not the blocking group. Thus, contrary to prediction, pre-training with the tone blocked conditioning to the light. Although these results fail to support a potentially powerful explanation of addiction, they are consistent with the fact that most conditioning and learning phenomena that occur with non-drug reinforcers can also be demonstrated with drug reinforcers.
A goal of the current study was to determine if individual differences in cocaine-induced locomotion, which has been shown in outbred Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats to be correlated with differential function of dopamine transporters, were also evident in Long-Evans (LE) rats. Another objective was to determine if differences in locomotion following exposure to novelty or cocaine predicted food-reinforced behavior. Between-strain comparisons of open-field activity revealed similar effects of 10 mg/kg cocaine, although increases in rearing were prominent in LE rats. Both strains exhibited robust individual differences in cocaine-induced locomotion, with nearly identical ambulatory behavior observed in low and high cocaine responders (LCRs and HCRs, respectively) from the two strains. In a cued-discrimination operant task, LE rats learned the contingency in fewer sessions, whereas SD rats obtained more food pellets at fixed ratio 10 and maintained higher progressive ratio (PR) breakpoints. HCRs from both strains also tended to maintain higher PR breakpoints; low and high responders to novelty (LR and HR, respectively) had no consistent differences in food-reinforced behavior. Overall, these studies suggest that wide individual differences in cocaine-induced behavior are common to SD and LE strains and certain differences in food-reinforced behavior are associated with HCRs compared to LCRs.
Previous research has shown that brief and intermittent activity wheel running attenuates conditioned place preference (CPP) to morphine in rats, which suggests that exercise may produce a cross-tolerance to opiates. On the other hand, a different exercise paradigm, chronic and voluntary wheel running, enhances learning in contextual conditioning tasks. The present experiments tested CPP to 2.5, 5, and 7.5 mg/kg morphine in sedentary rats and rats provided free access to running wheels for three weeks. Sucrose preference was also tested to determine exercise's influence on appetitive processes. Levels of mRNA encoding brain-derived neurotrophic factor and preprogalanin mRNA were quantified using in situ hybridization. In rats that exhibited CPP to morphine, exercising rats spent significantly more time per entry in the morphine-paired chamber during the CPP test. CPP to morphine was dose-dependent. The expression of hippocampal brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was greater in exercising rats compared to the sedentary group. Preprogalanin (GAL) mRNA expression in the locus coeruleus (LC) was positively correlated with mean distance run. These results suggest that while chronic exercise may produce cross-tolerance to opioids, exercise-induced enhancement of associative learning caused by exercise may override this effect in the conditioned place preference procedure.
It has been postulated that infections, inflammatory processes and resulting cytokines may be causative factors in emotional disorders, including depression and anxiety. Support for this possibility has been sought in studies of animal behavior following administration of interleukin-1 (IL-1) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). However, such treatments induce a variety of behavioral responses, collectively known as sickness behavior, some of which could affect the performance in tests used to assess anxiety and depression. Thus the effects of peripheral administration of IL-1beta and LPS on the behavior of mice were studied in the elevated plus-maze (EPM) and the open field (OF). Mouse IL-1beta (30, 100, 300, and 1000 ng) was injected intraperitoneally 30 or 60 min, and LPS (0.5, 1 and 5 microg) 120 min before the tests. IL-1beta and LPS induced dose-dependent decreases in open arm entries and the time spent on the open arms in the EPM, effects considered to reflect anxiety-like behavior. However, entries to all arms were also reduced in a dose-dependent manner, indicating a decrease in general activity. In the OF, IL-1beta and LPS decreased the number of line crossings in the center of the field, that can also be considered to reflect anxiety-like behavior. However, this effect was accompanied by a similar decrease in line crossings in the periphery, as well as in rears and climbs. Thus the doses of IL-1beta and LPS necessary to induce these effects also decreased locomotor activity in the EPM and OF. Therefore, the behavioral responses induced by IL-1beta and LPS in the EPM and the OF considered to reflect anxiety must be interpreted in the light of this reduction in overall activity. Thus the results do not provide unequivocal support for the suggestion that LPS or IL-1 mediate anxiety. Nevertheless, because infections, endotoxins, and the ensuing cytokines cause alterations in CNS norepinephrine and serotonin, they may contribute to emotionality, and perhaps to anxiety.
There is strong evidence that the endometrial glands play a key role in regulating placental development in many domestic species, but their contribution in the human has largely been ignored once implantation is complete. Here we re-evaluate their role during the first trimester. Connections between the glands and the intervillous space have been observed from day 17 post-conception through to the end of the first trimester. In the absence of a maternal arterial supply to the early placenta it is believed that the carbohydrate- and lipid-rich secretions represent an important source of nutrients during the first trimester, and possibly the beginning of the second trimester. The secretions also contain a variety of growth factors that may regulate placental morphogenesis since their receptors are present on villous and extravillous trophoblast, and villous endothelial cells. Other components of the secretions may modulate immune responses and trophoblast invasion at the materno-fetal interface. We speculate that lactogenic hormones secreted by decidual cells and the syncytiotrophoblast may act in concert with human chorionic gonadotropin to stimulate the secretory activity of glandular epithelial cells during the first trimester. There is circumstantial evidence, but as yet no conclusive proof, that deficient glandular activity is associated with pregnancy failure in the human.

Both constitutive secretion and Ca(2+)-regulated exocytosis require the assembly of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complexes. At present, little is known about how the SNARE complexes mediating these two distinct pathways differ in structure. Using the Drosophila neuromuscular synapse as a model, we show that a mutation modifying a hydrophobic layer in syntaxin 1A regulates the rate of vesicle fusion. Syntaxin 1A molecules share a highly conserved threonine in the C-terminal +7 layer near the transmembrane domain. Mutation of this threonine to isoleucine results in a structural change that more closely resembles those found in syntaxins ascribed to the constitutive secretory pathway. Flies carrying the I254 mutant protein have increased levels of SNARE complexes and dramatically enhanced rate of both constitutive and evoked vesicle fusion. In contrast, overexpression of the T254 wild-type protein in neurons reduces vesicle fusion only in the I254 mutant background. These results are consistent with molecular dynamics simulations of the SNARE core complex, suggesting that T254 serves as an internal brake to dampen SNARE zippering and impede vesicle fusion, whereas I254 favors fusion by enhancing intermolecular interaction within the SNARE core complex.
Neurotrophins are key regulators of neuronal survival and differentiation during development. Activation of their cognate receptors, Trk receptors, a family of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs), is pivotal for mediating the downstream functions of neurotrophins. Recent studies reveal that cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), a serine/threonine kinase, may modulate RTK signaling through phosphorylation of the receptor. Given the abundant expression of both Cdk5 and Trk receptors in the nervous system, and their mutual involvement in the regulation of neuronal architecture and synaptic functions, it is of interest to investigate if Cdk5 may also modulate Trk signaling. In the current study, we report the identification of TrkB as a Cdk5 substrate. Cdk5 phosphorylates TrkB at Ser478 at the intracellular juxtamembrane region of TrkB. Interestingly, attenuation of Cdk5 activity or overexpression of a TrkB mutant lacking the Cdk5 phosphorylation site essentially abolishes brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-triggered dendritic growth in primary hippocampal neurons. In addition, we found that Cdk5 is involved in BDNF-induced activation of Rho GTPase Cdc42, which is essential for BDNF-triggered dendritic growth. Our observations therefore reveal an unanticipated role of Cdk5 in TrkB-mediated regulation of dendritic growth through modulation of BDNF-induced Cdc42 activation.




Individuals with serious psychiatric disabilities may become demoralized or hopeless consequent to longstanding disability and stigma. Potential antidotes are social support from the religious community and use of personal spiritual resources as coping mechanisms. The &quot;Spirituality Matters Group&quot; offers comfort and hope through structured and innovative exercises focusing on spiritual beliefs and coping. Activities facilitate verbal expression and appropriate social interaction, and build a sense of community. Activities and themes from selected group sessions are discussed within a recovery-oriented &quot;emotion-focused coping&quot; framework.
This column examines the use of two technologies in lie detection. &quot;Brain fingerprinting&quot; is based on the finding that the brain generates a unique brain-wave pattern when a person encounters a familiar stimulus. Use of functional magnetic resonance imaging in lie detection derives from studies suggesting that persons asked to lie show different patterns of brain activity than they do when being truthful. Issues related to the use of such evidence in courts are discussed. The author concludes that neither approach is currently supported by enough data regarding its accuracy in detecting deception to warrant use in court.
There exists an enormous amount of biological and scientific data in the field of neuroscience, which are daunting and laborious to those who are not directly engaged in these specialized areas. The intricacies and complexities of the role of the central nervous system (CNS) in psychiatric disorders and human behavior are, of course, acknowledged. In this article, observations and speculations of some prominent workers in the field of neuroscience are described with focus on their conclusions, rather than specific findings as they pertain to the mind-body relationship. The mind-brain/body issue has not been resolved insofar as clarifying the connections between CNS activity and thinking is concerned. Currently, it is useful to accept the concept of parallelism between CNS activity and thought. An argument will be made for the inclusion of the psychoanalytic method as an essential component of the scientific effort to elucidate consciousness and thinking.
Individuals differ along a continuum of preference for diurnal activity level, known as Morningness-Eveningness. Individuals low in Morningness traits, i.e., preferring later awakening and bed times, have been shown to score higher on personality traits of impulsiveness and novelty-seeking. No studies have yet examined the association between Morningness-Eveningness and the related construct of risk-taking. Therefore, the present study examined (1) whether Morningness was correlated with self-reported and behavioral measures of risk-taking, and (2) whether one night of sleep deprivation would produce changes in risk-taking and sensation-seeking. 54 healthy adults were administered the Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire at intake, and administered the Brief Sensation Seeking Scale, Evaluation of Risks Scale, and Balloon Analog Risk Task at rested baseline, again following 23 hr. of sleep deprivation, and finally after a 12-hr. period of recovery sleep. Lower Morningness scores were associated with higher self-reported total risk-taking propensity when rested (p&lt; .05) and sleep deprived (p&lt;.005), but correlations were not significant for sensation seeking or actual risk-taking behavior. Relative to baseline and postrecovery periods, sleep deprivation significantly reduced risk-taking propensity, including self-report indices of self-control, danger-seeking, energy level, and sensation-seeking, and behaviorally measured risk-taking. Chronotype did not interact with sleep condition for any of the dependent variables, although Evening Types scored higher on several indices of risk-propensity. Findings suggest that Morningness traits are inversely related to greater risk-taking propensity, while sleep deprivation significantly reduces self-reported and behaviorally demonstrated willingness to engage in high-risk and sensational activities under conditions of uncertainty, regardless of chronotype.
The authors model the neural mechanisms underlying spatial cognition, integrating neuronal systems and behavioral data, and address the relationships between long-term memory, short-term memory, and imagery, and between egocentric and allocentric and visual and ideothetic representations. Long-term spatial memory is modeled as attractor dynamics within medial-temporal allocentric representations, and short-term memory is modeled as egocentric parietal representations driven by perception, retrieval, and imagery and modulated by directed attention. Both encoding and retrieval/imagery require translation between egocentric and allocentric representations, which are mediated by posterior parietal and retrosplenial areas and the use of head direction representations in Papez's circuit. Thus, the hippocampus effectively indexes information by real or imagined location, whereas Papez's circuit translates to imagery or from perception according to the direction of view. Modulation of this translation by motor efference allows spatial updating of representations, whereas prefrontal simulated motor efference allows mental exploration. The alternating temporal-parietal flows of information are organized by the theta rhythm. Simulations demonstrate the retrieval and updating of familiar spatial scenes, hemispatial neglect in memory, and the effects on hippocampal place cell firing of lesioned head direction representations and of conflicting visual and ideothetic inputs.













Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a degenerative neurological disorder that typically manifests symptoms in late adulthood, after loss of dopaminergic neurons in the nigrostriatal system. A lack of heritability for idiopathic PD has implicated adulthood environmental factors in the etiology of the disease. However, compelling evidence from animal models published within the past few years has shown that a range of environmental factors occurring during the perinatal period (including exposure to the common pesticides paraquat and maneb, organochlorine pesticides, and iron-enriched diet) and the prenatal period (including the pesticide maneb, cocaine, and the bacterial product LPS) can either directly cause a reduction in the number of dopamine neurons, or cause an increased susceptibility to degeneration of these neurons with subsequent environmental insults or with aging alone. In this review, these models are described for potential relevance in linking PD with the Fetal Basis of Adult Disease (FeBAD) hypothesis. Additionally, challenges in studying the neurodevelopmental basis of neurodegeneration experimentally and epidemiologically are presented.
The neuronal circuit, the so-called 'Yakovlev', is recognized as the neuronal connections between the orbitofrontal, temporal, amygdaloid, and thalamic regions, possibly relevant to emotional function. This name is well known in Japan, however, it is not clear how this neural circuit has become known and why it was named after Yakovlev. Yakovlev, himself, just emphasized the relationship between emotion and the limbic lobes. It might be Nauta who first clarified the circuitry connections between these structures. Then, it was named the 'basolateral limbic circuit' by Livingston. The reason that the circuit had been called 'Yakovlev' might be related to this reference by Livingston who associated the circuit with the hypothesis of limbic system and emotion by Yakovlev. Recent sophistication in tracing methods has clarified the minimal contribution of the anterior cingulate gyrus to this circuit and that the projection from the amygdala to thalamus is unidirectional It will then be more appropriate to define this circuit as follows: orbital and cingulate gyri&lt;=&gt; temporal tip&lt;=&gt; amygdala=&gt; mediodorsal thalamus&lt;=&gt; orbital and cingulate gyri. Yakovlev contributed greatly to identifying the possible relevance of these structures to emotion, which was substantiated by Nauta with his anatomical tracing between the structures. The name of this circuit, 'Yakovlev', would be better modified to 'Yakovlev-Nauta'.
Peripheral neurones have the potential to transmit infectious agents to the central nervous system (CNS). This raises the possibility of existing host defence mechanisms that may prevent such spread. Natural killer (NK) cells can target infected cells, and by this ability serve to limit spread of infection prior to the development of adaptive immune responses. To address directly if NK cells can target infected peripheral neurones, we examined the expression of NK cell-activating ligands and susceptibility to NK cell-mediated cytolytic effects in ex vivo cultures of mouse peripheral dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurones prior to and after infection with a neurotropic strain of influenza A virus, WSN/33. In infected DRG cultures, retinoic acid early inducible gene-1 (RAE-1) transcripts were induced and exposure to interleukin (IL)-2-activated NK cells resulted in a total destruction of neurites. Studies on cultures from interferon (IFN)-alpha/betaR-deficient mice suggest that the infection engages an IFN-alpha/beta-dependent signalling pathway to induce RAE-1 transcripts. In contrast, induction of RAE-1 transcripts or NK cell-mediated neurite destructions was not observed in central hippocampal neurones. This reveals distinct properties between peripheral DRG and central hippocampal neurones with respect to the ability to signal for immune destruction following infection.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to examine neuronal activation in relation to increasing working memory load in an n-back task, using schematic drawings of facial expressions and scrambled drawings of the same facial features as stimuli. The main objective was to investigate whether working memory for drawings of facial features would yield specific activations compared to memory for scrambled drawings based on the same visual features as those making up the face drawings. fMRI-BOLD responses were acquired with a 1.5 T Siemens MR scanner while subjects watched the facial drawings alternated with the scrambled drawings, in a block-design. Subjects had to hold either 1 or 2 items in working memory. We found that the main effect of increasing memory load from one to two items yielded significant activations in a bilaterally distributed cortical network consisting of regions in the occipitotemporal cortex, the inferior parietal lobule, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, supplementary motor area and the cerebellum. In addition, we found a memory load x drawings interaction in the right inferior frontal gyrus in favor of the facial drawings. These findings show that working memory is specific for facial features which interact with a general cognitive load component to produce significant activations in prefrontal regions of the brain.


Epidemiological evidence suggests that an adverse prenatal environment can have profound long-term health consequences throughout postnatal life. This chapter discusses the underlying mechanisms implicated in the consumption of mood-altering recreational drugs and teratogenicity in the fetus. The way metabolic parameters in pregnancy influence the pharmacokinetic characteristics of drugs and alcohol and the developmental stage of neurotoxicity are reviewed. The general underlying mechanisms that link multifaceted interactions between drug characteristics, gene polymorphisms, dietary deficiencies, changed endocrine indices and fetal programming are outlined, with specific examples throughout the text. As developmental injury is of significant social concern, the final section questions whether society provides adequate support for making appropriate and informed lifestyle choices to alleviate preventable transgenerational harm.






The derivation of dopamine neurons is one of the best examples of the clinical potential of embryonic stem (ES) cells, but the long-term function of the grafted neurons has not been established. Here, we show that, after transplantation into an animal model, neurons derived from mouse ES cells survived for over 32 weeks, maintained midbrain markers, and had sustained behavioral effects. Microdialysis in grafted animals showed that dopamine (DA) release was induced by depolarization and pharmacological stimulants. Positron emission tomography measured the expression of presynaptic dopamine transporters in the graft and also showed that the number of postsynaptic DA D(2) receptors was normalized in the host striatum. These data suggest that ES cell-derived neurons show DA release and reuptake and stimulate appropriate postsynaptic responses for long periods after implantation. This work supports continued interest in ES cells as a source of functional DA neurons.






Macroscopic anatomy of the brain is scheduled during the last meeting of the Short Course of Dissection, an optional course for second-year medical students at the School of Medicine of Padova, following the official 44 h of lectures of Neuroanatomy. The aim of the present study was to ascertain the value of brain dissection in retention of neuroanatomical knowledge by medical students. An anatomical questionnaire was given to second-year students in the years 2002-2006, aiming at evaluating their initial neuroanatomical background. Administered twice, at the beginning and end of the last meeting of the optional course, the questionnaire consisted of three diagrams, showing the base, the convexity of the brain, and an axial section of the cerebrum. For each diagram, ten anatomical structures were selected, according to their clinical importance. Students then followed a worksheet for external examination of the brain and cutting. The teacher presented three examples of pathologies causing elevated intracranial pressure, and indicated their locations on the relative cerebral structures. At the end of the meeting, the same questionnaire was given again. To evaluate long-term retention of information, it was also given to third-year students. The questionnaire revealed improved knowledge of neuroanatomy in a mean of 57% of students, especially as regards the axial section (72%), with respect to that of the brain base (43%) and convexity (40%). After 1 year, long-term assessment of information retention showed that 65% of the group which had followed the dissection course correctly answered with respect to the control group (40%), and even better (87.5%) as regards anatomical details presented in their clinical aspects. The main guidelines in planning the clinical neuroanatomy module were: (1) selection of anatomical landmarks of importance from the clinical viewpoint; (2) identification of pathologies which involve the above anatomical landmarks; (3) relationships between morphology and pathology enhancing anatomo-clinical importance.
There is general acknowledgement that both the anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortex are implicated in reinforcement-guided decision making, and emotion and social behaviour. Despite the interest that these areas generate in both the cognitive neuroscience laboratory and the psychiatric clinic, ideas about the distinctive contributions made by each have only recently begun to emerge. This reflects an increasing understanding of the component processes that underlie reinforcement-guided decision making, such as the representation of reinforcement expectations, the exploration, updating and representation of action values, and the appreciation that choices are guided not just by the prospect of reward but also by the costs that action entails. Evidence is emerging to suggest that the anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortex make distinct contributions to each of these aspects of decision making.

The renaissance of synaesthesia research has produced many insights regarding the aetiology and mechanisms that might underlie this intriguing phenomenon, which abnormally binds features between and within modalities. Synaesthesia is interesting in its own right, but whether it contributes to our knowledge of neurocognitive systems that underlie non-synaesthete experience is an open question. In this review, we show that results from the field of synaesthesia can constrain cognitive theories in numerical cognition, automaticity, crossmodal interaction and awareness. Therefore, research of synaesthesia provides a unique window into other domains of cognitive neuroscience. We conclude that the study of synaesthesia could advance our understanding of the normal and abnormal human brain and cognition.
The reduced form of vitamin C, ascorbic acid, is well known for its function as an antioxidant and as a protective agent against scurvy. However, many recent studies indicate other functions for vitamin C in mammalian cells. Novel findings provide possible explanations for observed beneficial effects of a high intake of vitamin C on cell growth, gene transcription, host resistance to infection, uptake of polyamines and clearance of misfolded proteins. Vitamin C exerts its effects indirectly via hypoxia-inducible factor, nitric oxide synthase and the heparan sulfate proteoglycan glypican-1, which is deglycanated in a vitamin C- and copper-dependent reaction.
Converging evidence suggests that the regulation of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) might be important in schizophrenia. Atypical and typical antipsychotic drugs alter GSK-3 activity, as do drugs that induce psychosis. GSK-3 regulatory pathways are altered in schizophrenia, and many of the genes associated with schizophrenia directly or indirectly regulate GSK-3 activity. We propose a variant on the neurodevelopment and dopamine hypotheses of schizophrenia, whereby (i) an early dysfunction in GSK-3 regulation has neurodevelopmental consequences that predispose to disease and (ii) dysfunction in GSK-3 regulation in the adult brain alters dopamine signalling events, causing psychotic symptoms and cognitive dysfunction. If, as we suggest, GSK-3 regulation is crucial to schizophrenia, the Wnt and insulin signalling pathways become targets for therapy.
The amplitude of alpha-frequency band (8-14 Hz) activity in the human electroencephalogram is suppressed by eye opening, visual stimuli and visual scanning, whereas it is enhanced during internal tasks, such as mental calculation and working memory. alpha-Frequency band oscillations have hence been thought to reflect idling or inhibition of task-irrelevant cortical areas. However, recent data on alpha-amplitude and, in particular, alpha-phase dynamics posit a direct and active role for alpha-frequency band rhythmicity in the mechanisms of attention and consciousness. We propose that simultaneous alpha-, beta- (14-30 Hz) and gamma- (30-70 Hz) frequency band oscillations are required for unified cognitive operations, and hypothesize that cross-frequency phase synchrony between alpha, beta and gamma oscillations coordinates the selection and maintenance of neuronal object representations during working memory, perception and consciousness.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission is a primary experimental model of memory formation in neuronal circuits. Because of the intellectual appeal and scientific fecundity of the field, it is perhaps unsurprising that the literature on LTP contains many complex and often contradictory findings. Recognition that LTP is not a unitary phenomenon and mechanisms can differ between brain regions has resolved some controversy. However, further categorization can be made of mechanistically discrete forms of LTP at the same set of synapses. LTP1, LTP2 and LTP3 have previously been defined according to differences in the longevity and general molecular mechanisms of LTP. This review aims to reinvigorate and extend this concept as a useful framework to disentangle the mechanisms of LTP.
The classical divide between degenerative and inflammatory disorders of the CNS is vanishing as accumulating evidence shows that inflammatory processes are important in the pathophysiology of primarily degenerative disorders, and neurodegeneration complicates primarily inflammatory diseases of the brain and spinal cord. Here, we review the contribution of degenerative and inflammatory processes to CNS disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis and HIV-associated dementia. An early combination of neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory approaches to these disorders seems particularly desirable because isolated treatment of one pathological process might worsen another. We also discuss the apparently unique opportunity to modify neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation simultaneously by pharmacological manipulation of the endocannabinoid system in the CNS and in peripheral immune cells. Current knowledge of this system and its involvement in the above CNS disorders are also reviewed.

We have modelled the effect of microsaccades on retinal responses to achromatic borders and lines using physiologically realistic parameters. Typical microsaccade movement sequences were applied to the retinal image of stationary spatial contrast patterns as projected on the foveal cone mosaic after being passed through the optical transfer function of the eye. The resulting temporal contrast modulation over a cone receptive field was convolved with an analytical expression for the response waveform of primate cones (photocurrent: [Schnapf, J. L., Nunn, B. J., Meister, M. &amp; Baylor, D. A. (1990). Visual transduction in cones of the monkey Macaca fascicularis. Journal of Physiology, 427, 681-713]; photovoltage: [Schneeweis, D. M. &amp; Schnapf, J. L. (1999). The photovoltage of macaque cone photoreceptors: Adaptation, noise, and kinetics. Journal of Neuroscience, 19, 1203-1216]). The input to the ganglion cell was derived from the cone responses by the difference-of-Gaussians receptive field model of Donner and Hemil [Donner, K. &amp; Hemil, S. (1996). Modelling the spatio-temporal modulation response of ganglion cells with difference-of-Gaussians receptive fields: Relation to photoreceptor response kinetics. Visual Neuroscience, 13, 173-186]. The modelled response waveforms suggest that microsaccades may significantly enhance sensitivity to edges, &quot;re-sharpen&quot; the image and, most interestingly, improve resolution of two closely spaced lines. The reason is that fine spatial structure of the retinal image when moving at suitable velocities is translated into a correlated temporal structure of responses of single cones and ganglion cells. The information content of the signal is not strongly dependent on positional accuracy and the effect is thus distinct from the presumed retinal basis of vernier acuity. Other eye movements (drift) with velocity distributions similar to that of the microsaccade's slow return phase might be similarly useful, although the microsaccade has some distinguishing features that could be functionally significant, e.g., the neural motor control and the biphasic movement pattern.

We hypothesize that estrogen exerts a modulatory effect on sympathetic neurons to reduce neural cardiovascular tone and that these effects are modulated by nerve growth factor (NGF), a neurotrophin that regulates sympathetic neuron survival and maintenance. We examined the effects of estrogen on NGF and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein content in specific vascular targets. Ovariectomized, adult Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with placebo or 17beta-estradiol (release rate, 0.05 mg/day). Fourteen days later, NGF levels in the superior cervical ganglia (SCG) and its targets, the heart, external carotid artery, and the extracerebral blood vessels, as well as estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) content levels in the heart, were determined using semi-quantitative Western blot analysis. TH levels in the SCG and extracerebral blood vessels were determined by Western blotting and immunocytochemistry, respectively. Circulating levels of 17beta-estradiol and prolactin (PRL) were quantified by RIA. Estrogen replacement significantly decreased NGF protein in the SCG and its targets, the external carotid artery, heart and extracerebral blood vessels. TH protein associated with the extracerebral blood vessels was also significantly decreased, but ERalpha levels were significantly increased in the heart following estrogen replacement. These results indicate that estrogen reduces NGF protein content in sympathetic vascular targets, which may lead to decreased sympathetic innervations to these targets, and therefore reduced sympathetic regulation. In addition, the estrogen-induced increase in ERalpha levels in the heart, a target tissue of the SCG, suggests that estrogen may sensitize the heart to further estrogen modulation, and possibly increase vasodilation of the coronary vasculature.
A rodent model of diencephalic amnesia, pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD), was used to investigate diencephalic-limbic interactions. In-vivo acetylcholine (ACh) efflux, a marker of memory-related activation, was measured in the hippocampus and the amygdala of PTD-treated and pair-fed (PF) control rats while they were tested on a spontaneous alternation task. During behavioral testing, all animals displayed increases in ACh efflux in both the hippocampus and amygdala. However, during spontaneous alternation testing ACh efflux in the hippocampus and the alternation scores were higher in PF rats relative to PTD-treated rats. In contrast, ACh efflux in the amygdala was not suppressed in PTD treated rats, relative to PF rats, prior to or during behavioral testing. In addition, unbiased stereological estimates of the number of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunopositive neurons in the medial septal/diagonal band (MS/DB) and nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) also reveal a selective cholinergic dysfunction: In PTD-treated rats a significant loss of ChAT-immunopositive cells was found only in the MS/DB, but not in the NBM. Significantly, these results demonstrate that thiamine deficiency causes selective cholinergic dysfunction in the septo-hippocampal pathway.
The relationship between spatial attention and object-based attention has long been debated. On the basis of behavioral evidence it has been hypothesized that these two forms of attention share a common mechanism, such that directing spatial attention to one part of an object facilitates the selection of the entire object. In a previous study (Martinez, A., Teder-Salejarvi, W., Vazquez, M., Molholm, S., Foxe, J.J., Javitt, D.C., Di Russo, F., Worden, M.S., Hillyard, S.A., 2006. &quot;Objects are highlighted by spatial attention.&quot; J. Cogn. Neurosci. 18(2): 298-310) we used recordings of event-related potentials (ERPs) during a paradigm modeled after that of Egly et al. (Egly, R., Driver, J., Rafal, D.R., 1994. Shifting visual attention between objects and locations: evidence from normal and parietal lesion subjects. J. Exp. Psychol. Gen. 123(2) 161-77) to investigate this relationship. As reported in numerous studies of spatial attention, we found the typical pattern of enhanced neural activity in visual cortex elicited by attended stimuli. Unattended stimuli belonging to the same object as the attended stimuli elicited a very similar spatiotemporal pattern of enhanced neural activity that was localized to lateral occipital cortex (LOC). This similarity was taken as evidence that spatial- and object-selective attention share, at least in part, a common neural mechanism. In the present study we further investigate this relationship by examining whether this spread of spatial attention within attended objects can be guided by objects defined by illusory contours. Subjects viewed a display consisting of two illusory rectangular objects and directed attention to continuous sequences of stimuli (brief onsets) at one end of one of the objects. Stimuli occurring at irrelevant locations but belonging to the same attended object elicited larger posterior N1 amplitudes than that elicited by unattended objects forming part of a different object. This object-selective N1 enhancement was localized to lateral occipital cortex. The present data support the hypothesis that the allocation of spatial attention can be guided by illusory object boundaries and that this allocation strengthens the perceptual representations of attended objects at the level of visual area LOC.

This report describes an approach for the study of the biology of methylarginine proteins based on the generation of immunological reagents capable of recognizing the methylarginine status of cellular proteins. Two forms of an immunizing peptide were prepared based upon an amino acid sequence motif found most prevalently among verified dimethylarginine-containing proteins. One form of the peptide was constructed with 7 arginine residues alternating with 8 glycine residues. None of the arginines used in the synthesis were methylated. The alternative form of the peptide was synthesized with the identical repeating GRG sequence, but with asymmetrical dimethylarginine at each arginine residue. A methylarginine-specific antiserum was generated using the latter peptide. ELISA and western blotting of glycine arginine-rich peptides, each synthesized with or without asymmetric dimethylarginine, demonstrate the methyl specificity of the antiserum. The methylarginine-specific antibody co-localizes with the highly methylated native nucleolin protein conspicuously concentrated in the nucleolus. The methylarginine-specific antiserum recognizes a GRG peptide and bacterially expressed RBP16 only after incubation of the peptide or RBP16 with recombinant protein arginine methyltransferase 1, or cell extracts, respectively. Proteins isolated from cells in different developmental states exhibit different patterns of reactivity observed by western blots. Finally, the methylarginine-specific reagent interacts specifically with the methylarginine of cellular hnRNPA1 and human fragile X mental retardation protein expressed in cultured PC12 cells. An immunological reagent capable of detecting the methylarginine status of cellular methylproteins will facilitate the cellular and molecular analysis of protein arginine methylation in a wide variety of research and biomedical applications.
It is known that anesthesia depresses neural activity and inhibits cortico-cortical interactions and cortical output. Hence, it is important to record from awake animals in order to better understand the full dynamic range of neural responses. We have developed a preparation for chronic, multi-electrode physiological recording in the cortex of the awake ferret. This paper discusses several of the advantages and disadvantages of the technique as well as procedures used to overcome potential complications associated with chronic implants in the ferret. Our solutions are well suited to the special species requirements, yet are also easily generalizable to other species.
The directionality of axonal transport represents an important question in neurophysiological and neuropathological research. Various approaches such as videomicroscopy, radioisotopic and fluorescence-based techniques are used. Recently, a novel FRAP-based (fluorescent recovery after photobleaching) technique using synaptophysin-EGFP expression in primary neurons was applied, allowing reliable and sensitive evaluation of gross axonal transport changes using confocal live-imaging microscopy. Here, we describe a novel FLIP-based (fluorescence loss in photobleaching) approach using a synaptophysin-EGFP probe that allows the differential evaluation of the ante- and retrograde transport parameters. Furthermore, we improved the sensitivity of the probe by substituting EGFP with an ECFP/VenusYFP fusion FRET (fluorescence resonance energy transfer) pair. The use of this FRET couple improves the precision of axonal transport measurements by combining FLIP and FLAP (fluorescence localization after photobleaching) techniques and eliminating the need for pre-bleaching images and thus pixel shifts between various exposures, and by reducing the deleterious effect of photobleaching.
Various techniques have been applied for the functional analysis of synaptic transmission in cultured neurons. Here, we describe a method of studying synaptic transmission in neurons cultured at high-density from different brain regions such as the cortex, striatum and spinal cord. We use postsynaptic whole-cell recordings to monitor synaptic currents triggered by presynaptic action potentials that are induced by brief stimulations with a nearby extracellular bipolar electrode. Pharmacologically isolated excitatory or inhibitory postsynaptic currents can be reliably induced, with amplitudes, synaptic charge transfers, and short-term plasticity properties that are reproducible from culture to culture. We show that the size and kinetics of pharmacologically isolated inhibitory postsynaptic currents triggered by single action potentials or stimulus trains depend on the Ca2+ concentration, temperature and stimulation frequency. This method can be applied to study synaptic transmission in wildtype neurons infected with lentiviruses encoding various components of presynaptic release machinery, or in neurons from genetically modified mice, for example neurons carrying floxed genes in which gene expression can be acutely ablated by expression of Cre recombinase. The preparation described in this paper should be useful for analysis of synaptic transmission in inter-neuronal synapses formed by different types of neurons.
Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) is the enzyme responsible for the rapid degradation of fatty acid amides such as the endocannabinoid anandamide. Inhibition of FAAH activity has been suggested as a therapeutic approach for the treatment of chronic pain, depression and anxiety, through local activation of the cannabinoid receptor CB1. We have developed a high throughput screening assay for identification of FAAH inhibitors using a novel substrate, decanoyl 7-amino-4-methyl coumarin (D-AMC) that is cleaved by FAAH to release decanoic acid and the highly fluorescent molecule 7-amino-4-methyl coumarin (AMC). This assay gives an excellent signal window for measuring FAAH activity and, as a continuous assay, inherently offers improved sensitivity and accuracy over previously reported endpoint assays. The assay was validated using a panel of known FAAH inhibitors and purified recombinant human FAAH, then converted to a 384 well format and used to screen a large library of compounds (&gt;600,000 compounds) to identify FAAH inhibitors. This screen identified numerous novel FAAH inhibitors of diverse chemotypes. These hits confirmed using a native FAAH substrate, anandamide, and had very similar rank order potency to that obtained using the D-AMC substrate. Collectively these data demonstrate that D-AMC can be successfully used to rapidly and effectively identify novel FAAH inhibitors for potential therapeutic use.
Glioblastoma is the most common astrocytic brain tumor in humans. Current therapies for this malignancy are mostly ineffective. Photodynamic therapy (PDT), an exciting treatment strategy based on activation of a photosensitizer, has not yet been extensively explored for treating glioblastoma. We used 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) as a photosensitizer for PDT to induce apoptosis in human malignant glioblastoma U87MG cells and to understand the underlying molecular mechanisms. Trypan blue dye exclusion test showed a decrease in cell viability after exposure to increasing doses of 5-ALA for 4h followed by PDT with a broad spectrum blue light (400-550 nm) at a dose of 18J/cm(2) for 1h and then incubation at 37 degrees C for 4h. Following 0.5 and 1mM 5-ALA-based PDT (5-ALA-PDT), Wright staining and ApopTag assay showed occurrence of apoptosis morphologically and biochemically, respectively. After 5-ALA-PDT, down regulation of nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) and baculovirus inhibitor-of-apoptosis repeat containing-3 (BIRC-3) protein indicated inhibition of survival signals. Besides, 5-ALA-PDT caused increase in Bax:Bcl-2 ratio and mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF). Activation of calpain, caspase-9, and caspase-3 occurred in course of apoptosis. Calpain and caspase-3 activities cleaved alpha-spectrin at specific sites generating 145kD spectrin breakdown product (SBDP) and 120kD SBDP, respectively. The results suggested that 5-ALA-PDT induced apoptosis in U87MG cells by suppression of survival signals and activation of proteolytic pathways. Thus, 5-ALA-PDT can be an effective strategy for inducing apoptosis in glioblastoma.
The present study was undertaken to determine if the neuroprotective effect of 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) when administrated after ischemia is dose-dependent and if the therapeutic window for estrogen can be prolonged. Ischemic injury was induced by permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (p-MCAO). Administration of E(2) at 30 min after ischemia resulted in a reduction in lesion volume. A higher dose of E(2) extended the therapeutic window to 6h after cerebral ischemia in 33% of the rats. These findings suggest that postischemic treatment with estrogen affords protection against ischemic damage and that it acts within a clinically useful therapeutic window.
Transgenic rat models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have recently been developed. Most assays of ALS-symptoms in these models monitor disease onset accurately, but do not identify individuals that will develop these symptoms before the motor deficits become apparent. Peak bodyweight has recently been shown to indicate affected individuals before motor deficits become apparent. However, it must be determined retrospectively due to weight fluctuation. Here, we report that exploratory activities detected by a photobeam activity system (PAS) and wire mesh ascending test can be used to detect slight motor deficits in the early phase of ALS. Thus, these tests may be used in addition to peak bodyweight to monitor early disease progression and to assay efficacy of new therapeutic interventions.
The ventrolateral subdivision of the periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) and the adjacent dorsal mesencephalic reticular formation (dMRF) are involved in the modulation of active (rapid eye movement) sleep (AS). In order to determine the effects on AS of the suppression of neuronal activity in these regions, muscimol, a GABA receptor A (GABA(A)) receptor agonist, and bicuculline, a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, were microinjected bilaterally in guinea pigs and the states of sleep and wakefulness were examined. The main effect of muscimol was an increase in AS; this increase occurred in conjunction with a reduction in the time spent in wakefulness. The powerful effect of muscimol was striking especially when considering the small amount of naturally-occurring AS that is present in this species. Additional observable effects that were induced by muscimol were: 1) long lasting episodes of hypotonia/atonia during wakefulness and quiet sleep that included a lack of extensor tone in the hind limbs, and 2) frequently occurring cortical spindles, similar to those observed during naturally-occurring quiet sleep (sleep spindles), that were present during wakefulness. Conversely, bilateral microinjections of bicuculline induced a prolonged state of wakefulness and blocked the effect of subsequent injections of muscimol. These data suggest that endogenous GABA acts on GABA(A) receptors within the vlPAG and dMRF to promote AS in the guinea pig.
The concentration of glutamate is regulated to ensure neurotransmission with a high temporal and local resolution. It is removed from the extracellular medium by high-affinity transporters, dependent on the maintenance of the Na(+) gradient through the activity of Na(+),K(+)-ATPases. Failure of glutamate clearance can lead to neuronal damage, named excitotoxic damage, due to the prolonged activation of glutamate receptors. Severe impairment of glycolytic metabolism during ischemia and hypoglycemia, leads to glutamate transport dysfunction inducing the elevation of extracellular glutamate and aspartate, and neuronal damage. Altered glucose metabolism has also been associated with some neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Huntington's, and a role of excitotoxicity in the neuropathology of these disorders has been raised. Alterations in glutamate transporters and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors have been observed in these patients, suggesting altered glutamatergic neurotransmission. We hypothesize that inhibition of glucose metabolism might induce changes in glutamatergic neurotransmission rendering neurons more vulnerable to excitotoxicity. We have previously reported that sustained glycolysis impairment in vivo induced by inhibition of glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), facilitates glutamate-mediated neuronal damage. We have now investigated whether this facilitating effect involves altered glutamate uptake, and/or NMDA receptors in the rat hippocampus in vivo. Results indicate that metabolic inhibition leads to the progressive elevation of extracellular glutamate and aspartate levels in the hippocampus, which correlates with decreased content of the GLT-1 glutamate transporter and diminished glutamate uptake. In addition, we observed increased Tyr(1472) phosphorylation and protein content of the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor. Results suggest that moderate sustained glycolysis inhibition alters glutamatergic neurotransmission.
Beta-amyloid protein (Abeta) is the hallmark of pathogenic neurotoxins which contribute greatly to Alzheimer's disease (AD)-associated cascade including severe neuronal loss. In present study, icaritin, an active natural ingredient from a Chinese plant, Epimedium sagittatum maxim, was investigated to assess its neuroprotective effect against the toxicity induced with Abeta(25-35) in primary cultured rat cortical neuronal cells as well as the underlying mechanisms. Abeta(25-35) induced neuronal toxicity, characterized by decreased cell viability, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, and neuronal DNA condensation, which is associated with both the loss of membrane potential and the alteration of the expression of Bcl-2 family proteins. The phenotype alternation induced by Abeta(25-35) could be reversed by icaritin. Furthermore, the neuroprotective effects of icaritin mentioned above were estrogen receptor dependent due to the blocking action induced by estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780 and well matched binding affinity with estrogen receptor by a receptor-ligand docking experiment. mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase inhibitor PD98059 weakened the protective effects, which implied mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase pathway may also be involved in and partly contributed to the neuroprotective effects of icaritin.
High plasma concentration of homocysteine is an independent risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), due to microvascular impairment and consequent neural loss [Seshadri S, Beiser A, Selhub J, Jacques PF, Rosenberg IH, D'Agostino RB, Wilson PW, Wolf PA (2002) Plasma homocysteine as a risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's disease. N Engl J Med 346(7):476-483]. Is high plasma homocysteine level related to slow electroencephalographic (EEG) rhythms in awake resting AD subjects, as a reflection of known relationships between cortical neural loss and these rhythms? To test this hypothesis, we enrolled 34 mild AD patients and 34 subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Enrolled people were then subdivided into four sub-groups of 17 persons: MCI and AD subjects with low homocysteine level (MCI- and AD-, homocysteine level &lt;11 micromol/l); MCI and AD subjects with high homocysteine level (MCI+ and AD+, homocysteine level &gt;or=11 micromol/l). Resting eyes-closed EEG data were recorded. EEG rhythms of interest were delta (2-4 Hz), theta (4-8 Hz), alpha 1 (8-10.5 Hz), alpha 2 (10.5-13 Hz), beta 1 (13-20 Hz), and beta 2 (20-30 Hz). EEG cortical sources were estimated by low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (LORETA). Results showed that delta (frontal and temporal), theta (central, frontal, parietal, occipital, and temporal), alpha 1 (parietal, occipital, and temporal), and alpha 2 (parietal and occipital) sources were stronger in magnitude in AD+ than AD- group. Instead, no difference was found between MCI- and MCI+ groups. In conclusion, high plasma homocysteine level is related to unselective increment of cortical delta, theta, and alpha rhythms in mild AD, thus unveiling possible relationships among that level, microvascular concomitants of advanced neurodegenerative processes, and synchronization mechanisms generating EEG rhythms.
To investigate the neural network involved in the control of mastication during changes in food hardness, we employed functional magnetic resonance imaging while 15 healthy subjects chewed gum whose hardness was changed by chewing. By comparing the areas activated when the hardness of the bolus varied widely with those seen when the hardness of the bolus had stabilized, we identified selective activations of the supplementary motor area, the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the superior temporal gyrus of the left hemisphere, and the premotor area and inferior parietal lobule of the right hemisphere. These findings indicate that these areas are probably related to processes linking sensory input and motor output involved in the change of hardness food during mastication.
Transplantation of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) is regarded to be a potential approach for promoting repair of damaged organs. Here, we investigated the influence of hematopoietic stem cells on progressive hair cell degeneration after transient cochlear ischemia in gerbils. Transient cochlear ischemia was produced by extracranial occlusion of the bilateral vertebral arteries just before their entry into the transverse foramen of the cervical vertebra. Intrascalar injection of HSCs prevented ischemia-induced hair cell degeneration and ameliorated hearing impairment. We also showed that the protein level of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in the organ of Corti was upregulated after cochlear ischemia and that treatment with HSCs augmented this ischemia-induced upregulation of GDNF. A tracking study revealed that HSCs injected into the cochlea were retained in the perilymphatic space of the cochlea, although they neither transdifferentiated into cochlear cell types nor fused with the injured hair cells after ischemia, suggesting that HSCs had therapeutic potential possibly through paracrine effects. Thus, we propose HSCs as a potential new therapeutic strategy for hearing loss.
Growth factors such as insulin-like growth factor type I (IGF-I), epidermal growth factor (EGF), vascular-endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) are present during the development of the CNS. When they reappear in the mature brain they are overexpressed in neoplastic glia, participating in the development of the most common human brain malignant tumor, glioblastoma multiforme, which is invariably fatal. Progress in treatment of this disease involves an increase in median survival from 8 to 11 months to an average of 15 months, rarely to 18 months. We do not know any therapy, which can make a complete stop of this neoplasm. To inhibit this process various anti-growth factor therapies have been proposed. We describe actual applications of growth factor inhibitors and antisense approaches. The review highlights results obtained with the promising treatment of glioblastoma multiforme: using inhibitors and antisense targeting growth factors, including IGF-I, their receptors, and their downstream signaling effectors including glycogenesis and oncogenes. The antisense strategies have been the subject of many clinical trials, especially the IGF-I antisense approach. Such antisense therapies, already introduced in clinical trial in the USA, Europe and Asia, will soon become the preferred alternative treatment for human glioblastoma multiforme. The inhibition of signal transduction pathways common to growth factors and glycogenesis appears as a parallel challenge to glioblastoma multiforme inhibition studies.
A cerebral growth hormone axis is activated following brain injury in the rat and treatment with growth hormone is neuroprotective. We have now investigated whether the closely related prolactin axis has similar properties following injury to the developing rat brain. From one day following a unilateral hypoxic ischemic injury, prolactin immunoreactivity was increased in the affected cortex parallel to the development of the injury (P&lt;0.001). Initial prolactin and prolactin receptor staining on penumbral neurons progressively decreased whereas astrocytes remained strongly immunopositive. Reactive microglia also became strongly prolactin immunoreactive. Unlike growth hormone, central treatment with prolactin failed to rescue neurons in this paradigm. This was confirmed in vitro; rat prolactin failed to protect neurons under conditions for which growth hormone was neuroprotective. However, prolactin had trophic and pro-proliferative effects on glia (P&lt;0.001). We confirmed the expression of the prolactin receptor in vitro by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, and show its strong association with astrocytes as compared with neurons by immunocytochemistry. In summary, we show for the first time that hypoxia ischemia induces a robust activation of the prolactin axis in regions of the cerebral cortex affected by injury. The lack of neuroprotective properties in vivo and in vitro indicates that, unlike growth hormone, prolactin is not directly involved in neuronal rescue in the injured brain. Its strong relation to glial reactions and its gliatrophic effects suggest that the prolactin axis is primarily involved in a gliogenic response during recovery from cerebral injury.
Synthetic peptides of defined amino acid sequence are commonly used as unique antigens for production of antibodies to more complex target proteins. We previously showed that an affinity-purified, site-directed polyclonal antibody (CW90) raised against a peptide antigen (CNGRMPNIAKDVFTKM) anticipated to be specific to a T-type voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel subunit identified recombinant rat alpha1I/Ca(V)3.3 and two endogenous mouse proteins distinct in their developmental expression and apparent molecular mass (neonatal form 260 kDa, mature form 190 kDa) [Yunker AM, Sharp AH, Sundarraj S, Ranganathan V, Copeland TD, McEnery MW (2003) Immunological characterization of T-type voltage-dependent calcium channel Ca(V)3.1 (alpha 1G) and Ca(V)3.3 (alpha 1I) isoforms reveal differences in their localization, expression, and neural development. Neuroscience 117:321-335]. In the present study, we further characterize the biochemical properties of the CW90 antigens. We show for the first time that recombinant alpha1I/Ca(V)3.3 is modified by N-glycosylation. Using peptide:N-glycosidase F (PNGase F), an enzyme that removes polysaccharides attached at Asn residues, and endoneuraminidase-N (Endo-N), which specifically removes polysialic acid modifications, we reveal that differential glycosylation fully accounts for the large difference in apparent molecular mass between neonatal and adult CW90 antigens and that the neonatal form is polysialylated. As very few proteins are substrates for Endo-N, we carried out extensive analyses and herein present evidence that CW90 reacts with recombinant alpha1I/Ca(V)3.3 as well as endogenous neural cell adhesion molecule-180 (NCAM-180). We demonstrate the basis for CW90 cross-reactivity is a five amino acid epitope (AKDVF) present in both alpha1I/Ca(V)3.3 and NCAM-180. To extend these findings, we introduce a novel polyclonal anti-peptide antibody (CW678) that uniquely recognizes NCAM-180 and a new antibody (CW109) against alpha1I/Ca(V)3.3. Western blot analyses obtained with CW678, CW109 and CW90 on a variety of samples confirm that the endogenous CW90 signals are fully attributed to the two developmental forms of NCAM-180. Using CW678, we present novel data on differentiation-dependent NCAM-180 expression in human neuroblastoma IMR32 cells. These results strongly suggest the need for careful analyses to validate anti-peptide antibodies when targeting membrane proteins of low abundance.
In the early stages of brain development, exposure of excessive monosodium glutamate (MSG) to neurons causes animal functional and behavioral disorders in adulthood. To investigate the effects of excessive MSG during pregnancy on the neurons in the developing brain, in situ hybridization was used. In mice, the expression of preprotachykinin A mRNA (PPT A mRNA) was assessed in neurons of in the brain after MSG treatment. Brain tissue sections were hybridized with specific digoxigenin-labeled RNA probes. The number of cells that expressed PPT A mRNA gradually decreased from 10-day-old (10d) to 60-day-old (60d) MSG-treated and normal animals. In the MSG-treated and normal mice, the PPT A mRNA-positive neurons almost disappeared in 90-day-old (90d) mice. The expression of PPT A mRNA significantly decreased at 10d in most of the brain regions of MSG-treated mice including the cerebral cortex (CC), hippocampal subregions of CA1, CA2 (CA1, CA2), habenula nucleus (HAB), hypothalamic periventricular nucleus (PE), hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (AR), median eminence (ME), amygdala nucleus (AMY), endopiriform nucleus (EN), and hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus (VMH) and dorsomedial nucleus (DMH). In the hippocampal CA4 subregions (CA4), paraventricular nucleus (PV) and caudate putamen (CPU), however, they were not significantly altered. Furthermore, in CC, hippocampal CA3 subregion (CA3), PE and EN regions the number of PPT A mRNA-positive neurons decreased at 20 days old (20d), but increased significantly in CA2 and CPU. At 30 days old (30d), the positive neuron number decreased in AMY, and they did not change in other regions. At 60d, the number of positive neurons significantly decreased in PV and ME, but increased in AMY. In the other observed regions, no changes were found. These results show that maternal administration of excessive MSG at a late stage of pregnancy significantly decreases PPT A mRNA expression in most of the brain regions of filial mice. This suggests that glutamate-induced excitotoxicity may affect the metabolism of precursors of substance P in developing brain neurons. The present study provides insights into the plasticity and vulnerability of neuron in different brain regions to glutamate excitotoxicity.
Recent experimental studies have shown that developing cortex in several animals species, including humans, exhibits spontaneous intermittent activity that is believed to be crucial for the proper wiring of early brain networks. The present study examined the developmental changes in these spontaneous activity transients (SAT) and in other ongoing cortical activities in human preterm babies. Full-band electroencephalography (FbEEG) recordings were obtained from 16 babies at conceptional ages between 32.8 and 40 wk. We examined the SATs and the intervening ongoing cortical activities (inter-SAT; iSAT) with average waveforms, their variance and power, as well as with wavelet-based time-frequency analyses. Our results show, that the low frequency power and the variance of the average waveform of SAT decrease during development. There was a simultaneous increase in the activity at higher frequencies, with most pronounced increase at theta-alpha range (4-9 Hz). In addition to the overall increase, the activity at higher frequencies showed an increased grouping into bursts that are nested in the low frequency (0.5-1 Hz) waves. Analysis of the iSAT epochs showed a developmental increase in power at lower frequencies in quiet sleep. There was an increase in a wide range of higher frequencies (4-16 Hz), whereas the ratio of beta (16-30 Hz) and theta-alpha (4-9 Hz) range activity declined, indicating a preferential increase at theta-alpha range activity. Notably, SAT and iSAT activities remained distinct throughout the development in all measures used in our study. The present results are consistent with the idea that SAT and the other ongoing cortical activities are distinct functional entities. Recognition of these two basic mechanisms in the cortical activity in preterm human babies opens new rational approaches for an evaluation and monitoring of early human brain function.
The signaling pathway of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) induction following ischemic preconditioning (IPC) in brain remains undefined. To determine role of COX-2 in ischemic preconditioning, we used two in vitro models: mixed cortical neuron/astrocyte cell cultures and organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. We simulated IPC by exposing cell or slice cultures to 1 h or 15 min of oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD), respectively, 48 h prior to ischemia. To mimic ischemia in vitro, we exposed cell or slice cultures to OGD of 4 h or 40 min, respectively. In cell cultures, these experiments revealed that COX-2 induction peaked at 24 h following IPC in cell culture. Inhibition of COX-2 activation with 50 microM NS-398 (a COX-2 selective inhibitor) abolished IPC-mediated neuroprotection in both in vitro models. Next, we tested whether epsilon protein kinase C (epsilonPKC) and extracellular signal regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) activation was involved in IPC-mediated neuroprotection and COX-2 expression in cell culture. Cell cultures were treated with an epsilonPKC-specific activating peptide (psiepsilonRACK, 100 nM) for 1 h, and 48 h later were exposed to OGD. epsilonPKC activation increased ERK1/2 phosphorylation and COX-2 induction and conferred neuroprotection similar to IPC. Additionally, inhibition of either epsilonPKC or ERK1/2 activation abolished COX-2 expression and neuroprotection due to ischemic preconditioning. These results demonstrate a crucial role for the epsilonPKC--&gt;ERK1/2--&gt;COX-2 pathway in the induction of neuroprotection via ischemic preconditioning.
Working memory is a theoretical concept referring to a set of cognitive processes that provide temporary maintenance and manipulation of the information necessary for complex cognitive tasks. The preponderance of working memory tasks emphasizes the maintenance of information, and, is spatially oriented. Working memory tasks which are not spatially oriented and which require not only the maintenance but also the manipulation of information are needed in order to further our understanding of working memory in animals. The present studies describe a non-spatial, stimulus-comparison procedure for evaluating working memory in rats which may also tap into the central executive component of working memory. The present procedure requires the animals to compare two stimuli (a light and a tone) and, after a delay, respond on one of two levers if the stimuli are the same and on the other lever if the stimuli are different. Thus, the rats must not only remember the stimuli, but must also operate on, i.e. compare, them in order to respond correctly. The rats relatively rapidly acquired the behavior in approximately 30 sessions and did not exhibit a response bias for response location or stimulus type. Moreover, the percent correct responding was dependent on the duration of the retention interval. The muscarinic cholinergic receptor antagonist scopolamine, but not by its quaternary analog N-methyl scopolamine, decreased the percentage of correct responding as well as the discriminability of the stimuli as measured by log d while having no effect on bias as measured by log b. The present findings are consistent with the hypothesis that the present non-spatial, stimulus-comparison procedure may be useful for evaluating working memory in a manner which may involve the central executive component.
Acid challenge of the gastric mucosa is signaled to the brainstem. This study examined whether mild gastritis due to dextrane sulfate sodium (DSS) or iodoacetamide (IAA) enhances gastric acid-evoked input to the brainstem and whether this effect is related to gastric myeloperoxidase activity, gastric histology, gastric volume retention or cyclooxygenase stimulation. The stomach of conscious mice was challenged with NaCl (0.15 M) or HCl (0.15 and 0.25 M) administered via gastric gavage. Two hours later, activation of neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) was visualized by c-Fos immunocytochemistry. Gastritis was induced by DSS (molecular weight 8000; 5%) or IAA (0.1%) added to the drinking water for 7 days. Relative to NaCl, intragastric HCl increased the number of c-Fos protein-expressing cells in the NTS. Pretreatment with DSS or IAA for 1 week did not alter the c-Fos response to NaCl but significantly enhanced the response to HCl by 54 and 74%, respectively. Either pretreatment elevated gastric myeloperoxidase activity and induced histological injury of the mucosal surface. In addition, DSS caused dilation of the gastric glands and damage to the parietal cells. HCl-induced gastric volume retention was not altered by IAA but attenuated by DSS pretreatment. Indomethacin (5 mg/kg) failed to significantly alter HCl-evoked expression of c-Fos in the NTS of control, DSS-pretreated and IAA-pretreated mice. We conclude that the gastritis-evoked increase in the gastric acid-evoked c-Fos expression in the NTS is related to disruption of the gastric mucosal barrier, mucosal inflammation, mucosal acid influx and enhanced activation of the afferent stomach-NTS axis.
We measured birefringence, 90 degree scattered light, and voltage sensitive dye changes from lobster walking leg nerves. Systematic application of key chemical agents revealed separate cellular mechanisms underlying fast optical signals. Each agent exhibited mixed effects, some having a greater effect on cellular swelling and refractive index, and some altering membrane potential. Birefringence changes were tightly correlated with voltage sensitive dye signals and were perturbed by those agents that altered membrane potential. Signals from light scattered at 90 degrees corroborated the hypothesis that large angle scattering signals arise from changes in the interstitial spaces and were perturbed by those agents that altered cellular swelling and refractive index. We conclude that multiple cellular mechanisms can be exploited to measure rapid optical signals. Since birefringence produces much larger changes than scattering, the use of polarized light might lead to improvements in imaging neural activity with high temporal resolution, especially since birefringence changes corresponded closely to membrane potential.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the presence of oxidative DNA damage in the photoreceptors of the rd1 mouse, an animal model for retinitis pigmentosa, and to determine if antioxidants could delay the progress of photoreceptor cell death. Retinas of rd1 mice and congenic wild type controls were examined for DNA oxidation and fragmentation. To study the rescue effect of antioxidants on retinal degeneration, rd1 retinas were studied in vitro and in vivo using lutein, zeaxanthin, alpha lipoic acid and reduced l-glutathione. For the in vitro studies, antioxidants were added to the culture medium. For the in vivo studies, postnatal day (PN3) pups of rd1 mice were fed antioxidants either individually or in combination and control rd1 animals received vehicle alone. Histological evaluation was performed using hematoxylin/eosin and avidin staining, as well as terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay. Many of the rd1 rod photoreceptors at PN11 displayed oxidative DNA damage and TUNEL positive reaction which co-localized in a subset of rod photoreceptors. Avidin-labeled rod photoreceptors were more abundant than the TUNEL positive photoreceptors of the rd1 mouse, indicating that oxidative DNA damage precedes fragmentation. The number of TUNEL positive and avidin positive cells was considerably decreased upon treatment with the combination of the antioxidants. Rescue of rd1 photoreceptors was significant at PN18 and PN17, respectively, in the in vitro and in vivo studies. In conclusion individual antioxidants had no significant rescue effect but the combination slowed down the rd1 rod photoreceptor degeneration, indicating an additive or synergistic effect.
The development and function of presynaptic terminals are tightly controlled by retrograde factors presented from postsynaptic cells. However, it remains elusive whether major constituents of synapses themselves are necessary for retrograde modulation during synaptogenesis. Here we show that the homophilic cell adhesion molecule Fasciclin II (FasII) as well as the scaffolding protein Discs large (DLG) is indispensable for retrograde signaling initiated by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) at developing Drosophila neuromuscular junctions. Postsynaptic activation of CaMKII increased the area of nerve terminals, the number of active zones, and the frequency of miniature excitatory synaptic currents in wild-type animals. However, all of these retrograde effects were abolished in the fasII or dlg mutant background. On the other hand, the retrograde effects remained in null mutants of the glutamate receptor subunit GluRIIA. Furthermore, we show that CaMKII-induced modulation was independent of the bone morphogenetic protein signaling that is important for retrograde control at mature larvae. These results highlight a novel function of FasII as well as DLG, and more broadly, illustrate that prime synaptic components are necessary for transferring target-derived signals to presynaptic cells at a certain developing synapse.
The fine-tuning of network activity provides a modulating influence on how information is processed and interpreted in the brain. Here, we use brain slices of rat prefrontal cortex to study how recurrent network activity is affected by neuromodulators known to alter normal cortical function. We previously determined that glutamate spillover and stimulation of extrasynaptic N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors are required to support hallucinogen-induced cortical network activity. Since microdialysis studies suggest that psychedelic hallucinogens and dopamine D1/D5 receptor agonists have opposite effects on extracellular glutamate in prefrontal cortex, we hypothesized that these two families of psychoactive drugs would have opposite effects on cortical network activity. We found that network activity can be enhanced by 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI) (a psychedelic hallucinogen that is a partial agonist of 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors) and suppressed by the selective D1/D5 agonist SKF 38393. This suppression could be mimicked by direct activation of adenylyl cyclase with forskolin or by addition of a cAMP analog. These findings are consistent with previous work showing that activation of adenylyl cyclase can upregulate neuronal glutamate transporters, thereby decreasing synaptic spillover of glutamate. Consistent with this hypothesis, a low concentration of the glutamate transporter inhibitor threo-beta-benzoylaspartic acid (TBOA) restored electrically-evoked recurrent activity in the presence of a selective D1/D5 agonist, whereas recurrent activity in the presence of a low level of the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline was not resistant to suppression by the D1/D5 agonist. The tempering of network UP states by D1/D5 receptor activation may have implications for the proposed use of D1/D5 agonists in the treatment of schizophrenia.
Neurokinin-1 receptor (NK1-R) expressing neurons are densely distributed throughout the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS). However, their fundamental role in arterial baroreflex function remains debated. Previously, our group has shown that activation of contraction-sensitive somatic afferents evoke substance P (SP) release in the NTS and resets the arterial baroreflex via activation of a GABAergic NTS circuit. Based on these findings, we hypothesized that modulation of arterial baroreflex function by somatic afferents is mediated by NK1-R dependent inhibition of barosensitive NTS circuits. In the present study, SP-conjugated saporin toxin (SP-SAP) was used to ablate NK1-R expressing NTS neurons. Contraction-sensitive somatic afferents were activated by electrically-evoked muscle contraction and the arterial baroreceptor-heart rate reflex was assessed by constructing reflex curves using a decerebrate, arterially-perfused preparation. Baseline baroreflex sensitivity was significantly attenuated in SP-SAP-treated rats compared with control rats receiving either unconjugated SAP or vehicle. Muscle contraction significantly attenuated baroslope in SAP and vehicle-treated animals and shifted the baroreflex curves to higher systemic pressure. In contrast, somatic afferent stimulation failed to alter baroslope or shift the baroreflex curves in SP-SAP-treated animals. Moreover, when reflex sensitivity was partially restored in SP-SAP animals, somatic stimulation failed to attenuate baroreflex bradycardia. In contrast, SP-SAP and somatic stimulation failed to blunt the reflex bradycardia evoked by the peripheral chemoreflex. Immunohistochemistry revealed that pretreatment with SP-SAP significantly reduced the number of NK1-R expressing neurons in the caudal NTS, while sparing NK1-R expressing neurons rostral to the injection site. This was accompanied by a significant reduction in the number of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67) expressing neurons at equivalent levels of the NTS. These findings indicate that immunolesioning of NK1-R expressing NTS neurons selectively abolishes the depressive effect of somatosensory input on arterial baroreceptor-heart rate reflex function.
Natriuretic peptide receptor-A (NPR-A) mediates the biological effects of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), and is involved in maintaining cardiovascular homeostasis. In this immunohistochemical study we examined the distribution of NPR-A in the brainstem of the cynomolgus monkey. NPR-A immunoreactivity was localized to neurons in specific brainstem regions. NPR-A-immunoreactive perikarya were found in the red nucleus and the oculomotor nucleus in the midbrain, the parabrachial nucleus and the locus coeruleus in the pons, and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, the hypoglossal nucleus, the cuneate nucleus, the gracile nucleus, the nucleus ambiguus, the lateral reticular nucleus, the reticular formation, and the inferior olivary nucleus in the medulla oblongata. Extensive networks of immunoreactive fibers were apparent in the red nucleus, the oculomotor nucleus, the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus, and the parabrachial nucleus. Double immunostaining revealed NPR-A immunoreactivity in cholinergic neurons of the parabrachial nucleus, the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus, the hypoglossal nucleus, and the nucleus ambiguus. However, there was no colocalization of NPR-A and tyrosine hydroxylase in the locus coeruleus. The wide anatomical distribution of NPR-A-immunoreactive structures suggests that natriuretic peptides, besides having a role in the central regulation of endocrine and cardiovascular homeostasis, may also mediate diverse physiological functions.
Pretreatment with anesthetics before but not during hypoxia or ischemia can improve neuronal recovery after the insult. Sevoflurane, a volatile anesthetic agent, improved neuronal recovery subsequent to 10 min of global cerebral ischemia when it was present for 1 h before the ischemia. The mean number of intact hippocampal cornus ammonis 1 (CA1) pyramidal neurons in rats subjected to cerebral ischemia without any pretreatment was 17+/-5 (neurons/mm+/-S.D.) 6 weeks after the ischemia; nave, non-ischemic rats had 177+/-5 neurons/mm. Rats pretreated with either 2% or 4% sevoflurane had 112+/-57 or 150+/-15 CA1 pyramidal neurons/mm respectively (P&lt;0.01) 6 weeks after global cerebral ischemia. In order to examine the mechanisms of protection we used hypoxia to generate energy deprivation. Intracellular recordings were made from CA1 pyramidal neurons in rat hippocampal slices; the recovery of resting and action potentials after hypoxia was used as an indicator of neuronal survival. Pretreatment with 4% sevoflurane for 15 min improved neuronal recovery 1 h after the hypoxia; 90% of the sevoflurane-pretreated neurons recovered while none (0%) of the untreated neurons recovered. Pretreatment with sevoflurane enhanced the hypoxic hyperpolarization(-6.4+/-0.6 vs. -3.3+/-0.3 mV) and reduced the final level of the hypoxic depolarization (-39+/-6 vs. -0.3+/-2 mV) during hypoxia. Chelerythrine (5 muM), a protein kinase C/protein kinase M inhibitor, blocked both the improved recovery (10%) and the electrophysiological changes with 4% sevoflurane preconditioning. Two percent sevoflurane for 15 min before hypoxia did not improve recovery (0% recovery both groups) and did not enhance the hypoxic hyperpolarization or reduce the final depolarization during hypoxia. However if 2% sevoflurane was present for 1 h before the hypoxia then there was significantly improved recovery, enhanced hypoxic hyperpolarization, and reduced final depolarization. Thus we conclude that sevoflurane preconditioning improves recovery in both in vivo and in vitro models of energy deprivation and that preconditioning enhances the hypoxic hyperpolarization and reduces the hypoxic depolarization. Anesthetic preconditioning may protect neurons from ischemia by altering the electrophysiological changes a neuron undergoes during energy deprivation.
Although alpha7-receptors are considered the main target for neuroprotection, other receptor subtypes (alpha4beta2 or alpha3beta4) have also been implicated. Hence, we have used alpha7-transgenic mice, to study the hypothesis that alpha7-receptors play a dominant role in mediating neuroprotection in an in vitro model of ischemia. We have used rat and mouse hippocampal slices to establish the model of nicotinic neuroprotection against oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD). Neuronal damage caused by OGD during 1 h plus 3 h re-oxygenation, was quantified by measuring lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release from hippocampal slices. In rat hippocampal slices, OGD increased over twofold basal LDH release. Such increase was reduced when treated with 10-100 microM nicotine; maximal protection afforded by nicotine amounted to 46%. This neuroprotection was antagonized by the non-selective nicotinic receptor for acetylcholine (nAChR) blocker mecamylamine (10 microM). In hippocampal slices from wild-type control mice, nicotine (100 microM) decreased by 54.4% LDH release evoked by OGD plus re-oxygenation. In contrast, nicotine failed to exert neuroprotection in alpha7 knockout mice. This finding reinforces the view that the hippocampal neuroprotective effects of nicotine are predominantly linked to alpha7 receptors.
Prolonged exposure to environmental enrichment (EE) induces behavioral adaptation accompanied by detectable morphological and physiological changes. Auditory EE is associated with an increased auditory evoked potential (AEP) and increased auditory gating in the primary auditory cortex. We sought physiological correlates to such changes by comparing synaptic currents in control vs. EE-raised rats, in a primary auditory cortex (AI) slice preparation. Pharmacologically isolated glutamatergic or GABA(A)-receptor-mediated currents were measured using perforated patch whole-cell recordings. Glutamatergic AMPA receptor (AMPAR)-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) displayed a large amplitude increase (64+/-11% in EE vs. control) accompanied by a rise-time decrease (-29+/-6% in EE vs. control) and decrease in pair pulse ratio in layer II/III but not in layer V. Changes in glutamatergic signaling were not associated with changes in the ratio between N-methyl-D aspartate-receptor (NMDAR)-mediated vs. AMPAR-mediated components, in amplitude or pair pulse ratio of GABAergic transmission, or in passive neuronal properties. A realistic computational model was used for integrating in vivo and in vitro results, and for determining how EE synapses correct for phase error of the inputs. We found that EE not only increases the mean firing frequency of the responses, but also improves the robustness of auditory processing by decreasing the dependence of the output firing on the phase difference of the input signals. We conclude that behavioral and electrophysiological differences detected in vivo in rats exposed to an auditory EE are accompanied and possibly caused by selective changes in cortical excitatory transmission. Our data suggest that auditory EE selectively enhances excitatory glutamatergic synaptic transmission in layer II/III without greatly altering inhibitory GABAergic transmission.
Ca(v)2.1 Ca(2+) channels (P/Q-type), which participate in various key roles in the CNS by mediating calcium influx, are extensively spliced. One of its alternatively-spliced exons is 37, which forms part of the EF hand. The expression of exon 37a (EFa form), but not exon 37b (EFb form), confers the channel an activity-dependent enhancement of channel opening known as Ca(2+)-dependent facilitation (CDF). In this study, we analyzed the trend of EF hand splice variant distributions in mouse, rat and human brain tissues. We observed a developmental switch in rodents, as well as an age and gender bias in human brain tissues, suggestive of a possible role of these EF hand splice variants in neurophysiological specialization. A parallel study performed on rodent brains showed that the data drawn from human and rodent tissues may not necessarily correlate in the process of aging.
This study investigated sex differences in the stress-induced activation of neurons containing corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH), arginine vasopressin (AVP) and enkephalin in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of gonadectomized male and female sheep. Groups (n=3) of both sexes were either subjected to 90 min isolation and restraint stress (stress group) or were not stressed. Blood samples were taken every 10 min for 90 min prior to and after stress to monitor cortisol levels in plasma. Brains were harvested after 90 min of stress. Stress caused elevation of plasma cortisol levels to a similar extent in both sexes. Double-labeling immunohistochemistry for Fos and either CRH, AVP or enkephalin was undertaken to quantify the numbers of neurons staining for CRH, AVP and enkephalin that also immunostained for Fos. Stress increased Fos immunostaining in all cell types. There was a greater proportion of CRH than AVP neurons activated in stressed animals. There were no sex differences in the activation of CRH and AVP neurons although females had a greater proportion of enkephalin cells staining for Fos than males in both control and stressed animals. There were no differences between control and stressed animals in the proportion of cells co-staining for CRH and AVP. We conclude that isolation and restraint stress activates neurons producing CRH, AVP and enkephalin in sheep and that CRH may play a greater role than AVP in regulating adrenocorticotrophic hormone secretion in response to this stressor in sheep. Finally, isolation and restraint stress does not influence co-localization of CRH and AVP in sheep.
In this study, we characterize the functional properties of a segment of the murine methyl cytosine phosphate guanine binding domain-containing factor 3 (MBD3) promoter region. Transient transfection of a chimera consisting of a 1072 base pair region extending upstream from the MBD3 initiation codon fused to a luciferase complementary DNA (cDNA) confirmed the presence of a functional promoter unit. Primer extension analysis failed to identify a single predominant transcription initiation site, but rather detected multiple transcription initiation sites in both brain tissue and cultured neuroblastomaxglioma cell line (NG108-15) and rat pheochromocytoma cell line (PC12) cells. Reporter gene assays revealed that this 1072 base pair fragment efficiently drives expression in transfected NG108-15 cells, PC12 cells, cultured primary neurons, and in neurons of a transgenic mouse brain. Deletion analysis mapped the critical region for promoter activity to a segment of approximately 518 base pairs, located from positions -585 to -68 relative to the translational start codon. Taken together, these data indicate that a 1072 base pair fragment of the MBD3 promoter is sufficient to drive expression in cell lines and primary cultured neurons, and is able to direct transgene expression in the mouse brain in a pattern with spatial similarity to that of native MBD3.
Stress causes increased dynorphin (DYN) expression in limbic brain regions and antagonism of kappa-opioid receptors may offer therapeutic potential for the treatment of depression. A potential site of DYN action relevant to stress and related neuropsychiatric disorders is the locus coeruleus (LC), the primary source of forebrain norepinephrine. Therefore, using immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopic analyses, we characterized the cellular substrates for interactions between DYN and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a catecholamine synthesizing enzyme in single sections through the rat LC. Light microscopic analysis of DYN immunoreactivity indicated that DYN fibers are distributed within the core and pericoerulear subregions of the LC. Using electron microscopy, immunoperoxidase labeling for DYN was primarily found in axon terminals, although in some cases was diffusely localized to somatodendritic processes. When DYN-containing axons formed synaptic contacts, they typically (89%) exhibited an asymmetric morphology. Almost a third (28%) of the postsynaptic targets of DYN-containing axons contained immunogold labeling for TH. These findings reveal some diversity as to the localization of DYN in the LC within axons that contact both TH and non-TH containing dendrites. However, the present data provide the first ultrastructural evidence that DYN-containing axon terminals directly innervate catecholaminergic LC dendrites. Moreover, DYN axon terminals targeting catecholaminergic LC dendrites via asymmetric synapses are consistent with localization within excitatory type afferents to the LC. Therefore, direct modulation of catacholaminergic LC neurons maybe an important site of action for DYN relevant to stress and stress-related disorders.
The role of endogenous opioid peptides in impairment of spatial performance due to epileptogenesis was examined. Animals were kindled by repeated injections of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) (40 mg/kg, i.p.) in the presence or absence of the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone. Naloxone in different doses (1, 5 and 10 mg/kg, i.p.) was applied 30 min before each PTZ injection. Behavioral testing was assessed 24 h and 10 days after the last injection in separate groups of animals using Morris water maze. Our results showed that PTZ-induced kindling produced a significant impairment of spatial learning and memory as compared with controls and this effect was not due to the aftereffect of repeated seizures. Naloxone pretreatment in the course of kindling had no effect on seizures development, however it caused an improvement of spatial learning and memory performance in kindled rats. It is likely that the long-lasting changes in neuronal responsiveness associated with kindling led to a defect in the processing of spatial information. These data suggest that endogenous opioid peptides released in the hippocampus during kindling are at least in part responsible for impairment of spatial performance in kindled animals.
The actin-binding protein Kelch-like 1 (KLHL1) is a neuronal protein that belongs to the evolutionarily-conserved Kelch protein super-family. The mammalian KLHL1 is brain-specific, cytosolic and can form multimers and bind actin filaments. KLHL1's function is likely that of an actin-organizing protein, possibly modulating neurite outgrowth, the dynamic morphology of dendritic spine heads; or anchoring proteins essential for post-synaptic function, like ion channels. Targeted deletion of the KLHL1 gene in Purkinje neurons results in dendritic deficits in these neurons, abnormal gait, and progressive loss of motor coordination in mice [He Y, Zu T, Benzow KA, Orr HT, Clark HB, Koob MD (2006) Targeted deletion of a single SCA8 ataxia locus allele in mice causes abnormal gait, progressive loss of motor coordination, and Purkinje cell dendritic deficits. J Neurosci 26:9975-9982]. Here we tested the hypothesis that KLHL1 may interact and modulate voltage-gated calcium channels by assessing the interaction of the principal subunit of P/Q-type channels, alpha(1A), with KLHL1. Experiments in human embryonic kidney line HEK 293 (HEK) cells and cerebellar primary cultures revealed co-incidence of alpha(1A) and KLHL1 immunoreactivity when testing both the endogenous or epitope-tagged versions of the proteins. Similarly, co-immunoprecipitation experiments in HEK cells and brain tissue exposed the presence of KLHL1 in protein samples immunoprecipitated with FLAG-tagged or alpha(1A) antibodies. Functional studies of KLHL1 on P/Q-type current properties probed with whole-cell patch clamp revealed a significant increase in mean current density in the presence of KLHL1 (80% increase; from -13.2+/-2.0 pA/pF to -23.7+/-4.2 pA/pF, P&lt;0.02), as well as a shift in steady state activation V(50) of -5.5 mV (from 12.8+/-1.8 mV to 7.3+/-1.0 mV, P&lt;0.02). Our data are consistent with a modulatory effect of KLHL1 on the P/Q-type calcium channel function and suggest a possible novel role for KLHL1 in cellular excitability.
Transforming growth factor alpha (TGFalpha) in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) has been proposed as an inhibitory signal involved in the control of daily locomotor activity. This assumption is based mainly on studies performed in nocturnal hamsters. To test whether the transcriptional regulation of Tgfalpha can be correlated with the timing of overt activity in other species, we compared Tgfalpha expression in the SCN of nocturnal Swiss mice and of diurnal Arvicanthis housed under a light/dark cycle (LD) or transferred to constant darkness (DD). In agreement with data on hamsters, Tgfalpha mRNA levels in the mouse SCN showed peak and trough levels around (subjective) dawn and dusk, respectively, roughly corresponding to the period of rest and activity in this species. In contrast, in Arvicanthis housed in DD, the circadian rhythm of SCN Tgfalpha was similar to that of the mice in spite of opposite phasing of locomotor activity. Furthermore, in Arvicanthis exposed to LD, Tgfalpha mRNA levels were constitutively high throughout the day. A tonic role of light in the regulation of Tgfalpha in Arvicanthis was confirmed by an increased expression of Tgfalpha in response to a 6-h exposure to light during daytime in animals otherwise kept in DD. In conclusion, this study shows that, contrary to what is observed in mice, Tgfalpha mRNA levels in the SCN of Arvicanthis do not match timing of locomotor activity and are modulated by light.
A number of studies on humans and animals have demonstrated better auditory abilities in blind with respect to sighted subjects and have tried to define the mechanisms through which this compensation occurs. The aim of the present study, therefore, was to examine the participation of primary visual cortex (V1) to auditory processing in early enucleated rats. Here we show, using gaussian noise bursts, that about a third of the cells in V1 responded to auditory stimulation in blind rats and most of these (78%) had ON-type responses and low spontaneous activity. Moreover, they were distributed throughout visual cortex without any apparent tonotopic organization. Optimal frequencies determined using pure tones were rather high but comparable to those found in auditory cortex of blind and sighted rats. On the other hand, sensory thresholds determined at these frequencies were higher and bandwidths were wider in V1 of the blind animals. Blind and sighted rats were also stimulated for 60 min with gaussian noise, their brains removed and processed for c-Fos immunohistochemistry. Results revealed that c-Fos positive cells were not only present in auditory cortex of both groups of rats but there was a 10-fold increase in labeled cells in V1 and a fivefold increase in secondary visual cortex (V2) of early enucleated rats in comparisons to sighted ones. Also, the pattern of distribution of these labeled cells across layers suggests that the recruitment of V1 could originate at least in part through inputs arising from the thalamus. The ensemble of results appears to indicate that cross-modal compensation leading to improved performance in the blind depends on cell recruitment in V1 but probably also plastic changes in lower- and higher-order visual structures and possibly in the auditory system.
Exposure to environmentally relevant levels of lead (Pb(2+)) during early life produces deficits in hippocampal synaptic plasticity in the form of long-term potentiation (LTP) and spatial learning in young adult rats [Nihei MK, Desmond NL, McGlothan JL, Kuhlmann AC, Guilarte TR (2000) N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit changes are associated with lead-induced deficits of long-term potentiation and spatial learning. Neuroscience 99:233-242; Guilarte TR, Toscano CD, McGlothan JL, Weaver SA (2003) Environmental enrichment reverses cognitive and molecular deficits induced by developmental lead exposure. Ann Neurol 53:50-56]. Other evidence suggests that the performance of rats in the Morris water maze spatial learning tasks is associated with the level of granule cell neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG) [Drapeau E, Mayo W, Aurousseau C, Le Moal M, Piazza P-V, Abrous DN (2003) Spatial memory performance of aged rats in the water maze predicts level of hippocampal neurogenesis. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 100:14385-14390]. In this study, we examined whether continuous exposure to environmentally relevant levels of Pb(2+) during early life altered granule cell neurogenesis and morphology in the rat hippocampus. Control and Pb(2+)-exposed rats received bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) injections (100 mg/kg; i.p.) for five consecutive days starting at postnatal day 45 and were killed either 1 day or 4 weeks after the last injection. The total number of newborn cells in the DG of Pb(2+)-exposed rats was significantly decreased (13%; P&lt;0.001) 1 day after BrdU injections relative to controls. Further, the survival of newborn cells in Pb(2+)-exposed rats was significantly decreased by 22.7% (P&lt;0.001) relative to control animals. Co-localization of BrdU with neuronal or astrocytic markers did not reveal a significant effect of Pb(2+) exposure on cellular fate. In Pb(2+)-exposed rats, immature granule cells immunolabeled with doublecortin (DCX) displayed aberrant dendritic morphology. That is, the overall length-density of the DCX-positive apical dendrites in the outer portion of the DG molecular layer was significantly reduced up to 36% in the suprapyramidal blade only. We also found that the area of Timm's-positive staining representative of the mossy fibers terminal fields in the CA3 stratum oriens (SO) was reduced by 26% in Pb(2+)-exposed rats. These findings demonstrate that exposure to environmentally relevant levels of Pb(2+) during early life alters granule cell neurogenesis and morphology in the rat hippocampus. They provide a cellular and morphological basis for the deficits in synaptic plasticity and spatial learning documented in Pb(2+)-exposed animals.
Using neat vapors of selected homologous aldehydes (decanal, undecanal, dodecanal) and carboxylic acids (pentanoic, hexanoic, heptanoic, octanoic, nonanoic), we explored the point where a certain homolog (and all larger ones) becomes undetectable by eye irritation (i.e. by ocular chemesthesis). This phenomenon has been observed in other homologous series that also reach a break-point, or cutoff, in chemesthetic detection. Participants (11&lt;or=n&lt;or=32) were tested using a three-alternative, forced-choice procedure. Flow rate to the eye equaled 4 or 8 l/min and time of exposure was 6 s. The outcome showed that dodecanal and heptanoic acid were the shortest undetectable homologs. When the vapor concentration of the stimuli was increased by heating the liquid source to 37 degrees C, homologs located before the cutoff point (e.g. hexanoic acid) became readily detected by all subjects, whereas homologs located at the cutoff remained largely undetected. In addition, a comparison of calculated values of eye irritation thresholds for aldehydes and acids (from a successful model of ocular chemesthetic potency) with values of saturated vapor concentration at 23 and 37 degrees C indicated that the vapor concentration of dodecanal and heptanoic acid should have been enough to produce detection. The outcome suggests that the cutoff observed does not result from a low vapor concentration but from limitations in the structure or dimension(s) of the molecules that render them unsuitable to interact effectively with human chemesthetic receptors.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) is crucially involved in brain reward, motivated behaviors, and drug addiction. This district is functionally heterogeneous, and studying the connections of its different parts may contribute to clarify the structural basis of intra-VTA functional specializations. Here, the efferents of the rostral linear nucleus (RLi), a midline VTA component, were traced in rats with the Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) technique. The results show that the RLi heavily innervates the olfactory tubercle (mainly the polymorph layer) and the ventrolateral part of the ventral pallidum, but largely avoids the accumbens. The RLi also sends substantial projections to the magnocellular preoptic nucleus, lateral hypothalamus, central division of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus, lateral part of the lateral habenula and supraoculomotor region, and light projections to the prefrontal cortex, basolateral amygdala, and dorsal raphe nucleus. A similar set of projections was observed after injections in rostromedial VTA districts adjacent to RLi, but these districts also send major outputs to the lateral ventral striatum. Overall, the data suggest that the RLi is a distinct VTA component in that it projects primarily to pallidal regions of the olfactory tubercle and to their diencephalic targets, the central division of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus and the lateral part of the lateral habenula. Because the rat RLi reportedly contains a lower density of dopaminergic neurons as compared with most of the VTA, its unusual projections may reflect a non-dopaminergic, putative GABAergic, phenotype, and this distinctive cell population seemingly extends beyond RLi boundaries into the laterally adjacent VTA. By being connected to the central division of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus (directly and via ventral striatopallidal system) and to the magnocellular preoptic nucleus, the RLi and its surroundings may play a role in olfactory-guided behaviors, which are part of the approach responses associated with appetitive motivational states.
Circadian rhythms are endogenous cycles with periods close to, but not exactly equal to, 24 h. In mammals, circadian rhythms are generated in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus as well as several peripheral cell types, such as fibroblasts. Protein kinases are key regulators of the circadian molecular machinery. We investigated the role of the c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK), which belong to the mitogen-activated protein kinases family, in the regulation of circadian rhythms. In rat-1 fibroblasts, the p46 kDa, but not the p54 kDa, isoforms of JNK expressed circadian rhythms in phosphorylation. The JNK-inhibitor SP600125 dose-dependently extended the period of Period1-luciferase rhythms in rat-1 fibroblasts from 24.23+/-0.17-31.48+/-0.07 h. This treatment also dose-dependently delayed the onset of the bioluminescence rhythms. The effects of SP600125 on explant cultures from Period1-luciferase transgenic mice and Period2(Luciferase) knockin mice appeared tissue-specific. SP600125 lengthened the period in SCN, pineal gland, and lung explants in Period1-luciferase and Period2(Luciferase) mice. However, in the kidneys circadian rhythms were abolished in Period1-luciferase, while circadian rhythms were not affected by SP600125 treatment in Period2(Luciferase) mice. Valproic acid, already known to affect period length, enhanced JNK phosphorylation and, as predicted, shortened the period of the Period1-bioluminescence rhythms in rat-1 fibroblasts. In conclusion, our results showed that SP600125 treatment, as well as valproic acid, alters JNK phosphorylation levels, and modulates the period length in various tissues. We conclude that JNK phosphorylation levels may help to set the period length of mammalian circadian rhythms.
The inferior colliculus (IC) can be divided into three anatomical subdivisions: the central nucleus (ICc), the dorsal cortex (ICd) and the external cortex (ICx). ICx receives its primary auditory inputs from ICc and auditory cerebral cortical areas, and non-auditory inputs from regions of motor and other sensory systems. This wide array of projections makes the ICx a distinct structure within the auditory brainstem. The purpose of the current study was to comprehensively characterize the neuronal population of ICx, by intrinsic and synaptic response properties. Visual whole-cell patch clamp recordings were taken from ICx neurons (N=129) from rats between postnatal days 8 to 12. Neurons displayed various types of firing patterns in response to current injection, including regular, adapting, pauser and bursting. The regular cells constitute the majority (66%), followed by adapting (18%), pauser (13%) and bursting cells (2%). In response to hyperpolarizing current injection, many neurons illustrated a pronounced sag in the membrane potential, representing a hyperpolarization-activated current (I(h)). Some neurons (25%) displayed a Ca(2+)-dependent rebound depolarization following negative current injection. In response to depolarizing current injection, 70% of ICx neurons displayed a Ca(2+)-mediated potential expressed as Ca(2+) spikes/humps, uncovered when Na(+) and K(+) currents were removed. Also, spikes displayed an undershoot which was in part mediated by Ca(2+). Stimulation of the ICc elicited graded synaptic responses, which displayed a combination of excitatory and/or inhibitory potentials, with excitation being predominant across firing patterns. Neurons displayed temporal summation in response to repetitive stimulation at 20 Hz and higher. The results indicate a relatively modest diversity in firing pattern and in intrinsic membrane properties, making this subnucleus distinct from its counterparts within the IC. The data show that ICx receives major excitatory input from ICc, supporting its role in integrating signals from brainstem and directing information to higher brain centers.

Despite the central role of nonverbal behavior in regulating social interactions, its relationship to functional disability in schizophrenia has received little empirical attention. This study aimed at assessing the relationship of patients' spontaneous facial expressivity during the clinical interview to clinician-rated and self-reported measures of functional disability. The nonverbal behavior of 28 stabilized patients with schizophrenia was analyzed by using the Ethological Coding System for Interviews (ECSI). Functional disability was assessed using the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) scale and the Sheehan Disability Scale (DISS). Partial correlation analysis controlling for the confounding effects of neuroleptic treatment showed that facial expressivity was correlated with the GAF score (r=0.42, P=0.03) and the scores on the subscales of the DISS measuring work (r=-0.52, P=0.005) and social (r=-0.50, P=0.007) disability. In a multiple regression model, nonverbal behavior explained variation in patients' work and social disability better than negative symptoms. The results of this pilot study suggest that deficits in encoding affiliative signals may play a role in determining or aggravating functional disability in schizophrenia. One clinical implication of this finding is that remediation training programs designed to improve nonverbal communication could also serve as a useful adjunct for improving work and social functioning in patients with schizophrenia.
Clinical evidence suggests that dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonists must have a sufficiently low intrinsic activity to be effective as antipsychotics. Here, we used dopamine D(2) receptor signaling assays to compare the in vitro functional characteristics of the antipsychotic aripiprazole with other dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonists (7-{3-[4-(2,3-dimethylphenyl)-piperazinyl]propoxy}-2(1H)-quinolinone [OPC-4392], (-)-3-(3-hydroxy-phenyl)-N-n-propylpiperidine [(-)3-PPP] and (+)terguride) and dopamine D(2) receptor antagonists. Aripiprazole and OPC-4392 were inactive in a guanosine-5'-O-(3-[(35)S]thio)-triphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS) binding assay using Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell membranes expressing cloned human dopamine D(2Long) (hD(2L)) receptors, whereas (-)3-PPP and (+)terguride displayed low intrinsic activity. Aripiprazole also had no effect on [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding to CHO-hD(2L) cells, while OPC-4392, (-)3-PPP and (+)terguride were partial agonists. In contrast, aripiprazole, OPC-4392, (-)3-PPP, and (+)terguride were inactive in a [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding assay using rat striatal membranes. However, at a more downstream level of CHO-hD(2L) cell signalling, these drugs all behaved as dopamine hD(2L) receptor partial agonists, with aripiprazole displaying an intrinsic activity 2 to 3-fold lower (inhibition of forskolin-induced adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate accumulation) and almost half as high (enhancement of adenosine triphosphate-stimulated [(3)H]arachidonic acid release) as OPC-4392, (-)3-PPP and (+)terguride. Dopamine activity was blocked in each case by (-)raclopride, which was inactive on its own in every assay, as were the antipsychotics haloperidol, olanzapine, ziprasidone and clozapine. Together, these data, whilst preclinical in nature, are consistent with clinical evidence suggesting the favorable antipsychotic profile of aripiprazole, compared with the other clinically ineffective partial agonists, is dependent on its low intrinsic activity at dopamine D(2) receptors. This study also highlights the limitations of using [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding assays to identify dopamine D(2) receptor partial agonists.
Sympathetic neural outflow to thermoregulatory cutaneous vascular beds is selectively activated when the individual is aroused, so that cutaneous blood flow is characterized by sudden alerting-related falls to near zero levels (&quot;SCVARs&quot;, sympathetic cutaneous vasomotor alerting responses). Our previous work shows that clozapine, an atypical antipsychotic drug used in schizophrenia, profoundly inhibits SCVARs. Clozapine, conventionally assumed to have a dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist action, also increases baseline cutaneous blood flow and lowers body temperature. However dopamine D(2) receptor agonists lower temperature, suggesting that a dopamine D(2)agonist action might also reduce SCVARs. The present study determined whether a dopamine D(2)agonist action contributes to clozapine's SCVAR-inhibiting effect. SCVARs were measured in conscious rats with a Doppler ultrasonic flow probe chronically implanted around the base of the artery, with probe wires passing subcutaneously to a headpiece. Doppler signals were monitored via a flexible connection between the headpiece and a swivel device in the roof of the cage. Apomorphine (0.1-0.5 mg/kg), quinpirole (0.05-0.25 mg/kg) and 7-OH-DPAT (0.02-0.5 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced SCVARs. Pre-treatment with the dopamine receptor antagonist spiperone (20 microg/kg) but not the D(1) antagonist SCH-23390 or the peripheral dopamine D(2) antagonist domperidone, abolished this effect. Spiperone pre-treatment reduced the SCVAR-inhibiting action of clozapine (0.06-1.0 mg/kg). Chlorpromazine (0.1-10 mg/kg) also dose-dependently inhibited SCVARs, but this effect was not reduced by pre-treatment with spiperone. Mechanisms underlying clozapine's SCVAR-inhibiting effect include dopamine D(2) receptor agonism, not dopamine D(2) receptor antagonism, calling into question the mechanism of the drug's therapeutic action in schizophrenia.
Attention can be focused volitionally by &quot;top-down&quot; signals derived from task demands and automatically by &quot;bottom-up&quot; signals from salient stimuli. The frontal and parietal cortices are involved, but their neural activity has not been directly compared. Therefore, we recorded from them simultaneously in monkeys. Prefrontal neurons reflected the target location first during top-down attention, whereas parietal neurons signaled it earlier during bottom-up attention. Synchrony between frontal and parietal areas was stronger in lower frequencies during top-down attention and in higher frequencies during bottom-up attention. This result indicates that top-down and bottom-up signals arise from the frontal and sensory cortex, respectively, and different modes of attention may emphasize synchrony at different frequencies.
Key features of an ideal RNA-based vaccine against coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) are (i) limited genome replication/virus production (to minimize vaccine-related pathology) and (ii) abundant virus protein synthesis (to maximize immunogenicity). These attributes may apply to CVB3 RNAs lacking up to 250 nucleotides (nt) from their 5' terminus; these RNAs do not give rise to infectious progeny, but they have been reported to retain the entire CVB3 IRES (mapped to nt approximately 432-639) and to produce large quantities of viral protein in transfected cells. Here, we constructed five 5' RNA deletion variants that, to our surprise, failed to protect against CVB3 challenge. We investigated the reasons for this failure and conclude that (i) a 5' terminal deletion as short as 32 nt abolishes CVB3 RNA replication in transfected cells; (ii) this deleted RNA, and others with longer deletions, do not direct abundant protein synthesis in transfected cells, probably as a consequence of their replicative incapacity; and (iii) the CVB3 IRES is substantially larger than previously thought, and its 5' boundary lies between residues 76 and 125, very closely approximating that of the poliovirus IRES.

We have reported that valproic acid upregulates melatonin MT1 receptor expression in rat C6 glioma cells. In addition to its anticonvulsant and mood stabilizing properties, valproic acid can also inhibit the growth of cancer cells. Since the melatonin MT1 receptor has been implicated in the oncostatic action of melatonin on human MCF-7 breast cancer cells, the effect of valproic acid on its expression was examined in this cell line. Treatment of MCF-7 cells with valproic acid (0.5 or 1 mM) for 24 or 72 h caused a significant increase in melatonin MT1 receptor mRNA or protein expression, as shown by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis and western blotting, respectively. MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] assays revealed a concentration-dependent inhibition of MCF-7 cell proliferation by valproic acid (0.5, 1.0 or 5 mM), but melatonin (1 or 10 nM) was ineffective alone or in combination with valproic acid, in the first (MCF-7A) subline examined. However, in subsequent experiments using a different (MCF-7B) subline, which expressed higher levels of MT1 receptor mRNA and showed modest sensitivity to melatonin, a combination of this hormone with valproic acid produced a significant synergistic inhibition of cell proliferation. These findings indicate that clinically relevant concentrations of valproic acid upregulate melatonin MT1 receptor expression in human breast cancer cells. Moreover, the enhanced antiproliferative effect observed with a combination of valproic acid and melatonin suggests that a similar therapeutic approach may be beneficial in breast cancer.
Motor skill learning, but not mere motor activity, is associated with an increase in both synapse number and glial cell volume within the cerebellar cortex. The increase in synapse number has been shown to persist for at least 4 weeks in the absence of continued training. The present experiment similarly examined how a prolonged interruption in training affects the training-induced increase in astrocytic volume. Adult female rats were randomly allocated to either an acrobatic motor learning condition (AC) or a motor control condition (MC). The AC animals were trained to traverse a complex series of obstacles and each AC animal was pair matched with an MC animal that traversed an obstacle-free runway. These groups were further assigned to one of three training conditions. Animals in the early condition were trained for 10 consecutive days, animals in the delay condition received the same 10 days of training followed by a 28-day period without training, and animals in the continuous condition were trained for the entire 38 days. Unbiased stereological techniques were used to determine that AC animals had a significantly greater volume of astrocytes per Purkinje cell in the cerebellar paramedian lobule than the MC animals, a difference which was reduced (and not statistically detectable) among animals in the delay condition. These findings demonstrate that learning triggers the hypertrophy of astrocytic processes and furthermore that, unlike learning-induced synaptogenesis, astrocytic growth is reduced in the absence of continued training.
Early life experiences, such as early handling, can influence neural development of rodents leading to changes in physiological and behavioural reactivity to stress. These effects are likely to be mediated by changes in maternal behaviour. This study analyzed the effects of different manipulations of the rearing environment on maternal behaviour and the behavioural and physiological response to mild challenges in CD-1 mouse pups early during development. Litters underwent either 15 min of neonatal handling (H) or were exposed briefly to an unfamiliar male intruder from postnatal (PND) days 2 to 14 (MI). Both groups were compared with litters which were not manipulated (NH). Compared to NH subjects, licking behaviour in the MI group was increased only on the first day of introduction of the male intruder, while the H group showed an increase in maternal behaviour on PND 10. On PND 8, pups ultrasonic vocalizations were recorded upon treatment with an anxiolytic drug (chlordiazepoxide 0, 2, or 7.5mg/kg). Results indicate that, although there were no differences among the groups when mice were injected with vehicle, handled subjects did not reduce their calling rate following drug administration, in contrast to the NH and MI groups. Following maternal separation and novelty exposure on PND 9, levels of hippocampal NGF increased significantly only in the H group. These data suggest that active pup manipulations in the form of handling favour behavioural and neural plasticity resulting in the maintenance of a high level of arousal and in increased neurotrophin levels in response to an acute manipulation. Changes in hippocampal levels of NGF might be involved in the appraisal of subtle changes in the early social environment.
As part of ongoing efforts to develop fully automated and standardized behavioral tasks to probe cognitive and mnemonic capabilities of mice, we have constructed a new rectangular operant chamber. The chamber contains numerous nose poke holes, distributed over three of its inner walls that are identifiable by their spatial locations. Using this apparatus, we have developed a 'spatial' memory task using a successive reversal discrimination paradigm. Mice learn to discriminate, by trial and error, the position of a single valid hole during a Presentation session wherein they obtained a maximum of 20 reinforcements or 15 min time elapsed. Following a delay interval, they were resubmitted to the same task (Test) using the same reinforced hole. Results indicated that C57BL/6 mice exhibited a significant improvement during the Test, the magnitude of the improvement (memory savings) being dependent on the length of retention intervals ranging from 5 min to 24h. In addition, discrimination performance was sensitive to scopolamine in a dose dependent manner. The simplicity in task set up and the minimal labor and space requirements make this task suitable for high throughput behavioral characterization of genetically modified mice.
Slit and Netrin and their respective neuronal receptors play critical roles in patterning axonal connections in the developing nervous system by regulating the decision of whether or not to cross the midline. Studies of both invertebrate and vertebrate systems support the idea that Netrin, secreted by midline cells, signals through DCC (Deleted in Colorectal Carcinoma)/UNC40/Frazzled receptors to attract commissural axons toward and across the midline, whereas Slit signals through Robo family receptors to prevent commissural axons from recrossing the midline, as well as to prevent ipsilateral axons from ever crossing. Recent evidence from both Xenopus neuronal cell culture and Drosophila genetics have suggested that these signals may interact more directly in a hierarchical relationship, such that one response extinguishes the other. Here we present loss- and gain-of-function genetic evidence showing that the influence of Slit and Netrin on midline axon crossing is dictated by both independent and interdependent signaling functions of the Robo and Frazzled (Fra) receptors. Our results are not consistent with the proposal based on genetic analysis in Drosophila that the sole function of Slit and Robo during midline guidance is to repress Netrin attraction.
Animals adapt action-selection policies when the relationship between possible actions and associated outcomes changes. Prefrontal cortical neurons vary their discharge patterns depending on action choice and rewards received and undoubtedly play a pivotal role in maintaining and adapting action policies. Here, we recorded neurons from the medial precentral subregion of mouse prefrontal cortex to examine neural substrates of goal-directed behavior. Discharge patterns were recorded after animals developed stable action-selection policies, wherein four possible action sequences were invariably related to different reward magnitudes and during adaptation to changes in the action-reward contingencies. During the adaptation period, when the same action sequence resulted in different reward magnitudes, many neurons (38%) exhibited significantly different discharge patterns for identical action sequences, well before reaching the reward site. In addition, trial-to-trial reliability of ensemble pattern production leading up to reward was found to vary both positively and negatively with increases and decreases in reward magnitude, respectively. Pairwise analyses of simultaneously recorded neurons revealed that decreased reliability in part reflected fluctuations between different ensemble activity patterns as opposed to within-pattern variability. Increases in reliability were related to an increased probability of both selecting highly rewarding actions and completing such actions without pause or reversal, whereas decreases in reliability were associated with the opposite pattern. Thus, we suggest that both the spatiotemporal pattern and fidelity of prefrontal cortical discharge are impacted by action-outcome relationships and that each of these features serve to adapt action choices and maintain behaviors leading to reward.
The first inhibitory interneurons of the retina, the horizontal cells, stratify within the outer plexiform layer, extending dendritic terminals that connect to the pedicles of cone photoreceptors and an axon terminal system contacting the spherules of rod photoreceptors. How the horizontal cells acquire this morphology is unknown, but instructive interactions with afferents are suggested to play a role in the development of synaptic circuits. Here, we show that the morphology of the axon terminal system and the dendritic field are selectively regulated by innervation from their respective afferents: genetic respecification of all cones to become rods, in Crxp-Nrl transgenic mice, produces an atrophic dendritic field yet leaves the axon terminal system largely intact. In contrast, in the retinas of Nrl-/- mice, in which the population of rod photoreceptors is respecified to adopt a cone fate, the dendritic field is hypertrophic, whereas the axon terminal system is underdeveloped. Our studies reveal that, although cell-intrinsic mechanisms drive the formation of independent dendritic versus axonal domains, the afferents play a selectively instructive role in defining their respective morphologies.
A shift in motivational state often produces behavioral change, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. In the marine mollusc, Aplysia californica, feeding-induced transition from a hunger to satiation state leads to a slowdown and an eventual termination of feeding. Because the multifunctional feeding network generates both ingestion and the competing response, egestion, it is possible that the transition from a hunger to a satiety state is associated with network reconfiguration that results in production of fewer ingestive and more egestive responses. Chronic electrophysiological recordings in free-feeding Aplysia showed that as the meal progressed, food elicited fewer ingestive responses and simultaneously increased the number of egestive responses. Injections of Aplysia neuropeptide Y (apNPY) reduced food intake and slowed down the rate of ingestion. apNPY was localized to buccal-ganglion afferents originating in the gut-innervating esophageal nerve (EN), a nerve involved both in satiation and in the generation of egestive programs. During EN stimulation, apNPY was released in the feeding circuit. Importantly, stimulation of the cerebral-buccal interneuron-2, a command-like interneuron that is activated by food and normally elicits ingestive responses, elicited egestive responses in the presence of apNPY. This was accompanied by increased activity of the egestion-promoting interneuron B20 and decreased activity in the ingestion-promoting interneuron B40. Thus, apNPYergic reconfiguration of the feeding central pattern generator plays a role in the gradual transition from hunger to satiety states. More generally, changes in the motivational states may involve not only simple network inhibition but may also require network reconfiguration.
Emerging evidence suggests that cell-based remyelination strategies may be a feasible therapeutic approach for CNS diseases characterized by myelin deficiency as a result of trauma, congenital anomalies, or diseases. Although experimental demyelination models targeted at the transient elimination of oligodendrocytes have suggested that transplantation-based remyelination can partially restore axonal molecular structure and function, it is not clear whether such therapeutic approaches can be used to achieve functional remyelination in models associated with long-term, irreversible myelin deficiency. In this study, we transplanted adult neural precursor cells (aNPCs) from the brain of adult transgenic mice into the spinal cords of adult Shiverer (shi/shi) mice, which lack compact CNS myelin. Six weeks after transplantation, the transplanted aNPCs expressed oligodendrocyte markers, including MBP, migrated extensively along the white matter tracts of the spinal cord, and formed compact myelin. Conventional and three-dimensional confocal and electron microscopy revealed axonal ensheathment, establishment of paranodal junctional complexes leading to de novo formation of nodes of Ranvier, and partial reconstruction of the juxtaparanodal and paranodal molecular regions of axons based on Kv1.2 and Caspr (contactin-associated protein) expression by the transplanted aNPCs. Electrophysiological recordings revealed improved axonal conduction along the transplanted segments of spinal cords. We conclude that myelination of congenitally dysmyelinated adult CNS axons by grafted aNPCs results in the formation of compact myelin, reconstruction of nodes of Ranvier, and enhanced axonal conduction. These data suggest the therapeutic potential of aNPCs to promote functionally significant myelination in CNS disorders characterized by longstanding myelin deficiency.
The vanilloid receptor TRPV1 (transient receptor potential vanilloid 1) is a cation channel that serves as a polymodal detector of pain-producing stimuli such as capsaicin, protons (pH &lt;5.7), and heat. TRPV1 antagonists block pain behaviors in rodent models of inflammatory, neuropathic, and cancer pain, suggesting their utility as analgesics. Here, we report that TRPV1 antagonists representing various chemotypes cause an increase in body temperature (hyperthermia), identifying a potential issue for their clinical development. Peripheral restriction of antagonists did not eliminate hyperthermia, suggesting that the site of action is predominantly outside of the blood-brain barrier. Antagonists that are ineffective against proton activation also caused hyperthermia, indicating that blocking capsaicin and heat activation of TRPV1 is sufficient to produce hyperthermia. All TRPV1 antagonists evaluated here caused hyperthermia, suggesting that TRPV1 is tonically activated in vivo and that TRPV1 antagonism and hyperthermia are not separable. TRPV1 antagonists caused hyperthermia in multiple species (rats, dogs, and monkeys), demonstrating that TRPV1 function in thermoregulation is conserved from rodents to primates. Together, these results indicate that tonic TRPV1 activation regulates body temperature.

The assessment of pain is of critical importance for mechanistic studies as well as for the validation of drug targets. This review will focus on knee joint pain associated with arthritis. Different animal models have been developed for the study of knee joint arthritis. Behavioral tests in animal models of knee joint arthritis typically measure knee joint pain rather indirectly. In recent years, however, progress has been made in the development of tests that actually evaluate the sensitivity of the knee joint in arthritis models. They include measurements of the knee extension angle struggle threshold, hind limb withdrawal reflex threshold of knee compression force, and vocalizations in response to stimulation of the knee. A discussion of pain assessment in humans with arthritis pain conditions concludes this review.


The frequent interaction and synergy between sexual arousal and sexual desire occuring during a sexual experience explains the difficulty in disentagling these two phenomena in the human sexual response. Sexual desire is defined as a goal-directed motivational state integrating the other in one's personal sphere on the basis of intentionality, rather than by instinct only. Sexual arousal includes physical manifestations and subjective perception of excitement. Interest in sexual arousal has engendered a growing body of research concerning its nature and function as well as the biological basis of the mechanisms sustaining it. Recent functional imaging has played a key role in seeking to isolate brain regions specific to sexual arousal. This field may represent a new challenge for social neuroscience.

Studies of the brain basis of decision-making and economic behavior are providing a new perspective on the organization and functions of human prefrontal cortex. This line of inquiry has focused particularly on the ventral and medial portions of prefrontal cortex, arguably the most enigmatic regions of the &quot;enigmatic frontal lobes.&quot; This review highlights recent advances in the cognitive neuroscience of decision making and neuroeconomics and discusses how these findings can inform clinical thinking about frontal lobe dysfunction.
The attention of researchers and clinicians specializing in both multiple sclerosis (MS) and JC virus (JCV), the etiologic agent of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), was rekindled by the development of PML in two patients with MS enrolled in a clinical trial of combination therapy with natalizumab (Tysabri) and interferon beta-1A (Avonex) in recent years. PML had not been previously reported with either MS or treatment with interferon beta alone. This occurrence of PML with alpha4beta1-integrin inhibition in MS raised a number of issues in terms both of the scientific understanding of these diseases and for the future of immunomodulatory treatment for MS. In this review, we examine the current status of knowledge of the virus, its molecular biology, life cycle, and pathogenetic mechanisms, and how this relates to the basic science and clinical perspectives of MS. A better understanding of the specific steps from JCV infection to the development of PML is key to this issue. Other critical issues for further investigation include the role of alpha4beta1-integrin inhibition by natalizumab in the re-expression of JCV from latent sites and in the inhibition of entry into the brain and peripheral sites.

Some neurons in the visual cortex alter their spiking rate according to the perceptual interpretation of an observed stimulus, rather than its physical structure alone. Experiments in monkeys have suggested that, although the proportion of neurons showing this effect differs greatly between cortical areas, this proportion remains similar across different stimuli. These findings have raised the intriguing questions of whether the same neurons always participate in the disambiguation of sensory patterns and whether such neurons might represent a special class of cortical cells that relay perceptual signals to higher cortical areas. Here we explore this question by measuring activity in the middle temporal cortex of monkeys and asking to what degree the percept-related responses of individual neurons depend upon the specific sensory input. In contrast to our expectations, we found that even small differences in the stimuli led to significant changes in the signaling of the perceptual state by single neurons. We conclude that nearly all feature-responsive neurons in this area, rather than a select subset, can contribute to the resolution of sensory conflict, and that the role of individual cells in signaling the perceptual outcome is tightly linked to the fine details of the stimuli involved.
The C-terminal, partially truncated forms of the NF-kappaB2/p52 precursor p100, p100DeltaCs, manifest constitutive processing and oncogenic ability, although the responsible mechanisms remain unknown. Here, we report that p100DeltaCs are specifically processed in association with binding to promoter DNA-containing kappaB sites. In the nucleus, p100DeltaCs bind to the kappaB promoter DNA and subsequently recruit the proteasome to form a stable proteasome/p100DeltaC/DNA complex, which mediates the processing of p100DeltaCs. Notably, the processing at the kappaB promoter is initiated by a proteasome-mediated endoproteolytic cleavage at amino acid D(415) of p100DeltaCs, and the processed p52, but not the precursors themselves, is oncogenic by up-regulating a subset of target genes. Our studies demonstrate a different mechanism of p100 processing and also present evidence showing that the proteasome modulates the action of transcription factors at promoter regions through endoproteolysis.
We compared thresholds for discriminating orientation by 5-year-olds and adults for first-order (luminance-modulated) and second-order (contrast-modulated) gratings. To achieve equal visibility, we set the contrast for each age and condition at a fixed multiple of the contrast threshold for discriminating horizontal from vertical gratings. The minimum tilt that could be discriminated from vertical was four to five times larger in 5-year-olds than in adults, even when the noise was removed from the first-order stimuli and amplitude modulation increased to 0.90. Thresholds at both ages were significantly worse (1.2-1.5 times worse) for second-order modulation than for equally visible first-order modulation, and 5-year-olds were equally immature for both types of pattern. Together, the findings suggest that orientation discrimination is slow to develop and worse for second-order than first-order patterns in both children and adults.
Viewing action-relevant stimuli such as a graspable object or another person moving can affect the observer's own motor system. Evidence exists that external stimuli may facilitate or hinder movement in Parkinson's disease, so we investigated whether action-relevant stimuli would exert a stronger influence. We measured the effect of action-relevant stimuli (graspable door handles and finger movements) on reaction times compared with baseline stimuli (bars and object movements). Parkinson's patients were influenced by the location of the baseline stimuli, but unlike healthy controls, action-relevant stimuli did not exert a stronger influence. This suggests that external cues exert their influence in Parkinson's disease through lower-level visual processes and the influence of action-relevant stimuli on the motor system is disrupted.
Depersonalization disorder, characterized by emotional detachment, has been associated with increased prefrontal cortical and decreased autonomic activity to emotional stimuli. Event-related fMRI with simultaneous measurements of skin conductance levels occurred in nine depersonalization disorder patients and 12 normal controls to neutral, mild and intense happy and sad facial expressions. Patients, but not controls, showed decreases in subcortical limbic activity to increasingly intense happy and sad facial expressions, respectively. For both happy and sad expressions, negative correlations between skin conductance measures in bilateral dorsal prefrontal cortices occurred only in depersonalization disorder patients. Abnormal decreases in limbic activity to increasingly intense emotional expressions, and increases in dorsal prefrontal cortical activity to emotionally arousing stimuli may underlie the emotional detachment of depersonalization disorder.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3R) are modulated by the second messenger IP3, which induces intracellular calcium release. Using immunohistochemical techniques, we show that the three isoforms are expressed in sciatic nerve. IP3R1 and IP3R2 are mainly present in the nucleus of Schwann cells. IP3R1 is also expressed in Schmidt-Lanterman incisures. IP3R3 is primarily localized at very high levels in nonmyelinating Schwann cells. Interestingly, the three isoforms are expressed at the nodes of Ranvier. IP3R1 is clustered at the node of Ranvier, in a distribution that is similar to the Nav1.6 sodium channels in the sciatic nerve. IP3R3 is present in the paranodal regions of the nodes. IP3R2 is concentrated in the vicinity of the node, and the outer Schwann cell cytoplasm similar to the Kv1.5 potassium channel.
Although there is substantial evidence indicating that patients with first-episode schizophrenia exhibit both anatomical and electrophysiological abnormalities, there has been little research investigating the relationship between these two indices. We acquired structural magnetic resonance images and resting electroencephalographic recordings from 19 patients with schizophrenia, both at the time of their first presentation to mental health services and 2-3 years subsequently. Patients' grey matter images were parcellated into four brain lobes, and slow-wave, alpha- and beta-electroencephalographic power was calculated in four corresponding cortical regions. Although grey matter volume decreased longitudinally, particularly fronto-parietally, electroencephalographic power increased in the slow-wave and beta-frequency bands. These results suggest that first-episode schizophrenia may be associated with abnormally elevated levels of neural synchrony.
High-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels on presynaptic nerve terminals are known to play an important role in neurotransmitter release at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses. Whereas there is currently debate over the contribution of L-type voltage dependent Ca(2+) channels (L-type VDCCs) on the short-term presynaptic plasticity which is a defining feature of neuronal activity, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. In the present study, the L-type VDCCs chronically was inhibited with different doses of verapamil (10, 20 and 50 mg/kg; orally) to evaluate hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) inhibitory interneuron function and its involvement on short-term plasticity using paired pulse stimulation in perforant path-DG of hippocampus. Our data show that chronic oral treatment of verapamil at dose of 50 mg/kg but not at lower doses, facilitated the excitability of DG cells at inter-stimulus intervals 20, 30 and 50 ms (P&lt;0.03, 0.01 and 0.001; respectively) in population spike amplitude ratio, which is indicative of paired pulse potentiation in perforant path-DG synapses. While there are no significant differences in field excitatory postsynaptic potential slope ratio at all doses. We suggest that DG neurons facilitation is caused by inhibition of inhibitory interneurons directly and/or indirectly via inhibition of glutamate release in hippocampal DG. Therefore, these experiments indicate that chronic use of verapamil has effect on short-term presynaptic plasticity.
Unilateral lesion of the vestibular system induces posturo-locomotor deficits that are compensated for with time. Drug therapy is currently used to improve the recovery process and to facilitate vestibular compensation. We investigated the effects of thioperamide on functional recovery after unilateral labyrinthectomy in Carassius auratus. Approximately 24h after surgery, the animals were injected intraperitoneally with thioperamide (15 mg/kg) and saline (1.5 ml/kg). The injections were repeated daily for a total of 15 consecutive days. The substances were administered in a volume of 1.5 ml/kg body weight. Another group, which served as a non-lesion control, did not receive unilateral labyrinthectomy or system injections. Animals treated with saline presented a compensatory decrease in body tilt on the 7th day, while the animals treated with thioperamide presented a decrease in body tilt from the 13th day, suggesting a delay in the functional recovery process. These results suggest that an increase in cerebral histamine levels impairs vestibular compensation in goldfish.
We report a comprehensive investigation of the anterograde memory functions of two patients with memory impairments (RH and JC). RH had neuroradiological evidence of apparently selective right-sided hippocampal damage and an intact cognitive profile apart from selective memory impairments. JC, had neuroradiological evidence of bilateral hippocampal damage following anoxia due to cardiac arrest. He had anomic and &quot;executive&quot; difficulties in addition to a global amnesia, suggesting atrophy extending beyond hippocampal regions. Their performance is compared with that of a previously reported hippocampal amnesic patient who showed preserved recollection and familiarity for faces in the context of severe verbal and topographical memory impairment [VC; Cipolotti, L., Bird, C., Good, T., Macmanus, D., Rudge, P., &amp; Shallice, T. (2006). Recollection and familiarity in dense hippocampal amnesia: A case study. Neuropsychologia, 44, 489-506.] The patients were administered experimental tests using verbal (words) and two types of non-verbal materials (faces and buildings). Receiver operating characteristic analyses were used to estimate the contribution of recollection and familiarity to recognition performance on the experimental tests. RH had preserved verbal recognition memory. Interestingly, her face recognition memory was also spared, whilst topographical recognition memory was impaired. JC was impaired for all types of verbal and non-verbal materials. In both patients, deficits in recollection were invariably associated with deficits in familiarity. JC's data demonstrate the need for a comprehensive cognitive investigation in patients with apparently selective hippocampal damage following anoxia. The data from RH suggest that the right hippocampus is necessary for recollection and familiarity for topographical materials, whilst the left hippocampus is sufficient to underpin these processes for at least some types of verbal materials. Face recognition memory may be adequately subserved by areas outside of the hippocampus.
The traditional assumption that classical motor neurone disease (MND) invariably spares cognitive function is now recognised to be incorrect. Deficits have most commonly been demonstrated on executive tasks suggesting impaired function of frontal systems. Yet, crucial aspects of frontal lobe function have not hitherto been explored. The study used tests of theory of mind (ToM) (interpretation of cartoons and stories) to examine the ability of 16 patients with MND to interpret social situations and ascribe mental states to others. Only minor differences were elicited in the MND group as a whole compared to controls, and performance was not differentially affected for cartoons and stories requiring inference of another's mental state (mental) compared to control (physical) cartoons and stories. However, abnormalities were elicited on both mental and physical tasks in a subgroup of patients with bulbar signs. Moreover, examination of individual patient scores revealed a spectrum of performance ranging from normal to severely impaired. Errors were qualitatively similar to those seen in frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Performance on the ToM tasks was significantly correlated with conventional, untimed measures of executive function, suggesting that ToM deficits in MND are likely to be linked to a more general executive failure. The findings contribute to the understanding of ToM performance in neurodegenerative disease and provide further evidence of the association between MND and FTD.
Enhanced visual detail processing in subjects with pervasive developmental disorder (PDD) has been related to impairments in feature integration. The functional integrity of two types of neuronal connections involved in visual feature integration, namely horizontal and feedbackward connections, were tested. Sixteen children with PDD and 17 age- and IQ-matched control children (mean age 13.3 years) were included. In a texture segregation task the difference in ERP response to homogeneous and checkered visual stimuli was determined. Additionally, in a contour integration task subjects had to point out a contour consisting of colinearly aligned Gabor signals in backgrounds increasing in noise. Children with PDD showed a normal performance on the contour integration task, suggesting that neurons in the primary visual cortex of children with PDD can effectively integrate the activity of local detectors that process different aspects of the same object information by making use of long-range lateral connections. The amplitude of ERP activity related to texture segregation was also not different between the PDD and control groups, indicating functional visual feedback mechanisms between V1 and higher order areas in subjects with PDD. However, a difference in latency of texture-segmentation related activity between the groups was noted. This effect did not reach significance, which could be due to the small N of the study. Therefore, the data need replication in a study with larger samples before more definitive conclusions can be drawn.
We report a patient with myoclonic epilepsy who underwent muscle biopsy for suspected mitochondrial disease (myoclonic epilepsy with ragged-red fibers, MERRF). In spite of normal histochemical studies and of the absence of a severe COX deficiency, the molecular analysis showed the common MERRF mutation (A8344G) in the tRNA(Lys) gene on mitochondrial DNA. The case serves to illustrate the importance of pursuing the proposed mitochondrial genetic abnormality, even in patients with normal biopsy findings.
Intermittent models of alcohol exposure that mimic human patterns of alcohol consumption produce profound physiological and biochemical changes and induce rapid increases in alcohol self-administration. We used high-density oligonucleotide microarrays to investigate gene expression changes during chronic intermittent alcohol exposure in three brain regions that receive mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic projections and that are believed to be involved in alcohol's reinforcing actions: the medial prefrontal cortex, the nucleus accumbens and the amygdala. An independent replication of the experiment was used for RT-PCR validation of the microarray results. The protein kinase A inhibitor alpha (PKI-alpha, Pkia), a member of the endogenous PKI family implicated in reducing nuclear PKA activity, was found to be increased in all three regions tested. Conversely, we observed a downregulation of the expression of several PKA-regulated transcripts in one or more of the brain regions studied, including the activity and neurotransmitter-regulated early gene (Ania) - 1, -3, -7, -8, the transcription factors Egr1 and NGFI-B (Nr4a1) and the neuropeptide NPY. Reduced expression of PKA-regulated genes in mesocorticolimbic projection areas may have motivational significance in the rapid increase in alcohol self-administration induced by intermittent alcohol exposure.
The cytoplasmic C-terminal domains of NR2 subunits have been proposed to modulate the assembly and trafficking of NMDA receptors. However, questions remain concerning which domains in the C terminus of NR2 subunits control the assembly of receptor complexes and how the assembled complexes are selectively trafficked through the various cellular compartments such as endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the cell surface. In the present study, we found that the three amino acid tail after the TM4 region of NR2 subunits is necessary for surface expression of functional NMDA receptors, while truncations with only two amino acids following the TM4 region (NR2Delta2) completely eliminated surface expression of the NMDA receptor on co-expression with NR1-1a in HEK293 cells. FRET (fluorescence resonance energy transfer) analysis showed that these NR2Delta2 truncations are able to form homomers and heteromers on co-expression with NR1-1a. Furthermore, when NR2Delta2 subunits were cotransfected with either the NR1-4a or NR1-1a(AAA) mutant, lacking the ER retention motif (RRR), functional NMDA receptors were detected in the transfected HEK293 cells. Unexpectedly, we found that the replacement of five residues after TM4 with alanines gave results indistinguishable from those of NR2BDelta5 (EHLFY), demonstrating the short tail following the TM4 of NR2 subunits is not sequence-specific-dependent. Taken together, our results show that the C terminus of the NR2 subunits is not necessary for the assembly of NMDA receptor complexes, whereas a three amino acid long cytoplasmic tail following the TM4 of NR2 subunits is sufficient to overcome the ER retention existing in the C terminus of NR1, allowing the assembled NMDA receptors to reach the cell surface.
Transient receptor potential (TRP) channels are intrinsic sensors adapted for response to all manner of stimuli both from inside and from outside the cell. Within the TRP superfamily, the canonical TRP-3 (TRPC3) has been widely studied and is involved in various biological processes such as neuronal differentiation, blood vessel constriction, and immune cell maturation. Upon stimulation of surface membrane receptors linked to phospholipase C, TRPC3 mediates transmembrane Ca(2+) influx from outside the cell to control Ca(2+) signaling, in concert with the Ca(2+) release from internal stores. The structural basis of TRP superfamily has, however, been poorly understood. Here we present a structure of the TRPC3 at 15 A resolution. This first 3D depiction of TRP superfamily was reconstructed from 135,909 particle images obtained with cryo-electron microscopy. The large intracellular domain represents a &quot;nested-box&quot; structure: a wireframe outer shell is functionable as sensors for activators and modulators, and a globular inner chamber may modulate ion flow, since it is aligned tandem along the central axis with the dense membrane-spanning core. The transmembrane domain demonstrates a pore-forming property. This structure implies that the TRP superfamily has diversely evolved as sensors specialized for various signals, rather than as simple ion-conducting apparatuses.
The relationship between spiking and bursting dynamics is a key question in neuroscience, particularly in understanding the origins of different neural coding strategies and the mechanisms of motor command generation and neural circuit coordination. Experiments indicate that spiking and bursting dynamics can be independent. We hypothesize that different mechanisms for spike and burst generation, intrinsic neuron dynamics for spiking and a modulational network instability for bursting, are the origin of this independence. We tested the hypothesis in a detailed dynamical analysis of a minimal inhibitory neural microcircuit (motif) of three reciprocally connected Hodgkin-Huxley neurons. We reduced this high-dimensional dynamical system to a rate model and showed that both systems have identical bifurcations from tonic spiking to burst generation, which, therefore, does not depend on the details of spiking activity.
Changes in the genes encoding sensory receptor proteins are an essential step in the evolution of new sensory capacities. In primates, trichromatic color vision evolved after changes in X chromosome-linked photopigment genes. To model this process, we studied knock-in mice that expressed a human long-wavelength-sensitive (L) cone photopigment in the form of an X-linked polymorphism. Behavioral tests demonstrated that heterozygous females, whose retinas contained both native mouse pigments and human L pigment, showed enhanced long-wavelength sensitivity and acquired a new capacity for chromatic discrimination. An inherent plasticity in the mammalian visual system thus permits the emergence of a new dimension of sensory experience based solely on gene-driven changes in receptor organization.
Grid cells in layer II of rat entorhinal cortex fire to spatial locations in a repeating hexagonal grid, with smaller spacing between grid fields for neurons in more dorsal anatomical locations. Data from in vitro whole-cell patch recordings showed differences in frequency of subthreshold membrane potential oscillations in entorhinal neurons that correspond to different positions along the dorsal-to-ventral axis, supporting a model of physiological mechanisms for grid cell responses.
In psychophysics, cross-orientation suppression (XOS) and cross-orientation facilitation (XOF) have been measured by investigating mask configuration on the detection threshold of a centrally placed patch of sine-wave grating. Much of the evidence for XOS and XOF comes from studies using low and high spatial frequencies, respectively, where the interactions are thought to arise from within (XOS) and outside (XOF) the footprint of the classical receptive field. We address the relation between these processes here by measuring the effects of various sizes of superimposed and annular cross-oriented masks on detection thresholds at two spatial scales (1 and 7 c/deg) and on contrast increment thresholds at 7 c/deg. A functional model of our results indicates the following (1) XOS and XOF both occur for superimposed and annular masks. (2) XOS declines with spatial frequency but XOF does not. (3) The spatial extent of the interactions does not scale with spatial frequency, meaning that surround-effects are seen primarily at high spatial frequencies. (4) There are two distinct processes involved in XOS: direct divisive suppression and modulation of self-suppression. (5) Whether XOS or XOF wins out depends upon their relative weights and mask contrast. These results prompt enquiry into the effect of spatial frequency at the single-cell level and place new constraints on image-processing models of early visual processing.

We evaluated the effects of low-level inhalation exposures (whole body, 60min duration) to the chemical warfare nerve agent VX (0.016, 0.15, 0.30 or 0.45mg/m(3)) in rats. The range of concentrations was approximately equivalent to 0.02-0.62 times 1.0 LC50. Biochemical effects were assessed by evaluating blood acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and by a regeneration assay that quantified the amount of VX (as the G analog) present in blood. Behavioral effects were assessed using a variable-interval 56-s schedule of reinforcement (VI56), in which rats were trained to press a lever to receive a food reward. VI56 training was established before exposure and evaluations continued after exposure. Additionally, after exposure, acquisition and maintenance of an eight-arm radial maze (RAM) task was evaluated in which rats learned to locate the four arms of the maze that presented a single food pellet reward. Behavioral assessments were conducted over approximately 3 months following exposure. Transient miosis was observed following exposure to all concentrations of VX and exposures to the 0.45mg/m(3) concentration also produced mild and temporary signs of toxicity (i.e., slight tremor and ataxia) in some subjects. All concentrations of VX also inhibited circulating AChE and the highest concentration inhibited AChE activity to less than 10% of pre-exposure values. Regenerated VX-G was found in red blood cell (RBC) and plasma blood fractions. In this respect, more VX-G was seen in plasma than RBC. Only small disruptions were observed on the VI56 or RAM following some VX exposures. In general, however, behavioral effects were minor and not clearly systematic. Taken together these results demonstrate that largely asymptomatic exposures to VX vapors in rats can produce substantial biochemical effects while having only minor performance effects on a previously learned behavioral task and on the acquisition of a new behavioral task.
Alcadeinalpha (Alcalpha) is an evolutionarily conserved type I membrane protein expressed in neurons. We show here that Alcalpha strongly associates with kinesin light chain (K(D) approximately 4-8x10(-9) M) through a novel tryptophan- and aspartic acid-containing sequence. Alcalpha can induce kinesin-1 association with vesicles and functions as a novel cargo in axonal anterograde transport. JNK-interacting protein 1 (JIP1), an adaptor protein for kinesin-1, perturbs the transport of Alcalpha, and the kinesin-1 motor complex dissociates from Alcalpha-containing vesicles in a JIP1 concentration-dependent manner. Alcalpha-containing vesicles were transported with a velocity different from that of amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP)-containing vesicles, which are transported by the same kinesin-1 motor. Alcalpha- and APP-containing vesicles comprised mostly separate populations in axons in vivo. Interactions of Alcalpha with kinesin-1 blocked transport of APP-containing vesicles and increased beta-amyloid generation. Inappropriate interactions of Alc- and APP-containing vesicles with kinesin-1 may promote aberrant APP metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.
Growing evidence implicates microglia in the loss of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, factors mediating microglial activation in PD are poorly understood. Proinflammatory cytokines, such as interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), orchestrate the actions of microglia. We report here that PD patients express significantly elevated levels of IFN-gamma in their blood plasma. After this initial finding, we found that IFN-gamma-deficient mice displayed attenuated 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced substantia nigra pars compacta dopaminergic cell loss along with reduced loss of striatal tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter fiber density. MPTP-induced depletion of striatal dopamine and its metabolite DOPAC (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid), as well as deltaFosB, a marker of postsynaptic dysfunction, were also attenuated in these knock-out mice. Consistent with the role for IFN-gamma in microglial activation, MPTP-induced morphological activation of microglia was abrogated compared with wild-type mice. To examine more mechanistically the role of IFN-gamma in microglial activation, we evaluated the interactions between microglia and dopaminergic neurons in an in vitro mixed microglia/midbrain neuron rotenone-induced death paradigm. In this in vitro paradigm, dopaminergic neurons are selectively damaged by rotenone. Exogenous IFN-gamma ligand alone and without rotenone resulted in dopaminergic cell loss, but only in the presence of microglia. The addition of an IFN-gamma neutralizing antibody attenuated neuronal loss as a result of rotenone treatment. The presence of only wild-type microglia and not those deficient in IFN-gamma receptor elicited significant dopaminergic cell loss when exposed to rotenone. Neurons deficient in IFN-gamma receptor, however, did not display increased resistance to death. Finally, levels of IFN-gamma message increased in microglia in response to rotenone. Together, these data suggest that IFN-gamma participates in death of dopaminergic neurons by regulating microglial activity.
Auxiliary gamma subunits are an important component of high-voltage-activated calcium (Ca(V)) channels, but their precise regulatory role remains to be determined. In the current report, we have used complementary approaches including molecular biology and electrophysiology to investigate the influence of the gamma subunits on neuronal Ca(V) channel activity and expression. We found that coexpression of gamma2 or gamma3 subunits drastically inhibited macroscopic currents through recombinant N-type channels (Ca(V)2.2/beta3/alpha2delta) in HEK-293 cells. Using inhibitors of internalization, we found that removal of functional channels from the plasma membrane is an improbable mechanism of current regulation by gamma. Instead, changes in current amplitude could be attributed to two distinct mechanisms. First, gamma subunit expression altered the voltage dependence of channel activity. Second, gamma subunit expression reduced N-type channel synthesis via activation of the endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response. Together, our findings (1) corroborate that neuronal gamma subunits significantly downregulate Ca(V)2.2 channel activity, (2) uncover a role for the gamma2 subunit in Ca(V)2.2 channel expression through early components of the biosynthetic pathway, and (3) suggest that, under certain conditions, channel protein misfolding could be induced by interactions with the gamma subunits, supporting the notion that Ca(V) channels constitute a class of difficult-to-fold proteins.
Fragile X syndrome, as well as other forms of mental retardation and autism, is associated with altered dendritic spine number and structure. Fragile X syndrome is caused by loss-of-function mutations in Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), an RNA-binding protein that regulates protein synthesis in vivo. It is unknown whether FMRP plays a direct, cell-autonomous role in regulation of synapse number, function, or maturation. Here, we report that acute postsynaptic expression of FMRP in Fmr1 knock-out (KO) neurons results in a decrease in the number of functional and structural synapses without an effect on their synaptic strength or maturational state. Similarly, neurons endogenously expressing FMRP (wild-type) have fewer synapses than neighboring Fmr1 KO neurons. An intact K homology domain 2 (KH2) RNA-binding domain and dephosphorylation of FMRP at S500 were required for the effects of FMRP on synapse number, indicating that FMRP interaction with RNA and translating polyribosomes leads to synapse loss.
Although expression of some genes is known to change during neuronal activity or plasticity, the overall relationship of gene expression changes to memory or memory disorders is not well understood. Here, we combined extensive statistical microarray analyses with behavioral testing to comprehensively identify genes and pathways associated with aging and cognitive dysfunction. Aged rats were separated into cognitively unimpaired (AU) or impaired (AI) groups based on their Morris water maze performance relative to young-adult (Y) animals. Hippocampal gene expression was assessed in Y, AU, and AI on the fifth (last) day of maze training (5T) or 21 d posttraining (21PT) and in nontrained animals (eight groups total, one array per animal; n = 78 arrays). ANOVA and linear contrasts identified genes that differed from Y generally with aging (differed in both AU and AI) or selectively, with cognitive status (differed only in AI or AU). Altered pathways/processes were identified by overrepresentation analyses of changed genes. With general aging, there was downregulation of axonal growth, cytoskeletal assembly/transport, signaling, and lipogenic/uptake pathways, concomitant with upregulation in immune/inflammatory, lysosomal, lipid/protein degradation, cholesterol transport, transforming growth factor, and cAMP signaling pathways, primarily independent of training condition. Selectively, in AI, there was downregulation at 5T of immediate-early gene, Wnt (wingless integration site), insulin, and G-protein signaling, lipogenesis, and glucose utilization pathways, whereas Notch2 (oligodendrocyte development) and myelination pathways were upregulated, particularly at 21PT. In AU, receptor/signal transduction genes were upregulated, perhaps as compensatory responses. Immunohistochemistry confirmed and extended selected microarray results. Together, the findings suggest a new model, in which deficient neuroenergetics leads to downregulated neuronal signaling and increased glial activation, resulting in aging-related cognitive dysfunction.
How a naive human neuroepithelial cell becomes an electrophysiologically active neuron remains unknown. Here, we describe the early physiological development of neurons differentiating from naive human embryonic stem (hES) cells. We found that differentiating neuronal cells progressively decrease their resting membrane potential, gain characteristic Na+ and K+ currents, and fire mature action potentials by 7 weeks of differentiation. This is similar to the maturation pattern observed in animals, albeit on a greatly expanded time scale. An additional 3 weeks of differentiation resulted in neurons that could fire repetitive trains of action potentials in response to depolarizing current pulses. The onset of spontaneous synaptic activity also occurred after 7 weeks of differentiation, in association with the differentiation of astrocytes within the culture. Cocultures of hES cell-derived neuroepithelial cells with exogenous astrocytes significantly accelerated the onset of synaptic currents but did not alter action potential generation. These findings suggest that the development of membrane characteristics and action potentials depend on the intrinsic maturation of Na+ and K+ currents, whereas synaptic transmission is enhanced by astrocytes, which may be achieved independently of the maturation of action potentials. Furthermore, we found that although astrocyte-conditioned medium accelerated synaptic protein localization, it did not increase synaptic activity, suggesting a contact-dependent mechanism by which astrocytes augment synaptic activity. These results lay the foundation for future studies examining the functional development of human neurons and provide support for the potential application of human cells in restorative neuronal therapies.
SCG10 (superior cervical ganglia neural-specific 10 protein) is a neuron specific member of the stathmin family of microtubule regulatory proteins that like stathmin can bind to soluble tubulin and depolymerize microtubules. The direct actions of SCG10 on microtubules themselves and on their dynamics have not been investigated previously. Here, we analyzed the effects of SCG10 on the dynamic instability behavior of microtubules in vitro, both at steady state and early during microtubule polymerization. In contrast to stathmin, whose major action on dynamics is to destabilize microtubules by increasing the switching frequency from growth to shortening (the catastrophe frequency) at microtubule ends, SCG10 stabilized the plus ends both at steady state and early during polymerization by increasing the rate and extent of growth. For example, early during polymerization at high initial tubulin concentrations (20 microM), a low molar ratio of SCG10 to tubulin of 1:30 increased the growth rate by approximately 50%. In contrast to its effects at plus ends, SCG10 destabilized minus ends by increasing the shortening rate, the length shortened during shortening events, and the catastrophe frequency. Consistent with its ability to modulate microtubule dynamics at steady state, SCG10 bound to purified microtubules along their lengths. The dual activity of SCG10 at opposite microtubule ends may be important for its role in regulating growth cone microtubule dynamics. SCG10's ability to promote plus end growth may facilitate microtubule extension into filopodia, and its ability to destabilize minus ends could provide soluble tubulin for net plus end elongation.

Visual neuroscience has long sought to determine the extent to which stimulus-evoked activity in visual cortex depends on attention and awareness. Some influential theories of consciousness maintain that the allocation of attention is restricted to conscious representations [1, 2]. However, in the load theory of attention [3], competition between task-relevant and task-irrelevant stimuli for limited-capacity attention does not depend on conscious perception of the irrelevant stimuli. The critical test is whether the level of attentional load in a relevant task would determine unconscious neural processing of invisible stimuli. Human participants were scanned with high-field fMRI while they performed a foveal task of low or high attentional load. Irrelevant, invisible monocular stimuli were simultaneously presented peripherally and were continuously suppressed by a flashing mask in the other eye [4]. Attentional load in the foveal task strongly modulated retinotopic activity evoked in primary visual cortex (V1) by the invisible stimuli. Contrary to traditional views [1, 2, 5, 6], we found that availability of attentional capacity determines neural representations related to unconscious processing of continuously suppressed stimuli in human primary visual cortex. Spillover of attention to cortical representations of invisible stimuli (under low load) cannot be a sufficient condition for their awareness.
Gap-junctional channels, permeable to large hydrophilic solutes of up to M(r) approximately 1,000, are responsible for cell-to-cell communication. Phosphorylation of connexin 43 (Cx43) by PKC abolishes the permeability of gap-junctional channels and hemichannels to large hydrophilic solutes, but not to small inorganic ions. Here, we report on a methodology to produce purified hemichannels of controlled subunit composition and apply it to the generation of hemichannels with variable number of PKC-phosphorylated subunits. The subunit composition was determined by luminescence resonance energy transfer. We show that all Cx43 subunits in the hemichannel hexamer have to be phosphorylated to abolish sucrose (M(r) 342) permeability. We also show that the hemichannel pores with all subunits phosphorylated by PKC have a sizable diameter, allowing for permeation of the small hydrophilic solute ethyleneglycol (M(r) 62). These results indicate that phosphorylation of Cx43 by PKC alters the hemichannel size selectivity and explain why PKC activity affects dye transfer between cells without consistent effects on electrical communication.
Binding of dynorphin A (1-17 and 2-17) to NMDA receptors in the rat striatum was studied by displacing radioactive ligands for the receptor's polyamine ([3H]-Ifenprodil), glutamate ([3H]-CGP-39653), dizocilpine ([3H]-MK-801) and glycine ([3H]-MDL105,519) sites with the neuropeptide. Dynorphin A selectively displaced [3H]-MDL105,519 and none of the other ligands. Opioid antagonists did not affect displacement. Thus, in the striatum dynorphin may regulate NMDA receptor function via the glycineB site through non-opioid mechanisms. This may contribute to the long-term changes in behavioral responsiveness seen after dopamine depletion and treatment with dopaminomimetics which are associated with substantial changes in striatal dynorphin metabolism.

Due to the strong sequence homology it has been suggested that CDC2L5 and CDK12 belong to a high molecular weight subfamily of CDC2 family with PITAI/VRE motifs [F. Marques, J.L. Moreau, G. Peaucellier, J.C. Lozano, P. Schatt, A. Picard, I. Callebaut, E. Perret, A.M. Geneviere, A new subfamily of high molecular mass CDC2-related kinases with PITAI/VRE motifs, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 279 (2000) 832-837]. Recently, we reported that CDK12 interacts with L-type cyclins and is involved in alternative splicing regulation [H.-H. Chen, Y.-C. Wang, M.-J. Fann, Identification and characterization of the CDK12/Cyclin L1 complex involved in alternative splicing regulation, Mol. Cel. Biol. 26 (2006) 2736-2745]. Here, we provide evidence that CDC2L5 also interacts with L-type cyclins and thus rename it as cyclin-dependent kinase 13 (CDK13). The kinase domain of CDK13 is sufficient to bind the cyclin domains of L-type cyclins. Moreover, CDK13 and L-type cyclins modulate each other's subcellular localization. When CDK13 and an E1a minigene reporter construct were over-expressed in HEK293T cells, CDK13 alters the splicing pattern of E1a transcripts in a dose-dependent manner. Similar to effects of CDK12, effects of CDK13 on splicing pattern are counteracted by SF2/ASF and SC35. These findings strengthen CDK12 and CDK13 as a subfamily of cyclin-dependent kinases that regulate alternative splicing.

The distinction between implicit (unconscious) and explicit (conscious) learning is controversial. Some argue that explicit learning is dependent on the medial temporal lobes, whereas implicit learning is mediated by the basal ganglia and others propose that all learning is explicit. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the involvement of the basal ganglia in implicit learning by examining learning of a probabilistic sequence of targets, in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and controls. Following learning, we assessed participants' awareness of the sequence structure by asking them to generate or withhold sequence consistent responses (process dissociation procedure) and to perform a recognition test in which measures of priming and recognition were obtained concurrently. Although the PD group demonstrated evidence of probabilistic sequence learning in this study, learning was significantly attenuated compared to controls. Residual learning in the PD group was genuinely implicit in nature because (a) PD patients were not able to control the expression of their acquired knowledge, and (b) their knowledge supported subsequent priming of sequence-consistent responses but recognition ratings were at chance. In contrast, following learning controls were capable of above chance recognition indicating that their sequential knowledge was acquired in a more explicit way. The results support the view that (i) the basal ganglia contribute to probabilistic implicit sequence learning (ii) that such learning can occur implicitly without explicit knowledge in PD patients.
Podosomes are dynamic cell adhesion structures that degrade the extracellular matrix, permitting extracellular matrix remodeling. Accumulating evidence suggests that actin and its associated proteins play a crucial role in podosome dynamics. Caldesmon is localized to the podosomes, and its expression is down-regulated in transformed and cancer cells. Here we studied the regulatory mode of caldesmon in podosome formation in Rous sarcoma virus-transformed fibroblasts. Exogenous expression analyses revealed that caldesmon represses podosome formation triggered by the N-WASP-Arp2/3 pathway. Conversely, depletion of caldesmon by RNA interference induces numerous small-sized podosomes with high dynamics. Caldesmon competes with the Arp2/3 complex for actin binding and thereby inhibits podosome formation. p21-activated kinases (PAK)1 and 2 are also repressors of podosome formation via phosphorylation of caldesmon. Consequently, phosphorylation of caldesmon by PAK1/2 enhances this regulatory mode of caldesmon. Taken together, we conclude that in Rous sarcoma virus-transformed cells, changes in the balance between PAK1/2-regulated caldesmon and the Arp2/3 complex govern the formation of podosomes.
We have identified the single PAC1 receptor variant responsible for Ca2+ mobilization from intracellular stores and influx through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels in bovine chromaffin cells and the domain of this receptor variant that confers coupling to [Ca2+]i elevation. This receptor (bPAC1hop) contains a 28-amino acid &quot;hop&quot; insertion in the third intracellular loop, with a full-length 171-amino acid N terminus. Expression of the bPAC1hop receptor in NG108-15 cells, which lack endogenous PAC1 receptors, reconstituted high affinity PACAP binding and PACAP-dependent elevation of both cAMP and intracellular Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i). Removal of the hop domain and expression of this receptor (bPAC1null) in NG108-15 cells reconstituted high affinity PACAP binding and PACAP-dependent cAMP generation but without a corresponding [Ca2+]i elevation. PC12-G cells express sufficient levels of PAC1 receptors to provide PACAP-saturable coupling to adenylate cyclase and to drive PACAP-dependent differentiation but do not express PAC1 receptors at levels found in postmitotic neuronal and endocrine cells and do not support PACAP-mediated neurosecretion. Expression of bPAC1hop, but not bPAC1(null), at levels comparable with those of bPAC1hop in bovine chromaffin cells resulted in acquisition by PC12-G cells of PACAP-dependent [Ca2+]i increase and extracellular Ca2+ influx. In addition, PC12-G cells expressing bPAC1hop acquired the ability to release [3H]norepinephrine in a Ca2+ influx-dependent manner in response to PACAP. Expression of PACAP receptors in neuroendocrine rather than nonneuroendocrine cells reveals key differences between PAC1hop and PAC1null coupling, indicating an important and previously unrecognized role of the hop cassette in PAC1-mediated Ca2+ signaling in neuroendocrine cells.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) effects on the establishment of glycinergic and GABAergic transmissions in mouse spinal neurons were examined using combined electrophysiological and calcium imaging techniques. BDNF (10 ng/ml) caused a significant acceleration in the onset of synaptogenesis without large effects on the survival of these neurons. Amplitude and frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) and miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) associated to activation of glycine and GABA(A) receptors were augmented in neurons cultured with BDNF. The neurotrophin effect was blocked by long term tetrodotoxin (TTX) addition suggesting a dependence on neuronal activity. In addition, BDNF caused a significant increase in glycine- and GABA-evoked current densities that partly explains the increase in synaptic transmission. Presynaptic mechanisms were also involved in BDNF effects since triethylammonium(propyl)-4-(2-(4-dibutylamino-phenyl)vinyl)pyridinium (FM1-43) destaining with high K(+) was augmented in neurons incubated with the neurotrophin. The effects of BDNF were mediated by receptor tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) activation since culturing neurons with either (9S,10R,12R)-2,3,9,10,11,12-hexahydro-10-hydroxy-9-methyl-1-oxo-9,12-epoxy-1H-diindolo[1,2,3-fg:3',2',1'- kl]pyrrolo[3,4-i][1,6]benzodiazocine-10-carboxylic acid methyl ester (K252a) or 2-(2-amino-3-methoxyphenyl)-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one (PD98059) blocked the augmentation in synaptic activity induced by the neurotrophin.
Cocaine administration upregulates the levels of extracellular glutamate and dopamine in the striatum. Activation of the receptors alters calcium homeostasis in striatal neurons leading to the expression of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress proteins. It was therefore hypothesized that cocaine upregulates the expression of the ER stress proteins, immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein (BiP), Ire1alpha and perk via glutamate and dopamine receptor activation. A novel glutamate microbiosensor and Western immunoblot analyses were mainly performed to test the hypothesis in the rat dorsal striatum. The results showed that i.p. injection of repeated cocaine (20 mg/kg) for nine consecutive days significantly increased extracellular glutamate levels while acute cocaine injection did not. However, the immunoreactivities (IR) of the ER stress proteins in the dorsal striatum were significantly increased by either acute or repeated cocaine injections as compared with saline controls. Intrastriatal injection (i.s.) of the selective group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonist N-phenyl-7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxamide (PHCCC; 25 nmol) or the mGluR5 subtype antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine hydrochloride (MPEP; 2 and 25 nmol) significantly decreased repeated cocaine-induced increases in the IR of the ER stress proteins in the injected dorsal striatum. Similarly, the selective D1 antagonist (R)-(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH23390; 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) or the N-methyl-d-aspartate antagonist dizocilpine/(5S,10R)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-ibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK801; 2 nmol, i.s.) decreased acute or repeated cocaine-induced the IR of the ER stress proteins in the dorsal striatum. These data suggest that cocaine upregulates expression of the ER stress proteins in striatal neurons via a mechanism involving activation of glutamate and dopamine receptors.
Peripheral inflammation induces reactions within the CNS such as central sensitization, which is involved in the mechanism of inflammatory hyperalgesia. However, the precise mechanism of inflammatory signal transmission from the peripheral inflammatory site to the CNS is not clear. We studied the role of circulating interleukin (IL)-6 as a messenger of inflammatory information from the periphery to the CNS. In the rat model of inflammatory hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan, levels of IL-6 but not IL-1beta or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) were significantly elevated in the circulating blood 3 h after an injection of carrageenan. In addition, injecting carrageenan into the hind paw evoked thermal hyperalgesia and the release of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) from isolated blood vessels of the CNS ex vivo, as well as the induction of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 and microsomal prostaglandin E synthase (mPGES)-1 and nuclear translocation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in vascular endothelial cells of the CNS. A prior i.p. injection of IL-6 antiserum (IL-6AS) abolished or attenuated these responses. The present results suggested that circulating IL-6 could act as a messenger of inflammatory information from peripheral inflammatory sites to the CNS and as the afferent circulating signal to the CNS to produce prostaglandins in the vascular endothelial cells of the CNS through a COX-2 dependent pathway.
Learning is critical for fast and efficient object recognition in primates. To understand the neuronal correlates of behavioral improvements due to training, we recorded the responses of single neurons in the inferior temporal (IT) cortex of monkeys that were trained to recognize briefly presented, backward-masked objects. First we investigated training effects that are specific to the objects shown during training and that do not transfer to untrained objects. Only one of two monkeys tested showed object-specific training effects at the behavioral level, and only this monkey showed a transient object-specific increase in object selectivity for trained compared with untrained backward-masked objects. However, in each monkey a substantial part of the training effect transferred to untrained objects. To investigate the neural correlates of these object-independent training effects, we compared the neural responses to masked objects in trained monkeys to the responses in untrained monkeys. Training was associated with a reduction of the responses to the irrelevant masking patterns. These findings suggest that extensive training in recognizing backward-masked objects results in neural changes that reduce IT responses to the interfering irrelevant masking patterns and enhance the processing of the relevant objects.
In the presence of the monoamines serotonin and norepinephrine, motoneurons readily generate large persistent inward currents (PICs). The resulting plateau potentials amplify and sustain motor output. Monoaminergic input to the cord originates in the brainstem and the sharp reduction in monoamine levels that occurs following acute spinal cord injury greatly decreases motoneuron excitability. However, recent studies in the adult sacral cord of the rat have shown that motoneurons reacquire the ability to generate PICs and plateau potentials within 1-2 months following spinal transection. Ca(v)1.3 L-type calcium channels are involved in generating PICs in both healthy and injured animals. Additionally, expression of Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 L-type calcium channels is altered in several pathological conditions. Therefore, in this paper we analyzed the expression of L-type calcium channel alpha(1) subunits within the motoneuron pool following a complete transection of the spinal cord at the level of the sacral vertebra (S)2 segment. The analysis was done both caudally (S4 segment) and rostrally [thoracic vertebra (T)6 segment] from the injury site. The S4 segment was significantly reduced in diameter when compared with control animals, and this reduction was more evident in the white matter. Ca(v)1.2 alpha(1) subunit expression significantly increased (26%) in the motoneuron pool located caudally but not rostrally from the injury site. In contrast, the expression of Ca(v)1.3 alpha(1) subunit remained unchanged in both S4 and T6 segments. The differential expression of the two alpha(1) subunits in spinal injury suggests that Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3 channels have different functions in neuronal adaptation following spinal cord injury.
The vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is known to be a cholinergic synapse at which acetylcholine (ACh) is released from the presynaptic terminal to act on postsynaptic nicotinic ACh receptors. There is now growing evidence that glutamate, which is the main excitatory transmitter in the CNS and at invertebrate NMJs, may have a signaling function together with ACh also at the vertebrate NMJ. In the CNS, the extracellular concentration of glutamate is kept at a subtoxic level by Na(+)-driven high-affinity glutamate transporters located in plasma membranes of astrocytes and neurons. The glutamate transporters are also pivotal for shaping glutamate receptor responses at synapses. In order to throw further light on the potential role of glutamate as a cotransmitter at the NMJ we used high-resolution immunocytochemical methods to investigate the localization of the plasma membrane glutamate transporters GLAST (glutamate aspartate transporter) and GLT (glutamate transporter 1) in rat and mice NMJ regions. Confocal laser-scanning immunocytochemistry showed that GLT is restricted to the NMJ in rat and mouse skeletal muscle. Lack of labeling signal in knock-out mice confirmed that the immunoreactivity observed at the NMJ was specific for GLT. GLAST was also localized at the NMJ in rat but not detected in mouse NMJ (while abundant in mouse brain). Post-embedding electron microscopic immunocytochemistry and quantitative analyses in rat showed that GLAST and GLT are enriched in the junctional folds of the postsynaptic membrane at the NMJ. GLT was relatively higher in the slow-twitch muscle soleus than in the fast-twitch muscle extensor digitorum longus, whereas GLAST was relatively higher in extensor digitorum longus than in soleus. The findings show--together with previous demonstration of vesicular glutamate, a vesicular glutamate transporter and glutamate receptors--that mammalian NMJs contain the machinery required for synaptic release and action of glutamate. This indicates a signaling role for glutamate at the normal NMJ and provides a basis for the ability of denervated muscle to be reinnervated by glutamatergic axons from the CNS.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, &quot;Ecstasy&quot;) is a popular drug that is often taken under hot conditions at dance clubs. High ambient temperature increases MDMA-induced hyperthermia and recent studies suggest that high temperatures may also enhance the rewarding and prosocial effects of MDMA in rats. The present study investigated whether ambient temperature influences MDMA-induced expression of Fos, a marker of neural activation. Male Wistar rats received either MDMA (10 mg/kg i.p.) or saline, and were placed in test chambers for 2 h at either 19 or 30 degrees C. MDMA caused significant hyperthermia at 30 degrees C and a modest hypothermia at 19 degrees C. The 30 degrees C ambient temperature had little effect on Fos expression in vehicle-treated rats. However MDMA-induced Fos expression was augmented in 15 of 30 brain regions at the high temperature. These regions included (1) sites associated with thermoregulation such as the median preoptic nucleus, dorsomedial hypothalamus and raphe pallidus, (2) the supraoptic nucleus, a region important for osmoregulation and a key mediator of oxytocin and vasopressin release, (3) the medial and central nuclei of the amygdala, important in the regulation of social and emotional behaviors, and (4) the shell of the nucleus accumbens and (anterior) ventral tegmental area, regions associated with the reinforcing effects of MDMA. MDMA-induced Fos expression was unaffected by ambient temperature at many other sites, and was diminished at high temperature at one site (the islands of Calleja), suggesting that the effect of temperature on MDMA-induced Fos expression was not a general pharmacokinetic effect. Overall, these results indicate that high temperatures accentuate key neural effects of MDMA and this may help explain the widespread use of the drug under hot conditions at dance parties as well as the more hazardous nature of MDMA taken under such conditions.
Cocaine-associated cues acquire incentive motivational effects that manifest as craving in humans and cocaine-seeking behavior in rats. We have reported an increase in neuronal activation in rats, measured by Fos protein expression, in various limbic and cortical regions following exposure to cocaine-associated cues. This study examined whether the conditioned neuronal activation involves glutamate AMPA receptors by measuring coexpression of Fos and AMPA glutamate receptor subunits (GluR1, GluR2/3, or GluR4). Rats trained to self-administer cocaine subsequently underwent 22 days of abstinence, during which they were exposed daily to either the self-administration environment with presentations of the light/tone cues previously paired with cocaine infusions (Extinction group) or an alternate environment (No Extinction group). All rats were then tested for cocaine-seeking behavior (i.e. responses without cocaine reinforcement) and Fos and AMPA glutamate receptor subunits were measured postmortem using immunocytochemistry. The No Extinction group exhibited increases in cocaine-seeking behavior and Fos expression in limbic and cortical regions relative to the Extinction group. A large number of Fos immunoreactive cells coexpressed GluR1, GluR2/3, and GluR4, suggesting that an action of glutamate at AMPA receptors may in part drive cue-elicited Fos expression. Importantly, there was an increase in the percentage of cells colabeled with Fos and GluR1 in the anterior cingulate and nucleus accumbens shell and cells colabeled with Fos and GluR4 in the infralimbic cortex, suggesting that within these regions, a greater, and perhaps even different, population of AMPA receptor subunit-expressing neurons is activated in rats engaged in cocaine-seeking behavior.
Synuclein was initially named for its localization in both presynaptic nerve terminals and portions of nuclear envelope. However, subsequent studies only confirmed the presynaptic localization of this protein in the brain; its nuclear localization in the neurons remained elusive. Here, two new monoclonal antibodies against alpha-synuclein (alpha-SYN) were produced. Epitope mapping using phage peptide display showed that the epitopes of the two antibodies were localized in two distinct specific sequences of the C-terminal domain of alpha-SYN. One antibody named 3D5 recognized amino acids 115-121 of alpha-SYN and the other antibody named 2E3 identified the amino acids 134-138 of the protein. Western blot analysis demonstrated that both 2E3 and 3D5 detected a 19 kD protein from rat and human brain homogenates, which was identical to the molecular size of recombinant alpha-SYN. However, immunohistochemical staining on normal adult rat brain sections showed that the two antibodies revealed distinct patterns of subcellular localization of alpha-SYN immunoreactivity. Both 3D5 and 2E3 detected the presynaptic alpha-SYN but only 3D5 detected the nuclear alpha-SYN. The nuclear localization of alpha-SYN was further confirmed by Western blot analysis in isolated nuclear fraction where the same size of alpha-SYN was detected, and by immunoelectron microscopy using colloidal gold probes where gold particles were specifically localized in portions of peri- and intra-nucleus. The nuclear positive neurons were distributed extensively in almost all the brain regions. This is the first report well characterizing the extensive localization of alpha-SYN in the neuronal nuclei throughout the brain in normal conditions. This finding indicates an important physiological function of this molecule in the nuclei of brain neurons, which deserves further investigations.
Adverse early life experiences can induce neurochemical changes that may underlie modifications in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responsiveness, emotionality and cognition. Here, we investigated the expression of the calcium binding proteins (CBPs) calretinin, calbindin and parvalbumin, which identify subpopulations of GABAergic neurons and serve important functional roles by buffering intracellular calcium levels, following brief (early handling) and long (maternal deprivation) periods of maternal separation, as compared with non-handled controls. CBP-expressing neurons were analyzed in brain regions related to stress and anxiety. Emotionality was assessed in parallel using the social interaction test. Analyses were carried out at periadolescence, an important phase for the development of brain areas involved in stress responses. Our results indicate that density of CBP-immunoreactive neurons decreases in the paraventricular region of deprived rats but increases in the hippocampus and lateral amygdala of both early-handled and deprived rats when compared with controls. Emotionality is reduced in both early-handled and deprived animals. In conclusion, early handling and deprivation led to neurochemical and behavioral changes linked to stress-sensitive brain regions. These data suggest that the effects of early experiences on CBP containing neurons might contribute to the functional changes of neuronal circuits involved in emotional response.
The molecular changes following sensory trauma and the subsequent response of the CNS are poorly understood. We focused on finding a molecular tool for monitoring the features of excitability which occur following acoustic trauma to the auditory system. Of particular interest are genes that alter their expression pattern during activity-induced changes in synaptic efficacy and plasticity. The expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), the activity-dependent cytoskeletal protein (Arg3.1/arc), and the immediate early gene c-Fos were monitored in the peripheral and central auditory system hours and days following a traumatic acoustic stimulus that induced not only hearing loss but also phantom auditory perception (tinnitus), as shown in rodent animal behavior models. A reciprocal responsiveness of activity-dependent genes became evident between the periphery and the primary auditory cortex (AI): as c-Fos and BDNF exon IV expression was increased in spiral ganglion neurons, Arg3.1/arc and (later on) BDNF exon IV expression was reduced in AI. In line with studies indicating increased spontaneous spike activity at the level of the inferior colliculus (IC), an increase in BDNF and GABA-positive neurons was seen in the IC. The data clearly indicate the usefulness of Arg3.1/arc and BDNF for monitoring trauma-induced activity changes and the associated putative plasticity responses in the auditory system.
We characterized bradykinin (BK)-induced changes in the intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)]i) and membrane potential in cultured rat myenteric neurons using ratiometric Ca(2+) imaging with fura-2 and the whole-cell patch-clamp technique, respectively. BK evoked a dose-dependent increase of [Ca(2+)]i that was abolished by HOE 140, a B2 receptor antagonist but not by [Lys-des-Arg(9)]-BK, a B1 receptor antagonist. [Lys-des-Arg(9)]-HOE140, a B1 receptor agonist, failed to cause a [Ca(2+)]i response. Double staining with antibodies against the B2 receptor together with PGP9.5 or S100 indicated that B2 receptors were expressed in neurons and glial cells. The BK-evoked [Ca(2+)]i increase was suppressed by indomethacin, a non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor, and potentiated by prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)). The release of PGE(2) from cultured myenteric plexus cells was increased by BK. BK induced a large increase in [Ca(2+)]i in neurons when myenteric plexus cells were cultured at the high density but not at the low density, and caused a small increase in [Ca(2+)]i in neurons when proliferation of enteric glial cells was suppressed. BK evoked a slow and sustained depolarization in myenteric neurons, which was sensitive to indomethacin. These results indicated that BK caused a [Ca(2+)]i increase and depolarization in rat myenteric neurons through the activation of B2 receptors, which was partly associated with PGE(2) released from glial cells in response to BK. It is suggested that a neuron-glial interaction plays an important role in the effect of BK in the rat myenteric plexus.
Exposure to an enriched environment promotes neurochemical, structural and neurophysiological changes in the brain and is associated with enhanced synaptic plasticity and improved hippocampal-dependent learning. Using a global proteomics-based approach we have now been able to reveal the altered expression of a diverse range of hippocampal proteins following exposure to an enriched environment. Male Hooded Lister rats (8 weeks) were subjected to a 6-week regimen in which they were housed in either non-enriched (open field) or enriched conditions (toys, wheels etc.). Whole protein extracts from stratum pyramidale and stratum radiatum of area CA1 were then isolated and subjected to differential gel electrophoresis [McNair K, Davies CH, Cobb SR (2006) Plasticity-related regulation of the hippocampal proteome. Eur J Neurosci 23(2):575-580]. Of the 2469 resolvable protein spots detected in this study, 42 spots (1.7% of the detectable proteome) derived from predominantly somatic fractions and 32 proteins spots from dendritic fractions (1.3% of detectable proteome) were significantly altered in abundance following exposure to an enriched environment (somatic: 14 increased/28 decreased abundance, range -1.5 to +1.4-fold change; dendritic: 16 increased, 16 decreased abundance, range -1.6 to +3.0-fold change). Following in-gel tryptic digestion and Maldi-Tof/Q-star mass spectrometry, database searching revealed the identity of 50 protein spots displaying environmental enrichment-related modulation of expression. Identified proteins belonged to a variety of functional classes with gene ontology analysis revealing the majority (&gt;70%) of regulated proteins to be part of the energy metabolism, cytoplasmic organization/biogenesis and signal transduction processes.
5-HT released by gastrointestinal mucosa and enteric interneurons has powerful effects on gut behavior. However, the targets of 5-HT-containing neurons within enteric circuits are not well characterized. We used antisera against 5-HT and selected markers of known enteric neuron types to investigate the connections made by 5-HT-containing neurons in the guinea-pig jejunum. Confocal microscopy was used to quantify the number of 5-HT-immunoreactive varicosities apposed to immunohistochemically identified cell bodies. Large numbers of varicosities were identified apposing cholinergic secretomotor neurons, immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y, in both myenteric and submucous plexuses. Subgroups of neurons identified by calretinin (ascending interneurons) and nitric oxide synthase (descending interneurons and inhibitory motor neurons) immunoreactivity were also apposed by many varicosities. Longitudinal muscle motor neurons (calretinin immunoreactive) and AH/Dogiel type II (sensory) neurons (calbindin immunoreactive) were apposed by small numbers of varicosities. Combined retrograde tracing and immunohistochemistry were used to identify excitatory circular muscle motor neurons; these were encircled by 5-HT-immunoreactive varicosities, but the appositions could not be quantified. We suggest that 5-HT-containing interneurons are involved in secretomotor pathways and pathways to subgroups of other interneurons, but not longitudinal muscle motor neurons. There also appear to be connections between 5-HT-containing interneurons and excitatory circular muscle motor neurons. Physiological evidence demonstrates a functional connection between 5-HT-containing interneurons and AH/Dogiel type II neurons, but few 5-HT-immunoreactive varicosities were observed apposing calbindin-immunoreactive cell bodies. Taken together these results suggest that neural 5-HT may have significant roles in excitatory pathways regulating both motility and secretion.
Phytoestrogens prevent neuronal damage, however, mechanism of their neuroprotective action has not been fully elucidated. This study aimed to evaluate the effects of genistein on glutamate-induced apoptosis in mouse primary neuronal cell cultures. Glutamate (1 mM) enhanced caspase-3 activity and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in the hippocampal, neocortical and cerebellar neurons in time-dependent manner, and these data were confirmed at the cellular level with Hoechst 33342 and calcein AM staining. Genistein (10-10,000 nM) significantly inhibited glutamate-induced apoptosis, and the effect of this isoflavone was most prominent in the hippocampal cells. Next, we studied an involvement of estrogen and aryl hydrocarbon receptors in anti-apoptotic effects of genistein. A high-affinity estrogen receptor antagonist, ICI 182, 780 (1 microM), reversed, whereas less specific antagonist/partial agonist, tamoxifen (1 microM), either intensified or partially inhibited genistein effects. Aryl hydrocarbon receptor antagonist, alpha-naphthoflavone (1 microM), exhibited a biphasic action: it enhanced genistein action toward a short-term exposure (3 h) to glutamate, but antagonized genistein action toward prolonged exposure (24 h) to that insult. SB 216763 (1 microM), which preferentially inhibits glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta), potentiated genistein effects. These data point to strong effects of genistein at low micromolar concentrations in various brain tissues against glutamate-evoked apoptosis. Moreover, this study provided evidence for involvement of aryl hydrocarbon receptor and estrogen receptor/GSK-3beta intracellular signaling pathway in anti-apoptotic action of genistein.
In addition to serotonin, dopamine within the CNS is known to play a primary role in the control of ejaculation. However, whether D(2) and/or D(3) dopamine receptor subtypes mediate this effect is still unclear. In order to clarify this issue, a pharmacological competitive study using the preferential D(3) agonist 7-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)tetralin (7-OH-DPAT) alone or in combination with competitive nonpreferential or preferential D(2) and D(3) antagonists delivered intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) was undertaken in anesthetized rats. Urethane-anesthetized male rats were implanted into the cerebral ventricle with a cannula for i.c.v. injections, and recording electrodes were placed within the bulbospongiosus (BS) muscle to monitor BS muscle contractions, which were used as a marker for the expulsion phase of ejaculation. Following i.c.v. injection, 7-OH-DPAT induced ejaculation and rhythmic BS muscle contractions. Co-injected i.c.v. with 7-OH-DPAT, the nonselective D(2)/D(3) antagonist (raclopride), and the preferential D(3) antagonist (S(-)-N[n-butyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl]-1-methoxy-4-cyanonaphtalene-2-carboxamide; nafadotride) but not the preferential D(2) antagonist ((+/-)-3-[4-(4-chlorophenyl)-4-hydroxypiperidinyl]methylindole; L 741,626) inhibited the occurrence of ejaculation and BS muscle contractions. These results suggest that i.c.v. delivery of 7-OH-DPAT does represent a pertinent model to investigate the physio-pharmacology of ejaculation. It is inferred that targeting brain D(3) receptors may provide a therapeutic approach for treating ejaculatory disorders in humans.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). With the exception of a few rare familial forms of the disease, the precise molecular mechanisms underlying PD are unknown. Inflammation is a common finding in the PD brain, but due to the limitation of postmortem analysis its relationship to disease progression cannot be established. However, studies using the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model of PD have also identified inflammatory responses in the nigrostriatal pathway that precede neuronal degeneration in the SNpc. To assess the pathological relevance of these inflammatory responses and to identify candidate genes that might contribute to neuronal vulnerability, we used quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to measure mRNA levels of 11 cytokine and chemokine encoding genes in the striatum of MPTP-sensitive (C57BL/6J) and MPTP-insensitive (Swiss Webster, SWR) mice following administration of MPTP. The mRNA levels of all 11 genes changed following MPTP treatment, indicating the presence of inflammatory responses in both strains. Furthermore, of the 11 genes examined only 3, interleukin 6 (Il-6), macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha/CC chemokine ligand 3 (Mip-1alpha/Ccl3) and macrophage inflammatory protein 1 beta/CC chemokine ligand 4 (Mip-1beta/Ccl4), were differentially regulated between C57BL/6J and SWR mice. In both mouse strains, the level of monocyte chemoattractant protein 1/CC chemokine ligand 2 (Mcp-1/Ccl2) mRNA was the first to increase following MPTP administration, and might represent a key initiating component of the inflammatory response. Using Mcp-1/Ccl2 knockout mice backcrossed onto a C57BL/6J background we found that MPTP-stimulated Mip-1alpha/Ccl3 and Mip-1beta/Ccl4 mRNA expression was significantly lower in the knockout mice; suggesting that Mcp-1/Ccl2 contributes to MPTP-enhanced expression of Mip-1alpha/Ccl3 and Mip-1beta/Ccl4. However, stereological analysis of SNpc neuronal loss in Mcp-1/Ccl2 knockout and wild-type mice showed no differences. These findings suggest that it is the ability of dopaminergic SNpc neurons to survive an inflammatory insult, rather than genetically determined differences in the inflammatory response itself, that underlie the molecular basis of MPTP resistance.
Saccadic reaction times can be shortened by an additional sensory modality (e.g. auditory, tactile) presented in temporal proximity to the triggering cue. Whereas somatosensory cues given by sudden perturbations of the support surface can trigger appropriate postural adjustments to maintain upright stance, it is not known how gaze executions are affected by the dual task of maintaining upright balance while redirecting gaze. It was hypothesized that the onset latency of gaze movements toward visual targets will be shortened by sudden surface perturbations following visual target shifts to prompt a stable visual anchor for postural stabilization. Eight subjects stood on a movable platform with gaze fixated on a central target 2 m directly in front, and were instructed to shift their gaze to lateral targets located along a 63 degrees arc to the right and left. The trials began with the central target lit followed randomly by either the right, left or center target. Fifty or 250 ms following this target shift, balance was perturbed by a sudden yaw movement of the support surface (15.5 degrees over 210 ms at 130 degrees /s), with no stepping or large arm reactions observed. The latency of the gaze shifts was significantly shortened (by approximately 72 ms) when executed simultaneously with a surface perturbation. A decrease in excitation latency was also observed in the cervical paraspinals and sternocleidomastoid muscles. Postural responses in the ankle and knee muscles were not affected by gaze shifts. Pelvic horizontal angular motion closely followed surface motion whereas head motion was influenced by gaze shifts. During the combined gaze shift and surface motion conditions, thorax movement excursion was larger and not correlated with either the surface motion or visual target shift. In conclusion, postural adjustments in response to sudden surface yaws facilitate voluntary gaze shift execution and this enhancement may result from the sensory fusion of somatosensory and visual information.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are activated by a decrease in extracellular pH. ASICs are expressed in nociceptive sensory neurons, and several lines of evidence suggest that they are responsible for signaling the pain caused by extracellular acidification, but little is understood of the modulation of ASICs by pro-inflammatory factors. Using whole-cell patch clamp we demonstrate that low pH evokes three distinct inward currents in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons: a slowly inactivating transient current, a rapidly inactivating transient current, and a sustained current. All three currents were potentiated by arachidonic acid (AA), to 123%, 171%, and 264% of peak current, respectively. Membrane stretch had no effect on proton-gated currents, implying that AA is unlikely to act via local membrane deformation. The current carried by heterologously expressed ASIC1a and ASIC3 was also potentiated by AA. AA potentiates ASIC activation by a direct mechanism, because inhibition of AA metabolism had no effect on potentiation, and potentiation of single ASIC2a channels could be observed in cell-free patches. Potentiation by lipids with the same chain length as AA increased as the number of double bonds was increased. AA is known to be released in inflammation and the results suggest that AA may be an important pro-inflammatory agent responsible for enhancing acid-mediated pain.
The painful sensation during acute myocardial ischemia or infarction is a common symptom and results from neural activity in humans. Little is known about the role of neuropeptides in this effect of myocardial ischemia. The aim of the current study was to investigate the role of substance P in mediating the noxious neural signals in spinal cord in acute myocardial ischemia by exploring the change in substance P and its mRNA in thoracic dorsal root ganglia and spinal dorsal horn (T1-T5) after coronary artery occlusion. The experiment was performed with immunohistochemistry, enzyme immunoassay and real time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction techniques on rats' hearts. In acute myocardial ischemia (&lt;6 h), substance P and preprotachykinin mRNA were up-regulated in the neurons of the dorsal root ganglia and spinal dorsal horn. The increase in the density of immunoreactive material was mainly observed in small-diameter neurons of the dorsal root ganglia and the superficial laminae (I and II) of the spinal cord. The increase in the expressions was statistically significant compared with the control and the sham surgery groups (P&lt;0.05). The results suggest that substance P is involved in the mediation of the noxious neural signals of acute myocardial ischemia in spinal cord. The pathophysiological role and significance need to be investigated.
Intestinal inflammation is a painful syndrome with multiple symptoms, including chronic pain. This study examined the possible role of sensory neurons and substance P in symptoms of an animal model of acute intestinal inflammation. The model was induced by injecting ethanol and zymosan into the colon of anesthetized male rats. Three hours later, sections of the colon were stained with hematoxylin and eosin. To determine the role of substance P, 5 mg/kg of the neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1r) antagonist, CP-96,345, or 300 microg/kg of an antisense oligonucleotide targeted at NK-1r mRNA was administered. Spinal cord sections were examined for internalization of NK-1r, as an indicator of substance P release. Sections of colon revealed infiltration of inflammatory cells following ethanol and zymosan treatment. Plasma extravasation in rats given ethanol and zymosan was significantly greater than in controls given saline only (P&lt;0.0001) or saline and ethanol (P&lt;0.001). In ethanol- and zymosan-treated rats given CP-96,345, plasma extravasation was significantly less than in rats given ethanol and zymosan without the antagonist (P&lt;0.0001). Administration of the antisense oligonucleotide also resulted in lower levels of plasma extravasation compared with controls (P&lt;0.01). Internalization of the NK-1r was observed in neurons of lamina I in the T13-L2 and L6-S2 regions of the spinal cord, as well as in sympathetic preganglionic neurons at the L1 level. This internalization was observed in the absence of any other stimulus besides the inflammation itself. This study implicates substance P and its receptor, the NK-1r, in acute inflammation of the colon.
We have recently demonstrated that s.c.-injected 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) induces nociception by an indirect action on the primary afferent nociceptor in addition to its previously described direct action. Although the mechanisms mediating hyperalgesia can be quite separate and distinct from those mediating nociception, the aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that 5-HT induces mechanical hyperalgesia by mechanisms similar to those mediating nociception. s.c. injection of 5-HT induced a dose-dependent mechanical hyperalgesia measured by the mechanical paw withdrawal nociceptive threshold test in the rat. 5-HT-induced hyperalgesia was significantly reduced by local blockade of the 5-HT(3) receptor by tropisetron, by the nonspecific selectin inhibitor fucoidan, by the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin, by guanethidine depletion of norepinephrine in the sympathetic terminals, and by local blockade of the beta(1)- or beta(2)-adrenergic receptor by atenolol or ICI 118,551, respectively. Taken together, these findings indicate that like nociception, hyperalgesia induced by the injection of 5-HT in the s.c. tissue is also mediated by an indirect action of 5-HT on the primary afferent nociceptor. This indirect hyperalgesic action of 5-HT is mediated by a combination of mechanisms involved in inflammation such as neutrophil migration and the local release of prostaglandin and norepinephrine. However, in contrast to nociception, hyperalgesia induced by 5-HT in the s.c. tissue is mediated by a norepinephrine-dependent mechanism that involves the activation of peripheral beta(2) adrenoceptors.
The objective of this study was to examine the opposite behavior responses of conditioned fear extinction and renewal and how they are represented by network interactions between brain regions. This work is a continuation of a series of brain mapping studies of various inhibitory phenomena, including conditioned inhibition, blocking and extinction. A tone-footshock fear conditioning paradigm in rats was used, followed by extinction and testing in two different contexts. Fluorodeoxyglucose autoradiography was used to compare mean regional brain activity and interregional correlations resulting from the presentation of the extinguished tone in or out of the extinction context. A confirmatory structural equation model, constructed from a neural network proposed to underlie fear extinction, showed a reversal from negative regional interactions during extinction recall to positive interactions during fear renewal. Additionally, the magnitude of direct effects was different between groups, reflecting a change in the strength of the influences conveyed through those pathways. The results suggest that the extinguished tone encountered outside of the extinction context recruits auditory and limbic areas, which in turn influence the interactions of the infralimbic cortex with the amygdala and ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. Interestingly, the results also suggest that two independent pathways influence conditioned freezing: one from the central amygdaloid nucleus and the other from the infralimbic cortex directly to the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray.
Hippocalcin, which is a member of the neuronal calcium-sensor protein family, is highly expressed in hippocampal pyramidal cells. Recently, it was demonstrated that hippocalcin deficit caused an increase in neuronal cell death in the field CA3 of Ammon's horn (CA3) region of the hippocampus following the systemic injection of kainic acid. Treatment with kainic acid results in seizure-induced cell death in CA3. In the present study, we injected quinolinic acid, which is an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor agonist, into the hippocampal field CA1 of Ammon's horn (CA1) region in hippocalcin-knockout (-/-) mice, a procedure which mimics transient ischemia. Although significant pyknotic changes were observed at the injected site in wild-type (+/+) mice 24 h after injection, the area of pyknotic cells extended throughout the hippocampus in -/- mice. The quantification of cell numbers in Nissl-stained sections indicated that the cell damage in -/- mice was more severe than that in +/+ mice. The density of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick-end labeling-positive cells roughly paralleled that of Nissl-stained pyknotic cells. Primary cultures of hippocampal neurons showed that the number of surviving neurons from -/- mice after 7 days in culture was smaller than the number from +/+ mice. The measurement of intracellular calcium concentrations in single cells revealed that the calcium extrusion from -/- neurons was slower than that from +/+ neurons. The involvement of hippocalcin in the upkeep of calcium extrusion was confirmed using hippocalcin-expressing COS7 cells. These results suggest that hippocalcin plays an important role in calcium extrusion from neurons and, in turn, helps to protect them against calcium-dependent excitotoxin damage in the hippocampus.
Hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase is a key enzyme in synthesis of prostaglandin D. Hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase is expressed in microglia of the developing mouse brain. This study determined the serial changes and cellular localization of hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase, and its role in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury using C57BL/6 mice (n=84) and bone marrow chimera mice (n=16). The latter mice were selected based on their expression of enhanced green fluorescent protein in bone marrow/blood-derived monocytes/macrophages. The middle cerebral artery was occluded for 60 min, followed by reperfusion. Hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase expression was examined by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. Hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase-positive cells were mainly expressed in the peri-ischemic area at 12 h (P&lt;0.05) and 24 h (P&lt;0.001) after reperfusion, while they were mostly found in the transition area at 48-72 h postreperfusion (P&lt;0.001). There was a significant increase in staining intensity as well as number of hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase-positive cells in the ischemic core at 5-7 (P&lt;0.001) days postreperfusion. Hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase-positive cells also co-expressed ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1, a marker of microglia/macrophages, and cyclooxygenase-2, but not markers of neurons, oligodendrocytes and astrocytes. Until 72 h postreperfusion, many enhanced green fluorescent protein-positive cells were negative for hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase, but the number of hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase-enhanced green fluorescent protein coexpressing cells increased significantly at 5-7 days after reperfusion. Our results indicate that hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase is mainly produced by endogenous microglia until 72 h after reperfusion, but at 7 days after reperfusion, it is also produced by migrating bone marrow/blood-derived macrophages in the ischemic brain tissue. We speculate that hematopoietic prostaglandin D synthase in the brain has different functions during early and late phases of ischemia.
Over the past years, evidence has accumulated that stem cells are present in the adult brain, and generate neurons and/or glia from two active germinal zones: the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricles and the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. This study shows that acute intermittent nicotine treatment significantly enhances neuronal precursor cell proliferation in the SVZ of adult rat brain, but not in the SGZ of the hippocampus, and pre-treatment with mecamylamine, a nonselective nAChR antagonist, blocks the enhanced precursor proliferation by nicotine. This effect is supported by up-regulation of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) mRNA in the SVZ and the expression of its receptor FGFR-1 in cells of SVZ showing precursor cells profile. It is also demonstrated that the nicotine effect on neuronal precursor proliferation is mediated by FGF-2 via fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR-1) activation by showing that i.c.v. pre-treatment with anti-FGF-2 antibodies or with FGFR-1 inhibitor 3-[(3-(2-carboxyethyl)-4-methylpyrrol-2-yl)methylene]-2-indolinone (SU5402) blocks nicotine-induced precursor cell proliferation. This nicotine enhancement of neuronal precursor cell proliferation was not accompanied by an increase in the number of apoptotic cells. Taken together the present findings revealed the existence in the SVZ of the adult rat brain of a trophic mechanism mediated by FGF-2 and its receptor and regulated by nAchR activation. This possibility of in vivo regulation of neurogenesis in the adult brain by exogenous factors may aid to develop treatments stimulating neurogenesis with potential therapeutic implications.
A long-held assumption states that each dendritic spine in the cerebral cortex forms a synapse, although this issue has not been systematically investigated. We performed complete ultrastructural reconstructions of a large (n=144) population of identified spines in adult mouse neocortex finding that only 3.6% of the spines clearly lacked synapses. Nonsynaptic spines were small and had no clear head, resembling dendritic filopodia, and could represent a source of new synaptic connections in the adult cerebral cortex.
Deletion of transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1)-expressing afferent neurons reduces presynaptic mu opioid receptors but paradoxically potentiates the analgesic efficacy of mu opioid agonists. In this study, we determined if removal of TRPV1-expressing afferent neurons by resiniferatoxin (RTX), an ultrapotent capsaicin analog, influences the development of opioid analgesic tolerance. Morphine tolerance was induced by daily intrathecal injections of 10 microg of morphine for 14 consecutive days or by daily i.p. injections of 10 mg/kg of morphine for 10 days. In vehicle-treated rats, the effect of intrathecal or systemic morphine on the mechanical withdrawal threshold was gradually diminished within 7 days. However, the analgesic effect of intrathecal and systemic morphine was sustained in RTX-treated rats at the time the morphine effect was lost in the vehicle group. Furthermore, the mu opioid receptor-G protein coupling in the spinal cord was significantly decreased ( approximately 22%) in vehicle-treated morphine tolerant rats, but was not significantly altered in RTX-treated rats receiving the same treatment with morphine. Additionally, there was a large reduction in protein kinase Cgamma-immunoreactive afferent terminals in the spinal dorsal horn of RTX-treated rats. These findings suggest that loss of TRPV1-expressing sensory neurons attenuates the development of morphine analgesic tolerance possibly by reducing mu opioid receptor desensitization through protein kinase Cgamma in the spinal cord. These data also suggest that the function of presynaptic mu opioid receptors on TRPV1-expressing sensory neurons is particularly sensitive to down-regulation by mu opioid agonists during opioid tolerance development.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are known to distribute throughout the nervous system and serve important roles in various physiological and pathological processes. However, the properties of ASICs in the hypothalamus, an important region of diencephalon, are little known. We herein used whole-cell patch-clamp recordings to characterize proton-induced cation currents in cultured hypothalamic neurons of the rat, and attributed these transient inward currents to ASICs based on their electrophysiological and pharmacological properties. We further examined the effects of Cu(2+), the third most abundant trace element, on ASICs in hypothalamic neurons. Our results showed that this divalent cation reversibly and concentration-dependently inhibited the amplitude of ASIC currents, and slowed down the desensitization of ASIC channels. Our results also displayed that Cu(2+) modulated ASICs independent of change in membrane potential and extracellular protons, suggesting a noncompetitive mechanism. Furthermore, micromolar concentration of Cu(2+) attenuated the acid-induced membrane depolarization. Taken together, our data demonstrate a modulatory effect of Cu(2+) on ASICs in native hypothalamic neurons and suggest a role of this endogenous metal ion in negatively modulating the increased neuronal membrane excitability caused by activation of ASICs.
Group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are widely distributed in the basal ganglia, especially on the terminals of pathways which seem to be overactive in Parkinson's disease. The aim of the present study was to determine whether (1S,3R,4S)-1-aminocyclo-pentane-1,3,4-tricarboxylic acid (ACPT-1), an agonist of group III mGluRs, injected bilaterally into the globus pallidus (GP), striatum or substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), can attenuate the haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats, and whether that effect was related to modulation of proenkephalin (PENK) or prodynorphin (PDYN) mRNA expression in the striatum. Administration of ACPT-1 (0.05-1.6 microg/0.5 microl/side) caused a dose-and-structure-dependent decrease in the haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg i.p. or 1.5 mg/kg s.c.)-induced catalepsy whose order was as follows: GP&gt;striatum&gt;SNr. ACPT-1, given alone to any of those structures, induced no catalepsy in rats. Haloperidol (3 x 1.5 mg/kg s.c.) significantly increased PENK mRNA expression in the striatum, while PDYN mRNA levels were not affected by that treatment. ACPT-1 (3 x 1.6 microg/0.5 microl/side) injected into the striatum significantly attenuated the haloperidol-increased PENK mRNA expression, whereas administration of that compound into the GP or SNr did not influence the haloperidol-increased striatal PENK mRNA levels. Our results demonstrate that stimulation of group III mGluRs in the striatum, GP or SNr exerts antiparkinsonian-like effects in rats. The anticataleptic effect of intrastriatally injected ACPT-1 seems to correlate with diminished striatal PENK mRNA expression. However, since the anticataleptic effect produced by intrapallidal and intranigral injection of ACPT-1 is not related to a simultaneous decrease in striatal PENK mRNA levels, it is likely that a decrease in enkephalin biosynthesis is not a necessary condition to obtain an antiparkinsonian effect.
Although the hippocampus has been shown to be essential for spatial memory, the contribution of associated brain regions is not well established. Wistar rats were trained to find a hidden escape platform in the water maze during eight days. Following training, the oxidative metabolism in different brain regions was evaluated using cytochrome oxidase histochemistry. Metabolic activations were found in the prelimbic cortex, cornu ammonis (CA) 1 subfield of the dorsal hippocampus and the anterior thalamic nuclei, relative to yoked swim controls and nave rats. In addition, many cross-correlations in brain metabolism were observed among the latter regions. These results support the implication of a hippocampal-prefrontal-thalamic system to spatial memory in rats.
Electrocytes are muscle-derived cells that generate the electric organ discharge (EOD) in most gymnotiform fish. We used an in vitro preparation to determine if the complex EOD of Gymnotus carapo was related to the membrane properties of electrocytes. We discovered that in addition to the three Na(+)-mediated conductances described in a recent paper [Sierra F, Comas V, Buo W, Macadar O (2005) Sodium-dependent plateau potentials in electrocytes of the electric fish Gymnotus carapo. J Comp Physiol A 191:1-11] there were four K(+)-dependent conductances. Membrane depolarization activated a delayed rectifier (I(K)) and an A-type (I(A)) current. I(A) displayed fast voltage-dependent activation-inactivation kinetics, was blocked by 4-aminopyridine (1 mM) and played a major role in action potential (AP) repolarization. Its voltage dependence and kinetics shape the brief AP that typifies Gymnotus electrocytes. The I(K) activated by depolarization contributed less to AP repolarization. Membrane hyperpolarization uncovered two inward rectifiers (IR1 and IR2) with voltage dependence and kinetics that correspond to the complex &quot;hyperpolarizing responses&quot; (HRs) described under current-clamp. IR1 shows &quot;instantaneous&quot; activation, is blocked by Ba(2+) and Cs(+) and displays a voltage and time dependent inactivation that matches the hyperpolarizing phase of the HR. The activation of IR2 is slower and at more negative potentials than IR1 and is resistant to Ba(2+) and Cs(+). This current fits the depolarizing phase of the HR. The EOD waveform of Gymnotus carapo is more complex than that of other gymnotiform fish species, the complexity originates in the voltage responses generated through the interactions of three Na(+) and four K(+) voltage- and time-dependent conductances although the innervation pattern also contributes [Trujillo-Cenz O, Echage JA (1989) Waveform generation of the electric organ discharge in Gymnotus carapo. I. Morphology and innervation of the electric organ. J Comp Physiol A 165:343-351].
Adverse experiences early in life are associated with an increased incidence of later psychopathology including depression. Based on evidence that dysfunction of central monoaminergic systems is involved in the pathophysiology of depression, we hypothesize that early adversity could negatively affect these systems. To test this we have investigated the effects of maternal separation, which has been suggested to model early-life stress and the development of a depression-like syndrome in the rat, on brain monoaminergic systems. Since depression is more common in women and the risk of developing this disorder appears to increase with age, we have studied such effects in middle-aged female rats. Rat pups were separated for 180 min (long maternal separation; LMS) or 15 min (brief maternal separation; BMS, often referred to as neonatal handling) twice daily for 2 weeks postpartum. An animal facility-reared (AFR) group was also included. At 15 months of age tissue levels of monoamines and their metabolites in several different brain regions were analyzed. In the LMS females tissue levels of both 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) were significantly increased in the dorsal raphe nucleus, and 5-HIAA and homovanillic acid levels were also elevated in the nucleus accumbens as compared with AFR and BMS rats. In the cingulate cortex both LMS and BMS decreased noradrenaline (NA) levels, although this effect was more pronounced in the LMS rats. On the other hand, BMS decreased 5-HT, 5-HIAA, dopamine (DA) as well as NA levels in the amygdala and produced an increase in DA levels in response to acute stress in the hypothalamus, an effect not seen in AFR rats. Our results demonstrate that LMS produced persistent alterations in both serotonergic, noradrenergic and dopaminergic systems in brain regions that have been suggested to be implicated in the pathophysiology of depression. In addition, BMS affected brain monoaminergic levels mainly in the amygdala.
The loss of dopamine neurons combined or not with the subsequent administration of L-DOPA in patients with Parkinson's disease or in experimental models of the disease results in altered GABAergic signaling throughout the basal ganglia, including the striatum and the substantia nigra, pars reticulata. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in altered GABA neurotransmission remain poorly understood. In order to be released from synaptic vesicles, newly synthesized GABA is transported from the cytosol into synaptic vesicles by a vesicular GABA transporter. The objective of this study was to examine the hypothesis that expression of the vesicular GABA transporter (vGAT) is altered in the unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine model of Parkinson's disease. Our results provide evidence that a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion results in increased and decreased vGAT mRNA levels in striatopallidal and striatonigral neurons, respectively. These two subsets of neurons were identified by the co-expression or lack of co-expression of preproenkephalin, a marker of striatopallidal neurons, using double-labeling in situ hybridization histochemistry. Such changes occurred in the striatum ipsilateral to the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion and were paralleled by decreased vGAT protein levels in the substantia nigra, pars reticulate (SNr). On the other hand, the subchronic systemic administration of L-DOPA increased vGAT mRNA levels in preproenkephalin-negative neurons on the side ipsilateral and, to a lesser extent, the side contralateral to the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. Systemic L-DOPA also increased vGAT protein levels in the ipsi- and contralateral SNr. As a whole, the results provide original evidence that vGAT expression is altered in the 6-hydroxydopamine model of Parkinson's disease. They also suggest that the behavioral effects induced by a subchronic administration of L-DOPA to 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats involve an increase in the vesicular release of GABA by striatonigral neurons.
The calcium/calmodulin (CaM) kinase cascade regulates gene transcription, which is required for long-term memory formation. Previous studies with Camkk2 null mutant mice have shown that in males calcium/calmodulin kinase kinase beta (CaMKKbeta) is required for spatial memory formation and for activation of the transcription factor cyclic AMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) in the hippocampus by spatial training. Here we show that CaMKKbeta is not required for spatial memory formation in female mice as female Camkk2 null mutants were not impaired in spatial memory formation and they had the same level of hippocampal CREB phosphorylation after spatial training as female wild-type mice. Furthermore, we show that male but not female Camkk2 null mutants were impaired in long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal CA1 synapses. Finally, a transcriptional analysis of male Camkk2 null mutants led to the identification of a gene, glycosyl phosphatidyl-inositol anchor attachment protein 1 (GAA1), whose hippocampal mRNA expression was up-regulated by spatial and contextual training in male but not in female wild-type mice. Taken together, we conclude that CaMKKbeta has a male-specific function in hippocampal memory formation and we have identified male-restricted transcription occurring during hippocampal memory formation.

Although there is much behavioral evidence for complex brain functions in insects, it is not known whether insects have selective attention. In humans, selective attention is a dynamic process restricting perception to a succession of salient stimuli, while less relevant competing stimuli are suppressed. Local field potential recordings in the brains of flies responding to visual novelty revealed attention-like processes with stereotypical temporal properties. These processes were modulated by genes involved in short-term memory formation, namely dunce and rutabaga. Attention defects in these mutants were associated with distinct optomotor effects in behavioral assays.
Within recent years, the advances in proteomics techniques have resulted in considerable novel insights into the protein expression patterns of specific tissues, cells, and organelles. The information acquired from large-scale proteomics approaches indicated, however, that the proteomic analysis of whole cells or tissues is often not suited to fully unravel the proteomes of individual organellar constituents or to identify proteins that are present at low copy numbers. In addition, the identification of hydrophobic proteins is still a challenge. Therefore, the development of techniques applicable for the enrichment of low-abundance membrane proteins is essential for a comprehensive proteomic analysis. In addition to the enrichment of particular subcellular structures by subcellular fractionation, the spectrum of techniques applicable for proteomics research can be extended toward the separation of integral and peripheral membrane proteins using organic solvents, detergents, and detergent-based aqueous two-phase systems with water-soluble polymers. Here, we discuss the efficacy of a number of experimental protocols. We demonstrate that the appropriate selection of physicochemical conditions results in the isolation of synaptic vesicles of high purity whose proteome can be subfractionated into integral membrane proteins and soluble proteins by several phase separation techniques.

Connexins (Cxs) 40, 43, and 45 are expressed in many different tissues, but most abundantly in the heart, blood vessels, and the nervous system. We examined formation and gating properties of heterotypic gap junction (GJ) channels assembled between cells expressing wild-type Cx40, Cx43, or Cx45 and their fusion forms tagged with color variants of green fluorescent protein. We show that these Cxs, with exception of Cxs 40 and 43, are compatible to form functional heterotypic GJ channels. Cx40 and Cx43 hemichannels are unable or effectively impaired in their ability to dock and/or assemble into junctional plaques. When cells expressing Cx45 contacted those expressing Cx40 or Cx43 they readily formed junctional plaques with cell-cell coupling characterized by asymmetric junctional conductance dependence on transjunctional voltage, V(j). Cx40/Cx45 heterotypic GJ channels preferentially exhibit V(j)-dependent gating transitions between open and residual states with a conductance of approximately 42 pS; transitions between fully open and closed states with conductance of approximately 52 pS in magnitude occur at substantially lower ( approximately 10-fold) frequency. Cx40/Cx45 junctions demonstrate electrical signal transfer asymmetry that can be modulated between unidirectional and bidirectional by small changes in the difference between holding potentials of the coupled cells. Furthermore, both fast and slow gating mechanisms of Cx40 exhibit a negative gating polarity.
Purkinje and cerebellar nuclear neurons both have Na currents with resurgent kinetics. Previous observations, however, suggest that their Na channels differ in their susceptibility to entering long-lived inactivated states. To compare fast inactivation, slow inactivation, and open-channel block, we recorded voltage-clamped, tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na currents in Purkinje and nuclear neurons acutely isolated from mouse cerebellum. In nuclear neurons, recovery from all inactivated states was slower, and open-channel unblock was less voltage-dependent than in Purkinje cells. To test whether specific subunits contributed to this differential stability of inactivation, experiments were repeated in Na(V)1.6-null (med) mice. In med Purkinje cells, recovery times were prolonged and the voltage dependence of open-channel block was reduced relative to control cells, suggesting that availability of Na(V)1.6 is quickly restored at negative potentials. In med nuclear cells, however, currents were unchanged, suggesting that Na(V)1.6 contributes little to wild-type nuclear cells. Extracellular Na(+) prevented slow inactivation more effectively in Purkinje than in nuclear neurons, consistent with a resilience of Na(V)1.6 to slow inactivation. The tendency of nuclear Na channels to inactivate produced a low availability during trains of spike-like depolarization. Hyperpolarizations that approximated synaptic inhibition effectively recovered channels, suggesting that increases in Na channel availability promote rebound firing after inhibition.
Developmental malformations of cortex have been shown to co-occur with language, learning, and other cognitive deficits in humans. Rodent models have repeatedly shown that animals with such developmental malformations have deficits related to auditory processing and learning. More specifically, freeze-lesion induced microgyria as well as molecular layer ectopias have been found to impair rapid auditory processing ability in rats and mice. In humans, deficits in rapid auditory processing appear to relate to later impairments of language. Recently, genetic variants of four different genes involved in early brain development have been proposed to associate with an elevated incidence of developmental dyslexia in humans. Three of these, DYX1C1, DCDC2, and KIAA0319, have been shown by in utero RNAi to play a role in neuronal migration in developing neocortex. The present study assessed the effects of in utero RNAi of Dyx1c1 on auditory processing and spatial learning in rats. Results indicate that RNAi of Dyx1c1 is associated with cortical heterotopia and is suggestive of an overall processing deficit of complex auditory stimuli in both juvenile and adult periods (p=.051, one-tail). In contrast, adult data alone reveal a significant processing impairment among RNAi treated subjects compared to shams, indicating an inability for RNAi treated subjects to improve detection of complex auditory stimuli over time (p=.022, one-tail). Further, a subset of RNAi treated rats exhibited hippocampal heterotopia centered in CA1 (in addition to cortical malformations). Malformations of hippocampus were associated with robust spatial learning impairment in this sub-group (p&lt;.01, two-tail). In conclusion, in utero RNAi of Dyx1c1 results in heterogeneous malformations that correspond to distinct behavioral impairments in auditory processing, and spatial learning.
Spinal cord degenerative pathologies in humans cause extensive disability and require a broad range of specialist and palliative medical interventions. In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), motor cell loss leads to extensive paralysis and to death from respiratory failure in 3-5 years form disease onset. A wide range of molecular changes forms the basis of spinal cord involvement in ALS, including the reactivation of molecular pathways with potentially neurorestorative properties. Central to this tissue repair mechanism is the differential regulation of components of the retinoid signaling (ReS), a molecular pathway encompassing a variety of proteins functioning as transporters, signaling factors and metabolizing enzymes for retinoic acid. In this paper, we review the strong body of experimental evidence supporting retinoid signaling's primary role in spinal cord embryonic differentiation and its likely survival-promoting function in ALS. We discuss the potential involvement in ALS pathogenesis of a subgroup of nuclear receptors (NRs) that act as functional partners of retinoid receptors in human spinal cord. We also provide a review of the expression profile of 25 ReS and NRs genes in human adult spinal cord and in motor neurons of healthy and ALS individuals, using data retrieved from independent datasets obtained through serial analysis of gene expression and array investigations. Based on published expression data, we outline a tentative expression profile of ReS and functionally synergic NR genes in human spinal cord that could guide further experiments to clarify the role of these molecules in mature nervous tissue and suggest potential treatment strategies that could have therapeutic potentials in ALS.
In C. elegans, insulin signaling affects development, lifespan and stress resistance. Several studies have shown that insulin signaling affects lifespan in an endocrine-like manner from different cells, while the major downstream target of insulin, the FOXO transcription factor encoded by daf-16, may act preferentially in intestinal cells to prolong lifespan. This discrepancy raised the possibility that insulin may have both endocrine and cell-intrinsic outputs. Here, we further investigated the types of cells capable of producing endocrine outputs of insulin and also identified a new cell-intrinsic insulin output. We found that insulin signaling within groups of neurons promoted wildtype lifespan, showing that the endocrine outputs of insulin were not restricted to specific cells. In contrast, DAF-16 appeared to have a greater effect on lifespan when expressed in a combination of tissues. These results suggest that insulin signaling may regulate DAF-16 through cell-intrinsic and endocrine pathways. We also found that an insulin-dependent response to fasting in intestinal cells was preferentially regulated by intestinal insulin signaling and was less responsive to insulin signaling from non-intestinal cells. Together, these results show that C. elegans insulin signaling has endocrine as well as tissue-specific outputs which could influence lifespan in a combinatorial fashion.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is an X-linked neurodevelopmental disorder linked to heterozygous de novo mutations in the MECP2 gene. MECP2 encodes methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2), which represses gene transcription by binding to 5-methylcytosine residues in symmetrically positioned CpG dinucleotides. Direct MeCP2 targets underlying RTT pathogenesis remain largely unknown. Here, we report that FXYD1, which encodes a transmembrane modulator of Na(+), K(+) -ATPase activity, is elevated in frontal cortex (FC) neurons of RTT patients and Mecp2-null mice. Increasing neuronal FXDY1 expression is sufficient to reduce dendritic arborization and spine formation, hallmarks of RTT neuropathology. Mecp2-null mouse cortical neurons have diminished Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity, suggesting that aberrant FXYD1 expression contributes to abnormal neuronal activity in RTT. MeCP2 represses Fxyd1 transcription through direct interactions with sequences in the Fxyd1 promoter that are methylated in FC neurons. FXYD1 is therefore a MeCP2 target gene whose de-repression may directly contribute to RTT neuronal pathogenesis.
During oogenesis in Drosophila an organelle called the fusome plays a crucial role in germline cyst development and oocyte selection. The fusome consists of cytoskeletal proteins and intracellular membranes and, whereas many cytoskeletal components have been characterized, the nature and function of the membrane component is poorly understood. I have found the reticulon-like 1 (Rtnl1) protein, a membrane protein resident in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), to be highly enriched in the fusome. In other Drosophila tissues Rtnl1 marks a subset of ER membranes often derived from smooth ER. During oogenesis, Rtnl1-containing membranes are recruited to the fusome by the cytoskeletal components and become concentrated into the forming oocyte. On the central part of the fusome, which is contained within the future oocyte and also at later stages in the growing oocyte and the nurse cells, Rtnl1-containing membranes colocalize with components of ribonucleoprotein complexes that store translationally repressed mRNAs. As the ER is actively transported into the oocyte, this colocalization suggests a role for the Rtnl1-containing subdomain in anchoring the ribonucleoprotein complexes within and/or transporting them into the oocyte.
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD-2) has separated sleep-related movement disorders into simple, repetitive movement disorders (such as periodic limb movements in sleep [PLMS], sleep bruxism, and rhythmic movement disorder) and parasomnias (such as REM sleep behavior disorder and disorders of partial arousal, e.g., sleep walking, confusional arousals, night terrors). Many of the parasomnias are characterized by complex behaviors in sleep that appear purposeful, goal directed and voluntary but are outside the conscious awareness of the individual and therefore inappropriate. All of the sleep-related movement disorders described here have specific polysomnographic findings. For the purposes of developing and/or revising specifications and polysomnographic scoring rules, the AASM Scoring Manual Task Force on Movements in Sleep reviewed background literature and executed evidence grading of 81 relevant articles obtained by a literature search of published articles between 1966 and 2004. Subsequent evidence grading identified limited evidence for reliability and/or validity for polysomnographic scoring criteria for periodic limb movements in sleep, REM sleep behavior disorder, and sleep bruxism. Published scoring criteria for rhythmic movement disorder, excessive fragmentary myoclonus, and hypnagogic foot tremor/alternating leg muscle activation were empirical and based on descriptive studies. The literature review disclosed no published evidence defining clinical consequences of excessive fragmentary myoclonus or hypnagogic foot tremor/alternating leg muscle activation. Because of limited or absent evidence for reliability and/or validity, a standardized RAND/UCLA consensus process was employed for recommendation of specific rules for the scoring of sleep-associated movements.

In the present study, serotonin 2C (5-HT(2C)) receptor binding parameters in the brainstem and cerebral cortex were investigated during liver generation after partial hepatectomy (PH) and N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) induced hepatic neoplasia in male Wistar rats. The serotonin content increased significantly (p&lt;0.01) in the cerebral cortex after PH and in NDEA induced hepatic neoplasia. Brain stem serotonin content increased significantly (p&lt;0.05) after PH and (p&lt;0.001) in NDEA induced hepatic neoplasia. The number and affinity of the 5-HT(2C) receptors in the crude synaptic membrane preparations of the brain stem showed a significant (p&lt;0.001) increase after PH and in NDEA induced hepatic neoplasia. The number and affinity of 5-HT(2C) receptors increased significantly (p&lt;0.001) in NDEA induced hepatic neoplasia in the crude synaptic membrane preparations of the cerebral cortex. There was a significant (p&lt;0.01) increase in plasma norepinephrine in PH and (p&lt;0.001) in NDEA induced hepatic neoplasia, indicating sympathetic stimulation. Thus, our results suggest that during active hepatocyte proliferation 5-HT(2C) receptor in the brain stem and cerebral cortex are up-regulated which in turn induce hepatocyte proliferation mediated through sympathetic stimulation.
We report the case of a Japanese family with hereditary ataxia with peripheral neuropathy. Three affected siblings from this family exhibited very similar clinical features: teenage-onset, slowly progressive ataxia, followed by distal weakness, which developed after the age of 30 years. Magnetic resonance imaging studies showed marked atrophy in the cerebellar hemisphere and vermis, and a sural nerve biopsy revealed a marked reduction in the number of both myelinated and unmyelinated fibers. All patients exhibited hyperglutamatemia, but serum levels of albumin and lipid were normal. The clinicopathological and biochemical features of these cases suggest that they form a distinct entity of autosomal recessive hereditary ataxia with peripheral neuropathy.

Fluorescence-based PCR techniques are becoming an increasingly popular method for measuring low-abundance alternatively spliced mRNA transcripts. The dynamic range of real-time RT-PCR affords high sensitivity for the measurement of gene expression, but this mandates the need for strict controls to ensure assay validity. Primer design, reverse transcription, and cycling conditions need to be optimized to ensure an accurate and reproducible assay. Here, we describe a procedure for creating a cost effective and reliable method for the absolute quantification of several exon-skipping variants of human excitatory amino acid transporter-2 (EAAT2). We show that the cycling conditions can be adjusted to increase the specificity of primers that span exon-exon junctions, and that differences in the reverse transcription reaction can be minimized. Standard curves are stable and produce accurate absolute copy number data. We report that exon-skipping transcripts, EAAT2Delta7 and EAAT2Delta9, account for 5.8% of EAAT2 mRNA in autopsy human neocortex.
In research on human motor skills, it is often desirable to manipulate proprioceptive feedback in order to determine its contribution towards subjects' performance. Here we evaluate an easy-to-use, non-invasive method to temporarily reduce proprioceptive responsiveness. Two physiotherapy vibrators contacted the distal end of the subjects' forearm on the flexor and extensor side; they were either turned off, or they vibrated at 80 Hz with an amplitude of 1mm. We found that vibration substantially impaired subjects' ability to use their hand in an angle matching, a force production and a haptic shape perception task. We also found that vibration strongly attenuated the H-reflex of the ipsilateral M. flexor carpi radialis. These results suggest that agonist-antagonist vibration is a useful method to degrade proprioceptive responsiveness for research on higher motor functions.
High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) is widely used to determine neurotransmitter concentrations in the central nervous system (CNS). Finding the optimal methods to sample from CNS tissue poses a challenge for neuroscientists. Here, we describe a method that allows assay of neurotransmitters (or other chemicals) in small regions (down to 180mum in diameter) in in vitro preparations concurrently with electrophysiological recordings. The efficiency for measuring small amounts of chemicals is enhanced by a sample collecting pipette with filter paper at the tip that makes close contact with the target region in CNS tissue. With a wire plunger in the calibrated pipette controlled by a microsyringe pump, there is virtually no dead volume. Samples in a volume of 10muL (taken, e.g., at 2muL/min over 5min) can be injected into a HPLC machine with microbore columns. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this method by measuring acetylcholine (ACh) in the ventral horn and its surrounding areas of the spinal cord in en bloc brainstem-spinal cord preparations. In control conditions, endogenous ACh levels in these regions were detectable. Application of neostigmine (an inhibitor of acetylcholinesterases (AChEs)) increased ACh concentrations, and at the same time, induced tonic/seizure-like activity in efferent motor output recorded from cervical ventral nerve roots. Higher ACh concentrations in the ventral horn were differentiated from nearby regions: the lateral and midline aspects of the ventral spinal cord. In addition, ACh in the preBtzinger Complex (preBtC) and the hypoglossal nucleus in medullary slice preparations can also be measured. Our results indicate that the method proposed in this study can be used to measure neurotransmitters in small and localized CNS regions. Correlation between changes in neurotransmitters in target regions and the neuronal activities can be revealed in vitro. Our data also suggest that there is endogenous ACh release in spinal ventral motor columns at fourth cervical (C4) level that regulates the respiratory-related motor activity.
