


























Kllner's discovery of binasal hemianopia as an early stage in binocular color rivalry is extended to the study of the subsequent suppression of the color seen by an eye. The Kllner effect is one of the five two-color configurations that occur initially, and through which total suppression develops by the visible expansion of one of the colors. However, suppression sometimes occurs without a two-color phase.
Under conditions of ocular rivalry, changes in the rhythmic brain response to flicker stimulation of one eye correspond closely to the subject's report of changes in the perceptual dominance of that eye.
Two electronic neuron models (neuromimes) connected to a common excitatory input and having both self- and mutual-inhibition were used to simulate the pulse patterns which control wing musculature in certain insects. With variation of stimulus frequency, firing patterns changed in discrete steps. Pattern change was found to be hysteretic: the pattern elicited by a given stimulus frequency depended on whether that frequency was approached from above or below. Pattern selection could be controlled by the injection or deletion of a single pulse in the stimulus pulse-train as well as by smooth frequency change.





















Membrane potentials have been recorded from the guinea-pig isolated vas deferens with intracellular and sucrose-gap electrodes during stimulation of the hypogastric nerve and of intramural nerve fibres. Atropine had no detectable effect on the excitatory junction potentials in response to nerve stimulation or on the spontaneous discharge of small potentials. High concentrations of adrenolytic drugs, acting on alpha-receptors were needed to block the response to nerve stimulation and the spontaneous discharge. During the onset and recovery from yohimbine blockade, junction potentials in response to repetitive stimulation were not sustained. Bretylium initially reduced both the junction potentials and the spontaneous discharge. However, after 30 min exposure, the spontaneous discharge increased in frequency although the response to nerve stimulation was abolished. Block of the junction potentials by procaine was rapid in onset compared with that by bretylium and guanethidine, but the spontaneous discharge was not abolished. These results are discussed in relation to the mechanism of transmission from sympathetic nerve to smooth muscle.
A comparison of the effects of several quaternary ammonium ions has been made on the intracellularly recorded endplate potential of curarized frog muscle. The hydroxyanilinium ions usually caused an increase in endplate potential amplitude, a slowing of rate of rise and marked prolongation, but rarely caused spike generation. Contrariwise, tetraethylammonium and triethylphenylammonium consistently caused an increase in both amplitude and rate of rise of the endplate potential but no prolongation; these endplate potentials generated muscle spikes. The results suggest a relationship between rate of rise of the endplate potential and the probability of spike generation. Using the neurally evoked contractile response as a signal of transmitter action, the hydroxyanilinium ions were found to be relatively weak antagonists of tubocurarine at deep levels of curarization, indicating a ceiling effect. There was also a ceiling to the effect of hydroxyaniliniums on endplate potential amplitude. Thus, in the presence of high concentrations of tubocurarine, tetraethylammonium is a more potent anticurare agent than is triethyl(3-hydroxyphenyl) ammonium.
Ethyldimethyl(7-methylcoumaran-3-yl)ammonium iodide (SK&amp;F 90,109) and its guanidine analogue [N-(7-methylcoumaran-3-yl)guanidine nitrate] (SK&amp;F 90,238) abolish the effects of adrenergic nerve stimulation in cats, as do xylocholine and bretylium. SK&amp;F 90,109 has slight sympathomimetic actions; these are less marked than in SK&amp;F 90,238. Large doses of SK&amp;F 90,109 have an action, dependent on local noradrenaline stores, that delays the appearance of adrenergic-neurone blockade in conscious cats. Responses to adrenaline are, in general, enhanced by each drug, but SK&amp;F 90,238 transiently antagonizes tachycardia induced by adrenaline and isoprenaline. Both drugs inhibit the release of noradrenaline from the spleen during splenic nerve stimulation, but the release of catechol amines from the adrenal glands, in response to electrical or chemical stimulation, is unimpaired. In contrast to the prolonged adrenergic-neurone blocking action, any inhibition of the effects of cholinergic nerve stimulation is transient. Large intravenous doses produce neuromuscular blockade. The compounds have a slight central depressant action. In contrast to reserpine and guanethidine the noradrenaline content of rat hearts is not appreciably lowered 24 hr after a single dose of either drug. Unlike xylocholine they are not local anaesthetics. Related compounds also block the effects of adrenergic-nerve stimulation. The possible modes of action of these drugs are discussed.


















































Two factors involved in the adaptation in stretch receptor cells of crayfish were separated and studied: (i) the decline of the rate of discharge during intracellular application of constant current and (ii) the decline of generator potential during sustained stretch. The change in generator potential with time was essentially identical in both rapidly and slowly adapting cells. The slowly adapting cells continued to discharge throughout the application of depolarizing currents, whereas the rapidly adapting cells stopped discharging while the current was applied. The different rates of adaptation are therefore attributable to the difference in the properties of the electrically excitable membranes rather than the properties which produce generator potentials.















Subcellular fractions of mouse brain were prepared by differential and sucrose density-gradient centrifugation at intervals up to 130 hours after intracerebral injection of C(14)- labeled leucine. The specific activity of the nerve ending fraction continued to rise during this period. Between 2 and 130 hours after injection there was a fivefold rise in the specific activity of the soluble protein prepared by lysing the nerve ending particles with water while the specific activity of the soluble protein from the whole homogenate concomitantly fell almost by a factor of three. The data are interpreted as being consistent with the appearance of protein in nerve endings by axoplasmic flow.
The intravenous infusion of 600 milligrams of glucose over 30 minutes caused a 17 percent fall in the concentration of free fatty acids in arterial blood of subjects who had fasted overnight. This response to glucose was abolished in subjects treated previously with ganglionic or adrenergic blocking agents. Small amounts of insulin were secreted in response to these glucose infusions, but in insulin-dependent diabetics incapable of altering plasma insulin to any great extent, the effect of glucose upon free fatty acids could be obtained provided the subjects were primed with long-acting insulin before the infusions were begun. The response of free fatty acids to doses of glucose which elevated the concentration of glucose in arterial blood by only 3 mg percent and the blockade of this response by autonomic and adrenergic blocking agents suggest that centers in the central nervous system exist which are capable of responding to elevations of arterial glucose by inhibiting the sympathetic tone partially responsible for sustaining lipolysis in fasting.










It was observed that a reduction of the sodium chloride concentration in the external solution bathing a squid giant axon by replacement with sucrose resulted in marked decreases in the peak inward and steady-state outward currents through the axon membrane following a step decrease in membrane potential. These effects are quantitatively acounted for by the increase in series resistance resulting from the decreased conductivity of the sea water and the assumption that the sodium current obeys a relation of the form I = k(1)C(1) - k(2)C(2) where C(1), C(2) are internal and external ion activities and k(1), k(2) are independent of concentration. It is concluded that the potassium ion current is independent of the sodium concentration. That the inward current is carried by sodium ions has been confirmed. The electrical potential (or barrier height) profile in the membrane which drives sodium ions appears to be independent of sodium ion concentration or current. A specific effect of the sucrose on hyperpolarizing currents was observed and noted but not investigated in detail.



































It is suggested that DDT and perhaps other chlorinated hydrocarbon insecticides owe their activity to the formation of a charge-transfer complex with a component of the nerve axon, with consequent disturbance of function. Experimental evidence is provided for the formation of two complexes with components of cockroach nerve; the complexes have been partially purified. Their formation is accompanied by an absorption in the 245- to 270-millimicron range.































































































Action potentials of single frog nerve fibers were recorded with the air-gap method in &quot;low Ca&quot; (0.26 mM) and &quot;high Ca&quot; (4.2 mM) solutions and compared to spikes in normal Ringer's (1.05 mM Ca). On increasing (Ca)(o) the action potentials became shorter, the &quot;knee&quot; during the falling phase as well as the threshold for abolition moved to internal potentials more positive, and the spike recovery during the relative refractory period was faster. Outward current pulses applied during an action potential affected its configuration more in low Ca than in high Ca. The onset of the delayed rectification (in the absence of Na) was found faster in high Ga. After-potentials during anelectrotonus declined more rapidly in high Ca than in low Ca. The results are compared primarily with the voltage-clamp analysis of Ca effects on squid axons and satisfactory qualitative agreement is reached.
























By means of a simultaneous coupling azo dye technique, alkaline phosphatase at the node of Ranvier and the incisures of Schmidt-Lanterman has been identified. The presence of this enzyme at these sites may be of metabolic significance












A sensitive and specific gas chromatographic technique for estimating concentrations of the anesthetic adjuvants, gamma-butyrolactone and gamma-hydroxybutyrate, in tissues has been developed. These substances do not appear to occur endogenously in either the blood or the brain of common laboratory animals. The onset and duration of anesthesia caused by the administration of either compound is correlated with the concentration of gamma-hydroxybutyrate in the brain, rather than with that of the corresponding lactone.























Potentials recorded from the surface of the superior cervical ganglion of cats after an intra-arterial injection of acetylcholine were characterized by a complex waveform which depended on the amount of drug administered. Small doses of acetylcholine evoked a potential consisting of low amplitude hyperpolarization followed by low amplitude depolarization. Somewhat larger doses of acetylcholine caused a triphasic potential containing an initial period of depolarization in addition to the periods of hyperpolarization and delayed depolarization. Still larger doses of acetylcholine produced usually a monophasic wave of depolarization. Small doses of atropine prolonged the initial period of depolarization and prevented the hyperpolarization and delayed depolarization. Hexamethonium reduced or abolished the initial depolarization and enhanced or unmasked the hyperpolarization. The block of transmission occurring during the falling phase of the initial depolarization or during the hyperpolarization was antagonized by atropine. Unlike acetylcholine, tetramethylammonium produced only a prolonged ganglion depolarization which was unaffected by atropine and blocked by hexamethonium. The block of transmission by tetramethylammonium was partially prevented by atropine. These findings support the proposals that three pharmacologically distinctive cholinoceptive sites are present in sympathetic ganglia and, further, that activation of a cholinoceptive site sensitive to atropine may be involved in the block of transmission produced by acetylcholine and related drugs.


















































Theoretical net ionic movements have been calculated for the propagated impulse of the squid axon from the Hodgkin-Huxley equations. The computed potassium movements agree approximately with the experimental data of Shanes, but vary too much with temperature (Q(10) = 1/2.75 from computation, 1/1.91 from experiment). Theoretical corrections providing higher ionic conductances increasing with temperature (according to J. W. Moore's experiments) give a Q(10) of 1/2.24, but the incorporation of the higher values of the maximum conductances, as observed under improved environmental conditions, leads to potassium movements that are considerably higher than Shanes's values.












































































The binding of serotonin to nerve-ending particles and other preparations from rat brain has been examined. By investigating the amount bound as a function of serotonin concentration from 10(-7)M to 1O(-2)M, it was possible to identify three major components having K(assoc) (association constant) values of 2 x 10(6), 5 x 10(4), and 5 x 10(2). The component having the highest binding constant was not present in liver and appeared to be confined to the cortex and midbrain regions. This component is inhibited by d-lysergic acid diethylamide at low concentrations. Solubilization of this binding component has been achieved.




























































Two mutant mice with deficient myelination are described. Quaking is a new autosomal recessive mutant mouse with marked tremor of the hindquarters. The mice eat, swim, breed, and nurse well even though the entire central nervous system is very deficient in myelin by histological and chemical criteria. Myelin formation is impaired; no destruction is seen. Peripheral nerves are myelinated. Jimpy, a known sex-linked mutation, has similar but more severe symptoms and similar pathology, with the additional feature of sudanophilic (nonpolar) lipid distributed in some white-matter tracts. Both mutants offer new opportunities for study of the formation and functions of myelin.













Activation of a frog stomach muscle preparation by electrical stimulation of a vagus nerve or by direct stimulation released two polypeptides. One was destroyed by trypsin or chymotrypsin in about 10 min; the activity of the other was enhanced by trypsin for about 10 min, but was destroyed by chymotrypsin. Similar stimulation of dog stomach muscle did not release these polypeptides. Correspondingly, the transmission from vagus nerve to stomach muscle in the frog was resistant to atropine, but was blocked by atropine in the dog.













Supraoptic nuclei in the hypothalamus of rats were fixed for the electron microscope by vascular perfusion with solutions of glutaraldehyde followed by post fixation with osmium tetroxide. Cytochemical methods for detection of acid phosphatase and thiamine pyrophosphatase activity have been applied to glutaraldehyde-fixed frozen sections containing the neurosecretory cells. The enzyme activities have been localized to certain Golgi cisternae. Acid phosphatase activity is present in the large (0.4 micro to 1.0 micro) granules or dense bodies which are surrounded by a single limiting membrane; both features characterize these structures as lysosomes. Smaller (0.1 micro) granules also present in the perikarya are generally unreactive towards enzyme activity and resemble in form the neurosecretory granules in the neurohypophysis.






















































































































































































































































































































Spectral analysis is a mathematical method which contains and generalizes frequency analysis. The form of spectral analysis most applicable to EEG is tutorially presented, using both algebraic formulae and four simplified illustrative examples. The examples are each converted into an autocorrelogram and auto-spectrogram, functions whose graphic presentation clarifies the structure of each example, partly by emphasizing regular at the expense of irregular components, partly by analyzing the intensity of regular activity into components at each frequency. Then the formulae for cross-correlograms and cross-spectrograms are presented, and illustrated by converting pairs of examples into functions which clarify their interrelationships. Not only are the advantages of auto-spectrograms retained by cross-spectrograms, but they also emphasize activity shared between two traces, and include the mean phase angle relating such shared activity, at each frequency. The coherence function and transfer function, calculated next, are the analogs of correlation coefficient and regression coefficient. The coherence function is applied not only to calculate the &quot;quantity of interdependence&quot; between pairs of illustrative examples, but also to supply probable bounds on the other calculated relationships. Finally, discussion of the assumptions underlying spectral analysis prepares the method for application to actual EEG, given in preceding papers.












































































































































The construction and behavior of a system exhibiting all-or-nothing propagation of an electrochemical disturbance are described. Detailed measurements of the distribution of electric current and potential are given and the device is compared with nerve and with the Lillie model in respect to structure, electrical and chemical activity, and energy relationships.




