Difficult defecation is a common and perhaps underrecognized cause of chronic constipation. While the history and a careful digital rectal examination are very useful for diagnosing defecatory disorders, the diagnosis needs to be confirmed by anorectal tests. Anorectal manometry and a rectal balloon expulsion test generally suffice to diagnose defecatory disorders; barium or MR defecography may necessary in selected cases. Colonic transit is normal or slow in patients with defecatory disorders. Pelvic floor retraining by biofeedback therapy is superior to laxatives for managing defecatory disorders.
Stress has long lasting effects on physiology, development, behavior, reproductive success and the survival of an individual. These effects are mediated by glucocorticoids, such as corticosterone, via glucocorticoid receptors (GR), however the exact mechanisms underlying these effects are unknown. GR have been widely studied in mammals but little is known about GR in other vertebrate groups, especially songbirds. We investigated the distribution, quantity, and subcellular-localization of GR-immunoreactive (GRir) neurons in the brains of male zebra finches on P10 (post-hatch day 10, song nuclei formed), and in adulthood (post-hatch day 90 or older) using immunohistochemistry. GRir neurons were widely distributed in the brains of male zebra finches including two song nuclei HVC (acronym is a proper name) and RA (nucleus robustus arcopallii) and brain regions including HP (hippocampal formation), BSTl (lateral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis), POM (nucleus preopticus medialis), PVN (nucleus paraventricularis magnocellularis), TeO (optic tectum), S (nucleus of the solitary tract), LoC (Locus coeruleus). Distribution did not vary at the two age points examined, however there were significant differences in staining intensity. Subcellular GR-immunoreactivity patterns were classified as cytoplasmic, nuclear, or both (cytoplasmic and nuclear) and there were significant differences in the overall number of GRir neurons and neurons with both nuclear and cytoplasmic staining in P10 and adult brains. However, there were no significant differences in the percentage of subcellular GR immunoreactivity patterns between P10 and adults. Our study of GRir neuronal distribution in the zebra finch brain may contribute towards understanding of the complex and adverse effects of stress on brain during two different stages of life history.
Nolz-1/Zfp503, a zinc finger-containing gene, is a mammalian member of the SP1-related nocA/elb/tlp-1 gene family. Previous studies have shown that Nolz-1 homologs are important for patterning the rhombomeres in zebrafish hindbrain. We therefore studied the expression pattern of Nolz-1 in the developing mouse hindbrain. Nolz-1 mRNA expression was detected in the prospective rhombomere 3, 5 and caudal regions as early as E8.75. After E11.5, Nolz-1-positive cells were organized as distinct cell clusters, and they were largely non-overlapped with either Pax2-positive or Phox2b-positive domains. Most interestingly, we found that Nolz-1 was specifically expressed by Phox2b-negative/Isl1/2-positive somatic motor neurons, but not by Phox2b-positive/Isl1/2-positive branchial and visceral motor neurons, suggesting that Nolz-1 may regulate development of somatic motor neurons in the hindbrain. In addition to be expressed in differentiating post-mitotic neurons, Nolz-1 was also expressed by progenitor cells in the ventricular zone located in the dorsal part of aqueduct and the alar plates of hindbrain, which suggests a regulatory role of Nolz-1 in the germinal zone. Taken together, based on its domain- and cell type-selective pattern, Nolz-1 may involve in regulation of various developmental processes, including regional patterning and cell-type specification and differentiation in the developing mouse hindbrain.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated gene replacement for lysosomal disorders have been spurred by the ability of some serotypes to efficiently transduce neurons in the brain and by the ability of lysosomal enzymes to cross-correct among cells. Here, we explored enzyme replacement therapy in a knock-out mouse model of congenital neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL), the most severe of the NCLs in humans. The missing protease in this disorder, cathepsin D (CathD) has high levels in the central nervous system. This enzyme has the potential advantage for assessing experimental therapy in that it can be imaged using a near-infrared fluorescence (NIRF) probe activated by CathD. Injections of an AAV2/rh8 vector-encoding mouse CathD (mCathD) into both cerebral ventricles and peritoneum of newborn knock-out mice resulted in a significant increase in lifespan. Successful delivery of active CathD by the AAV2/rh8-mCathD vector was verified by NIRF imaging of mouse embryonic fibroblasts from knock-out mice in culture, as well as by ex vivo NIRF imaging of the brain and liver after gene transfer. These studies support the potential effectiveness and imaging evaluation of enzyme replacement therapy to the brain and other organs in CathD null mice via AAV-mediated gene delivery in neonatal animals.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) provide new therapeutic targets for many diseases, while their myriad roles in development and cellular processes make them fascinating to study. We still do not fully understand the molecular mechanisms by which miRNAs regulate gene expression nor do we know the complete repertoire of mRNAs each miRNA regulates. However, recent progress in the development of effective strategies to block miRNAs suggests that anti-miRNA drugs may soon be used in the clinic.
NG2-expressing cells comprise a population of cycling precursors that can exit the cell cycle and differentiate into mature oligodendrocytes. As a whole, they display heterogeneous properties and behaviors that remain unresolved at the molecular level, although partly interpretable as distinct maturation stages. To address this issue, we analyzed the expression of the GPR17 receptor, recently shown to decorate NG2-expressing cells and to operate as an early sensor of brain damage, in immature and adult oligodendrocyte progenitors in the intact brain and after injury. In both the early postnatal and adult cerebral cortex, distinct GPR17 protein localizations and expression levels define different stages of oligodendroglial maturation, ranging from the precursor phase to the premyelinating phenotype. As soon as cells exit mitosis, a fraction of NG2-expressing cells displays accumulation of GPR17 protein in the Golgi apparatus. GPR17 expression is subsequently upregulated and distributed to processes of cells that stop dividing, progressively lose NG2 positivity and assume premyelinating features. Absence of colabeling with mature markers or myelin proteins indicates that GPR17 is downregulated when cells complete their final maturation. BrdU-based fate-mapping demonstrated that a significant fraction of newly generated oligodendrocyte progenitors transiently upregulates GPR17 during maturation. Importantly, we also found that GPR17 does not participate to the early reaction of NG2-expressing cells to damage, while it is induced at postacute stages after injury. These findings identify GPR17 as a marker for progenitor progression within the oligodendroglial lineage and highlight its participation to postacute reactivity of NG2 cells in different injury paradigms.
Microglia have highly branched and motile cell processes and constantly screen the brain parenchyma under physiological conditions. In response to pathological stimuli, microglia exhibit morphological changes and migrate toward the lesioned site, where they play important roles in inflammatory reactions and neuronal damage. Within minutes of brain damage, microglial processes rapidly extend toward the injured site. The chemoattractive response is triggered by ATP released at the site of injury and the consequent activation of the purinergic receptor P2YR on microglia. In addition to the purinergic signals, various neuronal signaling molecules actively and negatively control microglial motility, which is important for regulating the functional activation of microglia in response to pathology. In this review, we focus on the dynamic motion of microglia and describe several key molecules regulating microglial motility in normal and pathological brain tissues.
The astrocyte glutamate transporter, GLT1, is responsible for the vast majority of glutamate uptake in the adult central nervous system (CNS), thereby regulating extracellular glutamate homeostasis and preventing excitotoxicity. Glutamate dysregulation plays a central role in outcome following traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). To determine the role of GLT1 in secondary cell loss following SCI, mice heterozygous for the GLT1 astrocyte glutamate transporter (GLT1+/-) and wild-type mice received thoracic crush SCI. Compared with wild-type controls, GLT1+/- mice had an attenuated recovery in hindlimb motor function, increased lesion size, and decreased tissue sparing. GLT1+/- mice showed a decrease in intraspinal GLT1 protein and functional glutamate uptake compared with wild-type mice, accompanied by increased apoptosis and neuronal loss following crush injury. These results suggest that astrocyte GLT1 plays a role in limiting secondary cell death following SCI, and also show that compromise of key astrocyte functions has significant effects on outcome following traumatic CNS injury. These findings also suggest that increasing intraspinal GLT1 expression may represent a therapeutically relevant target for SCI treatment.
The middle ears of seven species of rodents, including four hamster species, were examined under light microscopy and through micro-CT imaging. Hamsters were found to possess a spectrum of ossicular morphologies ranging from something approaching &quot;freely mobile&quot; (Mesocricetus) to something nearer the &quot;microtype&quot; (Cricetulus), although no hamster has an orbicular apophysis of the malleus. Rats, mice and Calomyscus were found to have typically microtype ossicles. To explore the functional effects of these morphological differences, CT scan data were used to calculate the magnitudes of the moments of inertia and positions of the centres of mass and principal rotational axes for the malleus-incus complexes. Microtype species were found to have much greater ossicular inertias, relative to size, about the &quot;anatomical axis&quot; extending between anterior process of the malleus and short process of the incus; ossicular centres of mass were displaced further from this axis. Calculated inertial values were then put into an existing model of middle ear function (Hemil etal., 1995), in order to see whether the more accurate data would improve predictions of upper hearing limits. For the rat and mouse they did, but this was not so for the hamster Mesocricetus. This might indicate that the inner rather than the middle ear limits hearing in this species, or might simply reflect other shortcomings of the model. Functional differences appear to exist even among rodent ears of the same general type, but the adaptive significance of these differences remains enigmatic.
The human auditory brainstem is known to be exquisitely sensitive to fine-grained spectro-temporal differences between speech sound contrasts, and the ability of the brainstem to discriminate between these contrasts is important for speech perception. Recent work has described a novel method for translating brainstem timing differences in response to speech contrasts into frequency-specific phase differentials. Results from this method have shown that the human brainstem response is surprisingly sensitive to phase differences inherent to the stimuli across a wide extent of the spectrum. Here we use an animal model of the auditory brainstem to examine whether the stimulus-specific phase signatures measured in human brainstem responses represent an epiphenomenon associated with far-field (i.e., scalp-recorded) measurement of neural activity, or alternatively whether these specific activity patterns are also evident in auditory nuclei that contribute to the scalp-recorded response, thereby representing a more fundamental temporal processing phenomenon. Responses in anaesthetized guinea pigs to three minimally-contrasting consonant-vowel stimuli were collected simultaneously from the cortical surface vertex and directly from central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICc), measuring volume conducted neural activity and multiunit, near-field activity, respectively. Guinea pig surface responses were similar to human scalp-recorded responses to identical stimuli in gross morphology as well as phase characteristics. Moreover, surface-recorded potentials shared many phase characteristics with near-field ICc activity. Response phase differences were prominent during formant transition periods, reflecting spectro-temporal differences between syllables, and showed more subtle differences during the identical steady state periods. ICc encoded stimulus distinctions over a broader frequency range, with differences apparent in the highest frequency ranges analyzed, up to 3000Hz. Based on the similarity of phase encoding across sites, and the consistency and sensitivity of response phase measured within ICc, results suggest that a general property of the auditory system is a high degree of sensitivity to fine-grained phase information inherent to complex acoustical stimuli. Furthermore, results suggest that temporal encoding in ICc contributes to temporal features measured in speech-evoked scalp-recorded responses.
The addition of background noise to an auditory signal delays brainstem response timing. This effect has been extensively documented using manual peak selection. Peak picking, however, is impractical for large-scale studies of spectrotemporally complex stimuli, and leaves open the question of whether noise-induced delays are frequency-dependent or occur across the frequency spectrum. Here we use an automated, objective method to examine phase shifts between auditory brainstem responses to a speech sound (/da/) presented with and without background noise. We predicted that shifts in neural response timing would also be reflected in frequency-specific phase shifts. Our results indicate that the addition of background noise causes phase shifts across the subcortical response spectrum (70-1000Hz). However, this noise-induced delay is not uniform such that some frequency bands show greater shifts than others: low-frequency phase shifts (300-500Hz) are largest during the response to the consonant-vowel formant transition (/d/), while high-frequency shifts (720-1000Hz) predominate during the response to the steady-state vowel (/a/). Most importantly, phase shifts occurring in specific frequency bands correlate strongly with shifts in the latencies of the predominant peaks in the auditory brainstem response, while phase shifts in other frequency bands do not. This finding confirms the validity of phase shift detection as an objective measure of timing differences and reveals that this method detects noise-induced shifts in timing that may not be captured by traditional peak latency measurements.
Improvements in speech-recognition performance resulting from the addition of low-frequency information to electric (or vocoded) signals have attracted considerable interest in recent years. An important question is whether these improvements reflect a form of constructive perceptual interaction-whereby acoustic cues enhance the perception of electric or vocoded signals-or whether they can be explained without assuming any interaction. To address this question, speech-recognition performance was measured in 24 normal-hearing listeners using lowpass-filtered, vocoded, and &quot;combined&quot; (lowpass+vocoded) words presented either in quiet or in a realistic background (cafeteria noise), for different signal-to-noise ratios, different lowpass-filter cutoff frequencies, and different numbers of vocoder bands. The results of these measures were then compared to the predictions of three models of cue combination, including a &quot;probability-summation&quot; model and two Gaussian signal detection theory (SDT) models-one (the &quot;independent-noises&quot; model) involving pre-combination noises, and the other (the &quot;late-noise&quot; model) involving post-combination noise. Consistent with previous findings, speech-recognition performance with combined stimulation was significantly higher than performance with vocoded or lowpass stimuli alone, and it was also higher than predicted by the probability-summation model. The two Gaussian-SDT models could account quantitatively for the data. Moreover, a Bayesian model-comparison procedure demonstrated that, given the data, these two models were far more likely than the probability-summation model. Since these models do not involve any constructive-interaction mechanism, this demonstrates that constructive interactions are not needed to explain the combined-stimulation benefits measured in this study. It will be important for future studies to investigate whether this conclusion generalizes to other test conditions, including real EAS, and to further test the assumptions of these different models of the combined-stimulation advantage.
High-level adaptation not only biases the perception of faces, but also causes transient distortions in auditory perception of non-linguistic voice information about gender, identity, and emotional intonation. Here we report a novel auditory aftereffect in perceiving vocal age: age estimates were elevated in age-morphed test voices when preceded by adaptor voices of young speakers (20 yrs), compared to old adaptor voices (70 yrs). This vocal age aftereffect (VAAE) complements a recently reported face aftereffect (Schweinberger etal., 2010) and points to selective neuronal coding of vocal age. Intriguingly, post-adaptation assessment revealed that VAAEs could persist for minutes after adaptation, although reduced in magnitude. As an important qualification, VAAEs during post-adaptation were modulated by gender congruency between speaker and listener. For both male and female listeners, VAAEs were much reduced for test voices of opposite gender. Overall, this study establishes a new auditory aftereffect in the perception of vocal age. We offer a tentative sociobiological explanation for the differential, gender-dependent recovery from vocal age adaptation.

Estrogens regulate dendritic spine density, but the mechanism and significance of this effect for brain networks remain unknown. We used repetitive imaging over several days to investigate how 17-estradiol affected the turnover and long-term behavior of dendritic spines in CA1 cells of hippocampal slice cultures. We find that 17-estradiol and serum in the culture medium tightly regulated spine density by promoting an increase in the rate of new spine formation and their transformation into synapses, without affecting spine elimination or stability. New spines formed during a transient 17-estradiol application were preferentially eliminated upon removal of the hormone, in contrast with pre-existing spines that remained unaffected. Our results reveal that 17-estradiol transiently regulates the complexity of hippocampal circuits without causing major alterations of pre-existing networks.
To re-examine whether or not selective hippocampal damage reduces novelty preference in visual paired comparison (VPC), we presented two different versions of the task to a group of patients with developmental amnesia (DA), each of whom sustained this form of pathology early in life. Compared with normal control participants, the DA group showed a delay-dependent reduction in novelty preference on one version of the task and an overall reduction on both versions combined. Because VPC is widely considered to be a measure of incidental recognition, the results appear to support the view that the hippocampus contributes to recognition memory. A difficulty for this conclusion, however, is that according to one current view the hippocampal contribution to recognition is limited to task conditions that encourage recollection of an item in some associated context, and according to another current view, to recognition of an item with the high confidence judgment that reflects a strong memory. By contrast, VPC, throughout which the participant remains entirely uninstructed other than to view the stimuli, would seem to lack such task conditions and so would likely lead to recognition based on familiarity rather than recollection or, alternatively, weak memories rather than strong. However, before concluding that the VPC impairment therefore contradicts both current views regarding the role of the hippocampus in recognition memory, two possibilities that would resolve this issue need to be investigated. One is that some variable in VPC, such as the extended period of stimulus encoding during familiarization, overrides its incidental nature, and, because this condition promotes either recollection- or strength-based recognition, renders the task hippocampal-dependent. The other possibility is that VPC, rather than providing a measure of incidental recognition, actually assesses an implicit, information-gathering process modulated by habituation, for which the hippocampus is also partly responsible, independent of its role in recognition.
Stratum lacunosum-moleculare interneurons (L-Mi) in hippocampal area CA3 target the apical dendrite of pyramidal cells providing feedforward inhibition. Here we report that selective activation of group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) 4/8 with L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphnobytyric acid (L-AP4; 10 M) decreased the probability of glutamate release from the mossy fiber (MF) terminals synapsing onto L-Mi. Consistent with this interpretation, application of L-AP4 in the presence of 3 mM strontium decreased the frequency of asynchronous MF EPSCs in L-Mi. Furthermore, the dose response curve showed that L-AP4 at 400 M produced no further decrease in MF EPSC amplitude compared with 20 M L-AP4, indicating the lack of mGluRs 7 at these MF terminals. We also found that one mechanism of mGluRs 4/8-mediated inhibition of release is linked to N-type voltage gated calcium channels at MF terminals. Application of the group III mGluR antagonist MSOP (100 M) demonstrated that mGluRs 4/8 are neither tonically active nor activated by low and moderate frequencies of activity. However, trains of stimuli to the MF at 20 and 40 Hz delivered during the application of MSOP revealed a relief of inhibition of transmitter release and an increase in the overall probability of action potential firing in the postsynaptic L-Mi. Interestingly, the time to first action potential was significantly shorter in the presence of MSOP, indicating that mGluR 4/8 activation delays L-Mi firing in response to MF activity. Taken together, our data demonstrate that the timing and probability of action potentials in L-Mi evoked by MF synaptic input is regulated by the activation of presynaptic high affinity group III mGluRs.
In the hippocampus, the production of dentate granule cells (DGCs) persists into adulthood. As adult-generated neurons are thought to contribute to hippocampal memory processing, promoting adult neurogenesis therefore offers the potential for restoring mnemonic function in the aged or diseased brain. Within this regenerative context, one key issue is whether developmentally generated and adult-generated DGCs represent functionally equivalent or distinct neuronal populations. To address this, we labeled separate cohorts of developmentally generated and adult-generated DGCs and used immunohistochemical approaches to compare their integration into circuits supporting hippocampus-dependent memory in intact mice. First, in the water maze task, rates of integration of adult-generated DGCs were regulated by maturation, with maximal integration not occurring until DGCs were five or more weeks in age. Second, these rates of integration were equivalent for embryonically, postnatally, and adult-generated DGCs. Third, these findings generalized to another hippocampus-dependent task, contextual fear conditioning. Together, these experiments indicate that developmentally generated and adult-generated DGCs are integrated into hippocampal memory networks at similar rates, and suggest a functional equivalence between DGCs generated at different developmental stages.
Studies of the neuropharmacological substrates of spatial memory formation have focused on the contribution of septohippocampal pathways. Although these pathways include, among others, cholinergic and GABAergic fibers innervating the hippocampus, research has essentially been oriented towards the role of their cholinergic component. Recently, a few studies investigated the role of GABAergic septohippocampal projections. These only focused on almost immediate or recent memory and yielded discrepant results. GABAergic lesions impaired learning or had no effects. Given the role of the hippocampus in memory consolidation and the potential modulatory influence of the septum on hippocampal function, it is relevant to study the role of the septohippocampal interface in memory stabilization. We performed investigations with relatively selective lesions of GABAergic (using oxerin-saporin) or/and cholinergic (using 192 IgG-saporin) medial septum/vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca (MS/vDBB) neurons in rats, and assessed acquisition of a spatial memory and its subsequent recall in the water maze. Following a 6-day training phase during which all groups improved performance to comparable levels, retention was tested 1, 5, or 25 days later. At the 1-day delay, all groups performed above chance and did not differ significantly among each other. At the 5-day delay, only rats with GABAergic or combined lesions exhibited a retention deficit. At the 25-day delay, all three lesion groups performed at chance level; in these groups, performance was significantly lower than that found in sham-operated rats. Immunochemical and histochemical verifications of the lesion extent/selectivity showed extensive GABAergic damage after intraseptal orexin-saporin infusions or cholinergic damage after 192 IgG-saporin infusions, with relatively limited damage to the other neurotransmitter system. Our data show that GABAergic and cholinergic septohippocampal neurons both contribute to memory stabilization, and could do so in a sequential way: GABAergic processes could be engaged at an earlier stage than cholinergic ones during system consolidation of a spatial memory.
Maternal factors can have major imprinting effects on homeostatic mechanisms in the developing fetus and newborn. Here we studied whether supplemented perinatal polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) influence energy balance and fuel homeostasis later in life. Between day 10 after conception and day 10 after delivery, female rats were subjected to chow enriched with 10% fish-oil (FO-rich). Fish oil contains high concentrations of n-3 biosynthesis endpoint products, which may have caused the increased membrane phospholipid incorporation (particularly derived from the long-chain 20+:n-3 PUFAs) in 10-day old pup brains. Adult male offspring of FO-rich fed rats had reduced body weight (-20%) at 3 months, and had lower levels of plasma leptin (-54%), insulin (-41%), triglycerides (-65%), and lactate (-46%) than controls. All differences between groups were lost 48h after streptozotocin (STZ) treatment. At 4.5 months of age, body weights of FO-rich were still lower (-6%) than controls, but were associated with increased food intake, and increased insulin sensitivity (following intraperitoneal injection) to lower blood glucose levels relative to controls. We concluded that perinatal FO supplementation has lasting effects on body weight homeostasis and fuel metabolism in male offspring, but does not offer resistance against STZ-induced diabetes.
Over the last two decades, neuroimaging methods have identified a variety of taste-responsive brain regions. Their precise location, however, remains in dispute. For example, taste stimulation activates areas throughout the insula and overlying operculum, but identification of subregions has been inconsistent. Furthermore, literature reviews and summaries of gustatory brain activations tend to reiterate rather than resolve this ambiguity. Here, we used a new meta-analytic method [activation likelihood estimation (ALE)] to obtain a probability map of the location of gustatory brain activation across 15 studies. The map of activation likelihood values can also serve as a source of independent coordinates for future region-of-interest analyses. We observed significant cortical activation probabilities in: bilateral anterior insula and overlying frontal operculum, bilateral mid dorsal insula and overlying Rolandic operculum, and bilateral posterior insula/parietal operculum/postcentral gyrus, left lateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), right medial OFC, pregenual anterior cingulate cortex (prACC) and right mediodorsal thalamus. This analysis confirms the involvement of multiple cortical areas within insula and overlying operculum in gustatory processing and provides a functional &quot;taste map&quot; which can be used as an inclusive mask in the data analyses of future studies. In light of this new analysis, we discuss human central processing of gustatory stimuli and identify topics where increased research effort is warranted.
The corpus callosum facilitates communication between the cerebral hemispheres. Morphological abnormalities of the corpus callosum have been identified in numerous psychiatric and neurological disorders. To quantitatively analyze the thickness profile of the corpus callosum, we adapted an automatic thickness measurement method, which was originally used on magnetic resonance (MR) images of the cerebral cortex (Hutton et al. [2008]: NeuroImage 40:1701-10; Jones et al. [2002]: Hum Brain Mapp 11:12-32; Schmitt and Bhme [2002]: NeuroImage 16:1103-9; Yezzi and Prince [2003]: IEEE Trans Med Imaging 22:1332-9), to MR images of the corpus callosum. The thickness model was derived by computing a solution to Laplace's equation evaluated on callosal voxels. The streamlines from this solution form non-overlapping, cross-sectional contours the lengths of which are modeled as the callosal thickness. Apart from the semi-automated segmentation and endpoint selection procedures, the method is fully automated, robust, and reproducible. We compared the Laplace method with the orthogonal projection technique previously published (Walterfang et al. [2009a]: Psych Res Neuroimaging 173:77-82; Walterfang et al. [2008a]: Br J Psychiatry 192:429-34; Walterfang et al. [2008b]: Schizophr Res 103:1-10) on a cohort of 296 subjects, composed of 86 patients with chronic schizophrenia (CSZ), 110 individuals with first-episode psychosis, 100 individuals at ultra-high risk for psychosis (UHR; 27 of whom later developed psychosis, UHR-P, and 73 who did not, UHR-NP), and 55 control subjects (CTL). We report similar patterns of statistically significant differences in regional callosal thickness with respect to the comparisons CSZ vs. CTL, UHR vs. CTL, UHR-P vs. UHR-NP, and UHR vs. CTL.
Defects in the photoreceptor-specific gene aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein-like 1 (Aipl1) are associated with Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA), a childhood blinding disease with early-onset retinal degeneration and vision loss. Furthermore, Aipl1 defects are characterized at the most severe end of the LCA spectrum. The rapid photoreceptor degeneration and vision loss observed in the LCA patient population are mimicked in a mouse model lacking AIPL1. Using this model, we evaluated if gene replacement therapy using recent advancements in adeno-associated viral vectors (AAV) provides advantages in preventing rapid retinal degeneration. Specifically, we demonstrated that the novel self-complementary Y733F capsid mutant AAV2/8 (sc-Y733F-AAV) provided greater preservation of photoreceptors and functional vision in Aipl1 null mice compared with single-stranded AAV2/8. The benefits of sc-Y733F-AAV were evident following viral administration during the active phase of retinal degeneration, where only sc-Y733F-AAV treatment achieved functional vision rescue. This result was likely due to higher and earlier onset of Aipl1 expression. Based on our studies, we conclude that the sc-Y733F-AAV2/8 viral vector, to date, achieves the best rescue for rapid retinal degeneration in Aipl1 null mice. Our results provide important considerations for viral vectors to be used in future gene therapy clinical trials targeting a wider severity spectrum of inherited retinal dystrophies.
Increasing evidence suggests that the accumulation of amyloid beta (A) in synapses and synaptic mitochondria causes synaptic mitochondrial failure and synaptic degeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study was to better understand the effects of A in mitochondrial activity and synaptic alterations in neurons from a mouse model of AD. Using primary neurons from a well-characterized A precursor protein transgenic (APP) mouse model (Tg2576 mouse line), for the first time, we studied mitochondrial activity, including axonal transport of mitochondria, mitochondrial dynamics, morphology and function. Further, we also studied the nature of A-induced synaptic alterations, and cell death in primary neurons from Tg2576 mice, and we sought to determine whether the mitochondria-targeted antioxidant SS31 could mitigate the effects of oligomeric A. We found significantly decreased anterograde mitochondrial movement, increased mitochondrial fission and decreased fusion, abnormal mitochondrial and synaptic proteins and defective mitochondrial function in primary neurons from APP mice compared with wild-type (WT) neurons. Transmission electron microscopy revealed a large number of small mitochondria and structurally damaged mitochondria, with broken cristae in APP primary neurons. We also found an increased accumulation of oligomeric A and increased apoptotic neuronal death in the primary neurons from the APP mice relative to the WT neurons. Our results revealed an accumulation of intraneuronal oligomeric A, leading to mitochondrial and synaptic deficiencies, and ultimately causing neurodegeneration in APP cultures. However, we found that the mitochondria-targeted antioxidant SS31 restored mitochondrial transport and synaptic viability, and decreased the percentage of defective mitochondria, indicating that SS31 protects mitochondria and synapses from A toxicity.
To foveate a visual target, subjects usually execute a primary hypometric saccade (S1) bringing the target in perifoveal vision, followed by a corrective saccade (S2) or by more than one S2. It is still debated to what extent these S2 are pre-programmed or dependent only on post-saccadic retinal error. To answer this question, we used a visually-triggered saccade task in which target position and target visibility were manipulated. In one-third of the trials, the target was slightly displaced at S1 onset (so-called double step paradigm) and was maintained until the end of S1, until the start of the first S2 or until the end of the trial. Experiments took place in two visual environments: in the dark and in a dimly lit room with a visible random square background. The results showed that S2 were less accurate for shortest target durations. The duration of post-saccadic visual integration thus appears as the main factor responsible for corrective saccade accuracy. We also found that the visual context modulates primary saccade accuracy, especially for the most hypometric subjects. These findings suggest that the saccadic system is sensitive to the visual properties of the environment and uses different strategies to maintain final gaze accuracy.
Mutations in the leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene are responsible for autosomal dominant and sporadic Parkinson disease (PD), possibly exerting their effects via a toxic gain of function. A common p.G2019S mutation (rs34637584:A&gt;G) is responsible for up to 30-40% of PD cases in some ethnic populations. Here, we show that LRRK2 interacts with human peroxiredoxin 3 (PRDX3), a mitochondrial member of the antioxidant family of thioredoxin (Trx) peroxidases. Importantly, mutations in the LRRK2 kinase domain significantly increased phosphorylation of PRDX3 compared to wild-type. The increase in PRDX3 phosphorylation was associated with decreased peroxidase activity and increased death in LRRK2-expressing but not in LRRK2-depleted or vector-transfected neuronal cells. LRRK2 mutants stimulated mitochondrial factors involved in apoptosis and induced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and oxidative modification of macromolecules. Furthermore, immunoblot and immunohistochemical analysis of postmortem human PD patients carrying the p.G2019S mutation showed a marked increase in phosphorylated PRDX3 (p-PRDX3) relative to normal brain. We showed that LRRK2 mutations increase the inhibition of an endogenous peroxidase by phosphorylation promoting dysregulation of mitochondrial function and oxidative damage. Our findings provide a mechanistic link between the enhanced kinase activity of PD-linked LRRK2 and neuronal cell death.
Immunotherapy with dendritic cells (DCs), which have been manipulated ex vivo to become immunogenic or tolerogenic, has been tested in clinical trials for disease therapy. DCs are sentinels of the immune system, which after exposure to antigenic or inflammatory signals and crosstalk with effector CD4(+) T cells express high levels of costimulatory molecules and cytokines. Upregulation of either costimulatory molecules or cytokines promotes immunologic DCs, whereas their downregulation generates tolerogenic DCs (TDCs), which induce T regulatory cells (Tregs) and a state of tolerance. Immunogenic DCs are used for the therapy of infectious diseases such as HIV-1 and cancer, whereas tolerogenic DCs are used in treating various autoimmune diseases and in transplantation. DC vaccination is still at an early stage, and improvements are mainly needed in quality control of monitoring assays to generate clinical-grade DC products and to assess the effect of DC vaccination in future clinical trials. Here, we review the recent work in DC generation and monitoring approaches for DC-based trials with immunogenic or tolerogenic DCs.
Bowman-Birk Inhibitor (BBI), a serine protease inhibitor derived from soybeans, has anti-inflammatory properties and is able to suppress the development of central nervous system (CNS) autoimmunity in animal models. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a widely used animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS), is characterized by breakdown of the blood-brain barrier and infiltration of inflammatory cells into the CNS, resulting in pathology. In this study, we observed that BBI-treated mice showed delayed onset of EAE and reduced disease severity compared to control mice. BBI-treated mice had fewer inflammatory cells in the CNS including significantly reduced numbers of Th1 and Th17 cells. In the periphery, BBI treatment suppressed the development of encephalitogenic Th1 and Th17 responses early on [day 7 post-immunization (p.i.)], while after disease onset (day 14 p.i.) BBI-treated mice had stronger Th responses, as determined by antigen-specific proliferation and cytokine production. These results demonstrate that BBI treatment temporarily suppressed the development of encephalitogenic responses, but these responses eventually attained normal magnitude. Given that BBI-treated mice exhibited stronger encephalitogenic responses in the periphery during clinically manifesting EAE, delayed disease onset, and reduced numbers of CNS-infiltrating cells, it appears likely that BBI impedes the exit of pathogenic Th1 and Th17 cells from lymphoid organs, thereby delaying their migration into the CNS.


The distinctiveness of anxiety and depressive symptoms in children has previously been questioned based on their high degree of comorbidity, shared risk factors, and treatment response. Developing children may show an unstable presentation of anxiety and depressive symptoms that would complicate interpretation of studies of comorbidity. The present study examined the measurement stability of anxiety and depressive symptoms across time and sex using a large epidemiologic sample of children. A nationally representative cohort of 1329 children (624 girls and 705 boys) aged four to seven in 1994 were drawn from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth (NLSY). Using eight years of prospective data we examined whether a one or two factor structure of anxiety (five items) and depressive (four items) symptoms would be invariant across time and sex. Despite item variability within each factor across time, confirmatory factor analysis revealed distinct factors for anxiety and depression that were stable across time and sex. Results provide support that covariation between anxiety and depression is not likely the result of measurement overlap. However, items indicating factors of anxiety and depression in the NLSY may not be sufficient to permit developmentally-sensitive measurement of these factors.
Cell replacement and gene therapy using neural stem cells (NSCs) have been widely touted as a promising treatment for CNS diseases including brain tumors. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have been used to explore mechanisms behind the lineage-specific differentiation of NSCs and as modulators of gene therapy. We have used the human embryonic midbrain stem cell line NGC-407 and the HDAC inhibitor 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PB) to investigate the differentiation from epigenetic perspectives. NGC-407 cells can differentiate into both neurons and glial cells, evidenced by morphological characteristics as well as up-regulation of the respective markers -tubulinIII and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and simultaneous down-regulation of the NSC-marker nestin. Genomic DNA extracted from the differentiating cells was globally more methylated than that of the proliferating cells. The differentiating cells showed increased expression of the denovo DNA methyltransferase DNMT3B along with strong immunoreactivity in the cell nuclei. When these cells were treated with 4-PB, both the astrocytic and the neuronal differentiation phenotypes were suppressed, which paralleled a substantially weakened DNMT3B immunoreactivity in the cell nuclei. Importantly, 4-PB treatment preserves the immature phenotype of these differentiating cells as indicated by Western blot analysis and immunocytochemical analyses of the NSC markers, nestin and CD133. Nestin becomes entirely degraded 5 days after induction of differentiation, but upon exposure to 4-PB, some of the differentiating cells retain the integrity of nestin and concurrently, CD133 is also up-regulated. Taken together, the data suggests that HDAC activity is necessary for human embryonic NSC differentiation.


Neuropsychoanalysis focuses on the neural counterparts of psychoanalytically interesting phenomena and has left the difference in the metaphysical presuppositions between neuroscience and psychoanalysis unexamined. The authors analyse the logical possibilities concerning the relation between the brain and the mental unconscious in terms of the serial, parallel, epiphenomenalist and Kantian conceptions, and conclude that none of them provides a satisfactory ground for neuropsychoanalysis. As far as psychoanalytic explanations refer to the mental unconscious, they cannot be verified with the help of neuroscience. Neither is it possible to form a picture of how a neuro-viewpoint might be of help for psychoanalytic theorizing. Neuropsychoanalysis has occasionally been seen as a reductionist affair, but the authors suggest that neuropsychoanalysts themselves lean on the hybrid conception, which combines neuroscientific and psychoanalytic viewpoints. The authors state arguments in favour of the interfield conception of neuropsychoanalysis that takes seriously the metaphysical tensions between neuroscience and psychoanalysis.
The aim of this study was to evaluate excitatory/inhibitory intracortical circuit changes in patients with vascular depression, and whether there are any interhemispheric differences of motor cortical excitability. Fifteen vascular depressed elderly (VD), ten nondepressed subcortical vascular disease patients (SVD) and ten age-matched controls underwent bilateral motor threshold and paired-pulse studies. They were also assessed for their brain vascular burden at MRI and neuropsychological profile. Executive dysfunction and apathy were significantly higher in VD; we were unable to find significant differences in resting motor threshold, cortical silent period and paired-pulse curves between VD, SVD and controls, and between the two hemispheres in the VD group. Our findings might suggest that neurophysiological mechanisms underlying VD differ from those previously reported in Major Depression (reduced excitability in the left hemisphere) and seem to be similar to those of patients with SVD. Our findings also, support the &quot;vascular depression&quot; hypothesis, suggesting that in VD patients the depressive syndrome is not the primary disease but can be considered as one of the clinical manifestations in the wide symptom spectrum of the cerebral small vessel disease.



Locomotor behavior in mammals requires a complex pattern of muscle activation. Neural networks, known as central pattern generators (CPGs) and located entirely within the spinal cord, are responsible for generating much of the timing and pattern required for locomotor movements. Historically, identification of interneuronal components of the locomotor CPG in walking mammals has proven troublesome, primarily because of the difficulty in identifying functionally homogeneous groups of neurons in the spinal cord. Recently, a molecular approach has been used to identify populations of genetically similar interneurons based on the expression of transcription factors early in embryonic development. Preliminary work on these cell populations has shown that many comprise essential components of the locomotor CPG. Here I identify populations of genetically-defined interneurons that are candidate &quot;first-order&quot; cells of this neural network, potentially responsible for generating the locomotor rhythm in the mammalian spinal cord. Identification of the cell population(s) responsible for this key function will provide valuable insight into the structure and function of the locomotor CPG and could potentially lay the groundwork for the development of strategies aimed at regenerating motor pathways following injury to the spinal cord.

This meeting was held at the Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn, Naples, Italy, from 6th-13th July 2011. It was sponsored through a collaboration between IBRO (the International Brain Research Organisation) and the Kemali Foundation. Notably, it is the first IBRO sponsored School specifically in invertebrate neuroscience. The meeting was attended by early career researchers from countries around the Mediterranean basin and highlighted the research opportunities that this field can offer to neuroscientists at the start of their careers. Students participating in the School were introduced to a range of important invertebrate model systems. The utility of these models in addressing fundamental neurobiological problems, especially those relating to human neurological disorders, was extensively discussed. In this review, two of the participating students provide a summary of this meeting with a view to encouraging support for further activity in this arena in the future. One of the aims of the Kemali foundation is to foster enduring collaborations between scientists in the Mediterranean region. Given the enthusiastic networking both during and after the meeting, there is much promise that this goal will be realised.
Stimulation of the tail nerve (pedal nerve 9, p9) of the mollusk, Aplysia californica, causes release of serotonin (5-HT), which mediates sensitization of withdrawal responses. There are about 35 serotonin-immunoreactive (5-HT-ir) axons in p9, yet the cell bodies of these axons have not been located. Backfills of p9 were combined with 5-HT immunohistochemistry to locate the cell bodies of 5-HT-ir neurons with axons in p9. About 100 neurons had axons in p9. Only about ten neurons, however, were both backfilled and 5-HT-ir. These double-labeled neurons were all located in the pedal ganglion associated with p9, which had a total of approximately 42 5-HT-ir somata. The discrepancy between the number of 5-HT-ir axons and double-labeled cell bodies is not likely due to neurons having multiple axons in the nerve; intracellular fills suggest that these neurons do not branch before entering p9. Additionally, no evidence was found for peripheral 5-HT-ir cell bodies that project axons centrally through p9. Thus, approximately 70% of the neurons that give rise to the 5-HT-ir axons in tail nerve are unaccounted for, but likely to reside in the pedal ganglion.
Menadione (Vitamin K3) has anti-tumoral effects against a wide range of cancer cells. Its potential toxicity to normal cells and narrow therapeutic range limit its use as single agent but in combination with radiation or other anti-neoplastic agents can be of therapeutic use. In this paper, we first evaluated the early (within 3h) effect of menadione on ongoing DNA replication. In normal rat cerebral cortex mini-units menadione showed an age dependent anti-proliferative effect. In tissue mini-units prepared from newborn rats, menadione inhibited ongoing DNA replication with an IC (50) of approximately 10M but 50M had no effect on mini-units from prepared adult rat tissue. The effect of short (72h) and prolonged exposure (1-2weeks) to menadione alone in the DBTRG.05MG human glioma cells line and in combination with vitamin C was studied. After short period of exposure data show that menadione alone or in combination with vitamin C provided similar concentration-response curves (and IC(50) values). Prolonged exposure to these drugs was evaluated by their ability to kill 100% of glioma cells and prevent regrowth when cells are re-incubated in drug-free media. In this long-term assay, menadione:vitamin C at a ratio 1:100 showed higher anti-proliferative activity when compared to each drug alone and allowed to reduce each drug concentration between 2.5 to 5-fold. Similar anti-proliferative effect was demonstrated in 8 patient derived glioblastoma cell cultures. Our data should be able to encourage further advanced studies on animal models to evaluate the potential use of this combination therapy for glioma treatment.
Congenital amusia is a lifelong disorder of music processing that has been ascribed to impaired pitch perception and memory. The present study tested a large group of amusics (n=17) and provided evidence that their pitch deficit affects pitch processing in speech to a lesser extent: Fine-grained pitch discrimination was better in spoken syllables than in acoustically matched tones. Unlike amusics, control participants performed fine-grained pitch discrimination better for musical material than for verbal material. These findings suggest that pitch extraction can be influenced by the nature of the material (music vs speech), and that amusics' pitch deficit is not restricted to musical material, but extends to segmented speech events.






Advances in both experimental neuroscience and psychoanalytic theory and technique have made it possible to consider mechanisms by which psychodynamic psychotherapies might have an impact at the cellular and molecular level. Here potential analogies are drawn between (1) the mechanisms and results of blocking the reconsolidation of conditioned fear memories in the laboratory and (2) several key aspects of psychoanalytic process. A review of the biology of conditioned fear memory, including differences between extinction and inhibition of reconsolidation, indicates that this biology may have relevance to various ways in which psychoanalytic therapy is effective. The ideas proposed here might lead to further experimental attempts to understand the molecular biology of psychoanalysis.
Animal scientists have an extraordinary burden to promote the health and well-being of all animals in their care. Promoting species- or breed-appropriate behaviors through proper training and enrichment, regardless of animal housing, should be a paramount concern for all animal scientists working with exotic animals, laboratory animals, shelter animals, or privately owned pet animals. Developing ideal training and enrichment programs for any species begins with understanding basic behavior patterns and emotional systems of animals. The basic emotional systems in mammals have been extensively mapped; however, most of these studies are in the neuroscience literature and seldom read by animal science professionals. The emotional circuits for fear have been well documented through studies demonstrating that lesions to the amygdala will block both conditioned and unconditioned fear behaviors. Additionally, other core emotional systems including seeking (i.e., approaching a novel stimulus), rage, panic (e.g., separation stress), play, lust (i.e., sex drive), and care (e.g., mother-young nurturing behavior) have been identified. More recent neuroscience research has discovered the subcortical brain regions that drive different types of seeking behaviors. Research to increase the understanding of the emotional systems that drive both abnormal and normal animal behaviors could greatly improve animal welfare by making it possible to provide more effective environmental enrichment programs. Enrichment devices and methods could be specifically designed to enable the expression of highly motivated behaviors that are driven by emotional circuits in the brain. The objective of this paper is to increase awareness of animal scientists to the field of neuroscience studying animal emotions and the application of that science to improve the welfare of captive exotic animals, laboratory animals, and pets with environmental enrichment.
Little is known about the long-term outcome of treatments for social phobia. At 5 years post-treatment we contacted the 67 patients who had been treated with intensive group cognitive therapy (IGCT) or individual cognitive therapy (ICT) in a randomized controlled trial (Mrtberg, Clark, Sundin, &amp; berg Wistedt, 2007) that originally compared IGCT, ICT, and treatment as usual (n=100 for the full trial). Seventy-two percent (48 patients) who received IGCT or ICT agreed to participate in the follow-up assessment. All re-completed the original self-report measures of symptoms and disability and a quality of life measure. A subset was also interviewed. Seventy-five percent (36 patients) had sought no further treatment for social phobia. Comparisons between post-treatment and 5-year follow-up indicated that patients who had received either treatment showed further improvement in social phobia symptoms and disability during the follow-up period. These improvements were present in patients who had no additional treatment, as well as in the total sample. In conclusion, it appears that the effects of IGCT and ICT are maintained and improved upon at 5 years post-treatment.
The study investigated the effect of prolonged hypoxia on central [i.e., cardiovascular oxygen delivery (Q(a)O(2))] and peripheral (i.e., O(2) utilization) determinants of oxidative metabolism response during exercise in humans. To this aim, seven male mountaineers were examined before and immediately after the Himalayan Expedition Interamnia 8000-Manaslu 2008, lasting 43 days, among which, 23 days were above 5,000 m. The subjects showed a decrease in body weight (P &lt; 0.05) and of power output during a Wingate Anaerobic test (P &lt; 0.05) and an increase of thigh cross-sectional area (P &lt; 0.05). Absolute maximal O(2) uptake (VO(2max)) did not change. The mean response time of VO(2) kinetics at the onset of step submaximal cycling exercise was reduced significantly from 53.8 s  10.9 to 39.8 s  10.9 (P &lt; 0.05), whereas that of Q(a)O(2) was not. Analysis of single fibers dissected from vastus lateralis biopsies revealed that the expression of slow isoforms of both heavy and light myosin subunits increased, whereas that of fast isoforms decreased. Unloaded shortening velocity of fibers was decreased significantly. In summary, independent findings converge in indicating that adaptation to chronic hypoxia brings about a fast-to-slow transition of muscle fibers, resulting in a faster activation of the mitochondrial oxidative metabolism. These results indicate that a prolonged and active sojourn in hypoxia may induce muscular ultrastructural and functional changes similar to those observed after aerobic training.
This study examined the relationship between onset status and current functioning using a recently proposed onset classification system in 272 young children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Participants were classified into one of the following groups, based on parent report using the Autism Diagnostic Interview--Revised: Early Onset (symptoms by 12 months, no loss), Delay + Regression (symptoms by 12 months plus loss), Plateau (no early symptoms or loss), and Regression (no early symptoms, followed by loss). Findings indicate that current functioning does not differ according to onset pattern, calling into question the use of onset categorizations for prognostic purposes in children with ASD.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the third most common human adult-onset neurodegenerative disease. Some forms of ALS are inherited, and disease-causing genes have been identified. Nevertheless, the mechanisms of neurodegeneration in ALS are unresolved. Genetic, biochemical, and morphological analyses of human ALS as well as cell and animal models of ALS reveal that mitochondria could have roles in this neurodegeneration. The varied functions and properties of mitochondria might render subsets of selectively vulnerable neurons intrinsically susceptible to cellular aging and stress and overlying genetic variations. Changes occur in mitochondrial respiratory chain enzymes and mitochondrial programmed cell death proteins in ALS. Transgenic mouse models of ALS reveal possible principles governing the biology of neurodegeneration that implicate mitochondria and the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. This paper reviews how mitochondrial pathobiology might contribute to the mechanisms of neurodegeneration in ALS.
Valproic acid (VPA) is an anticonvulsant used to treat bipolar disorder, a psychiatric disease associated with disturbances in circadian rhythmicity. Little is known about how VPA affects circadian rhythms. The authors cultured tissues containing the master brain pacemaker for circadian rhythmicity, the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), and skin fibroblasts from transgenic PERIOD2::LUCIFERASE (PER2::LUC) mice and studied the effect of VPA on the circadian PER2::LUC rhythm by measuring bioluminescence. VPA (1 mM) significantly phase advanced the PER2::LUC rhythm when applied at a time point corresponding to the lowest (trough, ~ZT 0) PER2::LUC expression but phase delayed the PER2::LUC rhythm when the drug was administered at the time of highest (peak, ~ZT 12) protein expression. In addition, it significantly increased the overall amplitude of PER2::LUC oscillations at time points at or close to ZT 12 but had no effect on period. Real-time PCR analyses on mouse and human fibroblasts revealed that expressions of other clock genes were increased after 2 h treatment with VPA. Because VPA is known to inhibit histone deacetylation, the authors treated cultures with an established histone deacetylation inhibitor, trichostatin A (TSA; 20 ng/mL), to compare the effect of VPA and TSA on molecular rhythmicity. They found that TSA had similar effects on the PER2::LUC rhythm as VPA. Furthermore, VPA and TSA significantly increased acetylation on histone H3 but in comparison little on histone H4. Lithium is another commonly used treatment for bipolar disorder. Therefore, the authors also studied the impact of lithium chloride (LiCl; 10 mM) on the PER2::LUC rhythm. LiCl delayed the phase, but in contrast to VPA and TSA, LiCl lengthened the PER2::LUC period and had no effect on histone acetylation. These results demonstrate that VPA can delay or advance the phase, as well as increase the amplitude, of the PERIOD2::LUCIFERASE rhythm depending on the circadian time of application. Furthermore, the authors show that LiCl delays the phase and lengthens the period of the PER2::LUC rhythm, confirming previous reports on circadian lithium effects. These different molecular effects may underlie differential chronotherapeutic effects of VPA and lithium.

Cardiomyocytes undergo apoptosis in response to ischemia and ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). During heart preservation, inhibition of apoptosis is critical to avoid organ failure. We aimed to compare the protection afforded by Celsior (Cs) and Histidine buffer solution (HBS) against apoptotic signaling in hearts subjected to moderate (4 h) versus severe (6 h) ischemia alone or followed by 30 min reperfusion. The impact of gender on cardioplegic protection was also explored. Hearts from male and female Wistar-Han rats were divided by gender in distinct groups: control, perfusion_control, ischemia, and I/R. Ischemia and I/R groups were divided in subgroups Cs or HBS, and subjected to 4 or 6 h ischemia alone or followed by reperfusion. Proteins involved in apoptotic signaling (p53, Bax, Fas, FasL, and Flip) were quantified by Western blot in mitochondria and/or whole tissue. Caspases 3, 8, and 9-like activities were measured and hemodynamic parameters were monitored. Ischemia activated p53/Bax signaling. After I/R, HBS-preserved hearts had lower p53/Bax content in mitochondrial fractions than Cs-preserved hearts. The p53/Bax decrease in tissue samples was mostly observed in females. Caspase 3-like activity was increased in HBS-preserved male hearts. The heart rate was decreased in Cs and HBS-preserved hearts. Fas protein levels remained unaltered in all conditions but soluble FasL increased from 4 to 6 h preservation in Cs and HBS. Hearts from male rats were more prone to apoptosis and myocardial dysfunction. HBS and Cs were not effective in inhibiting apoptotic signaling although HBS presented best overall results. Both solutions should be improved to prevent apoptosis and myocardial dysfunction after I/R.

We investigated the effects of mobile phone radiation on cerebral glucose metabolism using high-resolution positron emission tomography (PET) with the (18)F-deoxyglucose (FDG) tracer. A long half-life (109 minutes) of the (18)F isotope allowed a long, natural exposure condition outside the PET scanner. Thirteen young right-handed male subjects were exposed to a pulse-modulated 902.4 MHz Global System for Mobile Communications signal for 33 minutes, while performing a simple visual vigilance task. Temperature was also measured in the head region (forehead, eyes, cheeks, ear canals) during exposure. (18)F-deoxyglucose PET images acquired after the exposure showed that relative cerebral metabolic rate of glucose was significantly reduced in the temporoparietal junction and anterior temporal lobe of the right hemisphere ipsilateral to the exposure. Temperature rise was also observed on the exposed side of the head, but the magnitude was very small. The exposure did not affect task performance (reaction time, error rate). Our results show that short-term mobile phone exposure can locally suppress brain energy metabolism in humans.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine type 2a (5-HT(2A)) selective radiotracer [(18)F]altanserin has been subjected to a quantitative micro-positron emission tomography study in Lister Hooded rats. Metabolite-corrected plasma input modeling was compared with reference tissue modeling using the cerebellum as reference tissue. [(18)F]altanserin showed sufficient brain uptake in a distribution pattern consistent with the known distribution of 5-HT(2A) receptors. Full binding saturation and displacement was documented, and no significant uptake of radioactive metabolites was detected in the brain. Blood input as well as reference tissue models were equally appropriate to describe the radiotracer kinetics. [(18)F]altanserin is suitable for quantification of 5-HT(2A) receptor availability in rats.
Trisomy 21, also referred to Down syndrome (DS), is the most common genetic cause of mental retardation, affecting 1 each 800-1000 newborn children all over the world. DS is a complex disease, determined by an extra copy of human chromosome 21 that causes an imbalanced gene dose effect. The syntenies that exist between mouse chromosomes 10, 16, and 17 and human chromosome 21 offer the opportunity for a genotype-phenotype correlation and several mouse models of DS have been developed to improve our knowledge about cognitive disabilities and brain alterations. We present here the different murine models available up to now and we discuss the neural alterations that have been described in these strains. The largest amount of studies involved the so called Ts65Dn mouse showing early alterations of nitrergic, noradrenergic and cholinergic systems at the level of the basal forebrain. Neurogenesis and spine formations are decreased in the hippocampus, as well as the whole size of the cerebellum and the number of granule cells.
Although many studies have appeared on the mechanisms of neurogenesis in the adult mammalian central nervous system, the challenge remains to identify the factors controlling this process. Among numerous factors, which have been described to influence neurogenesis, serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) has received considerable attention. 5-HT drug manipulations and their effects on neurogenesis have revealed that 5-HT contributes to adult neurogenesis. An interesting but relatively unexplored detail is the presence of an extensive plexus of 5-HT containing fibers in the subventricular zone, the main neurogenic brain structure besides the dentate gyrus in the hippocampal formation. A dense plexus of 5-HT fibers surrounds the subventricular zone, separating this region from the adjacent structures of the lateral ventricle. This close anatomical relationship suggests an important functional role for 5-HT in influencing cell proliferation in the subventricular zone. Here, we review the literature and propose that subependymal plexus is part of an intrinsic brain mechanism which controls the subventricular zone cell proliferative capacity by modulating 5-HT release.
The relaxin-3 gene was identified in 2001 by searching the human genome database for homologues of the relaxin hormone, and was subsequently discovered to encode a highly conserved neuropeptide in mammals and lower species. In the decade since its discovery there have been significant advances in our knowledge of the peptide, including the identification of its cognate receptor (a type 1 G-protein coupled receptor, GPCR135 or RXFP3), an understanding of its structure-activity and associated cellular signalling, and the elucidation of key neuroanatomical aspects of relaxin-3/RXFP3 networks in mammalian brain. The latter studies revealed that relaxin-3 is expressed within GABA neurons of the brainstem including an area known as the nucleus incertus, and that ascending relaxin-3 projections innervate a broad range of RXFP3-rich forebrain areas. These maps provided a foundation for pharmacological and physiological studies to elucidate the neurobiological nature of relaxin-3/RXFP3 signalling in vivo. Recent findings from our laboratory and others suggest the relaxin-3 neural network represents a newly identified ascending arousal system, able to modulate a range of interrelated functions including responses to stress, spatial and emotional memory, feeding and metabolism, motivation and reward, and circadian rhythm and sleep/wake states. More research is now required to discover further important facts about relaxin-3 neurons, such as their various regulatory inputs, and to characterise populations of RXFP3-positive neurons and determine their influence on particular neural circuits, physiology and complex behaviour.
Estradiol and other steroid hormones modulate the nervous system and behavior on both acute and long-term time scales. Though estradiol was originally characterized as a regulator of gene expression through the action of nuclear estrogen receptors (ERs) that directly bind DNA, research over the past thirty years has firmly established that estradiol can bind to extra-nuclear ERs associated with the cellular membrane, producing changes in neurons through stimulation of various intracellular signaling pathways. Several studies have determined that the classical ERs, ER and ER, mediate some of these fast-acting signaling pathways through activation of G proteins. Since ER and ER are not G protein-coupled receptors, the mechanisms by which ERs can stimulate signal transduction pathways are a focus of recent research. Here we discuss recent studies illustrating one mechanism by which ER and ER initiate these pathways: through direct association with metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). Estradiol binding to these membrane-localized estrogen receptors results in mGluR signaling independent of glutamate. ERs are organized with mGluRs into functional signaling microdomains via caveolin proteins. The pairing of ERs to specific mGluRs via caveolins is region specific, with ERs being linked to different mGluRs in hippocampal, striatal, and other neurons. It is becoming clear that ER signaling through mGluRs is one important mechanism by which estrogens can modulate neuron and glial physiology, ultimately impacting various aspects of nervous system function.
The peripheral type of choline acetyltransferase (pChAT) is an isoform of the well-studied common type of choline acetyltransferase (cChAT), the synthesizing enzyme of acetylcholine. Since pChAT arises by exons skipping, its amino acid sequence is similar to that of cChAT, except the lack of a continuous peptide sequence encoded by all the four exons from 6 to 9. While cChAT expression has been observed in both the central and peripheral nervous systems, pChAT is preferentially expressed in the peripheral nervous system. pChAT appears to be a reliable marker for the visualization of peripheral cholinergic neurons and their processes, whereas other conventional markers including cChAT have not been used successfully for it. In mammals like rodents, pChAT immunoreactivity has been observed in most, if not all, physiologically identified peripheral cholinergic structures such as all parasympathetic postganglionic neurons and most neurons of the enteric nervous system. In addition, pChAT has been found in many peripheral neurons that are derived from the neural crest. These include sensory neurons of the trigeminal ganglion and the dorsal root ganglion, and sympathetic postganglionic neurons. Recent studies moreover indicate that pChAT, as well as cChAT, appears ubiquitously expressed among various species not only of vertebrate mammals but also of invertebrate mollusks. This finding implies that the alternative splicing mechanism to generate pChAT and cChAT has been preserved during evolution, probably for some functional benefits.



Multiple sclerosis (MS), a central nervous system (CNS) neurodegenerative disorder, involves lesions of both white and gray matter and reported cognitive impairments that include processing speed (PS), executive function, and working memory (WM). This study closely examined the specifics of these cognitive deficits and their relationship to structural brain damage. A visual n-back task with 3 WM load conditions was used to assess WM performance (task accuracy), PS (reaction time, RT), and a novel measure of processing efficiency (standard deviation of RT, RTSD) in MS patients and controls. These behavioral measures were related to quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measures of white and gray matter integrity. Even when MS patients performed as well as controls, as seen for low WM load (0-back), they responded more slowly and were less efficient in their speed of responding. Accuracy findings indicated that the correct match trials were superior to correct nonmatch trials at differentiating MS patients from controls. Further, decreased accuracy during the highest WM load condition was associated with global damage that included both gray and white matter atrophy, while slowed PS and particularly processing inefficiency were associated primarily with white matter atrophy in MS. Importantly, relationships between PS, processing efficiency, performance accuracy, and structural MRI measures were seen only during the highest WM load condition, the condition that required the most executive control. These findings suggest that the MRI/behavioral relationships that were present exclusively during the 2-back condition may reflect connectivity involving frontal cortical systems, the site for executive control.
This study investigated the production of compounds in Italian-speaking patients affected by different aphasia categories (i.e., Broca's, Wernicke's, and anomic aphasia) in a confrontation naming task. Questions of theoretical interest concerning the processing of compounds within the framework of the &quot;lemma theory&quot; as well as the role of morphological productivity in compound processing are addressed. Results indicate that all persons with aphasia retain knowledge of the morphological status of words, even when they fail to retrieve the corresponding phonological form (the &quot;compound effect&quot;). A difference was found among aphasia categories in the type of errors produced (omission vs. substitution) and in the position (first or second) of these errors within the compound words. In Broca's aphasia, the first component is omitted more frequently than the second one, but only in verb-noun compounds. Anomic and Wernicke's aphasia, unlike in Broca's aphasia, seem to retain sensitivity to morphological productivity.
We assessed cognitive performance and physical disability in 111 multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and 222 healthy controls in a multicenter study in Argentina to obtain the prevalence of cognitive impairment (CI) in a population of MS outpatients in Argentina. MS patients presented significantly lower scores in all Brief Repeatable Battery of Neuropsychology (BRB-N) tests than did the control group. The prevalence of CI was 43.2%. This study allowed us to obtain actual figures on the number of MS patients with CI in a Latin American sample. This validation is a very useful tool for clinical practice and for research studies to assess cognition in MS.
Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type 1 (HSAN1) causes sensory loss that predominantly affects the lower limbs, often preceded by hyperpathia and spontaneous shooting or lancinating pain. It is caused by several missense mutations in the genes encoding 2 of the 3 subunits of the enzyme serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT). The mutant forms of the enzyme show a shift from their canonical substrate L-serine to the alternative substrate L-alanine. This shift leads to increased formation of neurotoxic deoxysphingolipids (dSLs). Our initial analysis showed that in HEK cells transfected with SPTLC1 mutants, dSL generation was modulated in vitro in the presence of various amino acids. We therefore examined whether in vivo specific amino acid substrate supplementation influenced dSL levels and disease severity in HSAN1. In mice bearing a transgene expressing the C133W SPTLC1 mutant linked to HSAN1, a 10% L-serineenriched diet reduced dSL levels. L-serine supplementation also improved measures of motor and sensory performance as well as measures of male fertility. In contrast, a 10% L-alanineenriched diet increased dSL levels and led to severe peripheral neuropathy. In a pilot study with 14 HSAN1 patients, L-serine supplementation similarly reduced dSL levels. These observations support the hypothesis that an altered substrate selectivity of the mutant SPT is key to the pathophysiology of HSAN1 and raise the prospect of l-serine supplementation as a first treatment option for this disorder.
We have developed a computer-model-based approach to quantitatively diagnose the causes of metabolic acid-base disorders in critically-ill patients. We use an interstitial-plasma-erythrocyte (IPE) model that is sufficiently detailed to accurately calculate steady-state changes from normal in fluid volumes and electrolyte concentrations in a given patient due to a number of causes of acid-base disorders. Normal fluid volumes for each patient are determined from their sex, height and weight using regression equations derived from measured data in humans. The model inputs (electrolyte masses and volumes) are altered to simulate the laboratory chemistry of each critically-ill patient. In this process, the model calculates changes in body-fluid volumes, osmolality and yields the individual values of IPE base excess (BE(IPE)) attributed to changes due to: (1) fluid dilution/contraction, (2) gain or loss of Cl(-), (3) hyper- or hypoalbuminemia, (4) presence of unmeasured ions, (5) gain of lactate, (6) gain or loss of phosphate, (7) gain or loss of calcium and magnesium, (8) gain or loss of potassium and (9) gain or loss of sodium. We use critically-ill patient data to show how our new approach is more informative and much simpler to interpret as compared to the approaches of Siggaard-Andersen or Stewart. We demonstrate how the model can be used at the bedside to diagnose acid-base disorders and suggest appropriate treatment. Hence, this new approach gives clinicians a new tool for diagnosing disorders and specifying fluid-therapy options for critically-ill patients.

The rubber hand illusion (RHI) is a perceptual experience which often occurs when an administered tactile stimulation of a person's real hand hidden from view, occurs synchronously with a corresponding visual stimulation of an observed rubber hand placed in full vision of the person in a position corresponding to where their real hand might normally be. The perceptual illusion is that the person feels a sense of &quot;ownership&quot; of the rubber hand which they are looking at. Most studies have focused on the underlying neural properties of the illusion and the experimental manipulations that lead to it. The illusion could also be used for exploring the sense of limb and prosthetic ownership for people after amputation. Cortical electrodes such as those used in sensorimotor stimulation surgery for pain may provide an opportunity to further understand the cortical representation of the illusion and possibly provide an opportunity to modulate the individual's sense of body ownership. Thus, the RHI might also be a critical tool for development of neurorehabilitative interventions that will be of great interest to the neurosurgical and rehabilitation communities.
Clinical study results for neurokinin (NK) receptor antagonists in the treatment of depression have been mixed, with Phase III studies failing to fulfill the early promise demonstrated in Phase II studies. Casopitant, a selective NK1 antagonist that achieves nearly complete receptor occupancy was studied in 2 randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, Phase II trials in depressed outpatients to test the hypothesis that nearly complete NK1 receptor occupancy is required to achieve antidepressant efficacy. Study 092 used an interactive voice response system to recruit depressed patients with baseline Hamilton Depression (17-item, HAMD17) total scores higher than 24 who were randomized to fixed-dose casopitant 30 mg/d, 80 mg/d, or placebo for 8 weeks (n = 356). Study 096 required Carroll Depression Scale-Revised self-assessment scores of higher than 24 for randomization to casopitant 120 mg/d, paroxetine 30 mg/d (both reached via forced titration), or placebo for 8 weeks (n = 362). In study 092, casopitant 80 mg but not 30 mg achieved statistically significant improvement versus placebo on the primary outcome measure, week 8 last observation carried forward change from baseline HAMD17 (difference = -2.7; 95% confidence interval, -5.1 to -0.4, P = 0.023). In study 096, neither casopitant nor paroxetine achieved statistical separation from placebo at end point on HAMD17 (casopitant difference = -1.7; 95% CI, -3.8 to 0.4, P = 0.282). Casopitant and paroxetine were generally well tolerated in most patients. These studies suggest that NK1 antagonists that have nearly complete receptor occupancy may be effective in the treatment of depression.
This research is directed at charting the neurotopography of the component processes of the spelling system by using fMRI to identify the neural substrates that are sensitive to the factors of lexical frequency and word length. In spelling, word frequency effects index orthographic long-term memory whereas length effects, as measured by the number of letters, index orthographic working memory (grapheme buffering). Using the task of spelling to dictation in the scanner, we found a highly differentiated neural distribution of sensitivity to the factors of length and lexical frequency, with areas exhibiting sensitivity to length but not frequency and vice versa. In addition, a direct comparison with the results of a previous study [Rapp, B., &amp; Lipka, K. The literate brain: The relationship between spelling and reading. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 23, 1180-1197, 2011] that used a very different spelling task yielded a converging pattern of findings regarding the neural substrates of the central components of spelling. Also, with regard to relationship between reading and spelling, we replicated previous functional neuroimaging studies that have shown overlapping regions of activation in the left posterior inferior frontal gyrus and midfusiform gyrus for word reading and spelling.
Several perspectives on speech perception posit a central role for the representation of articulations in speech comprehension, supported by evidence for premotor activation when participants listen to speech. However, no experiments have directly tested whether motor responses mirror the profile of selective auditory cortical responses to native speech sounds or whether motor and auditory areas respond in different ways to sounds. We used fMRI to investigate cortical responses to speech and nonspeech mouth (ingressive click) sounds. Speech sounds activated bilateral superior temporal gyri more than other sounds, a profile not seen in motor and premotor cortices. These results suggest that there are qualitative differences in the ways that temporal and motor areas are activated by speech and click sounds: Anterior temporal lobe areas are sensitive to the acoustic or phonetic properties, whereas motor responses may show more generalized responses to the acoustic stimuli.
Embodied theories hold that understanding what another person is doing requires the observer to map that action directly onto his or her own motor representation and simulate it internally. The human motor system may, thus, be endowed with a &quot;mirror matching&quot; device through which the same motor representation is activated, when the subject is either the performer or the observer of another's action (&quot;self-other shared representation&quot;). It is suggested that understanding action verbs relies upon the same mechanism; this implies that motor responses to these words are automatic and independent of the subject of the verb. In the current study, participants were requested to read silently and decide on the syntactic subject of action and nonaction verbs, presented in first (1P) or third (3P) person, while TMS was applied to the left hand primary motor cortex (M1). TMS-induced motor-evoked potentials were recorded from hand muscles as a measure of cortico-spinal excitability. Motor-evoked potentials increased for 1P, but not for 3P, action verbs or 1P and 3P nonaction verbs. We provide novel demonstration that the motor simulation is triggered only when the conceptual representation of a word integrates the action with the self as the agent of that action. This questions the core principle of &quot;mirror matching&quot; and opens to alternative interpretations of the relationship between conceptual and sensorimotor processes.
Several major cognitive neuroscience models have posited that focal spatial attention is required to integrate different features of an object to form a coherent perception of it within a complex visual scene. Although many behavioral studies have supported this view, some have suggested that complex perceptual discrimination can be performed even with substantially reduced focal spatial attention, calling into question the complexity of object representation that can be achieved without focused spatial attention. In the present study, we took a cognitive neuroscience approach to this problem by recording cognition-related brain activity both to help resolve the questions about the role of focal spatial attention in object categorization processes and to investigate the underlying neural mechanisms, focusing particularly on the temporal cascade of these attentional and perceptual processes in visual cortex. More specifically, we recorded electrical brain activity in humans engaged in a specially designed cued visual search paradigm to probe the object-related visual processing before and during the transition from distributed to focal spatial attention. The onset times of the color popout cueing information, indicating where within an object array the subject was to shift attention, was parametrically varied relative to the presentation of the array (i.e., either occurring simultaneously or being delayed by 50 or 100 msec). The electrophysiological results demonstrate that some levels of object-specific representation can be formed in parallel for multiple items across the visual field under spatially distributed attention, before focal spatial attention is allocated to any of them. The object discrimination process appears to be subsequently amplified as soon as focal spatial attention is directed to a specific location and object. This set of novel neurophysiological findings thus provides important new insights on fundamental issues that have been long-debated in cognitive neuroscience concerning both object-related processing and the role of attention.
Previously, we compared molecular profiles of one population of wild-type (WT) mouse facial motoneurons (FMNs) surviving with FMNs undergoing significant cell death after axotomy. Regardless of their ultimate fate, injured FMNs respond with a vigorous pro-survival/regenerative molecular response. In contrast, the neuropil surrounding the two different injured FMN populations contained distinct molecular differences that support a causative role for glial and/or immune-derived molecules in directing contrasting responses of the same cell types to the same injury. In the current investigation, we utilized the facial nerve axotomy model and a presymptomatic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) mouse (SOD1) model to experimentally mimic the axonal die-back process observed in ALS pathogenesis without the confounding variable of disease onset. Presymptomatic SOD1 mice had a significant decrease in FMN survival compared with WT, which suggests an increased susceptibility to axotomy. Laser microdissection was used to accurately collect uninjured and axotomized facial motor nuclei of WT and presymptomatic SOD1 mice for mRNA expression pattern analyses of pro-survival/pro-regeneration genes, neuropil-specific genes, and genes involved in or responsive to the interaction of FMNs and non-neuronal cells. Axotomized presymptomatic SOD1 FMNs displayed a dynamic pro-survival/regenerative response to axotomy, similar to WT, despite increased cell death. However, significant differences were revealed when the axotomy-induced gene expression response of presymptomatic SOD1 neuropil was compared with WT. We propose that the increased susceptibility of presymptomatic SOD1 FMNs to axotomy-induced cell death and, by extrapolation, disease progression, is not intrinsic to the motoneuron, but rather involves a dysregulated response by non-neuronal cells in the surrounding neuropil.
The authors reviewed the medical records of patients who had undergone endoscopic endonasal craniotomy in our department between 2005 and 2009. Thirteen patients were included in this study: 12 males and 1 female. Patients were affected by ethmoidal malignancies abutting or involving the anterior skull base. In all the patients the anterior skull base was drilled down. Nine patients underwent dural resection. The procedure always included a skull base reconstruction. Postoperative complications included CSF leak, subdural haematoma and pneumocephalus. Our results show that endoscopic endonasal surgery can be a viable alternative to anterior craniofacial resection in the management of selected ethmoidal malignancies. The limited morbidity and high success rate fit well with the data in the literature and make this treatment option advisable.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) represent leading causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. We tested the hypothesis that growth restriction and preeclampsia (referred to as fetal risk) are significant predictors of these conditions, with women at higher risk in adulthood. Adult offspring exposed to fetal risk factors and their discordant siblings were from two prenatal cohorts, whose mothers were followed through pregnancy and whom we recruited as adults 40 years later (n=538; 250 males and 288 females). Subjects were psychiatrically diagnosed and underwent a stress challenge during which parasympathetic regulation was assessed by electrocardiogram, operationalized as high-frequency R-R interval variability (HF-RRV). Linear mixed models and generalized estimating equations were used to examine the relationship of fetal risk on HF-RRV, MDD and comorbidity of low HF-RRV (lowest 25th percentile) and MDD, including interactions with sex and socioeconomic status (SES). Fetal risk was significantly associated with low HF-RRV response (F=3.64, P=0.05), particularly among low SES (interaction: F=4.31, P&lt;0.04). When stratified by MDD, the fetal risk impact was three times greater among MDD compared with non-MDD subjects (effect size: 0.21 v. 0.06). Females had a significantly higher risk for the comorbidity of MDD and low HF-RRV than males (relative risk (RR)=1.36, 95% CI: 1.07-1.73), an association only seen among those exposed to fetal risk (RR=1.38, 95% CI: 1.04-1.83). Findings suggest that these are shared fetal antecedents to the comorbidity of MDD and CVD risk 40 years later, an association stronger in females than in males.


Neural and sensory systems adapt to prolonged stimulation to allow signaling across broader input ranges than otherwise possible with the limited bandwidth of single neurons and receptors. In the visual system, adaptation takes place at every stage of processing, from the photoreceptors that adapt to prevailing luminance conditions, to higher-order motion-sensitive neurons that adapt to prolonged exposure to motion. Recent experiments using dynamic, fluctuating visual stimuli indicate that adaptation operates on a time scale similar to that of the response itself. Further work from our own laboratory has highlighted the role for rapid motion adaptation in reliable encoding of natural image motion. Physiologically, motion adaptation can be broken down into four separate components. It is not clear from the previous studies which of these motion adaptation components are involved in the fast and dynamic response changes. To investigate the adapted response in more detail, we therefore analyzed the effect of motion adaptation using a test-adapt-test protocol with adapting durations ranging from 20 ms to 20 s. Our results underscore the very rapid rate of motion adaptation, suggesting that under free flight, visual motion-sensitive neurons continuously adapt to the changing scenery. This might help explain recent observations of strong invariance in the response to natural scenes with highly variable contrast and image structure.
Previous psychophysical work provided evidence for the existence of automatic frequency-shift detectors (FSDs) that establish perceptual links between successive sounds. In this study, we investigated the characteristics of the FSDs with respect to the binaural system. Listeners were presented with sound sequences consisting of a chord of pure tones followed by a single test tone. Two tasks were performed. In the &quot;present/absent&quot; task, the test tone was either identical to one of the chord components or positioned halfway in frequency between two components, and listeners had to discriminate between these two possibilities. In the &quot;up/down&quot; task, the test tone was slightly different in frequency from one of the chord components and listeners had to identify the direction (up or down) of the corresponding shift. When the test tone was a pure tone presented monaurally, either to the same ear as the chord or to the opposite ear, listeners performed the up/down task better than the present/absent task. This paradoxical advantage for directional frequency shifts, providing evidence for FSDs, persisted when the test tone was replaced by a dichotic stimulus consisting of noise but evoking a pitch sensation as a consequence of binaural processing. Performance in the up/down task was similar for the dichotic stimulus and for a monaural narrow-band noise matched in pitch salience to it. Our results indicate that the FSDs are insensitive to sound localization mechanisms and operate on central frequency representations, at or above the level of convergence of the monaural auditory pathways.
Desensitization of ligand-gated ion channels plays a critical role for the information transfer between neurons. The current view on -aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) and glycine receptors includes significant rapid components of desensitization as well as cross-desensitization between the two receptor types. Here, we analyze the mechanism of apparent cross-desensitization between native GABA(A) and glycine receptors in rat central neurons and quantify to what extent the current decay in the presence of ligand is a result of desensitization versus changes in intracellular Cl(-) concentration ([Cl(-)](i)). We show that apparent cross-desensitization of currents evoked by GABA and by glycine is caused by changes in [Cl(-)](i). We also show that changes in [Cl(-)](i) are critical for the decay of current in the presence of either GABA or glycine, whereas changes in conductance often play a minor role only. Thus, the currents decayed significantly quicker than the conductances, which decayed with time constants of several seconds and in some cells did not decay below the value at peak current during 20-s agonist application. By taking the cytosolic volume into account and numerically computing the membrane currents and expected changes in [Cl(-)](i), we provide a theoretical framework for the observed effects. Modeling diffusional exchange of Cl(-) between cytosol and patch pipettes, we also show that considerable changes in [Cl(-)](i) may be expected and cause rapidly decaying current components in conventional whole cell or outside-out patch recordings. The findings imply that a reevaluation of the desensitization properties of GABA(A) and glycine receptors is needed.
Psychotropic drugs can produce cardiovascular side effects associated with a degree of cardiotoxicity. The coexistence of a heart disease complicates the management of mental illness, can contribute to a reduced quality of life and a worse illness course. The co-occurrence of psychiatric disorders in cardiac patients might affect the clinical outcome and morbidity. Moreover, the complex underlying mechanism that links these two conditions remains unclear. This paper discusses the known cardiovascular complications of psychotropic drugs and analyzes the important implications of antidepressive treatment in patients with previous cardiac history.
In a cross-sectional study, 31 dementia caregivers were compared to a group of 25 noncaregiving controls to evaluate whether the stress of being the primary caregiver of a person with dementia produces cognitive dysfunction. Cognitive differences were examined to evaluate the relationships between cognitive function and stress-related physiological and psychological measures to contribute information regarding its potential mechanism. The cognitive assessments were 2 measures of attention-executive function and 1 word list memory task. Physiological and self-rated stress-related measurements included cortisol, perceived stress, depression, self-efficacy, mindfulness, sleep quality, fatigue, and neuroticism. Caregivers performed worse than noncaregivers on the 2 attention tasks but not on the word list memory test. There was no interaction of caregiver status and age on cognitive performance. The caregivers and noncaregivers differed in morning salivary cortisol and most of the self-rated stress-related measures with the caregiver values reflecting greater stress. Of note, impaired sleep was the only potential mediator of the caregiver effect on cognitive performance in our small sample.
In the field of so-called chronic daily headache, it is not easy for migraine that worsens progressively until it becomes daily or almost daily to find a precise and universally recognized place within the current international headache classification systems. In line with the 2006 revision of the second edition of the International Classification of Headache Disorders (ICHD-2R), the current prevailing opinion is that this headache type should be named chronic migraine (CM) and be characterized by the presence of at least 15days of headache per month for at least 3 consecutive months, with headache having the same clinical features of migraine without aura for at least 8 of those 15days. Based on much evidence, though, a CM with the above characteristics appears to be a heterogeneous entity and the obvious risk is that its definition may be extended to include a variety of different clinical entities. A proposal is advanced to consider CM a subtype of migraine without aura that is characterized by a high frequency of attacks (10-20days of headache per month for at least 3months) and is distinct from transformed migraine (TM), which in turn should be included in the classification as a complication of migraine. Therefore, CM should be removed from its current coding position in the ICHD-2 and be replaced by TM, which has more restrictive diagnostic criteria (at least 20days of headache per month for at least 1year, with no more than 5 consecutive days free of symptoms; same clinical features of migraine without aura for at least 10 of those 20days).
Here we present the case of a 50-year-old man suffering from &quot;painful tic convulsif&quot;, on the left side of the face, i.e., left trigeminal neuralgia associated with ipsilateral hemifacial spasm. An angio-MRI scan showed a neurovascular confliction of left superior cerebellar artery with the ipsilateral V cranial nerve and of the left inferior cerebellar artery with the ipsilateral VII cranial nerve. Neurophysiological evaluation through esteroceptive blink reflex showed the involvement of left facial nerve. An initial carbamazepine treatment (800mg/daily) was completely ineffective, so the patient was shifted to lamotrigine 50 b.i.d. that was able to reduce attacks from 4 to 6 times per day to 1 to 2 per week. Considering the good response to the drug, the neurosurgeon decided to delay surgical treatment.
To study mGluR6 expression, the authors investigated two transgenic mouse lines that express enhanced green fluorescent protein (GFP) under control of mGluR6 promoter. In retina, GFP was expressed exclusively in all ON bipolar cell types, either uniformly across all cells of this class (line 5) or in a mosaic (patchy) fashion (line 1). In brain, GFP was found in certain cortical areas, superior colliculus, axons of the corpus callosum, accessory olfactory bulb, and cells of the subcommissural organ. Outside the nervous system, GFP was seen in the corneal endothelium, testis, the kidney's medulla, collecting ducts and parietal layer that surround the glomeruli, and B lymphocytes. Furthermore, RT-PCR showed that most tissues that expressed GFP in the transgenic mouse also transcribed two splice variants of mGluR6 in the wild-type mouse. The alternate variant was lacking exon 8, predicting a protein product of 545 amino acids that lacks the 7-transmembrane domains of the receptor. In cornea, immunostaining for mGluR6 gave strong staining in the endothelium, and this was stronger in wild-type than in mGluR6-null mice. Furthermore, calcium imaging with Fura-2 showed that application of L-AP4, an agonist for group III metabotropic glutamate receptors including mGluR6, elevated calcium in endothelial cells.
Despite a strong clinical need for inducing scarless wound healing, the molecular factors required to accomplish it are unknown. Although skin-wound healing in adult mammals often results in scarring, some amphibians can regenerate injured body parts, even an amputated limb, without it. To understand the mechanisms of perfect skin-wound healing in regenerative tetrapods, we studied the healing process in young adult Xenopus &quot;froglets&quot; after experimental skin excision. We found that the excision wound healed completely in Xenopus froglets, without scarring. Mononuclear cells expressing a homeobox gene, prx1, accumulated under the new epidermis of skin wounds on the limb and trunk and at the regenerating limb. In transgenic Xenopus froglets expressing a reporter for the mouse prx1 limb-specific enhancer, activity was seen in the healing skin and in the regenerating limb. Comparable activity did not accompany skin-wound healing in adult mice. Our results suggest that scarless skin-wound healing may require activation of the prx1 limb enhancer, and competence to activate the enhancer is probably a prerequisite for epimorphic regeneration, such as limb regeneration. Finally, the induction of this prx1 enhancer activity may be useful as a reliable marker for therapeutically induced scarless wound healing in mammals.

The signal response measured in diffusion tensor imaging is subject to detrimental influences caused by noise. Noise fields arise due to various contributions such as thermal and physiological noise and sources related to the hardware imperfection. As a result, diffusion tensors estimated by different linear and non-linear least squares methods in absence of a proper noise correction tend to be substantially corrupted. In this work, we propose an advanced tensor estimation approach based on the least median squares method of the robust statistics. Both constrained and non-constrained versions of the method are considered. The performance of the developed algorithm is compared to that of the conventional least squares method and of the alternative robust methods proposed in the literature. Two examples of simulated diffusion attenuations and experimental in vivo diffusion data sets were used as a basis for comparison. The robust algorithms were shown to be advantageous compared to the least squares method in the cases where elimination of the outliers is desirable. Additionally, the constraints were applied in order to prevent generation of the non-positive definite tensors and reduce related artefacts in the maps of fractional anisotropy. The developed method can potentially be exploited also by other MR techniques where a robust regression or outlier localisation is required.

Calsequestrin type-1 (CASQ1), the main sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) binding protein, plays a dual role in skeletal fibers: a) it provides a large pool of rapidly-releasable Ca(2+) during excitation-contraction (EC) coupling; and b) it modulates the activity of ryanodine receptors (RYRs), the SR Ca(2+) release channels. We have generated a mouse lacking CASQ1 in order to further characterize the role of CASQ1 in skeletal muscle. Contrary to initial expectations, CASQ1 ablation is compatible with normal motor activity, in spite of moderate muscle atrophy. However, CASQ1 deficiency results in profound remodeling of the EC coupling apparatus: shrinkage of junctional SR lumen; proliferation of SR/transverse-tubule contacts; and increased density of RYRs. While force development during a twitch is preserved, it is nevertheless characterized by a prolonged time course, likely reflecting impaired Ca(2+) re-uptake by the SR. Finally, lack of CASQ1 also results in increased rate of SR Ca(2+) depletion and inability of muscle to sustain tension during a prolonged tetani. All modifications are more pronounced (or only found) in fast-twitch extensor digitorum longus muscle compared to slow-twitch soleus muscle, likely because the latter expresses higher amounts of calsequestrin type-2 (CASQ2). Surprisingly, male CASQ1-null mice also exhibit a marked increased rate of spontaneous mortality suggestive of a stress-induced phenotype. Consistent with this idea, CASQ1-null mice exhibit an increased susceptibility to undergo a hypermetabolic syndrome characterized by whole body contractures, rhabdomyolysis, hyperthermia and sudden death in response to halothane- and heat-exposure, a phenotype remarkably similar to human malignant hyperthermia and environmental heat-stroke. The latter findings validate the CASQ1 gene as a candidate for linkage analysis in human muscle disorders.
Our empirical, neuroscientific understanding of biological motor systems has been rapidly growing in recent years. However, this understanding has not been systematically mapped to a quantitative characterization of motor control based in control theory. Here, we attempt to bridge this gap by describing the neural optimal control hierarchy (NOCH), which can serve as a foundation for biologically plausible models of neural motor control. The NOCH has been constructed by taking recent control theoretic models of motor control, analyzing the required processes, generating neurally plausible equivalent calculations and mapping them on to the neural structures that have been empirically identified to form the anatomical basis of motor control. We demonstrate the utility of the NOCH by constructing a simple model based on the identified principles and testing it in two ways. First, we perturb specific anatomical elements of the model and compare the resulting motor behavior with clinical data in which the corresponding area of the brain has been damaged. We show that damaging the assigned functions of the basal ganglia and cerebellum can cause the movement deficiencies seen in patients with Huntington's disease and cerebellar lesions. Second, we demonstrate that single spiking neuron data from our model's motor cortical areas explain major features of single-cell responses recorded from the same primate areas. We suggest that together these results show how NOCH-based models can be used to unify a broad range of data relevant to biological motor control in a quantitative, control theoretic framework.
Mitochondria are key contributors to many forms of cell death including those resulting from neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. Mice have become increasingly popular in studies of brain injury, but there are few reports evaluating mitochondrial isolation procedures for the neonatal mouse brain. Using evaluation of respiratory activity, marker enzymes, western blotting and electron microscopy, we have compared a previously published procedure for isolating mitochondria from neonatal mouse brain (method A) with procedures adapted from those for adult rats (method B) and neonatal rats (method C). All three procedures use Percoll density gradient centrifugation as a key step in the isolation but differ in many aspects of the fractionation procedure and the solutions used during fractionation. Methods A and B both produced highly enriched fractions of well-coupled mitochondria with high rates of respiratory activity. The fraction from method C exhibited less preservation of respiratory properties and was more contaminated with other subcellular components. Method A offers the advantage of being more rapid and producing larger mitochondrial yields making it useful for routine applications. However, method B produced mitochondria that were less contaminated with synaptosomes and associated cytosolic components that suits studies that have a requirement for higher mitochondrial purification.
Various environmental factors are known to influence the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Environmental enrichment was reported to improve cognitive performance in various Alzheimer's transgenic mice via an amyloid-related or unrelated mechanism. However, stress has been found to accelerate amyloid deposition and cognitive deficits in many AD models. The aim of this study was to determine whether environmental enrichment compensates for the effects of stress on disease progression in the Tg2576 mice, an established AD model. We housed Tg2576 mice under environmental enrichment, enrichment plus stress, stress, or control conditions at 3 months of age. In this study, we first report that environmental enrichment counteracts the effects of stress in terms of cognitive deficits, tau phosphorylation, neurogenesis, and neuronal proliferation during AD-like disease progression. These results strongly implicate the importance of environmental factors as a major modulator for the disease progression of AD.
Nectins play an important role in forming various intercellular junctions including synapses. This role is regulated by several secretases present at intercellular junctions. We have investigated presenilin (PS)-dependent secretase-mediated processing of nectins in PS1 KO cells and primary hippocampal neurons. The loss of PS1/-secretase activity delayed the processing of nectin-1 and caused the accumulation of its full-length and C-terminal fragments. Over-expression of PS2 in PS1 KO cells compensated for the loss of PS1, suggesting that PS2 also has the ability to regulate nectin-1 processing. In mouse brain slices, a pronounced increase in levels of 30 and 24 kDa C-terminal fragments in response to chemical long-term potentiation was observed. The mouse brain synaptosomal fractionation study indicated that nectin-1 localized to post-synaptic and preferentially pre-synaptic membranes and that shedding occurs in both compartments. These data suggest that nectin-1 shedding and PS-dependent intramembrane cleavage occur at synapses, and is a regulated event during conditions of synaptic plasticity in the brain. Point mutation analysis identified several residues within the transmembrane domain that play a critical role in the positioning of cleavage sites by ectodomain sheddases. Nectin-3, which forms hetero-trans-dimers with nectin-1, also undergoes intramembrane cleavage mediated by PS1/-secretase, suggesting that PS1/-secreatse activity regulates synapse formation and remodeling by nectin processing.
Cholesterol is highly enriched in the brain, and plays a key role in synapse formation and function. The brain does not derive cholesterol from the circulation; instead, the majority of cholesterol is made in glia and secreted in form of lipoproteins. Neurons can synthesize cholesterol, but the extent of neuronal cholesterol biosynthesis in the adult brain is unknown. Cholesterol biosynthesis inhibitors of the statin family are widely used to lower circulating cholesterol and cardiovascular risk. Lipophilic statins can cross the blood brain barrier and inhibit brain cholesterol biosynthesis with possible consequences for synaptic cholesterol homeostasis. We have investigated the effects of lovastatin on synapse maturation and synaptic vesicle release. Treatment of primary hippocampal neurons with low levels of lovastatin for one week reduced synapse density and impaired synaptic vesicle release. Neither lipoproteins nor geranylgeraniol fully counteracted the lovastatin-induced decrease of synaptic vesicle exocytosis, even when cholesterol depletion was prevented. In contrast, restoration of neuronal cholesterol synthesis with mevalonate prevented defects in vesicle exocytosis without fully normalizing neuronal cholesterol content. These results raise the possibility that chronic exposure of neurons to lipophilic statins may affect synaptic transmission, and indicate that hippocampal neurons need a certain level of endogenous cholesterol biosynthesis.
Fe65 is a multimodular adaptor protein that interacts with the cytosolic domain of the -amyloid precursor protein (APP), the major component of Alzheimer's disease (AD) senile plaques. In the work here presented, we describe the existence of a new Fe65 transcript variant (GenBank Accession EF103274). A unique 5' sequence of 69 nucleotides, spanning a region between exons 2 and 3 of the FE65 gene, was present in a yeast two-hybrid (YTH) clone from a human brain cDNA library. In silico analysis and RT-PCR revealed the presence of a novel exon of 133 bp, and we redefined the structure of the human FE65 gene. The novel exon 3a-inclusive transcript generates a shorter isoform, p60Fe65. The migration pattern of the p60Fe65 isoform was observed previously and attributed to an alternative translation initiation site within the p97Fe65 transcript. Here, we provide evidence for the origin of the previously unexplained p60Fe65 isoform. Moreover, Fe65E3a is expressed preferentially in the brain and the p60Fe65 protein levels increased during PC12 cell differentiation. This novel Fe65 isoform and the regulation of the splicing events leading to its production, may contribute to elucidating neuronal specific roles of Fe65 and its contribution to AD pathology.
The negative-feedback actions of corticosterone (CORT) depend on both phasic and tonic CORT secretion patterns to regulate hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity. How these two different CORT secretion pattens influence specific intracellular signal transduction pathway activity within the cellular elements of the HPA axis has not been determined. For example, it is unknown whether CORT has suppressive actions over signal transduction events within medial parvocellular paraventricular nucleus (PVN) corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurones, nor whether these suppressive actions are responsible for alterations in PVN transcriptional processes and neurohormone secretion associated with stress. The extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK) is a stress activated intracellular signalling molecule that is potentially subject to glucocorticoid negative-feedback regulation. We tested the ability of CORT to modulate levels of the active (phosphorylated) form of ERK (pERK1/2) in the PVN of rats. Acute psychological stress (restraint) produced a rapid increase in the number of PVN pERK1/2 immunopositive cells within CRH neurones. Absence of tonic CORT via adrenalectomy (ADX) produced no change in basal pERK1/2 cell counts but augmented the increased pERK1/2 cell counts elicited by acute restraint. Treatment of ADX rats with CORT in the drinking water normalised this enhanced pERK1/2 response to stress. By contrast, treatment of ADX rats with a phasic increase in CORT 1 h before restraint had no effect on pERK1/2 cell counts, despite substantially suppressing stress-induced PVN crh gene expression and adrenonocorticotrophic hormone secretion. This tonic CORT inhibition of stress-induced activation of ERK1/2 may involve both alteration of the activity of stress-dependent neural inputs to PVN CRH neurones and alteration within those neurones of stress-dependent intracellular signalling mechanisms associated with ERK activation.
The binding of Neuregulin-1 (Nrg1) to its cognate receptors ErbB-3 and -4 mediates intercellular and intracellular communication. In vitro, this interaction has been shown to control prolactin (PRL) secretion from pituitary tumour cells. However, Nrg1/ErbB signalling and its function in vivo are not well understood. In the present study, we demonstrated that type I and III Nrg1 isoforms were expressed in the rat anterior pituitary. We observed that Nrg1 positive gonadotrophs can form contacts with lactotrophs, which are positive for ErbB-3 receptor. In addition, we show that gonadotroph cell-derived Nrg1 regulates the secretion of an 18 kDa form of PRL from pituitary lactosomatotroph GH3 cells in vitro. The results obtained strongly suggest that gonadotrophs are the major source of Nrg1 in the normal anterior pituitary and that Nrg1 may function as a paracrine/juxtacrine regulator of PRL secretion.
Endogenous glucocorticoid negative-feedback influence on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis depends on glucocorticoid actions exerted on multiple glucocorticoid-sensitive tissues and differential glucocorticoid effects that are expressed within several distinct temporal domains. The relative contribution and underlying molecular mechanisms of action for the effects of location and timing of glucocorticoid exposure on HPA axis activity remain to be determined. In the present study, we examined the effects of acute exposure to corticosterone (CORT) at the level of the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) on the HPA axis response to a subsequent stressor in a short-term (1 h) timeframe. Intra-PVN CORT microinjection 1 h before restraint suppressed the adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) response and blunted restraint-induced corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) heterogeneous nuclear (hn)RNA expression in the PVN and pro-opiomelanocortin hnRNA expression in the anterior pituitary (AP); however, it had no effect on restraint-induced plasma prolactin levels and c-fos mRNA expression (PVN and AP). This pattern of results suggests that CORT acts locally at the level of the PVN within a short-term timeframe to suppress stress-induced excitation-exocytosis coupling within CRH neurones and CRH gene induction without altering the stress-associated trans-synaptic input and intracellular signal transduction that converges on PVN c-fos gene induction. The present study is the first to demonstrate that an acute infusion of CORT into the PVN is sufficient to suppress the ACTH response to stress initiated 1 h after CORT infusion.
Despite the substantial impact of sleep disturbances on human health and the many years of study dedicated to understanding sleep pathologies, the underlying genetic mechanisms that govern sleep and wake largely remain unknown. Recently, the authors completed large-scale genetic and gene expression analyses in a segregating inbred mouse cross and identified candidate causal genes that regulate the mammalian sleep-wake cycle, across multiple traits including total sleep time, amounts of rapid eye movement (REM), non-REM, sleep bout duration, and sleep fragmentation. Here the authors describe a novel approach toward validating candidate causal genes, while also identifying potential targets for sleep-related indications. Select small-molecule antagonists and agonists were used to interrogate candidate causal gene function in rodent sleep polysomnography assays to determine impact on overall sleep architecture and to evaluate alignment with associated sleep-wake traits. Significant effects on sleep architecture were observed in validation studies using compounds targeting the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M3 subunit (Chrm3) (wake promotion), nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha4 subunit (Chrna4) (wake promotion), dopamine receptor D5 subunit (Drd5) (sleep induction), serotonin 1D receptor (Htr1d) (altered REM fragmentation), glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (Glp1r) (light sleep promotion and reduction of deep sleep), and calcium channel, voltage-dependent, T type, alpha 1I subunit (Cacna1i) (increased bout duration of slow wave sleep). Taken together, these results show the complexity of genetic components that regulate sleep-wake traits and highlight the importance of evaluating this complex behavior at a systems level. Pharmacological validation of genetically identified putative targets provides a rapid alternative to generating knock out or transgenic animal models, and may ultimately lead towards new therapeutic opportunities.

Bridging conduits (BC) sustain communication and homeostasis between distant tethered cells. These are also exploited commonly for direct cell-to-cell transfer of microbial agents. Conduits efficiently spread infection, effectively, at speeds faster than fluid phase exchange while shielding the microbe against otherwise effective humoral immunity. Our laboratory has sought to uncover the mechanism(s) for these events for human immunodeficiency virus type one (HIV-1) infection. Indeed, in our prior works HIV-1 Env and Gag antigen and fluorescent virus tracking were shown sequestered into endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi organelles but the outcomes for spreading viral infection remained poorly defined. Herein, we show that HIV-1 specifically traffics through endocytic compartments contained within BC and directing such macrophage-to-macrophage viral transfers. Following clathrin-dependent viral entry, HIV-1 constituents bypass degradation by differential sorting from early to Rab11(+) recycling endosomes and multivesicular bodies. Virus-containing endocytic viral cargoes propelled by myosin II through BC spread to neighboring uninfected cells. Disruption of endosomal motility with cytochalasin D, nocodasole and blebbistatin diminish intercellular viral spread. These data lead us to propose that HIV-1 hijacks macrophage endocytic and cytoskeletal machineries for high-speed cell-to-cell spread.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is now being driven by drug-abusing populations. Epidemiological studies on drug abusers with AIDS link abuse of cocaine, even more than other drugs, to increased incidence of HIV seroprevalence and progression to AIDS. Both cell culture and animal studies demonstrate that cocaine can both potentiate HIV replication and can potentiate HIV proteins to cause enhanced glial cell activation, neurotoxicity, and breakdown of the blood-brain barrier. Based on the ability of both HIV proteins and cocaine to modulate NMDA receptor on neurons, NMDA receptors have been suggested as a common link underlying the crosstalk between drug addiction and HIV infection. While the role of dopamine system as a major target of cocaine cannot be overlooked, recent studies on the role of sigma receptors in mediating the effects of cocaine in both cell and organ systems warrants a deeper understanding of their functional role in the field. In this review, recent findings on the interplay of HIV infection and cocaine abuse and their possible implications in mode of action and/or addiction will be discussed.
HIV-1 brain infection induces neurodegeneration. While most studies focus on HIV-1-mediated neuronal injury, relatively few have investigated HIV-1-associated white matter damage. Corpus callosum (CC) is one of frequently involved white matter structures in HIV-1-associated white matter damage. Utilizing a model of ex vivo treatment of brain slice containing CC with HIV-1 glycoprotein 120 (gp120), we examined axonal injury by analyzing -amyloid precursor protein (-APP) accumulation in the axon. Incubation of CC slice with gp120 produced a significant higher density of -APP in the CC tissue compared with non-gp120-treated controls, suggesting the presence of axonal damage in the CC. The gp120-induced CC axonal damage was blocked by a chemokine CXCR4 receptor antagonist T140 but not by an NMDA receptor blocker MK801 as demonstrated by Western blot analysis of -APP, indicating that gp120 evokes the CC axonal injury through CXCR4 receptor. Immunocytochemical studies revealed a surprisingly high density of CXCR4-positive immunoreactivity in the CC. The CXCR4-positive labeling was distributed along the nerve fibers. Moreover, double labeling of anti-CXCR4 with either anti-neuronal nuclei or anti-myelin/oligodendrocyte-specific protein antibody revealed co-localization of CXCR4 and myelin/oligodendrocytes in some fiber-like structures, inferring that some neurons and oligodendrocytes in the CC express CXCR4. Taken together, these results indicate that gp120 induced axonal damage via CXCR4 in the CC.
The INVOS cerebral oximeter and portable xenon enhanced CT (Xe/CT) scan are two commonly used diagnostic devices in patients who have experienced neurologic insults such as traumatic brain injury and subarachnoid hemorrhage. While the INVOS device is a relatively inexpensive, non-invasive measure of cerebral blood oxygen saturation, Xe/CT is a more complex costly diagnostic test that is the current gold standard for assessing cerebral perfusion in patients in the neurosciences intensive care unit (NSI) at the University of New Mexico Hospital. The purpose of this research was to investigate a possible relationship between these two diagnostic devices that might enable clinicians to better determine the appropriate timing and necessity of Xe/CT scans by evaluating trends in cerebral oximetry. The research was conducted in the University of New Mexico Hospital NSI over 18 months, with 25 imaging studies being collected from among 22 patients. Computer generated cortical segments obtained from the Xe/CT scans were correlated to INVOS cerebral oximeter pad placement on each patient's forehead, and the values were then compared using Spearman correlation coefficients. In this study, no statistically significant relationship between the devices was found although expansion of the study to a greater number of patients may uncover such a relationship.
Sleep abnormalities are frequently found in Parkinson's disease (PD). However, it is unclear if they are present from the initial stages of PD. We thus aimed to assess sleep disturbances in newly diagnosed PD patients. We investigated 20 untreated PD patients using the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and the PD Sleep Scale (PDSS). Video-polysomnography and multiple sleep latency test (MSLT) were performed in 15 patients and 15 healthy controls. The ESS score was abnormally high in one patient, while short MSLT times were found in three other patients. The PSQI was higher (p &lt; 0.05) and the PDSS lower (p &lt; 0.001) in patients compared with controls. Video-polysomnography demonstrated a higher percentage of rapid eye movement sleep without atonia (RWA) in patients compared with controls (mean 28 vs. 2.9%, p &lt; 0.001), whereas only one patient had clinically manifested rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD). Interestingly, the occurrence of RWA correlated with the motor score ( = 0.65, p &lt; 0.05). This study demonstrates that sleep disturbances emerge, in a proportion of patients, from the early stages of PD. RWA is a common finding while RBD is rarely present in early untreated PD.
The pathogenesis of secondary infarctions (SI) after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is poorly understood. To assess whether SI in single (SSI) or multiple (MSI) vascular territories represent different disease entities, we compared clinical profiles of patients with these patterns of SI. CT/MRI-examinations of 448 patients were reviewed for new infarctions within 28 days after SAH, and categorized into SSI or MSI. Only patients with adequate follow-up imaging excluding any new infarctions were included for analysis (269 patients). Procedure-related infarctions were excluded. Odds ratios (ORs) with corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated for patients with SSI or MSI versus patients without SI to analyze differences in demographic characteristics, vascular risk factors, disease-related characteristics and treatment modalities. Thirty-six patients had SSI, 53 MSI and 180 no SI. ORs in MSI-patients were &gt;1.5 times higher compared with ORs in SSI-patients for multiple vascular risk factors [MSI:5.4 (2.3-13) versus SSI:1.2 (0.5-2.8)], poor clinical condition on admission [MSI:4.6 (2.4-8.9) versus SSI:2.4 (1.1-5.2)], initial loss of consciousness [MSI:2.6 (1.3-5.3) versus SSI:1.1 (0.5-2.3)] and large amounts of intraventricular blood [MSI:2.9 (1.4-5.8) versus SSI:1.5 (0.7-3.2)]. In multivariate analysis ORs remained higher in MSI for presence of multiple vascular risk factors [MSI:1.9 (1.2-2.9) versus SSI:1.1 (0.8-1.7)] and initial loss of consciousness [MSI:3.0 (1.0-8.9) versus SSI:1.6 (0.6-4.0)]. Our findings suggest that SSI and MSI after SAH are not distinct disease entities. MSI was related to the same characteristics as SSI but to a larger extent, specifically to the presence of multiple vascular risk factors, initial loss of consciousness, larger amounts of intraventricular blood, and poor clinical status on admission.
Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome (TS) is a neuropsychiatric movement disorder characterised by the presence of multiple tics. Tics have an unusual, intermediate status between voluntary and involuntary movements. This ambiguity might involve not just a disorder of movement generation but also an abnormality of voluntary experience. Here the experience of voluntary movements in adult patients with TS is investigated and compared with healthy controls. A group of adult TS patients and age matched control participants estimated the time of conscious intention to perform a simple keypress movement and movement onset. Patients with TS showed a delayed experience of intention relative to controls whereas estimates of the actual movement onset were similar for patients and controls. These data suggest an abnormal experience of volition in patients with TS. Delayed volition could either be an additional intrinsic feature of the syndrome or it could reflect a cognitive strategy to limit motor excitability, and thus tic generation, during voluntary action.


The purpose of this study was to explore the variation in DNA repair genes in adults with WHO grade II and III gliomas and their relationship to patient survival. We analysed a total of 1,458 tagging single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that were selected to cover DNA repair genes, in 81 grade II and grade III gliomas samples, collected in Sweden and Denmark. The statistically significant genetic variants from the first dataset (P &lt; 0.05) were taken forward for confirmation in a second dataset of 72 grade II and III gliomas from northern UK. In this dataset, eight gene variants mapping to five different DNA repair genes (ATM, NEIL1, NEIL2, ERCC6 and RPA4) which were associated with survival. Finally, these eight genetic variants were adjusted for treatment, malignancy grade, patient age and gender, leaving one variant, rs4253079, mapped to ERCC6, with a significant association to survival (OR 0.184, 95% CI 0.054-0.63, P = 0.007). We suggest a possible novel association between rs4253079 and survival in this group of patients with low-grade and anaplastic gliomas that needs confirmation in larger datasets.
Mutations in the cathepsin D (CTSD) gene cause an aggressive neurodegenerative disease (congenital neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis) that leads to early death. Recent evidence suggests that presynaptic abnormalities play a major role in the pathogenesis of CTSD deficiencies. To identify the early events that lead to synaptic alterations, we investigated synaptic ultrastructure and function in presymptomatic CTSD knockout (Ctsd) mice. Electron microscopy revealed that there were significantly greater numbers of readily releasable synaptic vesicles present in Ctsd mice than in wild-type control mice as early as postnatal day 16. The size of this synaptic vesicle pool continued to increase with disease progression in the hippocampus and thalamus of the Ctsd mice. Electrophysiology revealed a markedly decreased frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) with no effect on paired-pulse modulation of the evoked excitatory post synaptic potentials in the hippocampus of Ctsd mice. The reduced mEPSCs frequency was observed before the appearance of epilepsy or any morphologic sign of synaptic degeneration. Taken together, these data indicate that CTSD is required for normal synaptic function and that a failure in synaptic trafficking or recycling may bean early and important pathologic mechanism in Ctsd mice; these presynaptic abnormalities may initiate synaptic degeneration in advance of subsequent neuronal loss.
Fast onset and high-level neurospecific transgene expression in vivo is of importance for many areas in neuroscience, from basic to translational, and can significantly reduce the amount of vector load required to maintain transgene expression in vivo. In this study, we tested various cis elements to optimize transgene expression at transcriptional, posttranscriptional, and posttranslational levels and combined them together to create the high-level neuronal transgene expression cassette pUNISHER. Using a second-generation adenoviral vector system in combination with the pUNISHER cassette, we characterized its rate of onset of detectable expression and levels of expression compared with a neurospecific expression cassette driven by the 470-bp human synapsin promoter in vitro and in vivo. Our results demonstrate in primary neurons that the pUNISHER cassette, in a recombinant adenovirus type 5 background, led to a faster rate of onset of detectable transgene expression and higher level of transgene expression. More importantly, this cassette led to highly correlated neuronal expression in vivo and to stable transgene expression up to 30 days in the auditory brain stem with no toxicity on the characteristics of synaptic transmission and plasticity at the calyx of Held synapse. Thus the pUNISHER cassette is an ideal high-level neuronal expression cassette for use in vivo for neuroscience applications.
Manipulating a cup by the handle requires compensating for the torque induced by the moment of the mass of the cup relative to the location of the handle. In the present study, we investigated the control strategy of subjects asked to perform grip-lift movements with an object with center of mass located away from the grip axis. Participants were asked to lift the manipulandum with a two-fingers precision grip and stabilize it in front of a visual target. Subjects showed a gradual and slow adaptation of the grip-force scaling across trials: the grip force tended to decrease slowly, and the temporal coordination between grip-force and load-torque rates displayed gradually, better-coordinated patterns. Importantly, this adaptation was much slower than the stabilization of the same parameters measured either when no torque came into play or after previous adaptation to the presence of a torque. In contrast, the maximum rotation induced by the torque was controlled efficiently after only few trials, and an unexpected decrease in the tangential torque produced significant overcompensation. An unexpected increase in torque produced a consistent opposite effect. This shows that the compensation for the dynamic torque was based on an anticipatory, dynamic counter-torque produced by the arm and wrist motor commands. The comparatively slow stabilization of grip-force control suggests a specific adaptation process engaged by the presence of the torque. This paradigm, including tangential torques, clearly constitutes a powerful tool to extract the adaptive component of grip control during object manipulation.
The mechanism by which distinct subprocesses in the brain are coordinated is a central conundrum of systems neuroscience. The parietal lobe is thought to play a key role in visual feature integration, and oscillatory activity in the gamma frequency range has been associated with perception of coherent objects and other tasks requiring neural coordination. Here, we examined the neural correlates of integrating mental representations in working memory and hypothesized that parietal gamma activity would be related to the success of cognitive coordination. Working memory is a classic example of a cognitive operation that requires the coordinated processing of different types of information and the contribution of multiple cognitive domains. Using magnetoencephalography (MEG), we report parietal activity in the high gamma (80-100 Hz) range during manipulation of visual and spatial information (colors and angles) in working memory. This parietal gamma activity was significantly higher during manipulation of visual-spatial conjunctions compared with single features. Furthermore, gamma activity correlated with successful performance during the conjunction task but not during the component tasks. Cortical gamma activity in parietal cortex may therefore play a role in cognitive coordination.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons form the final common pathway for central control of fertility. Regulation of GnRH neurons by long-loop gonadal steroid feedback through steroid receptor-expressing afferents such as GABAergic neurons is well studied. Recently, local central feedback circuits regulating GnRH neurons were identified. GnRH neuronal depolarization induces short-term inhibition of their GABAergic afferents via a mechanism dependent on metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation. GnRH neurons are enveloped in astrocytes, which express mGluRs. GnRH neurons also produce endocannabinoids, which can be induced by mGluR activation. We hypothesized the local GnRH-GABA circuit utilizes glia-derived and/or cannabinoid mechanisms and is altered by steroid milieu. Whole cell voltage-clamp was used to record GABAergic postsynaptic currents (PSCs) from GnRH neurons before and after action potential-like depolarizations were mimicked. In GnRH neurons from ovariectomized (OVX) mice, this depolarization reduced PSC frequency. This suppression was blocked by inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis with indomethacin, by a prostaglandin receptor antagonist, or by a specific glial metabolic poison, together suggesting the postulate that prostaglandins, potentially glia-derived, play a role in this circuit. This circuit was also inhibited by a CB1 receptor antagonist or by blockade of endocannabinoid synthesis in GnRH neurons, suggesting an endocannabinoid element, as well. In females, local circuit inhibition persisted in androgen-treated mice but not in estradiol-treated mice or young ovary-intact mice. In contrast, local circuit inhibition was present in gonad-intact males. These data suggest GnRH neurons interact with their afferent neurons using multiple mechanisms and that these local circuits can be modified by both sex and steroid feedback.
Behaviors are generated from complex interactions among networks of neurons. Single-unit ensemble recording has been used to identify multiple neurons in functioning networks. These recordings have provided insight into interactions among neurons in local and distributed circuits. Recorded units in these ensembles have been classed based on waveform type, firing pattern, and physical location. To identify individual projection neurons in a cortical network, we have paired tetrode recording with antidromic stimulation. We developed techniques that enable antidromic identification of single units and study of functional interactions between these neurons and other circuit elements. These methods have been developed in the zebra finch and should be applicable, with potential modifications that we discuss here, to any neural circuit with defined subpopulations based on projection target. This methodology will enable elucidation of the functional roles of single identified neurons in complex vertebrate circuits.
Is faster or stronger sniffing important for the olfactory system? Odorant molecules are captured by sniffing. The features of sniffing constrain both the temporality and intensity of the input to the olfactory structures. In this context, it is clear that variations in both the sniff frequency and flow rate have a major impact on the activation of olfactory structures. However, the question of how frequency and flow rate individually or synergistically impact bulbar output has not been answered. We have addressed this question using multiple experimental approaches. In double-tracheotomized, anesthetized rats, we recorded both the bulbar local field potential (LFP) and mitral/tufted cells' activities when the sampling flow rate and frequency were controlled independently. We found that a tradeoff between the sampling frequency and the flow rate could maintain olfactory bulb sampling-related rhythmicity and that only an increase in flow rate could induce a faster, odor-evoked response. LFP and sniffing were recorded in awake rats. We found that sampling-related rhythmicity was maintained during high-frequency sniffing. Furthermore, we observed that the covariation between the frequency and flow rate, which was necessary for the tradeoff seen in the anesthetized preparations, also occurred in awake animals. Our study shows that the sampling frequency and flow rate can act either independently or synergistically on bulbar output to shape the neuronal message. The system likely takes advantage of this flexibility to adapt sniffing strategies to animal behavior. Our study provides additional support for the idea that sniffing and olfaction function in an integrated manner.
The cold-sensing channel transient receptor potential melastatin 8 (TRPM8) features Ca(2+)-dependent downregulation, a cellular process underlying somatosensory accommodation in cold environments. The Ca(2+)-dependent functional downregulation of TRPM8 is manifested with two distinctive phases, acute desensitization and tachyphylaxis. Here we show in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons that TRPM8 acute desensitization critically depends on phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) availability rather than PIP(2) hydrolysis and is triggered by calmodulin activation. Tachyphylaxis, on the other hand, is mediated by phospholipase hydrolysis of PIP(2) and protein kinase C/phosphatase 1,2A. We further demonstrate that PIP(2) switches TRPM8 channel gating to a high-open probability state with short closed times. Ca(2+)-calmodulin reverses the effect of PIP(2), switching channel gating to a low-open probability state with long closed times. Thus, through gating modulation, Ca(2+)-calmodulin provides a mechanism to rapidly regulate TRPM8 functions in the somatosensory system.
Dexterous use of the hand represents a sophisticated sensorimotor function. In behaviors such as playing the piano, it can involve strong temporal and spatial constraints. The purpose of this study was to determine fundamental patterns of covariation of motion across joints and digits of the human hand. Joint motion was recorded while 5 expert pianists played 30 excerpts from musical pieces, which featured 50 different tone sequences and fingering. Principal component analysis and cluster analysis using an expectation-maximization algorithm revealed that joint velocities could be categorized into several patterns, which help to simplify the description of the movements of the multiple degrees of freedom of the hand. For the thumb keystroke, two distinct patterns of joint movement covariation emerged and they depended on the spatiotemporal patterns of the task. For example, the thumb-under maneuver was clearly separated into two clusters based on the direction of hand translation along the keyboard. While the pattern of the thumb joint velocities differed between these clusters, the motions at the metacarpo-phalangeal and proximal-phalangeal joints of the four fingers were more consistent. For a keystroke executed with one of the fingers, there were three distinct patterns of joint rotations, across which motion at the striking finger was fairly consistent, but motion of the other fingers was more variable. Furthermore, the amount of movement spillover of the striking finger to the adjacent fingers was small irrespective of the finger used for the keystroke. These findings describe an unparalleled amount of independent motion of the fingers.
Frequency-modulated (FM) sweeps are common components of vocalizations, including human speech. Both sweep direction and rate influence discrimination of vocalizations. Across species, relatively less is known about FM rate selectivity compared with direction selectivity. In this study, FM rate selectivity was studied in the auditory cortex of anesthetized 1- to 3-mo-old C57bl/6 mice. Neurons were classified as fast pass, band pass, slow pass, or all pass depending on their selectivity for rates between 0.08 and 20 kHz/ms. Multiunit recordings were used to map FM rate selectivity at depths between 250 and 450 m across both primary auditory cortex (A1) and the anterior auditory field (AAF). In terms of functional organization of rate selectivity, three patterns were found. First, in both A1 and AAF, neurons clustered according to rate selectivity. Second, most (60%) AAF neurons were either fast-pass or band-pass selective. Most A1 neurons (72%) were slow-pass selective. This distribution supports the hypothesis that AAF is specialized for faster temporal processing than A1. Single-unit recordings (n = 223) from A1 and AAF show that the mouse auditory cortex is best poised to detect and discriminate a narrow range of sweep rates between 0.5 and 3 kHz/ms. Third, based on recordings obtained at different depths, neurons in the infragranular layers were less rate selective than neurons in the granular layers, suggesting FM processing undergoes changes within the cortical column. On average, there was very little direction selectivity in the mouse auditory cortex. There was also no correlation between characteristic frequency and direction selectivity. The narrow range of rate selectivity in the mouse cortex indicates that FM rate processing is a useful physiological marker for studying contributions of genetic and environmental factors in auditory system development, aging, and disease.
Neurosurgical patients tend to have the highest rate of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) rate among other postsurgical patients. The methods and timing of DVT prevention and treatment continue to be debated among neurointensivists. The greatest opportunity to intervene is early during the stay in the intensive care unit. There are many factors, however, that can make this the most neglected time for aggressive prevention measures. For large university teaching hospitals, the target of the University Health System Consortium is to achieve an average DVT rate at or below half that of previous reported rates. The current recommendations are effective only if there is compliance with these measures during the majority of the patients' hospitalization. Our hypothesis states that without changing any of the current measures to prevent DVT, a structured program of foot and ankle range-of-motion (ROM) exercises will decrease the incidence of DVT in the neuroscience intensive care patient population. This quasi-experimental study was a quality improvement project examining 315 individuals over the age of 18 years, who were admitted to the neurospine intensive care unit and who received a new program of foot exercises as a method of DVT prevention. Data for the outcome measures were derived from bedside measurement of lower extremity doppler, the percentage of time the exercises were performed, patient history, and standard DVT prevention measures. Overall, there was no difference in DVT rates for those receiving the foot ROM intervention during the study period in 2008-2009 compared with the usual nursing practice for the previous year. However, during the study period, those who developed DVT had a significantly lower compliance rate with the ROM exercises (38.7%) than did those who did not develop DVT (58.4%; p &lt; .001). Therefore, foot and ankle ROM exercises may have a promising role in reducing the incidence of DVT in neuroscience intensive care patients when there is diligent performance of the exercises.
Vigabatrin (-vinyl-GABA) is an irreversible inhibitor of the enzyme -aminobutyric acid (GABA) transaminase. It has been shown to increase levels of GABA in brain and result in increased release of GABA from nonsynaptic sources following activation. Here, we use a guinea pig cortical tissue slice model to identify the metabolic sequelae of vigabatrin when incubated with tissue slices alone or when the tissue slices were activated by ligands with targeted activating mechanisms. We show that incubation of slices with AMPA, the group II metabotropic glutamate antagonist EGLU [(2S)--ethylglutamic acid], or the GABA(B) R antagonist CGP 52432 in the presence of vigabatrin produces very similar metabolic profiles, consistent with the large-scale turning off of metabolic activity. This effect is blocked by the GABA(Arho) antagonist TPMPA [(1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridin-4-yl)methylphosphinic acid]. Taken together, these results suggest that GABA, released following activation, acts on extrasynaptic receptors consistent with GABA(Arho) and that these receptors act as a kind of &quot;master switch&quot; that is capable of turning off a range of differently induced activities.
We observed nuclear swelling in glutamate (Glu)-treated astrocytes that was concomitant with but independent of astrocytic cell swelling. We confirmed Glu-induced nuclear swelling with nuclei isolated from astrocytes. Ammonia is metabolically related to Glu and could induce a nuclear swelling in intact astrocytes but shrinkage in isolated nuclei. Other compounds such as glutamine, aspartate, taurine, glycine, and ATP did not cause any nuclear swelling in isolated nuclei of astrocytes. Surprisingly, Glu and ammonia did not induce nuclear swelling in microglia, C6, HEK 293, or Hep G2 cell lines in cultures and their isolated nuclei. The Glu- and ammonia-induced nuclear size changes appear to be a specific response of astrocytes to these two closely related metabolic compounds.
The activity of the -ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC), a mitochondrial enzyme complex that mediates the oxidative decarboxylation of -ketoglutarate in the TCA cycle, is reduced in Alzheimer's disease. We investigated the metabolic effects of a partial KGDHC activity reduction on brain glucose metabolism using mice with disrupted expression of dihydrolipoyl succinyltransferase (DLST; gene encoding the E2k subunit of KGDHC). Brain tissue extracts from cortex and cerebellum of 6-week-old heterozygote DLST knockout mice (DLST+/-) and corresponding wild-type mice injected with [U-(13) C]glucose and decapitated 15 min later were analyzed. An increase in the concentration of glucose in cortex suggested a decrease in the cortical utilization of glucose in DLST+/- mice. Furthermore, the concentration and (13) C labelling of aspartate in cortex were reduced in DLST+/- mice. This decline was likely caused by a decrease in the pool of oxaloacetate. In contrast to results from cell culture studies, no indications of altered glycolysis or GABA shunt activity were found. Glucose metabolism in the cerebellum was unaffected by the decrease in KGDHC activity. Among metabolites not related to glucose metabolism, the concentration of taurine was decreased in the cortex, and that of tyrosine was increased in the cerebellum. These results imply that diminished KGDHC activity has the potential to induce the reduction in glucose utilization that is seen in several neurodegenerative diseases.
Over the centuries, discoveries of lands unknown, treasures lost and buried, and formulas to delineate physicochemical processes have led to advancements in our understanding of how the world is structured and governed. In science and medicine, discoveries are frequently made following deliberate periods of observation and experimentation to test hypotheses. However, in some instances, discoveries may arise either following a &quot;eureka moment&quot; that transcends rigorous scientific experimentation or following a serendipitous observation. In many instances, scientific discoveries will lead to new inventions that are aimed at improving the manner in which tasks or operations are performed. In this address, some of the key discoveries in science and medicine that have impacted significantly on the field of neurosurgery are described. Some of these include discoveries in neuroanatomy, anesthesiology, infectious diseases, antisepsis, and radiology. Discoveries in the field of molecular science, from the discovery of DNA to next-generation DNA sequencing, which have helped improve the diagnosis and prognosis of neurosurgical patients with conditions such as brain tumors, are also described. In the end, these discoveries have led us to new frontiers in the subspecialty practice of neurosurgery. Navigating our way through these new frontiers will undoubtedly lead to additional discoveries that are unimaginable at present but bound to improve the future care of neurosurgical patients.


Neurotransplantation remains a much-debated frontier in contemporary neurosurgery and neuroscience, with roots dating to the late 19th century. Contemporary applications are far-reaching, and ongoing laboratory research and clinical trials seek to define the mechanisms at play in neurotransplant engraftment and growth, while advancing the field forward into the 21st century. Neural transplantation therapy remains an attractive idea for treating central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS) pathologies. Phase I and phase II clinical trials assessing safety and efficacy are currently underway for various disorders. The remainder of this review will focus on ongoing clinical trials and more recent research advances involving neural transplantation therapy for neuronal death, axonal injury, peripheral nerve lesions, and cancer. The field of neural transplantation, while promising, is not without ethical and scientific dilemmas; this review will conclude with a discussion of the challenges researchers and clinicians face as the field of neural transplantation moves forward.
In the present study we assessed the neuroprotective effects of simvastatin in a rodent model of experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Based on recent data showing the role of statins not only in lowering the level of cholesterol but also in preventing cardiac and cerebrovascular damage in risk population, and in decreasing vasospasm and delayed ischemia after aneurysmal SAH, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of intraperitoneal administration of simvastatin (40mg/kg/day for 5 consecutive days) in Sprague-Dawley rats 30min after SAH, as compared to vehicle-treated SAH animals. We employed a battery of well-characterized tests to assess memory, learning, motivational, balance, and behavioral performances. On days 1-4 post-SAH, simvastatin-treated rats have significantly improved beam balance scores (days 1-2, p&lt;0.001; days 3-4, p&lt;0.01), beam balance times (days 1-4, p&lt;0.01), and latency to traverse the beam (days 1-3, p&lt;0.01; day 2, p&lt;0.005; day 4, p&lt;0.0001) in comparison with control groups that, conversely, were not protected against SAH-related body weight changes. These results demonstrate that the administration of simvastatin may represent a beneficial therapeutic approach able to reduce post-SAH cognitive dysfunction.
Spinal cord injury damaging the rubrospinal tract (RST) interferes with skilled forelimb movement, but identification of the precise role of the RST in this behavior is impeded by the difficulty of surgically isolating the RST from other pathways running within the lateral funiculus (LF). The present study used a skilled reaching task and a behavioral/anatomical dissection method to identify the contribution of the RST to skilled forelimb movement. Rats were trained on the skilled reaching task and subjected to lesions of the LF. Based on histological evaluation, the animals were assigned to large, medium, or small LF lesion size groups. End point and arm/hand/digit movements were subsequently identified for each group. Success was impaired in all groups, but the impairment was not related to lesion size. Frame-by-frame qualitative analysis of the video recordings revealed that large LF lesions abolished the elements of digits close, digits open, arpeggio, grasp, supination 2, and release. Medium LF lesions interfered with a subset of the movement elements that were shown to be affected by the large LF lesions, namely arpeggio and grasp. Only the arpeggio movement was compromised after small LF lesions. The results show that not only does the LF contribute to skilled reaching, but because the RST was likely to have been damaged in all lesion groups, the RST is more involved in hand rotation than in digit use. The results are discussed in relation to the fiber tracts that are likely to be damaged in the different LF lesion groups.





The identification of a distinct subgroup of patients within the spectrum of lower motor neuron syndromes (LMNS) is crucial as some are potentially treatable. We describe the clinical and neuropathological characteristics of a patient presenting with a rapidly progressive LMNS associated with high titers of anti-GM1 antibodies, leading to respiratory failure within 10 months. Histopathological study of a biopsy of a obturator nerve motor branch demonstrated a predominantly axonal motor neuropathy, while electron microscopy analysis localized macrophages located within the periaxonal space. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated deposits of complement activation products (C3i) and immunoglobulins (IgM) on nerve fibers. The patient's clinical, immunological and pathological findings are consistent with a diagnosis of a chronic motor axonal neuropathy (CMAN), likely of immune-mediated origin.
This study was undertaken to develop a theoretical model of mouse motor nerve excitability, and to validate it by application to recordings from mouse axons with membrane potential altered by polarizing currents. Multiple excitability tests were performed on the caudal motor nerves of 12 mice. Membrane potential was artificially modified by injecting polarizing currents through the stimulating electrodes (20% of threshold for 1 ms pulse). A human motor nerve model was adapted to the unpolarized mouse recordings by adjusting membrane parameters to optimize the fit. To evaluate the usefulness of the model, we then determined the parameter changes which best fitted the recordings from depolarized and hyperpolarized tail nerves. The recordings from the normal axons were well fitted by a model in which axons were hyperpolarized by 4 mV, and nodal sodium and slow potassium conductances were reduced by half, compared with human median nerve motor axons. The changes with polarizing currents were qualitatively similar to those in human axons, and modeling correctly identified a change in current as the best-fitting explanation for the altered excitability. We conclude that this new model should help identify changes in membrane potential and probably in other membrane parameters in mouse models of neurological disease.
Schwann cell dedifferentiation following nerve injury is important to permit neural survival and axonal regrowth. Animal studies have shown that the transcription factor c-Jun is upregulated in Schwann cells of injured and pathological nerves where it acts as an important regulator of Schwann cell plasticity, promoting dedifferentiation and demyelination. This pilot immunohistochemical study investigates whether c-Jun is also upregulated in human neuropathies. We examined c-Jun expression in normal and diseased human nerves, as well as in dermal myelinated nerve fibres. Our findings show that although as predicted c-Jun is rarely expressed in normal nerves, it is expressed in Schwann cell nuclei of pathological nerves as predicted by animal studies. Pathological dermal myelinated nerve fibres also show clear nuclear c-Jun expression. Further studies of c-Jun expression will help clarify its role in human neuropathies.
Mutations in the small heat-shock protein 27 kDa protein 1 (HSPB1) and 22 kDa protein 8 (HSPB8) genes were associated with distal hereditary motor neuropathy (dHMN) and with the axonal form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2 (CMT2). Here we report the clinical and molecular evaluation of an Italian dHMN and CMT2 cohort to establish HSPB1 and HSPB8 mutation occurrence and associated clinical features. One hundred and sixty-seven patients with dHMN or CMT2 were studied. HSPB1 and HSPB8 exons 1 and 3 molecular analysis was carried out through DHPLC and direct sequencing of each variant chromatogram. HSPB8 exon 2 was analyzed by direct sequencing. Four mutations in five unrelated dHMN patients and four mutations in four unrelated CMT2 cases were found in HSPB1. The p.Arg136Leu mutation was found in two patients with different phenotypes. Electroneurographical follow-up study in a dHMN patient revealed that sensory impairment occurred with disease progression. The HSPB1 mutation frequency was 8% in dHMN and 4% in CMT2 patients. The significant HSPB1 mutation frequency in both phenotypes indicates its relevance in the pathogenesis of these neuropathies. Recent literature data suggest a continuum between dHMN and CMT2. We confirm this finding in our cohort, proposing a definite relationship between these disorders.
This article examines the role that personality variables and processes play in people's efforts to manage their public images. Although most research on self-presentation has focused on situational influences, people differ greatly in the degree to which they care about others' impressions of them, the types of impressions they try to convey, and their evaluations of their self-presentational effectiveness. Personality constructs such as public self-consciousness, approval motivation, and fear of negative evaluation are associated with the motive to manage one's impressions, and people who differ in self-disclosure and desire for privacy differentially reveal information about themselves to others. Other variables relating to people's self-concepts, interpersonal goals, and traits influence the construction of specific images. Finally, the extent to which people believe they are capable of making desired impressions influences their impression management strategies and how they respond to other people's evaluations.
Oxycodone, a semisynthetic opioid analgesic, is frequently prescribed for the management of pain. Side effects of nausea and emesis affect patient compliance and limit its therapeutic use. The present study established that an antinociceptive dose of oxycodone (15 mg/kg; oral) induces the pica response. We found sex differences in the temporal course of pica, with females having a longer duration. Opioid receptors mediated the pica response, as 1.0 mg/kg naloxone transiently attenuated and 2.0 mg/kg naloxone blocked pica. A -selective antagonist failed to block the response, suggesting mediation by  opioid receptor. For further validation, we used the well established kaolin intake model to assess pica with the chemotherapeutic drug cisplatin as a positive control. Oxycodone and cisplatin significantly increased kaolin intake 4- to 7-fold, and the wet weight of stomach was elevated 2- to 3-fold. To examine the underlying neural circuitry, we investigated c-fos activation in the area postrema and nucleus of solitary tract (NTS). Oxycodone treatment significantly increased the number of c-fos-positive neurons in the area postrema and NTS compared with water controls. As expected, cisplatin also increased the number of c-fos-positive cells in these regions. In the area postrema, the oxycodone effect was greater than cisplatin, especially at 2 h. These results indicate that an antinociceptive dose of oxycodone is associated with the expression of pica, a pro-emetic response.

Familial hemiplegic migraine type-1 (FHM1), a monogenic subtype of migraine with aura, is caused by gain-of-function mutations in Ca(V)2.1 (P/Q-type) calcium channels. The consequences of FHM1 mutations on the trigeminovascular pathway that generates migraine headache remain largely unexplored. Here we studied the calcium currents and excitability properties of two subpopulations of small-diameter trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons from adult wild-type (WT) and R192Q FHM1 knockin (KI) mice: capsaicin-sensitive neurons without T-type calcium currents (CS) and capsaicin-insensitive neurons characterized by the expression of T-type calcium currents (CI-T). Small TG neurons retrogradely labelled from the dura are mostly CS neurons, while CI-T neurons were not present in the labelled population. CS and CI-T neurons express Ca(V)2.1 channels with different activation properties, and the Ca(V)2.1 channels are differently affected by the FHM1 mutation in the two TG neuron subtypes. In CI-T neurons from FHM1 KI mice there was a larger P/Q-type current density following mild depolarizations, a larger action potential (AP)-evoked calcium current and a longer AP duration when compared to CI-T neurons from WT mice. In striking contrast, the P/Q-type current density, voltage dependence and kinetics were not altered by the FHM1 mutation in CS neurons. The excitability properties of mutant CS neurons were also unaltered. Congruently, the FHM1 mutation did not alter depolarization-evoked CGRP release from the dura mater, while CGRP release from the trigeminal ganglion was larger in KI compared to WT mice. Our findings suggest that the facilitation of peripheral mechanisms of CGRP action, such as dural vasodilatation and nociceptor sensitization at the meninges, does not contribute to the generation of headache in FHM1.
Cardiac vagal tone is an important indicator of cardiovascular health, and its loss is an independent risk factor for arrhythmias and mortality. Several studies suggest that this loss of vagal tone can occur at the cardiac ganglion but the factors affecting ganglionic transmissionin vivoare poorly understood. We have employed a novel approach allowing intracellular recordings from functionally connected cardiac vagal ganglion cells in the working heart-brainstem preparation. The atria were stabilisedin situpreserving their central neural connections, and ganglion cells (n= 32) were impaled with sharp microelectrodes. Cardiac ganglion cells with vagal synaptic inputs (spontaneous,n= 10; or electrically evoked from the vagus,n= 3) were identified as principal neurones and showed tonic firing responses to current injected to their somata. Cells lacking vagal inputs (n= 19, presumed interneurones) were quiescent but showed phasic firing responses to depolarising current. In principal cells the ongoing action potentials and EPSPs exhibited respiratory modulation, with peak frequency in post-inspiration. Action potentials arose from unitary EPSPs and autocorrelation of those events showed that each ganglion cell received inputs from a single active preganglionic source. Peripheral chemoreceptor, arterial baroreceptor and diving response activation all evoked high frequency synaptic barrages in these cells, always from the same single preganglionic source. EPSP amplitudes showed frequency dependent depression, leading to more spike failures at shorter inter-event intervals. These findings indicate that rather than integrating convergent inputs, cardiac vagal postganglionic neurones gate preganglionic inputs, so regulating the proportion of central parasympathetic tone that is transmitted on to the heart.
Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) allows measurement of neurotransmitter concentrations within a region of interest in the brain. Inter-individual variation in MRS-measured GABA levels have been related to variation in task performance in a number of regions. However, it is not clear how MRS-assessed measures of GABA relate to cortical excitability or GABAergic synaptic activity. We therefore performed two studies investigating the relationship between neurotransmitter levels as assessed by MRS and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) measures of cortical excitability and GABA synaptic activity in the primary motor cortex. We present uncorrected correlations, where thePvalue should therefore be considered with caution. We demonstrated a correlation between cortical excitability, as assessed by the slope of the TMS input-output curve and MRS-assessed glutamate levels (r= 0.803,P= 0.015) but no clear relationship between MRS-assessed GABA levels and TMS-assessed synaptic GABA(A) activity (2.5 ms inter-stimulus interval (ISI) short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI); Experiment 1:r= 0.33,P= 0.31; Experiment 2:r= -0.23,P= 0.46) or GABA(B) activity (long-interval intracortical inhibition (LICI); Experiment 1:r= -0.47,P= 0.51; Experiment 2:r= 0.23,P= 0.47). We demonstrated a significant correlation between MRS-assessed GABA levels and an inhibitory TMS protocol (1 ms ISI SICI) with distinct physiological underpinnings from the 2.5 ms ISI SICI (r= -0.79,P= 0.018). Interpretation of this finding is challenging as the mechanisms of 1 ms ISI SICI are not well understood, but we speculate that our results support the possibility that 1 ms ISI SICI reflects a distinct GABAergic inhibitory process, possibly that of extrasynaptic GABA tone.
More than 30 muscles drive the hand to perform a multitude of essential dextrous tasks. Here we consider new views on the evolution of hand structure and on peripheral and central constraints for independent control of the digits of the hand. The human hand is widely assumed to have evolved from hands like those of African apes, yet recent studies have shown that our hands and those of the earliest hominids are very similar and unlike those of living apes. Understanding the limits of hand function may come from investigation of our last common ancestor with the great apes, rather than the great apes themselves. In the periphery, movement across the full range of joint space can be limited by mechanical linkages among the extrinsic muscles. Further, peripheral limits occur when the hand adopts some positions in which the contraction of muscles fails to move the joints on which they usually act; there is muscle 'disengagement' and functional paralysis for some actions. Surprisingly, the central nervous system drives the hand seamlessly through this landscape of mechanical limits. Central constraints on control of the individual digits include the spillover of neural drive to neighbouring muscles and their 'compartments', and the inability to make maximal muscle forces when multiple digits contract strongly which produces a force deficit. The pattern of these latter constraints correlates with amounts of daily use of each digit and favours enslaved extension to lift fingers from an object but selective flexion of fingers to contact it.
We recently demonstrated that feline ventral spinocerebellar tract (VSCT) neurones monitor descending commands for voluntary movements initiated by pyramidal tract (PT) neurones as well as locomotor movements relayed by reticulospinal (RS) neurones. The aim of the present study was to examine whether VSCT neurones likewise monitor descending commands from the red nucleus (RN). Extracellular records from the spinal border (SB) subpopulation of VSCT neurons revealed that a third (31%) of SB neurones may be discharged by trains of stimuli applied in the RN. Moreover, when RN stimuli failed to discharge SB neurones they facilitated activation of some of these neurones by RS and/or PT neurones, while activation of other SB neurones was depressed. We propose that the facilitation and depression of actions of RS neurones by RN neurones might serve to reflect a higher or lower excitability of motoneurones and therefore a likely higher or lower efficacy of the RS descending commands, prompting the cerebellum to adjust the activation of reticulospinal neurones. Activation of SB neurones by RN stimuli alone would also allow monitoring and adjusting the RN descending commands. Intracellular records from SB neurones revealed both monosynaptic and disynaptic EPSPs and disynaptic IPSPs evoked by RN stimuli. The disynaptic actions remained following transection of axons of reticulospinal neurones within the medullary longitudinal fascicle (MLF) and were therefore taken to be relayed primarily by spinal neurones, in contrast to EPSPs and IPSPs evoked by PT stimuli found to be relayed by reticulospinal rather than spinal neurones.
Contorted 'phantom' limbs often form when sensory inputs are removed, but the neural mechanisms underlying their formation are poorly understood. We tracked the evolution of an experimental phantom hand during ischaemic anaesthesia of the arm. In the first study subjects showed the perceived posture of their hand and fingers using a model hand. Surprisingly, if the wrist and fingers were held straight before and during anaesthesia, the final phantom hand was bent at the wrist and fingers, but if the wrist and fingers were flexed before and during anaesthesia, the final phantom was extended at wrist and fingers. Hence, no 'default' posture existed for the phantom hand. The final perceived posture may depend on the initial and evolving sensory input during the block rather than the final sensory input (which should not differ for the two postures). In the second study subjects selected templates to indicate the perceived size of their hand. Perceived hand size increased by 34  4% (mean  95% CI) during the block. Sensory changes were monitored. In all subjects, impairment of large-fibre cutaneous sensation began distally with von Frey thresholds increasing before cold detection thresholds (A fibres) increased. Some C fibres subserving heat pain still conducted at the end of cuff inflation. These data suggest that changes in both perceived hand size and perceived position of the finger joints develop early when large-fibre cutaneous sensation is beginning to degrade. Hence it is unlikely that block of small-fibre afferents is critical for phantom formation in an ischaemic block.
Feed-back information on centrally initiated movements is processed at both supraspinal and spinal levels and is forwarded by a variety of neurones. The aim of the present study was to examine how descending commands relayed by reticulospinal neurones are monitored by a population of spinocerebellar tract neurones. Our main question was whether a spinal border (SB) subpopulation of ventral spinocerebellar tract (VSCT) neurones monitor actions of reticulospinal neurones with input from the mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR) as well as from pyramidal tract (PT) neurones. In the majority of intracellularly recorded SB neurons, stimuli applied in the MLR and in the medullary pyramids evoked EPSPs in parallel with EPSPs evoked by stimulation of axons of reticulospinal neurones in the medial longitudinal fascicle (MLF). In extracellularly recorded neurones short trains of stimuli applied in the ipsilateral and contralateral pyramids potently facilitated discharges evoked from the MLF, as well as EPSPs recorded intracellularly. In both cases the facilitation involved the disynaptic but not the monosynaptic actions. These results indicate that reticulospinal neurones activating SB neurones (or more generally VSCT neurones) are co-excited by axon-collaterals of other reticulospinal neurones and by fibres stimulated within the MLR and PTs. The study leads to the conclusion that these spinocerebellar neurones monitor descending commands for centrally initiated voluntary as well as locomotor movements relayed by reticulospinal neurones. Thereby they may provide the cerebellum with feed-back information on the likely outcome of these commands and any corrections needed to avoid errors in the issuing movements.
The primate reticulospinal tract is usually considered to control proximal and axial muscles, and to be involved mainly in gross movements such as locomotion, reaching and posture. This contrasts with the corticospinal tract, which is thought to be involved in fine control, particularly of independent finger movements. Recent data provide evidence that the reticulospinal tract can exert some influence over hand movements. Although clearly secondary to the corticospinal tract in healthy function, this could assume considerable importance after corticospinal lesion (such as following stroke), when reticulospinal systems could provide a substrate for some recovery of function. We need to understand more about the abilities of the reticular formation to process sensory input and guide motor output, so that rehabilitation strategies can be optimised to work with the innate capabilities of reticular motor control.

Representations of time and time measurements depend on subjective constructs that vary according to changes in our concepts, beliefs and technological advances. Similarly, the past, the future and also the present are subjective representations that depend on each individual's psychic time and biological time. Nonetheless, the construction of these representations is influenced by objective factors (cognitive, physiological and physical) related to neuroscience. Thus, studying representation of time lies at the crossroads between neuroscience and psychoanalysis. Furthermore, these objective factors are supposed to meet criteria of scientific validity, such as reproducibility. However, reproducibility depends on the individual's state that will not be exactly the same later, due precisely to the passage of time. The criteria of scientific validity are therefore only applicable if we place ourselves at time &quot;t&quot;. This does not take into account lifespan biological changes. In fact, it is not neuroscience that is opposed to psychoanalysis based on this notion of subjectivity, illustrated by the concept of temporality, but rather the use and interpretation of neuroscience centered on taking snapshots. We can assume that focusing on present time, in particular instantaneity rather than infinity, prevents us from facing our own finitude. Individuals with autism provide us a good illustration of this idea. Through their autistic behaviors, they are totally focused on the present moment and create repeated discontinuity out of continuity. The hypothesis stated here is that children with autism need to create stereotyped discontinuity because discontinuity repeated at regular intervals might have been fundamentally lacking in their physiological development, due to circadian rhythm alterations. In conclusion, the question is raised that both the current use of neuroscience and the current representation of time might be a means of managing our fear of death, giving us the illusion of controlling the uncontrollable, in particular the passage of time.
The author, a child psychiatrist, calls for a dialogue between psychoanalysis and neuroscience (both from his clinical joint practices with neuropediatricians and on a theoretical level) to found a new approach to the questions of neurodevelopmental and psychopathological disorders. He briefly discusses two examples. The first example is developmental and concerns the links between the archaic grasping reflex and adhesive identification. He shows how the phenomena observed in the two fields can find a logical sequence. The second example concerns a therapeutic technique (wrapping) that is used to soothe self-injurious behaviours in children with autism. Here, again, both approaches are used to better understand the phenomenon in question. Bridges must be built to open new theoretico-clinical and therapeutic collaborations. One could imagine data integration from these two heterogeneous subdomains to form a new complex subdomain, from which productivity is guaranteed.
Daily rhythms in physiological and behavioral processes are controlled by a network of circadian clocks, reset by inputs and delivering circadian signals to the brain and peripheral organs. In mammals, at the top of the network is a master clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus, mainly reset by ambient light. The nocturnal synthesis and release of melatonin by the pineal gland are tightly controlled by the SCN clock and inhibited by light exposure. Several roles of melatonin in the circadian system have been identified. As a major hormonal output, melatonin distributes temporal cues generated by the SCN to the multitude of tissue targets expressing melatonin receptors. In some target structures, like the Pars tuberalis of the adenohypophysis, these melatonin signals can drive daily rhythmicity that would otherwise be lacking. In other target structures, melatonin signals are used for the synchronization (i.e., adjustment of the timing of existing oscillations) of peripheral oscillators, such as the fetal adrenal gland. Due to the expression of melatonin receptors in the SCN, endogenous melatonin is also able to feedback onto the master clock, although its physiological significance needs further characterization. Of note, pharmacological treatment with exogenous melatonin can synchronize the SCN clock. From a clinical point of view, provided that the subject is not exposed to light at night, the daily profile of circulating melatonin provides a reliable estimate of the timing of the human SCN. During the past decade, a number of melatonin agonists have been developed for treating circadian, psychiatric and sleep disorders. These drugs may target the SCN for improving circadian timing or act indirectly at some downstream level of the circadian network to restore proper internal synchronization.
Thought experiments have a long tradition in science. The thought experiment proposed in this article designs a brain that is compatible with a conceptual framework that integrates neuroscience and psychoanalysis. A connectionist model with emergent collective computational abilities is modified progressively and gradually to retrieve concepts such as the following: life instinct, the death instinct, the conscious, the preconscious, the unconscious, the free-association method, parapraxis, repetitive compulsion, repression, self, other, and &quot;I&quot;. In this model, the process of memorisation is represented by a neural network with deep depressions, the bottoms of which correspond to learned configurations known as &quot;attractors&quot;. This thought experiment could be helpful in suggesting new formulations of traditional psychoanalytic and neuroscientific constructs.
The fields of psychoanalysis and neuroscience use different methods of description, analysis and comprehension of reality, and because each is based on a different methodology, each approach constructs a different representation of reality. Thus, psychoanalysis could contribute to a general psychology involving neuroscience to the extent that a &quot;psychoanalytical psychology&quot; (the theory of mental functioning that is extrapolated from psychoanalytical practice) defines natural objects of study (mind functions) for a multidisciplinary approach. However, the so called &quot;naturalisation&quot; of psychoanalytical concepts (metapsychology) does not imply the reduction of these concepts to biology; rather, it suggests a search for compatibility between psychoanalytical concepts and neuroscientific description. Such compatibility would mean the search for common objects that could be described from either a psychoanalytic or a neuroscientific point of view. We suggest that inter-subjectivity, empathy or &quot;co-thinking&quot; processes, from early development to the psychoanalytic relationship or the interaction between the patient and the analyst, could be such a common object for cognitive social neuroscience and psychoanalysis. Together, neuroscience and psychoanalysis could then contribute to a multidisciplinary approach of psychic inter- or co-activity.
Based on clinical, phenomenological and neurobiological observations, psychiatrists often report a deficit in time estimation in patients with schizophrenia. Cognitive models of time estimation in healthy subjects have been proposed and developed for approximately 30 years. The current theory in the field of time perception, which is supported by a connectionist model, postulates that temporal judgement is based upon a pacemaker-counter device that depends mostly upon memory and attentional resources. The pacemaker emits pulses that are accumulated in a counter, and the number of pulses determines the perceived length of an interval. Patients with schizophrenia are known to display attentional and memory dysfunctions. Moreover, dopamine regulation mechanisms are involved in both the temporal perception processes and schizophrenia. Thus, it is still unclear if temporal impairments in schizophrenia are related to a specific disturbance in central temporal processes or are due to certain cognitive problems, such as attentional and memory dysfunctions, or biological abnormalities. The authors present a critical literature review on time perception in schizophrenia that covers topics from psychopathology to neuroscience. Temporal perception appears to play a key role in schizophrenia and to be partially neglected in the current literature. Future research is required to better ascertain the underlying mechanisms of time perception impairments in schizophrenia.


Two experiments examined English speakers' choices of count or mass compatible frames for nouns varying in imageability (concrete, abstract) and noun class (count, mass). Pairing preferences with equative (much/many) and non-equative (less/fewer) constructions were compared for groups of teenagers, young adults, and older adults. Deviations from normative usage were, for all ages, larger for count than for mass nouns, for the non-equative than for the equative construction, and for abstract count than for concrete count nouns. These results indicate that mass syntax is not a developmental default, support proposals that mass syntax is more flexible than count syntax, verify the non-prescriptive use of less with count nouns, and extend the interaction of syntax and semantics in noun classification to older ages, with older adults showing a reduced reliance on semantics. Knowledge of frame compatibility and knowledge of noun class are also shown to be largely independent.
Latent inhibition (LI) is demonstrated when non-reinforced pre-exposure to a to-be-conditioned stimulus retards later learning. Learning is similarly retarded in overshadowing, in this case using the relative intensity of competing cues to manipulate associability. Electrolytic/excitotoxic lesions to shell accumbens (NAc) and systemic amphetamine both reliably abolish LI. Here a conditioned emotional response procedure was used to demonstrate LI and overshadowing and to examine the role of dopamine (DA) within NAc. Experiment 1 showed that LI but not overshadowing was abolished by systemic amphetamine (1.0 mg/kg i.p.). In Experiment 2, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) was used to lesion DA terminals within NAc: both shell- and core- (plus shell-)lesioned rats showed normal LI and overshadowing. Experiment 3 compared the effects of amphetamine microinjected at shell and core coordinates prior to conditioning: LI, but not overshadowing, was abolished by 10.0 but not 5.0 g/side amphetamine injected in core but not shell NAc. These results suggest that the abolition of LI produced by NAc shell lesions is not readily reproduced by regionally restricted DA depletion within NAc; core rather than shell NAc mediates amphetamine-induced abolition of LI; overshadowing is modulated by different neural substrates.
Brain -aminobutyric acid (GABA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(2C) receptors are implicated in the neuronal regulation of reward- and aversion-related behaviour. Within the mesocorticolimbic pathways of the brain, relationships between GABA containing neurons and 5-HT(2C) receptor activity may be important in this context. The primary aim of this study was to investigate the role of NAc shell GABA receptors on ventral tegmental area intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) and to examine the systemic effects of GABAergic ligands in this context. The second aim was to investigate the relationship between GABA receptor- and 5-HT(2C) receptor-related ICSS behaviour, using systemic administration of the selective agonist WAY 161503. Locomotor activity was assessed to compare the potential motor effects of drugs; feeding behaviour and intra-NAc injections of amphetamine (1.0 g/side) were used as positive controls. When administered systemically the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol and antagonist picrotoxin did not selectively change ICSS reward thresholds, although the 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist WAY 161503 (1.0 mg/kg) decreased reward measures. Intra-NAc shell administration of muscimol (225 ng/side) and picrotoxin (125 ng/side), respectively, decreased and increased measures of reward. Intra-NAc shell baclofen (0-225 ng/side; GABA(B) receptor agonist) did not affect any ICSS measures although it increased feeding. Combining picrotoxin and WAY 161503 attenuated the effects of each. These results suggest that a 5-HT(2C) and GABA(A) receptor-mediated neuronal relationship in the NAc shell may be relevant for the regulation of brain reward pathways.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a chronic and disabling psychiatric disease with a lifetime prevalence of 2-3%. People with OCD suffer from intrusive, unwanted and recurrent thoughts (obsessions) and/or repetitive ritualistic behaviors (compulsions). The aim of this study is to quantify the dimensions of ritualistic 'compulsive-like' behavior in quinpirole-induced behavior in rats by using T-pattern behavioral analysis. In addition, we investigated whether the behavioral effects elicited by quinpirole sensitization remained after 2 weeks of cessation of treatment. Finally, to study the neurobiological underpinnings of this 'compulsive-like' behavior, we investigated the effect of quinpirole treatment on the extracellular dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens. Once established, 'compulsive-like' behavior is dependent upon quinpirole administration, as this behavior rapidly normalized after cessation of treatment. After a single dose of quinpirole the dopamine level decreased more in saline pre-treated animals as compared with animals given quinpirole treatment continuously. Furthermore, T-pattern analysis revealed that quinpirole-induced behavior consists, unlike OCD rituals, of a smaller behavioral repertoire. As seen in patients with OCD, quinpirole-treated animals performed these behaviors with a high rate of repetition. These findings suggest that quinpirole-induced behavior mimics only part of the compulsive behavior as shown in OCD patients.
Lamotrigine is suggested to have potential as an add-on treatment for patients with schizophrenia. Supporting evidence comes from the efficacy of the drug in models of psychotic-like behaviour induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, such as phencyclidine (PCP). These drugs enhance levels of the monoamines in the cortex, which may contribute to their psychotomimetic effects. The ability of lamotrigine to prevent these neurochemical changes has not been examined. We studied PCP-evoked overflow of noradrenaline, dopamine and serotonin in the medial prefrontal cortex of awake rats using microdialysis. Rats were administered lamotrigine or vehicle, followed by PCP. Locomotor activity was also recorded before and after drug treatment. Lamotrigine did not have an influence on basal levels of the monoamines, but significantly reduced PCP-evoked overflow of dopamine and serotonin; PCP-evoked overflow of noradrenaline was also reduced by lamotrigine, but not to a significant degree. In contrast, PCP-induced hyperactivity was unaffected by lamotrigine. It is concluded that lamotrigine can modify PCP-evoked monoamine overflow in the cortex, consistent with an ability to prevent the psychotomimetic effects of NMDA receptor antagonists in rodents and humans. The dissociation between monoamine overflow and locomotor activity suggests the involvement of different brain circuits; relevance to the treatment of schizophrenia is also discussed.
Reduced glutamatergic signaling may contribute to cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia. Glutamatergic synapses might be the site of primary abnormalities in this disorder with the dopaminergic changes being secondary to altered glutamatergic transmission. Isolation rearing of rats from weaning has been used as an experimental model for affective disorders like schizophrenia. In this immunohistochemistry study we evaluate the changes in the expression of GluR1 and GluR2 AMPA receptors in the hippocampus, amygdala and entorhinal cortex induced by isolation rearing. Two groups of Wistar rats (grouped and isolated, n = 6/each) were used. Isolation rearing induced a significant decrease in GluR1- and GluR2-immunopositive cells in the hippocampus. For GluR1 the reduction was 31% in the hilus of dentate gyrus (p = 0.02) and 47% in CA3 (p = 0.002). For GluR2 the reduction was 52% in the hilus of dentate gyrus (p &lt; 0.0001) and 29% in CA1 (p = 0.002). Isolation rearing induced a non-significant decrease in GluR1-immunopositive cells in the basolateral amygdala (p = 0.066) while no alteration was found in the lateral nucleus (p = 0.657). For GluR2 no changes were induced by isolation in both nuclei of the amygdala. In the entorhinal cortex no apparent difference was seen in GluR1- or GluR2-immunopositive cells when isolated reared rats were compared to grouped rats. The results suggest that isolation rearing from weaning induces changes on the expression of AMPA glutamate receptors in the hippocampus similar to those reported for postmortem human brains with schizophrenia. These findings also contribute to additional evidence for using isolation rearing of rats from weaning as an animal model for schizophrenia.

Conversion disorder in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV-TR) describes neurological symptoms, including weakness, numbness and events resembling epilepsy or syncope, which can be positively identified as not being due to recognised neurological disease. This review combines perspectives from psychiatry, psychology and neurology to identify and discuss key problems with the current diagnostic DSM-IV criteria for conversion disorder and to make the following proposals for DSM-5: (a) abandoning the label &quot;conversion disorder&quot; and replacing it with an alternative term that is both theoretically neutral and potentially more acceptable to patients and practitioners; (b) relegating the requirements for &quot;association of psychological factors&quot; and the &quot;exclusion of feigning&quot; to the accompanying text; (c) adding a criterion requiring clinical findings of internal inconsistency or incongruity with recognised neurological or medical disease and altering the current 'disease exclusion' criteria to one in which the symptom must not be 'better explained' by a disease if present, (d) adding a 'cognitive symptoms' subtype. We also discuss whether conversion symptoms are better classified with other somatic symptom disorders or with dissociative disorders and how we might address the potential heterogeneity of conversion symptoms in classification.




The ability to localize visual objects is a fundamental component of human behavior and requires the integration of position information from object components. The retinal eccentricity of a stimulus and the locus of spatial attention can affect object localization, but it is unclear whether these factors alter the global localization of the object, the localization of object components, or both. We used psychophysical methods in humans to quantify behavioral responses in a centroid estimation task. Subjects located the centroid of briefly presented random dot patterns (RDPs). A peripheral cue was used to bias attention toward one side of the display. We found that although subjects were able to localize centroid positions reliably, they typically had a bias toward the fovea and a shift toward the locus of attention. We compared quantitative models that explain these effects either as biased global localization of the RDPs or as anisotropic integration of weighted dot component positions. A model that allowed retinal eccentricity and spatial attention to alter the weights assigned to individual dot positions best explained subjects' performance. These results show that global position perception depends on both the retinal eccentricity of stimulus components and their positions relative to the current locus of attention.
Recent studies investigating working memory for location, color, and orientation support a dynamic resource model. We examined whether this might also apply to motion, using random dot kinematograms (RDKs) presented sequentially or simultaneously. Mean precision for motion direction declined as sequence length increased, with precision being lower for earlier RDKs. Two alternative models of working memory were compared specifically to distinguish between the contributions of different sources of error that corrupt memory (W. Zhang &amp; S. J. Luck, 2008 vs. P. M. Bays, R. F. G. Catalao, &amp; M. Husain, 2009). The latter provided a significantly better fit for the data, revealing that decrease in memory precision for earlier items is explained by an increase in interference from other items in a sequence rather than random guessing or a temporal decay of information. Misbinding feature attributes is an important source of error in working memory. Precision of memory for motion direction decreased when two RDKs were presented simultaneously as transparent surfaces, compared to sequential RDKs. However, precision was enhanced when one motion surface was prioritized, demonstrating that selective attention can improve recall precision. These results are consistent with a resource model that can be used as a general conceptual framework for understanding working memory across a range of visual features.



The dystonias are a heterogeneous group of hyperkinetic movement disorders characterised by involuntary sustained muscle contractions that lead to abnormal postures and repetitive movements. Dystonia syndromes represent common movement disorders and yet are often misdiagnosed or unrecognised. In recent years, there have been substantial advances in the understanding of the spectrum of clinical features that encompass dystonia syndromes, from severe generalised childhood dystonia that is often genetic in origin, to adult-onset focal dystonias and rarer forms of secondary dystonias, to dystonia as a feature of other types of CNS dysfunction. There has also been a rationalisation of the classification of dystonia and a greater understanding of the causes of dystonic movements from the study of genetics, neurophysiology, and functional imaging in the most prevalent form of dystonia syndrome, primary dystonia.
Recent developmental cognitive neuroscience research has supported the notion that puberty and adolescence are periods of profound socio-emotional development. The current study was designed to investigate whether the onset of puberty marks an increase in the awareness of complex, or &quot;mixed,&quot; emotions. Eighty-three female participants (aged 9-16years) were divided into three groups according to a self-report measure of puberty stage (early-, mid- and post-puberty). Participants were presented with emotional scenarios, and used four linear scales to rate their emotional response to each scenario. Scenarios were designed to evoke social emotions (embarrassment or guilt) or basic emotions (anger or fear), where social emotions are defined as those which require the representation of others' mental states. We measured the relative complexity or &quot;mixedness&quot; of emotional responses, that is, the degree to which participants reported feeling more than one emotion for a given scenario. We found that mixed emotion reporting increased between early- and post-puberty for social emotion scenarios, and showed no relationship with age, whereas there was no change in mixed emotion reporting for basic emotion scenarios across age or puberty groups. This suggests that the awareness of mixed emotions develops during the course of puberty, and that this development is specific to social emotions. Results are discussed in the context of brain development across puberty and adolescence, with speculation regarding the potential implications for education.
Deuterated water is widely used for measuring de novo lipogenesis on the basis of quantifying lipid (2)H-enrichment relative to that of body water. However, incorporation of (2)H-enrichment from body water into newly synthesized lipid molecules is incomplete therefore the true lipid precursor enrichment differs from that of body water. We describe a novel measurement of de novo lipogenesis that is based on a true precursor-product analysis of hepatic acetyl-CoA and triglyceride methyl enrichments from deuterated water. After deuterated water administration to seven in situ and seven perfused livers, acetyl-CoA methyl enrichment was inferred from (2)H nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of hepatic glutamate/glutamine (Glx) enrichment and triglyceride methyl enrichment was directly determined by (2)H nuclear magnetic resonance of triglycerides. Acetyl-CoA (2) H-enrichment was 71%  1% that of body water for in situ livers and 53%  2% of perfusate water for perfused livers. From the ratio of triglyceride-methyl/acetyl-CoA enrichments, fractional de novo lipogenesis rates of 0.97%  0.09%/2 hr and 7.92%  1.47%/48 hr were obtained for perfused and in situ liver triglycerides, respectively. Our method reveals that acetyl-CoA enrichment is significantly less than body water both for in situ and perfused livers. Furthermore, the difference between acetyl-CoA and body water enrichments is sensitive to the experimental setting.
Single-shot echo-planar imaging is the most common acquisition technique for whole-brain diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies in vivo. Higher field MRI systems are readily available and advantageous for acquiring DTI due to increased signal. One of the practical issues for DTI with single-shot echo-planar imaging at high-field is incomplete fat suppression resulting in a chemically shifted fat artifact within the brain image. Unsuppressed fat is especially detrimental in DTI because the diffusion coefficient of fat is two orders of magnitude lower than that of parenchyma, producing brighter appearing fat artifacts with greater diffusion weighting. In this work, several fat suppression techniques were tested alone and in combination with the goal of finding a method that provides robust fat suppression and can be used in high-resolution single-shot echo-planar imaging DTI studies. Combination of chemical shift saturation with slice-select gradient reversal within a dual-spin-echo diffusion preparation period was found to provide robust fat suppression at 3 T.
Down syndrome (DS) is the most frequent genetic disorder leading to intellectual disabilities and is caused by three copies of human chromosome 21. Mouse models are widely used to better understand the physiopathology in DS or to test new therapeutic approaches. The older and the most widely used mouse models are the trisomic Ts65Dn and the Ts1Cje mice. They display deficits similar to those observed in DS people, such as those in behavior and cognition or in neuronal abnormalities. The Ts65Dn model is currently used for further therapeutic assessment of candidate drugs. In both models, the trisomy was induced by reciprocal chromosomal translocations that were not further characterized. Using a comparative genomic approach, we have been able to locate precisely the translocation breakpoint in these two models and we took advantage of this finding to derive a new and more efficient Ts65Dn genotyping strategy. Furthermore, we found that the translocations introduce additional aneuploidy in both models, with a monosomy of seven genes in the most telomeric part of mouse chromosome 12 in the Ts1Cje and a trisomy of 60 centromeric genes on mouse chromosome 17 in the Ts65Dn. Finally, we report here the overexpression of the newly found aneuploid genes in the Ts65Dn heart and we discuss their potential impact on the validity of the DS model.
Pain neurophysiology education (PNE) is a form of education for patients with chronic low back pain (CLBP). The purpose of this systematic review was to investigate the evidence for PNE in the management of pateints with CLBP. A literature search of MEDLINE, CINAHL and AMED was performed from 1996(01)-2010(09). RCT appraisal and synthesis was assessed using the Cochrane Back Review Group (CBRG) guidelines. The main outcome measures were pain, physical-function, psychological-function, and social-function. Two moderate quality RCTs (n=122) were included in the final review. According to the CBRG criteria there was very low quality evidence that PNE is beneficial for pain, physical-function, psychological-function, and social-function. Meta-analysis found PNE produced statistically significant but clinically small improvements in short-term pain of 5mm (0, 10.0mm) [mean difference (95%CI)] on the 100mm VAS. This review was limited by the small number of studies (n=2) that met the inclusion criteria and by the fact that both studies were produced by the same group that published the PNE manual. These factors contributed to the relatively low grading of the evidence. There is a need for more studies investigating PNE by different research groups to support early promising findings. Until then firm clinical recommendations cannot be made.
A high prevalence of dual nerve disorders is frequently reported. How a secondary nerve disorder may develop following a primary nerve disorder remains largely unknown. Although still frequently cited, most explanatory theories were formulated many years ago. Considering recent advances in neuroscience, it is uncertain whether these theories still reflect current expert opinion. A Delphi study was conducted to update views on potential mechanisms underlying dual nerve disorders. In three rounds, seventeen international experts in the field of peripheral nerve disorders were asked to list possible mechanisms and rate their plausibility. Mechanisms with a median plausibility rating of 7 out of 10 were considered highly plausible. The experts identified fourteen mechanisms associated with a first nerve disorder that may predispose to the development of another nerve disorder. Of these fourteen mechanisms, nine have not previously been linked to double crush. Four mechanisms were considered highly plausible (impaired axonal transport, ion channel up or downregulation, inflammation in the dorsal root ganglia and neuroma-in-continuity). Eight additional mechanisms were listed which are not triggered by a primary nerve disorder, but may render the nervous system more vulnerable to multiple nerve disorders, such as systemic diseases and neurotoxic medication. Even though many mechanisms were classified as plausible or highly plausible, overall plausibility ratings varied widely. Experts indicated that a wide range of mechanisms has to be considered to better understand dual nerve disorders. Previously listed theories cannot be discarded, but may be insufficient to explain the high prevalence of dual nerve disorders.
The objective of this study is to determine prevention strategies for potentially serious injury events among children younger than 3 years of age based upon circumstances surrounding injury events. Surveillance was conducted on all injuries to District of Columbia (DC) residents less than 3 years old that resulted in an Emergency Department (ED) visit, hospitalization, or death for 1 year. Data were collected through abstraction of medical records and interviews with a subset of parents of injured children. Investigators coded injury-related events for the potential for death or disability. Potential prevention strategies were then determined for all injury events that had at least a moderate potential for death or disability and sufficient detail for coding (n = 425). Injury-related events included 10 deaths, 163 hospitalizations, and 2,868 ED visits (3,041 events in total). Of the hospitalizations, 88% were coded as moderate or high potential for disability or death, versus only 21% of the coded ED visits. For potentially serious events, environmental change strategies were identified for 47%, behavior change strategies for 77%, and policy change strategies for 24%. For 46% of the events more than one type of prevention strategy was identified. Only 8% had no identifiable prevention strategy. Prevention strategies varied by specific cause of injury. Potential prevention strategies were identifiable for nearly all potentially serious injury events, with multiple potential prevention strategies identified for a large fraction of the events. These findings support developing multifaceted prevention approaches informed by community-based injury surveillance.
This article examines an explanation circulating within a U.S. multidisciplinary pediatric pain clinic that links the neurobiology of functional pain disorders to desirable personal attributes such as smartness and creativity. Drawing on ethnographic observations and the analysis of video-recorded clinical interactions and focusing on two cases, I introduce the term personhood diagnostics to explore how the explanatory framework worked not only to pinpoint a pathophysiological mechanism for pain to legitimize it as &quot;real&quot; but also to cast patients as virtuous persons. In doing so, it laid the groundwork for an ethic of clinical care that privileged the patient's responsibility for treatment. Within this narrative logic, diagnostic explanations reveal not only causal pathways but also predictive claims about recovery. By considering what is at stake when personal attributes are marshaled within a neurobiological diagnostic register that also lays out the patient's role in healing, this article complicates psychosomatic accounts of pain.
Long debated within the humanistic tradition, the concept of 'self' has recently been embraced as a subject of investigation by cognitive neuroscience. Tracing parallels between ancient philosophical ideas and current-day scientific research on the 'self', the author proposes that contemporary knowledge based on empirical neuroscientific evidence may inform novel perspectives on-and draw inspiration from-notions grounded in ancient intuitions and traditionally falling within humanistic fields of enquiry. Further, the author suggests that the 'self', as a major object of philosophical and psychological enquiry, as well as a central component of human motivation, cognition, affect and social identity, is an inherently cross-disciplinary research topic, which, by virtue of its pervasive and defining presence in human existence, lends itself-and demands-to be approached both from scientific (objective) and phenomenological (subjective) vantage points. On this premise, the author proposes that the study of the 'self' provides both neuroscientists and humanists with a fertile ground for cross-disciplinary research, and with the challenge and the opportunity to rethink the relationship of science to knowledge.

Serotonin is one of the most abundant molecules in the gastrointestinal tract and it plays a crucial role in the regulation of several physiological functions, such as motility, secretion and visceral sensitivity. Besides this well documented physiological role, increasing evidence supports the concept that 5-HT is directly involved in pathological mechanisms, as well as the modulation of immune/inflammatory responses within the gut. The wide range of pathophysiological actions exerted by 5-HT are mediated by several different serotonergic receptor types and subtypes. Depending on the receptor bound and its localization, 5-HT evokes different and, sometimes, opposite responses. Therapeutic interventions aiming at modulating 5-HT signaling are mainly focused on the development of receptor agonists/antagonists, characterized by high affinity and selectivity for serotonergic receptors in the gut, to avoid the presence of adverse effects in the brain, where 5-HT is important in control mood. This review summarizes the vast current knowledge on 5-HT as a physiological mediator and analyzes the increasing body of literature describing 5-HT signaling abnormalities in functional and inflammatory disorders both in animal models and in humans. Finally, an overview on the therapeutic agents used in clinical practice is provided.
Neurons are polarized cells that have a complex and unique morphology: long processes (axons and dendrites) extending far from the cell body. In addition, the somatodendritic and axonal domains are further divided into specific subdomains, such as synapses (pre- and postsynaptic specializations), proximal and distal dendrites, axon initial segments, nodes of Ranvier, and axon growth cones. The striking asymmetry and complexity of neuronal cells are necessary for their function in receiving, processing and transferring electrical signals, with each domain playing a precise function in these processes. In order to establish and maintain distinct neuronal domains, mechanisms must exist for protein delivery to specific neuronal compartments, such that each compartment has the correct functional molecular composition. How polarized membrane domains are established and maintained is a long-standing question. Transmembrane proteins, such as receptors and adhesion molecules, can be transported to their proper membrane domains by several pathways. The biosynthetic secretory system delivers newly synthesized transmembrane proteins from the ER via the Golgi and trans-Golgi-network (TGN) to the plasma membrane. In addition, the endosomal system is critically involved in many instances in ensuring proper (re)targeting of membrane components because it can internalize and degrade mislocalized proteins, or recycle proteins from one domain to another. The endosomal system is thus crucial for establishing and maintaining neuronal polarity. In this review, we focus mainly on the intracellular compartments that serve as sorting stations for polarized transport, with particular emphasis on the emerging roles of endosomes.
Disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is one of the strongest supported risk genes for psychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia, major depression, bipolar disorder, and autism. Intensive study over the past 11 years, since the gene was cloned, has tried to understand at the molecular and cellular levels how mutations in DISC1 contribute to these diseases. The DISC1 protein has been reported to be localized to cytoskeleton-rich regions in cells, including the centrosome, base of primary cilia, axon and dendritic shafts and spines. Here we review the functions of DISC1 which are relevant for cytoskeletal regulation and its crucial roles during normal brain development and in adult brain function. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Neuronal Function.
The plasticity of excitatory glutamate synapses emerged over the last decades as a core cellular mechanism for the encoding and processing of various cognitive functions. This property relies in part on the ability to dynamically adjust the content of glutamate receptors in the postsynaptic membrane. Among these receptors, NMDA receptors (NMDAR), which are composed of two obligatory GluN1 and two regulatory GluN2/3 subunits, play a key role in the induction of many forms of plasticity processes. Understanding how NMDAR subtypes are trafficked and regulated in the synapse has thus captured considerable attention. It has emerged that NMDAR synaptic content relies on an equilibrium between intracellular trafficking and rapid lateral diffusion of the receptor within the synaptic area. Here, we review our current understanding of NMDAR trafficking, mostly the ones at the surface membrane, with a specific focus on the role of interacting PDZ-containing proteins during the journey of NMDAR to and around the synaptic area. The cellular and molecular lessons obtained from examining NMDAR dynamics and regulation by interacting proteins appear to apply to other ionotropic neurotransmitter receptors, and thus shed new light on the modulation of excitatory, inhibitory, and modulatory transmission. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Neuronal Function'.
The histone H3-lysine-4 methyltransferase mixed-lineage leukemia 3 (MLL3) belongs to a large complex that functions as a coactivator of multiple transcription factors, including the bile acid (BA)-activated nuclear receptor, farnesoid X receptor (FXR), a critical player in BA homeostasis. BA-activated FXR induces hepatic expression of small heterodimer partner (SHP), which in turn suppresses expression of BA synthesis genes, Cyp7a1 and Cyp8b1. Thus, MLL3(/) mice that express a catalytically inactive mutant form of MLL3 display increased BA levels. Recently, we have discovered a distinct regulatory pathway for BA homeostasis, in which p53 independently up-regulates SHP expression in the liver. Here, we show that the MLL3 complex is also essential for p53 transactivation of SHP. Although activated p53 signaling in MLL3(+/+) mice results in decreased BA levels through hepatic up-regulation of SHP, these changes are abolished in MLL3(/) mice. For both HepG2 cells and mouse liver, we also demonstrate that p53 directs the recruitment of different components of the MLL3 complex to the p53-response elements of SHP and that p53-dependent H3-lysine-4-trimethylation of SHP requires MLL3. From these results, we conclude that both FXR- and p53-dependent regulatory pathways for SHP expression in BA homeostasis require the MLL3 complex; thus, the MLL3 complex is likely a master regulator of BA homeostasis. Using a common coregulator complex for multiple transcription factors, which independently control expression of the same gene, might be a prevalent theme in gene regulation and may also play critical roles in assigning a specific biological function to a coregulator complex.
Gestational exposure to the estrogenic endocrine disruptor methoxychlor (MXC) disrupts the female reproductive system at the molecular, physiological, and behavioral levels in adulthood. The current study addressed whether perinatal exposure to endocrine disruptors re-programs expression of a suite of genes expressed in the hypothalamus that control reproductive function and related these molecular changes to premature reproductive aging. Fischer rats were exposed daily for 12 consecutive days to vehicle (dimethylsulfoxide), estradiol benzoate (EB) (1 mg/kg), and MXC (low dose, 20 g/kg or high dose, 100 mg/kg), beginning on embryonic d 19 through postnatal d 7. The perinatally exposed females were aged to 16-17 months and monitored for reproductive senescence. After euthanasia, hypothalamic regions [preoptic area (POA) and medial basal hypothalamus] were dissected for real-time PCR of gene expression or pyrosequencing to assess DNA methylation of the Esr1 gene. Using a 48-gene PCR platform, two genes (Kiss1 and Esr1) were significantly different in the POA of endocrine-disrupting chemical-exposed rats compared with vehicle-exposed rats after Bonferroni correction. Fifteen POA genes were up-regulated by at least 50% in EB or high-dose MXC compared with vehicle. To understand the epigenetic basis of the increased Esr1 gene expression, we performed bisulfite conversion and pyrosequencing of the Esr1 promoter. EB-treated rats had significantly higher percentage of methylation at three CpG sites in the Esr1 promoter compared with control rats. Together with these molecular effects, perinatal MXC and EB altered estrous cyclicity and advanced reproductive senescence. Thus, early life exposure to endocrine disruptors has lifelong effects on neuroendocrine gene expression and DNA methylation, together with causing the advancement of reproductive senescence.
Although it has been well established that induction of growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) during development coincides with axonal outgrowth and early synapse formation, the existence of neuronal plasticity and neurite outgrowth in the adult central nervous system after injuries is more controversial. To visualize the processes of neuronal injury and repair in living animals, we generated reporter mice for bioluminescence and fluorescence imaging bearing the luc (luciferase) and gfp (green fluorescent protein) reporter genes under the control of the murine GAP-43 promoter. Reporter functionality was first observed during the development of transgenic embryos. Using in vivo bioluminescence and fluorescence imaging, we visualized induction of the GAP-43 signals from live embryos starting at E10.5, as well as neuronal responses to brain and peripheral nerve injuries (the signals peaked at 14 days postinjury). Moreover, three-dimensional analysis of the GAP-43 bioluminescent signal confirmed that it originated from brain structures affected by ischemic injury. The analysis of fluorescence signal at cellular level revealed colocalization between endogenous protein and the GAP-43-driven gfp transgene. Taken together, our results suggest that the GAP-43-luc/gfp reporter mouse represents a valid model system for real-time analysis of neurite outgrowth and the capacity of the adult nervous system to regenerate after injuries.
The prevalence of obesity and its associated medical complications, including type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease, continues to rise globally. Lifestyle changes in the last decades have greatly contributed to the current obesity trends. However, inheritable biological factors that disrupt the tightly regulated equilibrium between caloric intake and energy expenditure also appear to play a critical part. Mounting evidence obtained from human and rodent studies suggests that perturbed brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling in appetite-regulating centers in the brain might be a culprit. Here, we review findings that inform the critical roles of BDNF and its receptor TrkB in energy balance and reward centers of the brain impacting feeding behavior and body weight.
Acidosis is a common feature of many neuronal diseases and often accompanied with adverse consequences such as pain and neuronal injury. Before the discovery of acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs), protons were usually considered as a modulator of other ion channels, such as voltage-gated calcium channels, N-methyl-D-aspartate, and -amino butyric acid(A) receptor channels. Accordingly, the functional effects of acidosis were considered as consequences of modulations of these channels. Since the first cloning of ASICs in 1997, the conventional view on acidosis-mediated pain and cell injury has been dramatically changed. To date, ASICs, which are directly activated by extracellular protons, are shown to mediate most of the acidosis-associated physiological and pathological functions. For example, ASIC1a channels are reported to mediate acidosis-induced ischemic neuronal death. In this article, we will review the possible mechanisms that underlie ASIC1a channel-mediated neuronal death and discuss ASIC1a channel modulators involved in this process.
Guanidine and its alkyl analogs stimulate the neuromuscular junction presynaptically by inhibiting voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels, leading to enhanced release of acetylcholine in the synaptic cleft. This stimulatory effect of guanidine underlies its use in the therapy for the neuromuscular diseases myasthenic syndrome of Lambert-Eaton and botulism. The therapeutic use of guanidine is limited, however, because of side effects that accompany its administration. Therefore, the design of guanidine analogs with improved therapeutic indices is desirable. Progress toward this goal is hindered by the lack of knowledge of the mechanism by which these molecules inhibit Kv channels. Here we examine an array of possible mechanisms, including charge screening, disruption of the protein-lipid interfaces, direct interaction with the voltage sensors, and pore-binding. Our results demonstrate that guanidines bind within the intracellular pore of the channel and perturb a hydrophobic subunit interface to stabilize a closed state of the channel. This mechanism provides a foundation for the design of guanidine analogs for the therapeutic intervention of neuromuscular diseases.
Molecular evolution and chemical genetics have been applied to generate functional pairings of mutated G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and nonendogenous ligands. These mutant receptors, referred to as receptors activated solely by synthetic ligands (RASSLs) or designer receptors exclusively activated by designer drugs (DREADDs), have huge potential to define physiological roles of GPCRs and to validate receptors in animal models as therapeutic targets to treat human disease. However, appreciation of ligand bias and functional selectivity of different ligands at the same receptor suggests that RASSLs may signal differently than wild-type receptors activated by endogenous agonists. We assessed this by generating forms of wild-type human M(3) muscarinic receptor and a RASSL variant that responds selectively to clozapine N-oxide. Although the RASSL receptor had reduced affinity for muscarinic antagonists, including atropine, stimulation with clozapine N-oxide produced effects very similar to those generated by acetylcholine at the wild-type M(3)-receptor. Such effects included the relative movement of the third intracellular loop and C-terminal tail of intramolecular fluorescence resonance energy transfer sensors and the ability of the wild type and evolved mutant to regulate extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 phosphorylation. Each form interacted similarly with -arrestin 2 and was internalized from the cell surface in response to the appropriate ligand. Furthermore, the pattern of phosphorylation of specific serine residues within the evolved receptor in response to clozapine N-oxide was very similar to that produced by acetylcholine at the wild type. Such results provide confidence that, at least for the M(3) muscarinic receptor, results obtained after transgenic expression of this RASSL are likely to mirror the actions of acetylcholine at the wild type receptor.
Ethanol (ETOH) can cause apoptotic death of neurons by depleting GSH with an associated increase in oxidative stress. The current study illustrates a means to overcome this ETOH-induced neurotoxicity by enhancing GSH through boosting Nrf2, a transcription factor that controls GSH homeostasis. ETOH treatment caused a significant increase in Nrf2 protein, transcript expression, Nrf2-DNA binding activity, and expression of its transcriptional target, NQO1, in primary cortical neuron (PCNs). However, this increase in Nrf2 did not maintain GSH levels in response to ETOH, and apoptotic death still occurred. To elucidate this phenomenon, we silenced Nrf2 in neurons and found that ETOH-induced GSH depletion and the increase in superoxide levels were exacerbated. Furthermore, Nrf2 knockdown resulted in significantly increased (P &lt; 0.05) caspase 3 activity and apoptosis. Adenovirus-mediated overexpression of Nrf2 prevented ETOH-induced depletion of GSH from the medium and high GSH subpopulations and prevented ETOH-related apoptotic death. These studies illustrate the importance of Nrf2-dependent maintenance of GSH homeostasis in cerebral cortical neurons in the defense against oxidative stress and apoptotic death elicited by ETOH exposure.
To date, a therapy for Huntington's disease (HD), a genetic, neurodegenerative disorder, remains elusive. HD is characterized by cell loss in the basal ganglia, with particular damage to the putamen, an area of the brain responsible for initiating and refining motor movements. Consequently, patients exhibit a hyperkinetic movement disorder. RNA interference (RNAi) offers therapeutic potential for this disorder by reducing the expression of HTT, the disease-causing gene. We have previously demonstrated that partial suppression of both wild-type and mutant HTT in the striatum prevents behavioral and neuropathological abnormalities in rodent models of HD. However, given the role of HTT in various cellular processes, it remains unknown whether a partial suppression of both alleles will be safe in mammals whose neurophysiology, basal ganglia anatomy, and behavioral repertoire more closely resembles that of a human. Here, we investigate whether a partial reduction of HTT in the normal non-human primate putamen is safe. We demonstrate that a 45% reduction of rhesus HTT expression in the mid- and caudal putamen does not induce motor deficits, neuronal degeneration, astrogliosis, or an immune response. Together, these data suggest that partial suppression of wild-type HTT expression is well tolerated in the primate putamen and further supports RNAi as a therapy for HD.
Huntington disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by CAG-expansion in the huntingtin gene (HTT) that results in a toxic gain of function in the mutant huntingtin protein (mHTT). Reducing the expression of mHTT is therefore an attractive therapy for HD. However, wild-type HTT protein is essential for development and has critical roles in maintaining neuronal health. Therapies for HD that reduce wild-type HTT may therefore generate unintended negative consequences. We have identified single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) targets in the human HD population for the disease-specific targeting of the HTT gene. Using primary cells from patients with HD and the transgenic YAC18 and BACHD mouse lines, we developed antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) molecules that potently and selectively silence mHTT at both exonic and intronic SNP sites. Modification of these ASOs with S-constrained-ethyl (cET) motifs significantly improves potency while maintaining allele selectively in vitro. The developed ASO is potent and selective for mHTT in vivo after delivery to the mouse brain. We demonstrate that potent and selective allele-specific knockdown of the mHTT protein can be achieved at therapeutically relevant SNP sites using ASOs in vitro and in vivo.


A confident clinical diagnosis of psychogenic tremor is often possible, but, in some cases, a &quot;laboratory-supported&quot; level of certainty would aid in early positive diagnosis. Various electrophysiological tests have been suggested to identify patients with psychogenic tremor, but their diagnostic reliability has never been assessed &quot;head to head&quot; nor compared to forms of organic tremor other than essential tremor or PD. We compared baseline tremor characteristics (e.g., frequency and amplitude) as well as electrophysiological tests previously reported to distinguish psychogenic and organic tremor in a cohort of 13 patients with psychogenic tremor and 25 patients with organic tremor, the latter including PD, essential-, dystonic-, and neuropathic tremors. We assessed between-group differences and calculated sensitivity and specificity for each test. A number of tests, including entrainment or frequency changes with tapping, pause of tremor during contralateral ballistic movements, increase in tremor amplitude with loading, presence of coherence, and tonic coactivation at tremor onset, revealed significant differences on a group level, but there was no single test with adequate sensitivity and specificity for separating the groups (33%-77% and 84%-100%, respectively). However, a combination of electrophysiological tests was able to distinguish psychogenic and organic tremor with excellent sensitivity and specificity. A laboratory-supported level of diagnostic certainty in psychogenic tremor is likely to require a battery of electrophysiological tests to provide sufficient specificity and sensitivity. Our data suggest such a battery that, if supported in a prospective study, may form the basis of laboratory-supported criteria for the diagnosis of psychogenic tremor.
Although movement impairment in Parkinson's disease includes slowness (bradykinesia), decreased amplitude (hypokinesia), and dysrhythmia, clinicians are instructed to rate them in a combined 0-4 severity scale using the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor subscale. The objective was to evaluate whether bradykinesia, hypokinesia, and dysrhythmia are associated with differential motor impairment and response to dopaminergic medications in patients with Parkinson's disease. Eighty five Parkinson's disease patients performed finger-tapping (item 23), hand-grasping (item 24), and pronation-supination (item 25) tasks OFF and ON medication while wearing motion sensors on the most affected hand. Speed, amplitude, and rhythm were rated using the Modified Bradykinesia Rating Scale. Quantitative variables representing speed (root mean square angular velocity), amplitude (excursion angle), and rhythm (coefficient of variation) were extracted from kinematic data. Fatigue was measured as decrements in speed and amplitude during the last 5 seconds compared with the first 5 seconds of movement. Amplitude impairments were worse and more prevalent than speed or rhythm impairments across all tasks (P &lt; .001); however, in the ON state, speed scores improved exclusively by clinical (P &lt; 10(-6) ) and predominantly by quantitative (P &lt; .05) measures. Motor scores from OFF to ON improved in subjects who were strictly bradykinetic (P &lt; .01) and both bradykinetic and hypokinetic (P &lt; 10(-6) ), but not in those strictly hypokinetic. Fatigue in speed and amplitude was not improved by medication. Hypokinesia is more prevalent than bradykinesia, but dopaminergic medications predominantly improve the latter. Parkinson's disease patients may show different degrees of impairment in these movement components, which deserve separate measurement in research studies.  2011 Movement Disorder Society.





Limitations inherent to antiretroviral therapy (ART) in its pharmacokinetic properties remain despite over 15 years of broad use. Our laboratory has pioneered a means to improve ART delivery through monocyte-macrophage carriage of nanoformulated drug-encapsulated particles (nanoART). To this end, our prior works sought to optimize nanoART size, charge, and physical properties for cell uptake and antiretroviral activities. To test the functional consequences of indinavir, ritonavir, and efavirenz formulations we investigated relationships between human monocyte and macrophage cytotoxicities and nanoART dose, size, surfactant, and preparation. Wet-milled particles were more cytotoxic to monocytes-macrophages than those prepared by homogenization; with concurrent induction of tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Interestingly, pure suspensions of indinavir and ritonavir at 0.5 mM, and efavirenz at 0.1 mM and 0.5 mM also proved cytotoxic. Individual surfactants and formulated fluconazole neither affected cell function or viability. Although nanoART did not alter brain tight junction proteins ZO-2 and occludin, 0. 5mM ritonavir formulations did alter brain transendothelial electric resistance. These results underscore the potential importance of evaluating the physicochemical and functional properties of nanoART before human evaluations.
Pharmacologic antagonism of cannabinoid 1 receptors (CB1 receptors) in the central nervous system (CNS) suppresses food intake, promotes weight loss, and improves the metabolic profile. Since the CB1 receptor is expressed both in the CNS and in peripheral tissues, therapeutic value may be gained with CB1 receptor inverse agonists acting on receptors in both domains. The present report examines the metabolic and CNS actions of a novel CB1 receptor inverse agonist, compound 64, a 1,5,6-trisubstituted pyrazolopyrimidinone. Compound 64 showed similar or superior binding affinity, in vitro potency, and pharmacokinetic profile compared to rimonabant. Both compounds improved the metabolic profile in diet-induced obese (DIO) rats and obese cynomolgus monkeys. Weight loss tended to be greater in compound 64-treated DIO rats compared to pair-fed counterparts, suggesting that compound 64 may have metabolic effects beyond those elicited by weight loss alone. In the CNS, reversal of agonist-induced hypothermia and hypolocomotion indicated that compound 64 possessed an antagonist activity in vivo. Dosed alone, compound 64 suppressed extinction of conditioned freezing (10mg/kg) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep (30mg/kg), consistent with previous reports for rimonabant, although for REM sleep, compound 64 was greater than threefold less potent than for metabolic effects. Together, these data suggested that (1) impairment of extinction learning and REM sleep suppression are classic, centrally mediated responses to CB1 receptor inverse agonists, and (2) some separation may be achievable between central and peripheral effects with brain-penetrating CB1 receptor inverse agonists while maintaining metabolic efficacy. Furthermore, chronic treatment with compound 64 contributes to evidence that peripheral CB1 receptor blockade may yield beneficial outcomes that exceed those elicited by weight loss alone.
The past decade has seen a rise of interest in Laplacian eigenmaps (LEMs) for nonlinear dimensionality reduction. LEMs have been used in spectral clustering, in semisupervised learning, and for providing efficient state representations for reinforcement learning. Here, we show that LEMs are closely related to slow feature analysis (SFA), a biologically inspired, unsupervised learning algorithm originally designed for learning invariant visual representations. We show that SFA can be interpreted as a function approximation of LEMs, where the topological neighborhoods required for LEMs are implicitly defined by the temporal structure of the data. Based on this relation, we propose a generalization of SFA to arbitrary neighborhood relations and demonstrate its applicability for spectral clustering. Finally, we review previous work with the goal of providing a unifying view on SFA and LEMs.
Neuroscience folklore has it that somatotopy in human primary somatosensory cortex (SI) has two significant discontinuities: the hands and face map onto adjacent regions in SI, as do the feet and genitalia. It has been proposed that these conjunctions in SI result from coincident sources of stimulation in the fetal position, where the hands frequently touch the face, and the feet the genitalia. Computer modeling using a Hebbian variant of the self-organizing Kohonen net is consistent with this proposal. However, recent work reveals that the genital representation in SI for cutaneous sensations (as opposed to tumescence) is continuous with that of the lower trunk and thigh. This result, in conjunction with reports of separate face innervation and its earlier onset of sensory function, compared to that of the rest of the body, allows a reappraisal of homuncular organization. It is proposed that the somatosensory homunculus comprises two distinct somatotopic regions: the face representation and that of the rest of the body. Principles of self-organization do not account satisfactorily for the overall homuncular map. These results may serve to alert computational modelers that intrinsic developmental factors can override simple rules of plasticity.
Understanding why neural systems can process information extremely fast is a fundamental question in theoretical neuroscience. The present study investigates the effect of noise on accelerating neural computation. To evaluate the speed of network response, we consider a computational task in which the network tracks time-varying stimuli. Two noise structures are compared, namely, the stimulus-dependent and stimulus-independent noises. Based on a simple linear integrate-and-fire model, we theoretically analyze the network dynamics, and find that the stimulus-dependent noise, whose variance is proportional to the mean of external inputs, has better effect on speeding up network computation. This is due to two good properties in the transient network dynamics: (1) the instant firing rate of the network is proportional to the mean of external inputs, and (2) the stationary state of the network is robust to stimulus changes. We investigate two network models with varying recurrent interactions, and find that recurrent interactions tend to slow down the tracking speed of the network. When the biologically plausible Hodgkin-Huxley model is considered, we also observe that the stimulus-dependent noise accelerates neural computation, although the improvement is smaller than that in the case of linear integrate-and-fire model.
Two long-standing questions in neuroscience concern the mechanisms underlying our abilities to make decisions and to store goal-relevant information in memory for seconds at a time. Recent experimental and theoretical advances suggest that NMDA receptors at intrinsic cortical synapses play an important role in both these functions. The long NMDA time constant is suggested to support persistent mnemonic activity by maintaining excitatory drive after the removal of a stimulus and to enable the slow integration of afferent information in the service of decisions. These findings have led to the hypothesis that the local circuit mechanisms underlying decisions must also furnish persistent storage of information. We use a local circuit cortical model of spiking neurons to test this hypothesis, controlling intrinsic drive by scaling NMDA conductance strength. Our simulations provide further evidence that persistent storage and decision making are supported by common mechanisms, but under biophysically realistic parameters, our model demonstrates that the processing requirements of persistent storage and decision making may be incompatible at the local circuit level. Parameters supporting persistent storage lead to strong dynamics that are at odds with slow integration, whereas weaker dynamics furnish the speed-accuracy trade-off common to psychometric data and decision theory.
In recent years, advances in Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarker research have provided powerful tools to improve trial design. In particular, biomarkers provide powerful methods for the selection of individuals with Alzheimer's disease prior to the onset of dementia. Data suggest that neuroimaging biomarkers will be useful as endpoints for trials in very early, even asymptomatic disease, though further work is necessary to establish validity for regulatory purposes.
Age is characterized by deficits in synaptic function identified by decreased performance of aged animals in spatial learning tasks and reduced ability of animals to sustain long term potentiation (LTP). Several cellular and molecular events are correlated with these deficits, many of which are indicative of age-related neuroinflammatory and oxidative cell stress. It is significant that agents which decrease microglial activation are commonly associated with restoration of function. We set out to examine whether the n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid docosapentaenoic acid (DPA), which is a metabolite of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), could modulate the age-related increase in microglial activation and the associated increase in oxidative changes and therefore impact on synaptic function in aged rats. We demonstrate that docosapentaenoic acid possesses neurorestorative effects and is capable of downregulating microglial activation. The data show that it also decreases the coupled activation of sphingomyelinase and caspase 3, probably because of its ability to decrease age-related oxidative changes, and consequently attenuates the age-related decrease in spatial learning and long-term potentiation.
Degeneration of the cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain and elevation of inflammatory markers are well-established hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease; however, the interplay of these processes in normal aging is not extensively studied. Consequently, we conducted a neuroanatomical investigation to quantify cholinergic neurons and activated microglia in the medial septum/vertical diagonal band (MS/VDB) of young (6 months) and aged (28 months) Fisher 344  Brown Norway F(1) rats. Aged rats in this study were impaired relative to the young animals in spatial learning ability as assessed in the Morris water maze. Stereological analysis revealed no difference between aged and young rats in the total numbers of cholinergic neurons, demonstrating that loss of cholinergic neurons is not a necessary condition to observe impaired spatial learning in aged rats. In this same region, the total number of activated microglia was substantially greater in aged rats relative to young rats. Jointly, these data demonstrate that aging is characterized by an increase in the basal inflammatory state within the MS/VDB, but this inflammation is not associated with cholinergic neuron death.
The cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by presenilins simultaneously generates amyloid- (A) and APP intracellular Domain (AICD) peptides. A plays a pivotal role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology and recently AICD was also shown to contribute to AD. Transgenic mice overexpressing AICD show age-dependent tau phosphorylation and aggregation, memory deficits, and neurodegeneration. Moreover, these mice show aberrant electrical activity and silent seizures beginning at 3-4 months of age. Here we show that AICD mice also displayed abnormal mossy fiber sprouting beginning about the same time and that this sprouting intensified as the animals aged. Expression of neuropeptide Y was increased in mossy fiber terminals in aged but not young AICD mice. Importantly, young AICD mice injected with kainic acid showed similar pathology to that observed in aged AICD mice. These data show that elevated levels of AICD render neurons hypersensitive to stress and induce hippocampal circuit reorganization, which can further exacerbate hyperexcitability. These results further demonstrate that AICD, in addition to A, can play a significant role in AD pathogenesis.
Abundant research finds that in young adults explicit learning (EL) is more dependent on the medial temporal lobes (MTL) whereas implicit learning (IL) is more dependent on the striatum. Using fMRI, we investigated age differences in each task and whether this differentiation is preserved in older adults. Results indicated that, while young recruited the MTL for EL and striatum for IL, both activations were significantly reduced in older adults. Additionally, results indicated that older adults recruited the MTL for IL, and this activation was significantly greater in older compared with young adults. A significant Task  Age interaction was found in both regions-with young preferentially recruiting the MTL for EL and striatum for IL, and older adults showing no preferential recruit for either task. Finally, young adults demonstrated significant negative correlations between activity in the striatum and MTL during both the EL and IL tasks. These correlations were attenuated in older adults. Taken together results support dedifferentiation in aging across memory systems.
Telomere shortening is thought to contribute to premature senescence of satellite cells in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) muscle. Telomeric repeat binding factor-1 (TRF1) and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP1) are proteins known to modulate telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) activity, which controls telomere elongation. Here we show that an age-dependent telomere shortening occurs in DMD muscles and is associated to overexpression of mRNA and protein levels of TRF1 and PARP1. TERT expression and activity are detectable in normal control muscles and they slightly increase in DMD. This is the first demonstration of TRF1 and PARP1 overexpression in DMD muscles. They can be directly involved in replicative senescence of satellite cells and/or in the pathogenetic cascade through a cross-talk with oxidative stress and inflammatory response. Modulation of these events by TRF1 or PARP1 inhibition might represent a novel strategy for treatment of DMD and other muscular dystrophies.
We investigated whether protein kinase p38 plays a role in the brain-aging changes associated with repeated ethanol withdrawal (EW). Ovariectomized young, middle-age and older rats, with or without 17-estradiol (E2) implantation, received a 90-day ethanol with repeated withdrawal. They were tested for active pP38 expression in cerebellar Purkinje neurons and whole-cerebellar lysates using immunohistochemistry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. They were also tested for the Rotarod task to determine the behavioral manifestation of cerebellar neuronal stress and for reactive oxygen species (ROS) and mitochondrial protein carbonyls to determine oxidative mechanisms. Middle-age EW rats showed higher levels of pP38-positive Purkinje neurons/cerebellar lysates, which coincided with increased mitochondrial protein oxidation than other diet/age groups. Exacerbated motor deficit due to age-EW combination also began at the middle-age. In comparison, ROS contents peaked in older EW rats. E2 treatment mitigated each of the EW effects to a different extent. Collectively, pP38 may mediate the brain-aging changes associated with pro-oxidant EW at vulnerable ages and in vulnerable neurons in a manner protected by estrogen.
Adenoviral expression of human APP (hAPP), but not of hAPP deleted from its C-terminal intracellular domain, in rat cortical neurons abolishes spontaneous synchronous calcium oscillations. The intracellular domain of APP695 contains several residues that can be phosphorylated. Contrary to non-neuronal cells, a very high phosphorylation of APP on T668 is observed in neurons, which is mediated by JNK, GSK3 and Cdk5 protein kinases. JNK activity, modulated by GSK3, enhances the traffic of phosphorylated APP to nerve terminals, contrary to Cdk5. Here we show that inhibition of GSK3 and JNK restores calcium oscillations in an hAPP expressing neuronal network, whereas inhibition of Cdk5 does not. Expression of mutant hAPPT668A does not inhibit calcium oscillations, and the proportion of hAPPT668A at the plasma membrane is reduced by more than 50%. Altogether, these results indicate that the intracellular domain of APP is needed to inhibit neuronal calcium oscillations because GSK3/JNK phosphorylation of T668 controls APP trafficking at the plasma membrane.
The perceptual differentiation of odors can be measured behaviorally using generalization gradients. The steepness of these gradients defines a form of olfactory acuity for odor quality that depends on neural circuitry within the olfactory bulb and is regulated by cholinergic activity therein as well as by associative learning. Using this system as a reduced model for age-related cognitive decline, we show that aged mice, while maintaining almost the same baseline behavioral performance as younger mice, are insensitive to the effects of acutely elevated acetylcholine, which sharpens generalization gradients in young adult mice. Moreover, older mice exhibit evidence of chronically elevated acetylcholine levels in the olfactory bulb, suggesting that their insensitivity to further elevated levels of acetylcholine may arise because the maximum capacity of the system to respond to acetylcholine has already been reached. We propose a model in which an underlying, age-related, progressive deficit is mitigated by a compensatory cholinergic feedback loop that acts to retard the behavioral effects of what would otherwise be a substantial age-related decline in olfactory plasticity. We also treated mice with 10-day regimens of olfactory environmental enrichment and/or repeated systemic injections of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine. Each treatment alone sharpened odor quality acuity, but administering both treatments together had no greater effect than either alone. Age was not a significant main effect in this study, suggesting that some capacity for acetylcholine-dependent plasticity is still present in aged mice despite their sharply reduced ability to respond to acute increases in acetylcholine levels. These results suggest a dynamical framework for understanding age-related decline in neural circuit processing in which the direct effects of aging can be mitigated, at least temporarily, by systemic compensatory responses. In particular, a decline in cholinergic efficacy can precede any breakdown in cholinergic production, which may help explain the limited effectiveness of cholinergic replacement therapies in combating cognitive decline.

Glutamate is loaded into synaptic vesicles by vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs), and alterations in the transporters expression directly regulate neurotransmitter release. We investigated changes in VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 protein levels after ischemic and excitotoxic insults. The results show that VGLUT2 is cleaved by calpains after excitotoxic stimulation of hippocampal neurons with glutamate, whereas VGLUT1 is downregulated to a lower extent. VGLUT2 was also cleaved by calpains after oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD), and downregulated after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and intrahippocampal injection of kainate. In contrast, VGLUT1 was not affected after OGD. Incubation of isolated synaptic vesicles with recombinant calpain also induced VGLUT2 cleavage, with a little effect observed for VGLUT1. N-terminal sequencing analysis showed that calpain cleaves VGLUT2 in the C-terminus, at Asn(534) and Lys(542). The truncated GFP-VGLUT2 forms were found to a great extent in non-synaptic regions along neurites, when compared to GFP-VGLUT2. These findings show that excitotoxic and ischemic insults downregulate VGLUT2, which is likely to affect glutamatergic transmission and cell death, especially in the neonatal period when the transporter is expressed at higher levels.
A patient with chronic aphasia secondary to unilateral stroke in the left hemisphere underwent language testing, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), and functional imaging using magnetoencephalography (MEG) at four time points: 3 weeks prior to, immediately prior to, immediately after, and 3 months after Constraint Induced Language Therapy (CILT). Performance on language tests involving visual naming and repetition of spoken sentences improved between the immediately prior to and immediately after CILT testing sessions, but not between the pre-CILT sessions. MEG activation in putative pre-morbid language areas of the left hemisphere and homotopic areas of the right hemisphere increased immediately after therapy, as did integrity within the arcuate fasciculus bilaterally. These changes were not evident between the two pre-CILT sessions. While some of these functional, neurophysiological and structural changes had regressed 3 months after therapy, all remained at or above baseline levels. Results provide evidence for an association between improvement in functional status and the increased integrity within a white matter tract known to be involved in language function and its contralateral homologue, as well as increased neurophysiological activity in areas that have the potential to subserve language function bilaterally.
The mechanism and time course of emotional side effects of subthalamic deep brain stimulation in Parkinson's disease are a matter for discussion. We report a 53-month follow-up of a patient with affective lability. Postoperative lesion plus bilateral stimulation strongly influenced mood in the first week in terms of laughing behavior, while voltage changes had only minor long-term impact up to 37 months on negative emotion, possibly caused by the right electrode stimulating the subthalamic nucleus and adjacent fiber tracts involving the internal capsule. Thus we conclude that affective lability can occur with different temporal dynamics of microlesion, and early and chronic stimulation.
The equilibrium between antioxidant function and oxidative stress is implicated in brain pathology. However, human studies on oxidant and antioxidant markers rely on postmortem tissue that might be affected by pre and postmortem factors. To evaluate the effect of these variables, we tested whether antioxidant enzymes [superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase] glutathione (GSH) and related enzymes [gamma glutamylcysteine ligase (GCL), GSH peroxidase (GPx), GSH reductase (GR), GSH-S-transferase (GST)] and malondialdehyde (MDA, marker of lipid peroxidation) are affected in postmortem human brains (n=50) by increase in postmortem interval (2.5-26 h), gender difference and agonal state [based on Glasgow coma scale (GCS): range: 3-15] in different anatomical regions-frontal cortex (FC), cerebellum (CB) medulla oblongata (MO), substantia nigra (SN) and hippocampus (HC). While SOD and catalase activities were relatively unaltered, GR and GPx activities were affected by agonal state (GR in CB, p&lt;0.05; GPx in MO, p&lt;0.05) indicating altered GSH dynamics during the secondary events following neuronal injury. MO, SN and HC displayed low GSH compared to FC and CB. Total GSH level was decreased with PMI (MO, p=0.02) which could be partly attributed to increase in MDA levels with increasing PMI in MO (p&lt;0.05). Total GSH level was higher in CB (p&lt;0.017) and MO (p&lt;0.04) in female brains compared to males. Interestingly, HC and SN regions showed significant stability in most of the markers tested. We suggest that while SOD and catalase were relatively unaffected by the pre and postmortem factors, GSH and its metabolic enzymes were significantly altered and this was more pronounced in MO of postmortem human brains. These data highlight the influence of pre and postmortem factors on GSH dynamics and the inherent differences in brain regions, with implications for studies on brain pathophysiology employing human samples.
Radial glial cells play a significant role in the repair of spinal cord injuries as they exert critical role in the neurogenesis and act as a scaffold for neuronal migration. Our previous study showed that mature astrocytes of spinal cord can undergo a de-differentiation process and further transform into pluripotential neural precursors; the occurrence of these complex events arise directly from the induction of diffusible factors released from scratch-insulted astrocytes. However, it is unclear whether astrocytes can also undergo rejuvenation to revert to a radial glial progenitor phenotype after the induction of scratch-insulted astrocytes conditioned medium (ACM). Furthermore, the mechanism of astrocyte de-differentiation to the progenitor cells is still unclear. Here we demonstrate that upon treating mature astrocytes with ACM for 10 days, the astrocytes exhibit progressive morphological and functional conversion to radial glial cells. These changes include the appearance of radial glial progenitor cells, changes in the immunophenotypical profiles, characterized by the co-expression of nestin, paired homeobox protein (Pax6) and RC2 as well as enhanced capability of multipotential differentiation. Concomitantly, ErbB2 protein level was progressively up-regulated. Thereby these results provide a potential mechanism by which ACM could induce mature astrocytes to regain the profile of radial glial progenitors due to activating the ErbB2 signaling pathways.


This study aims to determine the expression of Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) following hypoxia in neonatal rats and explore how it may increase susceptibility to epilepsy later in life. A modified model of neonatal hypoxia-induced epileptic susceptibility was simulated by 17 min of hypoxia (5% O(2) and 95% N(2)) in postnatal day (P) 10 rats. Hippocampal glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) and parvalbumin (PV) during the development with or without hypoxia were examined using immunohistochemistry. No detectable neuronal loss was observed in the hippocampus either immediately or 14 days after hypoxia. During the development GAD- and PV-immunoreactivity increased substantially during P 11-13 and reached mature expression in the control rats, and decreased significantly at different time points except for a transient increase during P 11-13 in the hypoxic groups. Our study indicates that downregulation of hippocampal GABA after hypoxia-induced seizures in neonatal rats may contribute to higher epileptic susceptibility in later life.
The chemical warfare nerve agent (CWNA) soman irreversibly inhibits acetylcholinesterase (AChE) causing seizure, neuropathology and neurobehavioral deficits. Pyridostigmine bromide (PB), the currently approved pretreatment for soman, is a reversible AChE inhibitor that does not cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to protect against central nervous system damage. [-]-Huperzine A, a natural reversible AChE inhibitor, rapidly passes through the BBB and has numerous neuroprotective properties that are beneficial for protection against soman. However, [-]-Huperzine A is toxic at higher doses due to potent AChE inhibition which limits the utilization of its neuroprotective properties. [+]-Huperzine A, a synthetic stereoisomer of [-]-Huperzine A and a weak inhibitor of AChE, is non-toxic. In this study, we evaluated the efficacy of [+]-Huperzine A for protection against soman toxicity in guinea pigs. Pretreatments with [+]-Huperzine A, i.m., significantly increased the survival rate in a dose-dependent manner against 1.2 LD(50) soman exposures. Behavioral signs of soman toxicity were significantly reduced in 20 and 40 mg/kg [+]-Huperzine A treated animals at 4 and 24 h compared to vehicle and PB controls. Electroencephalogram (EEG) power spectral analysis showed that [+]-Huperzine A significantly reduces soman-induced seizure compared to PB. [+]-Huperzine A (40 mg/kg) preserved higher blood and brain AChE activity compared to PB in soman exposed animals. These data suggest that [+]-Huperzine A protects against soman toxicity stronger than PB and warrant further development as a potent medical countermeasure against CWNA poisoning.
Herein, we investigated the protective effect of Salvia sahendica against H(2)O(2)-induced cell death in rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. Our data show that S. sahendica blocks apoptosis pathway by inhibition of cytochrome c release from mitochondria and leakage of calcium from endoplasmic reticulum. It also activates/inactivates two members of Bcl-2 family, Bax and Bcl-2. Bax inhibition and Bcl-2 activation suppress release of cytochrome c from mitochondria that prevents cleavage of caspase-3. Besides S. sahendica suppresses ER stress via attenuation of intracellular levels of calcium. Suppression of ER stress decreased calpain activation and subsequently cleavage of caspase-12. Altogether, these results indicate that S. sahendica protects PC12 cells treated with H(2)O(2) via suppression of upstream factors of apoptosis pathway. While oxidative stress is an early event in Alzheimer disease, it seems that S. sahendica prevents deleterious effects of reactive oxygen species by stabilizing mitochondrial membranes and inhibiting ER stress.



Microdialysis, an in vivo technique that permits collection and analysis of small molecular weight substances from the interstitial space, was developed more than 30 years ago and introduced into the clinical neurosciences in the 1990s. Today cerebral microdialysis is an established, commercially available clinical tool that is focused primarily on markers of cerebral energy metabolism (glucose, lactate, and pyruvate) and cell damage (glycerol), and neurotransmitters (glutamate). Although the brain comprises only 2% of body weight, it consumes 20% of total body energy. Consequently, the ability to monitor cerebral metabolism can provide significant insights during clinical care. Measurements of lactate, pyruvate, and glucose give information about the comparative contributions of aerobic and anaerobic metabolisms to brain energy. The lactate/pyruvate ratio reflects cytoplasmic redox state and thus provides information about tissue oxygenation. An elevated lactate pyruvate ratio (&gt;40) frequently is interpreted as a sign of cerebral hypoxia or ischemia. However, several other factors may contribute to an elevated LPR. This article reviews potential non-hypoxic/ischemic causes of an increased LPR.

Automated image analysis of the brain should include measures of fundamental structural features such as size and shape. We used principal axes (P-A) measurements to measure overall size and shape of brain structures segmented from MR brain images. The rationale was that quantitative volumetric studies of brain structures would benefit from shape standardization as had been shown for whole brain studies. P-A analysis software was extended to include controls for variability in position and orientation to support individual structure spatial normalization (ISSN). The rationale was that ISSN would provide a bias-free means to remove elementary sources of a structure's spatial variability in preparation for more detailed analyses. We studied nine brain structures (whole brain, cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, caudate, putamen, hippocampus, inferior frontal gyrus, and precuneus) from the 40-brain LPBA40 atlas. This paper provides the first report of anatomical positions and principal axes orientations within a standard reference frame, in addition to &quot;shape/size related&quot; principal axes measures, for the nine brain structures from the LPBA40 atlas. Analysis showed that overall size (mean volume) for internal brain structures was preserved using shape standardization while variance was reduced by more than 50%. Shape standardization provides increased statistical power for between-group volumetric studies of brain structures compared to volumetric studies that control only for whole brain size. To test ISSN's ability to control for spatial variability of brain structures we evaluated the overlap of 40 regions of interest (ROIs) in a standard reference frame for the nine different brain structures before and after processing. Standardizations of orientation or shape were ineffective when not combined with position standardization. The greatest reduction in spatial variability was seen for combined standardizations of position, orientation and shape. These results show that ISSNs automated processing can be a valuable asset for measuring and controlling variability of fundamental features of brain structures.
We investigated the effects of aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) on item and associative recognition memory. Three groups of participants (younger adults, elderly adults, and AD patients) studied photographs of common objects that were located on either the left or the right side of a black computer screen inside either a red or a blue square. In a subsequent old/new recognition memory test, the participants were presented with four kinds of stimuli: &quot;intact&quot; stimuli, which were presented as they were during the study phase; &quot;location-altered&quot; stimuli, which were presented in a different location; &quot;color-altered&quot; stimuli, which were presented with a different surrounding color; and &quot;new&quot; stimuli, which consisted of photographs that had not been presented during the study phase. Compared with younger adults, the older adults showed equivalent performance in simple item recognition but worse performance in discriminating location-altered and color-altered stimuli. Compared with older adults, the AD patients showed equivalent performance in discriminating color-altered stimuli but worse performance in simple item recognition and the discrimination of location-altered stimuli. We speculate that distinct structural and functional changes in specific brain regions that are caused by aging and AD are responsible for the different patterns of memory impairment.
The decision on whether or not to operate children with Chiari type I malformation (CIM) is difficult and controversial, because of the lack of information about the natural evolution of such a disease. Herein, we report on the evolution of 16 asymptomatic children with incidentally diagnosed CIM (mean age: 6.7 years; mean follow-up: 5.8 years). No patients required suboccipital decompression. Thirteen children remained asymptomatic, with stable or improved radiological picture (worsening in 2 cases). Three cases showed appearance of symptoms: one did not require any treatment; the remaining two underwent endoscopic third ventriculostomy because of hydrocephalus, which is a possible consequence of CIM. This analysis shows a favorable natural outcome of CIM in children, thus suggesting a conservative management in asymptomatic cases. However, multicentric studies are required to validate this data.
Chiari type I malformation (CIM) was first described in the late 19th Century. However, it still raises a great interest among the scientific Community because of the increasing number of diagnosed cases, the still unclear pathogenesis and natural history and the different options in the surgical management. The present review aims at analyzing the centenary history of CIM, starting from the first description done by Hans Chiari to the more recent classification, in order to introduce such a complex disease and to show the way followed for its assessment over the time.
A section of the filum terminale (SFT) is used for the surgical treatment of isolated tethered cord or that resulting from neurulation disorders. More recently, it has been proposed for the management of the occult tethered cord syndrome (OTCS), though it is still under debate. Even more controversial appears to be the use of SFT in patients with Chiari type I malformation (CIM), which is based on the possible presence of OTCS. This review shows that: (1) there are issues both in favor and against the occurrence of OTCS, (2) there is no significant correlation between CIM and tethered cord, the old &quot;caudal traction theory&quot; being not supported by clinical or experimental evidences. On these grounds, a relationship between CIM and OTCS is hard to be demonstrated, (3) a subgroup of patients with CIM suffering from OTCS may exist and benefit from SFT.
Approaching an uncommon disease may result in diagnostic delay even in patients with typical clinical features. In this respect, diseases related to nutritional deficiencies may represent a diagnostic challenge. We describe a 2.5-year-old child with typical features of scurvy, who was referred for autistic-like behavior and severe muscle weakness and pain in lower limbs. Extensive investigations for non-nutrition-related disorders were first performed, including a muscle biopsy showing a selective type II fibers hypotrophy. Scurvy was eventually considered, after recalling the child's peculiar dietary habits.
In patients with Chiari malformation type 1 (CMI), epileptic seizures are occasionally reported both in symptomatic patients candidate to surgery and in patients without symptoms of tonsillar displacement in whom CM1 is often an incidental finding in the diagnostic work up for idiopathic epilepsies. In both groups of patients, the course of epilepsy is almost invariably favorable, with a few seizures easily controlled by treatment. In a subset of CM1 patients, epilepsy occurs in the context of neurodevelopmental disorders that also include mental retardation, autism and somatic dysmorphisms. Epileptic seizures must be accurately differentiated by potentially harmful paroxysmal events due to compression of the medulla, particularly by the cerebellar fits characterized by drop attacks, abnormal extensor posturing and apnea.
Essential tremor (ET) is a common neurological disease of unknown etiopathogenesis, possibly neurodegenerative, characterized by kinetic tremor at the arms. Here we reported the case of an HCV-positive patient with inflammatory myopathy, who did not develop typical neuromuscular signs or symptoms during at least 7years of hyperCKemia, in whom kinetic tremor of the arms was the prominent clinical feature, suggesting a possible diagnosis of ET. After 3months of treatment with corticosteroids/methotrexate, creatine kinase (CK) levels were nearly normal and the tremor was remarkably improved. To our knowledge, similar cases have not been previously reported. Postural tremor can be present in muscular diseases, but only very rarely tremor has been reported as a major clinical feature. Because inflammatory myopathies are potentially treatable conditions it is very important to consider this diagnosis. Our case suggests that in patients with isolated postural and kinetic tremor routine laboratory assays should include CK blood screening.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is the most widely distributed neurotrophin in the central nervous system where it plays several pivotal roles in synaptic plasticity and neuronal survival. As a consequence, BDNF became a key target in the physiopathology of several neurological and psychiatric diseases. Recent studies have reported altered levels of BDNF in the circulation, i.e. serum or plasma, of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and low BDNF levels in the CSF as predictor of future cognitive decline in healthy older subjects. Altered BDNF circulating levels have also been reported in other neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders, hampering its use as a specific biomarker for AD. Therefore, BDNF seems to be an unspecific biomarker of neuropsychiatric disorders marked by neurodegenerative changes.


The effects of orexin-monoaminergic compound interactions on vasopressin release were studied in 14-day neurohypophyseal cell cultures from adult rats, prepared by an enzymatic dissociation technique. The vasopressin contents of the supernatants were determined by radioimmunoassay. Following administration of either orexin-A or orexin-B in increasing doses, significant changes were not observed in the vasopressin levels of the supernatant media. The vasopressin level substantially increased after epinephrine, norepinephrine, serotonin, histamine, dopamine or K(+) treatment. Preincubation with either orexin-A or orexin-B reduced the epinephrine-, histamine- or serotonin-induced increases in vasopressin level, but the vasopressin concentrations of the supernatant media remained above the control level. There was no significant difference in decreasing effect between orexin-A and orexin-B. Neither orexin-A nor orexin-B induced changes in vasopressin release following monoaminergic compound treatment. The results indicate that the changes in vasopressin secretion induced by the monoaminergic system can be directly influenced by orexin system. It may be presumed that the orexins can play a physiological role in the regulation of the water metabolism by reducing the effect of increased vasopressin release caused by monoaminergic compounds. The interactions between the monoaminergic and orexin systems regarding vasopressin secretion occur at both the hypothalamic and the neurohypophyseal level.
Pain-related plasticity in the laterocapsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC) depends on the activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) whereas groups II and III mGluRs generally serve inhibitory functions. Recent evidence suggests differential roles of group III subtypes mGluR7 (pain enhancing) and mGluR8 (pain inhibiting) in the amygdala (Palazzo et al., 2008). Here we addressed the underlying synaptic mechanisms of mGluR7 and mGluR8 function in the CeLC under normal conditions and in an arthritis pain model. Using patch-clamp recordings in rat brain slices, we measured monosynaptic excitatory post-synaptic currents (EPSCs), mono- and polysynaptic inhibitory synaptic currents (IPSCs), and synaptically evoked action potentials (E-S coupling) in CeLC neurons. Synaptic responses were evoked by electrical stimulation in the basolateral amygdala (BLA). A selective mGluR8 agonist (DCPG) inhibited evoked EPSCs and synaptic spiking more potently in slices from arthritic rats than in slices from normal rats. In contrast, a selective mGluR7 agonist (AMN082) increased EPSCs and E-S coupling in slices from normal rats but not in the pain model. The effects of AMN082 and DCPG were blocked by a group III antagonist (MAP4). AMN082 increased frequency, but not amplitude, of spontaneous EPSCs but had no effect on miniature EPSCs (in TTX). DCPG decreased frequency, but not amplitude, of spontaneous and miniature EPSCs. The data suggest that mGluR8 acts presynaptically to inhibit excitatory transmission whereas the facilitatory effects of mGluR7 are indirect through action potential-dependent network action. AMN082 decreased evoked IPSCs and frequency, but not amplitude, of spontaneous and miniature IPSCs in slices from normal rats. DCPG had no effect on inhibitory transmission. The results suggest that presynaptic mGluR7 inhibits inhibitory synaptic transmission to gate glutamatergic transmission to CeLC neurons under normal conditions but not in pain. Presynaptic mGluR8 inhibits pain-related enhanced excitatory transmission in the CeLC.
Somatostatin-14 (SRIF) is a potent anticonvulsant in rodent models of limbic seizures in which the hippocampus is its major site of action. However, the distribution of hippocampal sst receptors and their role in the anticonvulsant effects of SRIF remain controversial. Moreover, striking differences have been described between mice and rats. In rats, sst(2) but not sst(1) receptors play a critical role in the anticonvulsant effects of SRIF. At present, the role of rat sst(3) and sst(4) receptors in these anticonvulsive effects remains unknown. Here we demonstrate in vivo anticonvulsive actions of rat hippocampal sst(3) and sst(4) receptors. Using microdialysis and telemetry-based electroencephalographic recordings we show that intrahippocampal administration of the sst(2) agonist L-779,976 (500 nM), the sst(3) agonist L-796,778 (100 nM) or the sst(4) agonist L-803,087 (100 nM) protects rats against focal pilocarpine-induced seizures. SRIF (1 M)-, sst(3)- and sst(4)-mediated anticonvulsive actions are reversed by the selective sst(2) receptor antagonist cyanamid 154806 (100 nM). Moreover, the selective sst(3) antagonist SST3-ODN-8 (100 nM) blocks the sst(4)-mediated anticonvulsant effect. Sst(3) antagonism does not reverse the sst(2)- or SRIF-mediated anticonvulsant effects. Our findings provide the first in vivo evidence for potent anticonvulsive properties of sst(3) and sst(4) receptors in the rat hippocampus. Nevertheless, selective sst(2) receptor antagonism prevented these sst(3)- or sst(4) receptor-mediated anticonvulsant effects, suggesting a functional cooperation with rat hippocampal sst(2) receptors.
The frequency and duration of glutamatergic inputs to the striatum are strong determinants of the net effect of retrograde endocannabinoid (eCB) signaling, and key factors in determining if long-term depression (LTD) has a net disinhibitory or inhibitory action in striatum. Low to moderate frequency stimulation in the dorsolateral striatum elevates eCB levels to an extent that primarily depresses transmitter release at inhibitory synapses, leading to a long-lasting disinhibition (DLL) of synaptic output. The aim of this study was to further characterize the basic features of endocannabinoid-mediated DLL of striatal output induced by moderate frequency stimulation (5 Hz, 60 s). DLL was inhibited in slices treated with the group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonists MPEP (40 M) and CPCCOEt (40 M), the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride (5 M), the L-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine (20 M), the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine (10 M), the muscarinic agonist oxotremorine sesquifumarate (10 M), and strychnine (0.1 M). Strychnine did not block DLL induced by WIN55,212-2 (250 nM), showing that glycine receptor-mediated modulation of eCB signaling occurs upstream from CB(1)R activation. Scopolamine (10 M) restored DLL in strychnine-treated slices, suggesting that inhibition of glycine receptors on cholinergic interneurons could modulate eCB signaling by enhancing muscarinic receptor activation and reducing the opening of L-type calcium channels in response to depolarization. These data suggests that similar activation points are required for stimulation-induced DLL as for LTD at excitatory striatal synapses, and that cholinergic interneurons are key modulators of stimulation-induced eCB signaling in the striatum.
Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors are first-line therapies for Alzheimer's disease. These drugs increase cholinergic tone in the target areas of the cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain. Basal forebrain cholinergic neurons are dependent upon trophic support by nerve growth factor (NGF) through its neurotrophin receptor, TrkA. In the present study, we investigated whether the acetylcholinesterase inhibitors donepezil and galantamine could influence neurotrophin receptor signaling in the brain. Acute administration of donepezil (3 mg/kg, i.p.) led to the rapid autophosphorylation of TrkA and TrkB neurotrophin receptors in the adult mouse hippocampus. Similarly, galantamine dose-dependently (3, 9 mg/kg, i.p.) increased TrkA and TrkB phosphorylation in the mouse hippocampus. Both treatments also increased the phosphorylation of transcription factor CREB and tended to increase the phosphorylation of AKT kinase but did not alter the activity of MAPK42/44. Chronic treatment with galantamine (3 mg/kg, i.p., 14 days), did not induce changes in hippocampal NGF and BDNF synthesis or protein levels. Our findings show that acetylcholinesterase inhibitors are capable of rapidly activating hippocampal neurotrophin signaling and thus suggest that therapies targeting Trk signaling may already be in clinical use in the treatment of AD.
Positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) have attracted considerable interest as a novel area of therapeutic drug discovery. Two types of 7-selective PAMs have been identified (type I and type II). Whilst both potentiate peak agonist-induced responses, they have different effects on the rate of agonist-induced receptor desensitization. Type I PAMs have little or no effect on the rapid rate of desensitization that is characteristic of 7 nAChRs, whereas type II PAMs cause dramatic slowing of receptor desensitization. Previously, we have obtained evidence indicating that PNU-120596, a type II PAM, causes potentiation by interacting with an allosteric transmembrane site. In contrast, other studies have demonstrated the importance of the 'M2-M3 segment' in modulating the effects of the type I PAM NS1738 and have led to the proposal that NS1738 may interact with the extracellular N-terminal domain. Here, our aim has been to compare the mechanism of allosteric potentiation of 7 nAChRs by NS1738 and PNU-120596. Functional characterization of a series of mutated 7 nAChRs indicates that mutation of amino acids within a proposed intrasubunit transmembrane cavity have a broadly similar effect on these two PAMs. In addition, we have employed a functional assay designed to examine the ability of ligands to act competitively at either the orthosteric or allosteric binding site of 7 nAChRs. These data, together with computer docking simulations, lead us to conclude that both the type I PAM NS1738 and the type II PAM PNU-120596 bind competitively at a mutually exclusive intrasubunit transmembrane site.
The phosphodiesterase 10A (PDE10A) is highly expressed within dopaminoreceptive medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the striatum, which are implicated in various neurodegenerative diseases and psychiatric disorders, such as Huntington's disease and schizophrenia. With its dual action on cAMP and cGMP, PDE10A has been proposed to affect several signaling cascades in the corticostriatothalamic circuits. In particular, papaverine, a selective PDE10A inhibitor has been shown to activate/phosphorylate ERK in striatum. We used acute rat striatal slices to further characterize the effects of papaverine on ERK activation/phosphorylation in D1- and D2-responsive striatal neurons. Incubation of striatal slices from male rats with papaverine increased the levels of phospho-ERK1/2 (p-ERK), an effect enhanced with a D1 agonist or a D2 antagonist, but decreased with a D1 receptor antagonist or a D2 receptor agonist. Papaverine-induced increase in p-ERK was localized in striatal neurons receiving D1-enriched presynaptic terminals, as well as in postsynaptic D2-enriched neurons in striatal slices. Interestingly, papaverine had almost no stimulatory effects on ERK1/2 phosphorylation in slices prepared from female rats. In striatal slices prepared from ovariectomized female rats, papaverine treatment stimulated ERK1/2 phosphorylation to levels similar to those in slices from male rats. Moreover, estrogen was found to regulate the levels of D2 but not D1 receptors in striatum. These results indicate that circulating levels of female hormones, and in particular estrogen, regulate the effects of PDE10A inhibition on ERK1/2 phosphorylation in medium spiny neurons, an effect possibly linked to estrogen's regulation of D2 receptors. Considering the variety of events modulated by ERK1/2 activity, these findings suggest that sex difference needs to be taken into consideration for the further investigation of the effects of PDE10A inhibitors.
Most recreational users of 3, 4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or &quot;ecstasy&quot;) also take cannabis, in part because cannabis can reduce the dysphoric symptoms of the ecstasy come-down such as agitation and insomnia. Although previous animal studies have examined the acute effects of co-administering MDMA and (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), which is the major psychoactive ingredient in cannabis, research on chronic exposure to this drug combination is lacking. Therefore, the present study was conducted to investigate the effects of chronic adolescent administration of both THC and MDMA on behavior and on regional serotonin transporter (SERT) binding and serotonin (5-HT) concentrations as indices of serotonergic system integrity. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four drug administration groups: (1) MDMA alone, (2) THC alone, (3) MDMA plus THC, and (4) vehicle controls. MDMA (2  10 mg/kg  4 h) was administered every fifth day from postnatal day (PD) 35 to 60 to simulate intermittent recreational ecstasy use, whereas THC (5mg/kg) was given once daily over the same time period to simulate heavy cannabis use. THC unexpectedly produced a modest hyperthermic effect when administered alone, but in animals co-treated with both THC and MDMA, there was an attenuation of MDMA-induced hyperthermia on dosing days. Subsequent testing conducted after a drug washout period revealed that THC reduced MDMA-related behavioral changes in the emergence and social interaction tests of anxiety-like behavior and also blunted the MDMA-induced decrease in exploratory behavior in the hole-board test. THC additionally attenuated MDMA -induced decreases in 5-HT levels and in SERT binding in the frontal cortex, parietal cortex, and striatum, but not in the hippocampus. These results suggest that chronic co-administration of THC during adolescence can provide some protection against various adverse physiological, behavioral, and neurochemical effects produced by MDMA.
Exposure to abused drugs and stressful experience, two factors that promote the development of addiction, also modify synaptic function in the mesolimbic dopamine system. Here, we show that exposure to a novel environment produces functional synaptic adaptations in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) that mirror the effect of conventional forms of stress. We find an enhancement of excitatory synaptic strength in the NAc shell one day after exposure to a novel environment for 60 min--an effect not observed in NAc core. This effect disappeared following repeated exposure to the same environment, but then reappeared if mice are returned to the same environment 10-14 days later. There were no interactions between the effects of environmental novelty and a single exposure to cocaine (15 mg/kg), with no effect of the latter on synaptic strength in NAc shell. These results have important implications for designing studies of NAc synapses in the context of behavioral analysis, and expand our understanding of how different forms of stress modify NAc synaptic function.
Cue-induced cocaine seeking intensifies or incubates after withdrawal from extended access cocaine self-administration, a phenomenon termed incubation of cocaine craving. The expression of incubated craving is mediated by Ca-permeable AMPA receptors (CP-AMPARs) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Thus, CP-AMPARs are a potential target for therapeutic intervention, making it important to understand mechanisms that govern their accumulation. Here we used subcellular fractionation and biotinylation of NAc tissue to examine the abundance and distribution of AMPAR subunits, and GluA1 phosphorylation, in the incubation model. We also studied two transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs), -2 and -4. Our results, together with earlier findings, suggest that some of the new CP-AMPARs are synaptic. These are probably associated with -2, but they are loosely tethered to the PSD. Levels of GluA1 phosphorylated at serine 845 (pS845 GluA1) were significantly increased in biotinylated tissue and in an extrasynaptic membrane-enriched fraction. These results suggest that increased synaptic levels of CP-AMPARs may result in part from an increase in pS845 GluA1 in extrasynaptic membranes, given that S845 phosphorylation primes GluA1-containing AMPARs for synaptic insertion and extrasynaptic AMPARs supply the synapse. Some of the new extrasynaptic CP-AMPARs are likely associated with -4, rather than -2. The maintenance of CP-AMPARs in NAc synapses during withdrawal is accompanied by activation of CaMKII and ERK2 but not CaMKI. Overall, AMPAR plasticity in the incubation model shares some features with better described forms of synaptic plasticity, although the timing of the phenomenon and the persistence of related neuroadaptations are significantly different.
Recent research suggests that adaptations elicited by drugs of abuse share common features with traditional learning models, and that drugs of abuse cause long-term changes in behavior by altering synaptic function and plasticity. In this study, endocannabinoid (eCB) signaling in the dorsolateral striatum, a brain region vital for habit formation, was evaluated in acutely isolated brain slices from ethanol (EtOH)-consuming rats and control rats. EtOH-consuming rats had free access to a 20% EtOH solution for three 24 hour sessions a week during seven weeks and consumed an average of 3.4 g/kg per session. eCB-mediated long-lasting disinhibition (DLL) of population spike (PS) amplitude induced by moderate frequency stimulation was impaired in EtOH-consuming rats, and was not restored by the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (10 M). The lack of DLL could be linked to a reduced GABA(A) receptor tone, since bicuculline-mediated disinhibition of striatal output was significantly reduced in slices from EtOH-consuming rats. However, eCB signaling induced by high frequency stimulation (HFS) was also impaired in slices from EtOH-consuming rats and isolated control rats. Activation of presynaptic cannabinoid 1 receptors (CB1R) with WIN55,212-2 (250 nM, 1 M) significantly modulated PS amplitude in slices from age-matched control rats while slices from EtOH-consuming rats remained unaffected, indicating that eCB signaling is inhibited at a level that is downstream from CB1R activation. Intermittent alcohol intake for seven weeks might thus be sufficient to modulate a presynaptic mechanism that needs to be synergized with CB1R activation for induction of long-term depression (LTD). In conclusion, alcohol consumption inhibits striatal eCB signaling in a way that could be of importance for understanding the neurological underpinnings of addictive behavior.
The neuroadaptation theory of addiction suggests that, similar to the development of most memories, exposure to drugs of abuse induces adaptive molecular and cellular changes in the brain which likely mediate addiction-related memories or the addictive state. Compared to other types of memories, addiction-related memories develop fast and last extremely long, suggesting that the cellular and molecular processes that mediate addiction-related memories are exceptionally adept and efficient. We recently demonstrated that repeated exposure to cocaine generated a large portion of &quot;silent&quot; glutamatergic synapses within the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Silent glutamatergic synapses are synaptic connections in which only N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR)-mediated responses are readily detected whereas alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs) are absent or highly labile. Extensive experimental evidence suggests that silent synapses are conspicuously efficient plasticity sites at which long-lasting plastic changes can be more easily induced and maintained. Thus, generation of silent synapses can be regarded as a process of metaplasticity, which primes the NAc for subsequent durable and robust plasticity for addiction-related memories. Focusing on silent synapse-based metaplasticity, this review discusses how key brain regions, such as the NAc, utilize the metaplasticity mechanism to optimize the plasticity machineries to achieve fast and durable plastic changes following exposure to cocaine. A summary of recent related results suggests that upon cocaine exposure, newly generated silent synapses may prime excitatory synapses within the NAc for long-term potentiation (LTP), thus setting the direction of future plasticity. Furthermore, because cocaine-generated silent synapses are enriched in NMDARs containing the NR2B subunit, the enhanced NR2B-signaling may set up a selective recruitment of certain types of AMPARs. Thus, silent synapse-based metaplasticity may lead to not only quantitative but also qualitative alterations in excitatory synapses within the NAc. This review is one of the first systematic analyses regarding the hypothesis that drugs of abuse induce metaplasticity, which regulates the susceptibility, the direction, and the molecular details of subsequent plastic changes. Taken together, metaplasticity ultimately serves as a key step in mediating cascades of addiction-related plastic alterations.
Cocaine-induced plasticity of mesocorticolimbic dopamine (DA) neurons, originating in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), persists in the absence of cocaine and may contribute to both drug-craving and relapse. Glutamate AMPA receptors (AMPARs) in these neurons are implicated in this plasticity. However, there is no ultrastructural evidence that the absence of cocaine following repeated administrations affects the critical surface/synaptic availability of AMPAR GluR1 subunits in either DA or non-DA, putative GABAergic neurons within the VTA. To assess this, we used electron microscopic immunolabeling in the VTA of adult male mice sacrificed at 30 min or 72 h after receiving the final of six (15 mg/kg) cocaine injections, a dosing paradigm that resulted in development of locomotor sensitization. At each time point, both cocaine- and saline-injected mice showed AMPAR GluR1 immunogold labeling in somatodendritic profiles, many of which contained immunoperoxidase labeling for the DA-synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). At 30 min after the last injection, when cocaine was systemically present, only the non-TH labeled dendrites showed a significant increase in the synaptic/plasmalemmal density of GluR1 immunogold particles. At 72 h, when systemic cocaine was depleted, synaptic GluR1 labeling was greatly enhanced in TH-containing dendrites throughout the VTA and in non-TH dendrites of the limbic-associated paranigral VTA. Our results demonstrate that systemic cocaine produces GluR1 trafficking specifically in non-DA neurons of the VTA, which may subsequently contribute to the abstinent-induced enhancement of AMPA receptor synaptic transmission in mesocorticolimbic DA neurons leading to heightened drug seeking behavior.
Brain-damaged patients with slow mental processes may be taught compensatory strategies that might enable them to minimise disabilities and participation problems in daily life. The effects of the application of compensatory strategies should be measured in these domains of functioning. We systematically reviewed existing outcome measures used to evaluate the consequences of mental slowness. We classified measures into four categories: (1) standardised neuropsychological tests; (2) tests or questionnaires measuring general cognitive impairment; (3) measures of general everyday functioning; and (4) measures of everyday consequences of mental slowness. The majority of measures for mental slowness focus on performance in specific cognitive tasks. We found seven studies that used nine measures which focused on task-related or perceived limitations in everyday functioning. We discuss a series of reasons why measures of the perception of slowness (including the perceived consequences of slowness) and the performance in everyday activities should be used. Such measures may be more likely to detect change or differences in performance and are certainly more relevant to patients.
Neuropsychological research in patients with affective disorders shows heterogeneous results with regard to the severity and profile of cognitive impairments. In this paper we hypothesize that the investigation of clinical (subtypes, comorbidity, traumatization, personality, severity, diurnal swings, course, duration, age of onset, biased processing, rumination, motivation, experience of failure, sleep, suicidal tendencies, computer attitudes), demographic (age, education, gender) and neurobiological factors (structural and functional brain changes, glucocorticoids, medication, ECT) that are related to cognitive performance has specified the understanding of severity and profile of neuropsychological impairments. We reviewed the literature pertaining to clinical, demographic and neurobiological factors following Pubmed and PsychInfo databases using different combinations of general key-terms including &quot;Affective Disorder,&quot; &quot;Depression,&quot; &quot;Mania,&quot; &quot;Neuropsychological,&quot; &quot;Neurobiological,&quot; &quot;Moderator,&quot; and &quot;Review&quot; as well as more specific demographic, clinical and neurobiological search terms. Findings from the literature show that the consideration of these factors has improved knowledge about the severity of neuropsychological impairments in patients with affective disorders whereas the neuropsychological profile is still poorly understood. Despite limited understanding, however, the existent results provide promising suggestions for the development of treatment programs.
Outcome evaluation is a cognitive process that plays an important role in our daily lives. In most paradigms utilized in the field of experimental psychology, outcome valence and outcome magnitude are the two major features investigated. The classical &quot;independent coding model&quot; suggests that outcome valence and outcome magnitude are evaluated by separate neural mechanisms that may be mapped onto discrete event-related potential (ERP) components: feedback-related negativity (FRN) and the P3, respectively. To examine this model, we presented outcome valence and magnitude sequentially rather than simultaneously. The results reveal that when only outcome valence or magnitude is known, both the FRN and the P3 encode that outcome feature; when both aspects of outcome are known, the cognitive functions of the two components dissociate: the FRN responds to the information available in the current context, while the P3 pattern depends on outcome presentation sequence. The current study indicates that the human evaluative system, indexed in part by the FRN and the P3, is more flexible than previous theories suggested.
Converging evidence from animal neurophysiology and human clinical studies has suggested that visual information arising from near versus far space may be mediated predominantly by different visual subsystems in the human brain. In five experiments, healthy observers either detected or identified brief peripheral targets presented in near (peripersonal) versus far (extrapersonal) space. Apparent size (subtended visual angle) and luminance were equated to provide equivalent retinal information across near and far viewing conditions. Peripheral detection accuracy declined more rapidly with increasing target eccentricity in far viewing versus near viewing conditions. Peripheral identification accuracy under similar conditions showed no such dissociation of near versus far processing with eccentricity. These data suggest that retinal information from near versus far space may be preferentially processed by substantially different neural substrates, with active modulation of the relative contributions of involved magnocellular-dorsal and parvocellular-ventral visual pathways, depending on various potential ecological uses of the retinal information.
Psychotic, cognitive and affective symptoms defining schizophrenia may, though much less severe, manifest themselves in up to 10 to 20% of the general population. What explains the fact that in certain cases the symptoms require even constant medical supervision, while others are capable of living a normal life within social conventions? Which factors lead to the transition of mild, subclinical manifestations and vulnerability indicators towards the outburst of one of the most severe and depriving mental disorders? Genetic susceptibility is undoubtedly crucial. More recent research findings emphasize the modifying effect of specific environmental factors on gene expression. The gene-environment interplay may induce so-called epigenetic alterations which may manifest themselves over several generations. Future integrative, multi-dimensional and flexible schizophrenia research approaches focusing on the identification of neurobiological and cognitive outcomes are much needed to understand disease vulnerability, susceptibility mechanisms, periods and interactions. Research methods may differ, but our aim is common - establishing more effective diagnostic and therapeutic interventions.

Ketamine, an NMDA-receptor antagonist, produces cognitive deficits in humans in a battery of tasks involving attention and memory. Nicotine can enhance various indices of cognitive performance, including working memory span capacity measured using the odor span task (OST). This study examined the effects of a sub-chronic ketamine treatment to model cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia, and to evaluate the effectiveness of nicotine, antipsychotic clozapine, and the novel mGlu2/3 agonist, LY404039, in restoring OST performance. Male hooded Lister rats were trained in the OST, a working memory task involving detection of a novel odor from an increasing number of presented odors until they exhibited asymptotic levels of stable performance. Sub-chronic ketamine exposure (10 and 30 mg/kg i.p. for 5 consecutive days) produced a dose-dependent impairment that was stable beyond 14 days following exposure. In one cohort, administration of graded doses of nicotine (0.025-0.1 mg/kg) acutely restored the performance in ketamine-treated animals, while significant improvements in odor span were observed in control subjects. In a second cohort of rats, acute tests with clozapine (1-10 mg/kg) and LY404039 (0.3-10 mg/kg) failed to reverse ketamine-induced deficits in doses that were observed to impair performance in the control groups. These data suggest that sub-chronic ketamine exposure in the OST presents a valuable method to examine novel treatments to restore cognitive impairments associated with neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. Moreover, it highlights a central role for neuronal nicotinic receptors as viable targets for intervention that may be useful adjuncts to the currently prescribed anti-psychotics.
Recent findings implicate group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR(2/3)) in the reinforcing and dependence-inducing actions of ethanol and identify these receptors as treatment targets for alcoholism. Here, we investigated the effects of mGLuR(2/3) activation on conditioned reinstatement in rats with different ethanol-dependence histories and examined dependence-associated changes in the functional activity of mGluR(2/3). Following ethanol self-administration training and conditioning procedures, rats were made ethanol dependent, using ethanol vapor inhalation, under three conditions: a single intoxication and withdrawal episode (SW), repeated cycles of intoxication and withdrawal (RW), or no intoxication (CTRL). At 1 week after removal from ethanol vapor, self-administration resumed until stable baseline performance was reached, followed by extinction of operant responding and reinstatement tests. Post-withdrawal self-administration was increased in the RW group, but all groups showed conditioned reinstatement. The mGluR(2/3) agonist LY379268 dose -dependently reduced reinstatement in all groups, but was more effective at low doses in the SW and RW groups. The highest dose of LY379268 tested reduced spontaneous locomotor activity and operant responding maintained by a non-drug reinforcer, without differences among groups. The heightened sensitivity to the effects of LY379268 in rats with an ethanol-dependence history was therefore specific to behavior motivated by ethanol-related stimuli. Both the SW and RW groups showed elevated [(35)S]GTPS binding in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BNST), relative to the CTRL group. The findings implicate changes in mGluR(2/3) functional activity as a factor in ethanol dependence and support treatment target potential of mGlu(2/3) receptors for craving and relapse prevention.
Corticosteroids, released in high amounts after stress, exert their effects via two different receptors in the brain: glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) and mineralocorticoid receptors (MRs). GRs have a role in normalizing stress-induced effects and promoting consolidation, while MRs are thought to be important in determining the threshold for activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. We investigated the effects of MR blockade on HPA axis responses to stress and stress-induced changes in cognitive function. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 64 healthy young men received 400 mg of the MR antagonist spironolactone or placebo. After 1.5 h, they were exposed to either a Trier Social Stress Test or a non-stressful control task. Responses to stress were evaluated by hormonal, subjective, and physiological measurements. Afterwards, selective attention, working memory, and long-term memory performance were assessed. Spironolactone increased basal salivary cortisol levels as well as cortisol levels in response to stress. Furthermore, spironolactone significantly impaired selective attention, but only in the control group. The stress group receiving spironolactone showed impaired working memory performance. By contrast, long-term memory was enhanced in this group. These data support a role of MRs in the regulation of the HPA axis under basal conditions as well as in response to stress. The increased availability of cortisol after spironolactone treatment implies enhanced GR activation, which, in combination with MR blockade, presumably resulted in a decreased MR/GR activation ratio. This condition influences both selective attention and performance in various memory tasks.
A novel behaviorally dependent dosing (BDD) schedule was used to examine the relationship between doses of cocaine self-administered by rats and brain drug levels within a session. The BDD schedule used a hold-down response to activate a syringe pump. The length of time the lever was held down determined the duration that the syringe pump was activated. In the first experiment, rats self-administered cocaine for daily 3 h sessions and brain levels of cocaine were modeled using well-established parameters. Although analysis revealed that rats self-administered doses within a predicted range, one extremely large dose was consistently observed at the beginning of each session when brain levels of cocaine were low. In the second experiment, we introduced a range of timeout periods (10-25 min) in order to produce variability in brain-cocaine concentrations. Animals self-administered larger doses immediately following each timeout period and the dose size was inversely correlated with the length of the timeout. These results show that the dose of cocaine that rats self-administer within a session is inversely related to the amount of drug on board.
The behavioral response to pain is driven by sensory and affective components, each of which is mediated by the CNS. Subjective pain ratings are used as readouts when appraising potential analgesics; however, pain ratings alone cannot enable a characterization of CNS pain circuitry during pain processing or how this circuitry is modulated pharmacologically. Having a more objective readout of potential analgesic effects may allow improved understanding and detection of pharmacological efficacy for pain. The pharmacological/functional magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI/fMRI) methodology can be used to objectively evaluate drug action on the CNS. In this context, we aimed to evaluate two drugs that had been developed as analgesics: one that is efficacious for pain (buprenorphine (BUP)) and one that failed as an analgesic in clinical trials aprepitant (APREP). Using phMRI, we observed that activation induced solely by BUP was present in regions with -opioid receptors, whereas APREP-induced activation was seen in regions expressing NK(1) receptors. However, significant pharmacological modulation of functional connectivity in pain-processing pathways was only observed following BUP administration. By implementing an evoked pain fMRI paradigm, these drugs could also be differentiated by comparing the respective fMRI signals in CNS circuits mediating sensory and affective components of pain. We report a correlation of functional connectivity and evoked pain fMRI measures with pain ratings as well as peak drug concentration. This investigation demonstrates how CNS-acting drugs can be compared, and how the phMRI/fMRI methodology may be used with conventional measures to better evaluate candidate analgesics in small subject cohorts.
This study was aimed at determining the type of the glucocorticoid membrane receptors (mineralocorticoid receptors (MRs) or glucocorticoid receptors (GRs)) in the dorsal hippocampus (dHPC) involved in the rapid effects of corticosterone or stress on memory retrieval. For that purpose, we synthesized corticosterone-3-O-carboxymethyloxime-bovine serum albumin conjugate (Cort-3CMO-BSA) conjugate (a high MW complex that cannot cross the cell membrane) totally devoid of free corticosterone, stable in physiological conditions. In a first experiment, we evidenced that an acute stress (electric footshocks) induced both a dHPC corticosterone rise measured by microdialysis and memory retrieval impairment on delayed alternation task. Both the endocrinal and cognitive effects of stress were blocked by metyrapone (a corticosterone synthesis inhibitor). In a second experiment, we showed that bilateral injections of either corticosterone or Cort-3CMO-BSA in dHPC 15 min before memory testing produced impairments similar to those resulting from acute stress. Furthermore, we showed that anisomycin (a protein synthesis inhibitor) failed to block the deleterious effect of Cort-3CMO-BSA on memory. In a third experiment, we evidenced that intra-hippocampal injection of RU-28318 (MR antagonist) but not of RU-38486 (GR antagonist) totally blocked the Cort-3CMO-BSA-induced memory retrieval deficit. In a fourth experiment, we demonstrated that RU-28318 administered 15 min before stress blocked the stress-induced memory impairments when behavioral testing occurred 15 min but not 60 min after stress. Overall, this study provides strong in vivo evidence that the dHPC membrane GRs, mediating the rapid and non-genomic effects of acute stress on memory retrieval, are of MR but not GR type.

Viral vectors that genetically incorporate an immunoglobulin-binding domain on their surfaces provide many advantages because of the availability of a spectrum of antibodies that allow the selection of a wide range of target cells. However, the specificity and the effectiveness of this system have not been evaluated in the field of neuroscience. We investigated the effectiveness and specificity of a recombinant Sindbis virus displaying an antibody-binding domain of bacterial protein A (ZZ Sindbis). We found that the ZZ Sindbis virus vector specifically infected hippocampal neurons in an antibody-specific manner in living mice, although the efficiency of the gene transduction was not high. However, the ZZ Sindbis virus vector that did not display any specific antibodies continued to exhibit intrinsic tropism toward Bergmann glial cells in the cerebellum. These data indicate that the antibody-displaying viral vectors are potentially useful for delivering a gene of interest to a specific subset of neurons in the central nervous system with the help of neuron type-specific antibodies.
In addition to its role in neurotransmission, embryonic serotonin (5-HT) has been implicated in the regulation of neurodevelopmental processes. For example, we recently showed that a subset of 5-HT1-receptors expressed in the fetal forebrain mediate a serotonergic modulation of thalamocortical axons response to axon guidance cues, both in vitro and in vivo. This influence of 5-HT signaling on fetal brain wiring raised important questions regarding the source of the ligand during pregnancy. Until recently, it was thought that 5-HT sources impacting brain development arose from maternal transport to the fetus, or from raphe neurons in the brainstem of the fetus. Using genetic mouse models, we uncovered previously unknown differences in 5-HT accumulation between the fore- and hindbrain during early and late fetal stages, through an exogenous source of 5-HT. Using additional genetic strategies, a new technology for studying placental biology ex vivo, and direct manipulation of placental neosynthesis, we investigated the nature of this exogenous source and uncovered a placental 5-HT synthetic pathway from a maternal tryptophan precursor, in both mice and humans. These results implicate a new, direct role for placental metabolic pathways in modulating fetal brain development and suggest an important role for maternal-placental-fetal interactions and 5-HT in the fetal programming of adult mental disorders.
A 13-amino acid peptide named neuronostatin (NST) encoded in the somatostatin pro-hormone has been recently reported. It is produced throughout the body, particularly in brain areas that have significant actions over the metabolic and autonomic regulation. The present study was performed in order to elucidate the functional role of NST on memory, anxiety-like behavior and food intake and the hippocampal participation in these effects. When the peptide was intra-hippocampally administered at 3.0 nmol/l, it impaired memory retention in both, object recognition and step-down test. Also, this dose blocked the hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) generation. When NST was intra-hippocampally administered at 0.3 nmol/l and 3.0 nmol/l, anxiolytic effects were observed. Also, the administration in the third ventricle at the higher dose (3.0 nmol/l) induced similar effects, and both doses reduced food intake. The main result of the present study is the relevance of the hippocampal formation in the behavioral effects induced by NST, and these effects could be associated to a reduced hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
Major questions remain about the specific role of testosterone in human spatial navigation. We tested 10 boys (mean age 11.65 years) with an extremely rare disorder of androgen excess (Familial Male Precocious Puberty, FMPP) and 40 healthy boys (mean age 12.81 years) on a virtual version of the Morris Water Maze task. In addition, anatomical magnetic resonance images were collected for all patients and a subsample of the controls (n=21) after task completion. Behaviourally, no significant differences were found between both groups. However, in the MRI analyses, grey matter volume (GMV) was correlated with performance using voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Group differences in correlations of performance with GMV were apparent in medial regions of the prefrontal cortex as well as the middle occipital gyrus and the cuneus. By comparison, similar correlations for both groups were found in the inferior parietal lobule. These data provide novel insight into the relation between testosterone and brain development and suggest that morphological differences in a spatial navigation network covary with performance in spatial ability.
Previous studies have shown the feasibility of using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) as a noninvasive imaging modality to evaluate neurodegeneration in humans and animals. The axial and radial diffusivities derived from DTI were demonstrated to be sensitive markers for axonal and myelin damage, respectively. This study used DTI to evaluate optic nerve degeneration in wild-type and slow Wallerian degeneration (Wld(S)) mutant mice. Longitudinal DTI was performed on optic nerves following high intraocular pressure-induced transient retinal ischemia. The axial diffusivity of wild-type nerves decreased 30% (P&lt;0.05) at 3 days and 40% (P&lt;0.05) at 5-30 days after transient elevation of intraocular pressure. In contrast, the axial diffusivity of Wld(S) nerves did not change at 3 days; decreased by 20% (P&lt;0.05) at 5 days, and continued to decrease by 30% (P&lt;0.05) at 15 days and 40% (P&lt;0.05) at 30 days after transient intraocular pressure elevation, suggesting delayed axonal damage in Wld(S) mice. Radial diffusivity increased 200% (P&lt;0.05) at 15-30 days in the wild-type mice and 100% (P&lt;0.05) at 30 days in the Wld(S) mice after transient intraocular pressure elevation, suggesting delayed myelin damage in Wld(S) mice. DTI detected damage was confirmed with immunohistochemistry using phosphorylated neurofilament and myelin basic protein for assessing axonal and myelin integrity, respectively. These findings support the use of DTI not only to evaluate the progression of neurodegeneration but also to noninvasively demonstrate Wld(S) mutation to delay the Wallerian degeneration.
The glomus cells in the carotid bodies (CB) detect alterations in pH and pCO and low pO level in arterial blood. The carotid sinus nerve conveys the information related to the oxygen level to 2nd-order neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) via tractus solitarius (TS), which is part of the chemoreflex pathways. It has been demonstrated that in 2nd-order NTS neurons receiving inputs from the aortic depressor nerve (ADN), the TS stimulation presents high temporal fidelity. However, the temporal properties of synaptic activity in NTS neurons receiving inputs from CB were not yet fully investigated. Herein using patch-clamp recordings in NTS brainstem slices, we studied TS-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (TS-eEPSCs) on morphologically identified 2nd-order NTS neurons that receive afferent inputs from the CB and compared with 2nd-order ADN-NTS neurons recorded in the same experimental conditions. The amplitudes of TS-eEPSCs were similar in both groups, but the latencies and standard deviation (SD) of latency were significantly higher in the CB-NTS neurons (latency: 40.2 ms, SD: 0.490.03 ms) than in ADN-NTS neurons (latency: 3.30.3 ms, SD: 0.190.02 ms; P=0.049 for latency and P&lt;0.001 for SD of latency). In a series of double-labeling experiments, we confirmed that some CB-NTS 2nd-order neurons send direct projections to the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). We conclude that: (a) CB-NTS 2nd-order neurons present temporally distinct postsynaptic currents when compared with ADN-NTS 2nd-order neurons; (b) low SD of latency of TS-eEPSCs is not necessarily a characteristic of all 2nd-order neurons in the NTS; and (c) the presence of direct connections between these 2nd-order neurons in the NTS and RVLM is indicative that these synaptic properties of CB-NTS neurons are relevant for the processing of respiratory and autonomic responses to chemoreflex activation.
Since grid cells were discovered in the medial entorhinal cortex, several models have been proposed for the transformation from periodic grids to the punctate place fields of hippocampal place cells. These prior studies have each focused primarily on a particular model structure. By contrast, the goal of this study is to understand the general nature of the solutions that generate the grids-to-places transformation, and to exploit this insight to solve problems that were previously unsolved. First, we derive a family of feedforward networks that generate the grids-to-places transformations. These networks have in common an inverse relationship between the synaptic weights and a grid property that we call the normalized offset. Second, we analyze the solutions of prior models in terms of this novel measure and found to our surprise that almost all prior models yield solutions that can be described by this family of networks. The one exception is a model that is unrealistically sensitive to noise. Third, with this insight into the structure of the solutions, we then construct explicitly solutions for the grids-to-places transformation with multiple spatial maps, that is, with place fields in arbitrary locations either within the same (multiple place fields) or in different (global remapping) enclosures. These multiple maps are possible because the weights are learned or assigned in such a way that a group of weights contributes to spatial specificity in one context but remains spatially unstructured in another context. Fourth, we find parameters such that global remapping solutions can be found by synaptic learning in spiking neurons, despite previous suggestions that this might not be possible. In conclusion, our results demonstrate the power of understanding the structure of the solutions and suggest that we may have identified the structure that is common to all robust solutions of the grids-to-places transformation.
Chemokines are chemotactic cytokines that regulate cell migration and are thought to play an important role in a broad range of inflammatory diseases. The availability of chemokine receptor blockers makes them an important therapeutic target. In vitro, chemokines are shown to modulate neurotransmission. However, it is not very clear if chemokines play a role in behavior and cognition. Here we evaluated the role of CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) in various behavioral tasks in mice using Wt (Ccr5/) and Ccr5-null (Ccr5/)mice. Ccr5/ mice showed enhanced social recognition. Administration of CC chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3), one of the CCR5-ligands, impaired social recognition. Since the social recognition task is dependent on the sense of olfaction, we tested olfactory recognition for social and non-social scents in these mice. Ccr5/ mice had enhanced olfactory recognition for both these scents indicating that enhanced performance in social recognition task could be due to enhanced olfactory recognition in these mice. Spatial memory and aversive memory were comparable in Wt and Ccr5/ mice. Collectively, these results suggest that chemokines/chemokine receptors might play an important role in olfactory recognition tasks in mice and to our knowledge represents the first direct demonstration of an in vivo role of CCR5 in modulating social behavior in mice. These studies are important as CCR5 blockers are undergoing clinical trials and can potentially modulate behavior.
Dopamine neurons of the ventral midbrain are activated transiently following stimuli that predict future reward. This response has been shown to signal the expected value of future reward, and there is strong evidence that it drives positive reinforcement of stimuli and actions associated with reward in accord with reinforcement learning models. Behavior is also influenced by reward uncertainty, or risk, but it is not known whether the transient response of dopamine neurons is sensitive to reward risk. To investigate this, monkeys were trained to associate distinct visual stimuli with certain or uncertain volumes of juice of nearly the same expected value. In a choice task, monkeys preferred the stimulus predicting an uncertain (risky) reward outcome. In a Pavlovian task, in which the neuronal responses to each stimulus could be measured in isolation, it was found that dopamine neurons were more strongly activated by the stimulus associated with reward risk. Given extensive evidence that dopamine drives reinforcement, these results strongly suggest that dopamine neurons can reinforce risk-seeking behavior (gambling), at least under certain conditions. Risk-seeking behavior has the virtue of promoting exploration and learning, and these results support the hypothesis that dopamine neurons represent the value of exploration.
The serotonin and circadian systems are principal regulatory networks of the brain. Each consists of a unique set of neurons that make widespread neural connections and a defined gene network of transcriptional regulators and signaling genes that subserve serotonergic and circadian function at the genetic level. These master regulatory networks of the brain are extensively intertwined, with reciprocal circuit connections, expression of key genetic elements for serotonin signaling in clock neurons and expression of key clock genes in serotonergic neurons. The reciprocal connections of the serotonin and circadian systems likely have importance for neurobehavioral disorders, as suggested by their convergent contribution to a similar range of mood disorders including seasonal affective disorder (SAD), bipolar disorder, and major depression, and as suggested by their overlapping relationship with the developmental disorder, autism spectrum disorder. Here we review the neuroanatomical and genetic basis for serotonin-circadian interactions in the brain, their potential relationship with neurobehavioral disorders, and recent work examining the effects on the circadian system of genetic perturbation of the serotonergic system as well as the molecular and behavioral effects of developmental imprinting of the circadian system with perinatal seasonal light cycles.
During the development of epilepsy in adult animals, newly generated granule cells integrate abnormally into the hippocampus. These new cells migrate to ectopic locations in the hilus, develop aberrant basal dendrites, contribute to mossy fiber sprouting, and exhibit changes in apical dendrite structure and dendritic spine number. Mature granule cells do not appear to exhibit migration defects, basal dendrites, and mossy fiber sprouting, but whether they exhibit apical dendrite abnormalities or spine changes is not known. To address these questions, we examined the apical dendritic structure of bromodeoxyuridine (Brdu)-birthdated, green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing granule cells born 2 months before pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. In contrast to immature granule cells, exposing mature granule cells to status epilepticus did not significantly disrupt the branching structure of their apical dendrites. Mature granule cells did, however, exhibit significant reductions in spine density and spine number relative to age-matched cells from control animals. These data demonstrate that while mature granule cells are resistant to developing the gross structural abnormalities exhibited by younger granule cells, they show similar plastic rearrangement of their dendritic spines.
We have recorded, for the first time, in non-anesthetized, head-restrained mice, a total of 407 single units throughout the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR), which contains serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) neurons, during the complete wake-sleep cycle. The mouse DR was found to contain a large proportion (52.0%) of waking (W)-active neurons, together with many sleep-active (24.8%) and W/paradoxical sleep (PS)-active (18.4%) neurons and a few state-unrelated neurons (4.7%). The W-active, W/PS-active, and sleep-active neurons displayed a biphasic narrow or triphasic broad action potential. Of the 212 W-active neurons, 194 were judged serotonergic (5-HT W-active neurons) because of their triphasic long-duration action potential and low rate of spontaneous discharge, while the remaining 18 were judged non-serotonergic (non-5-HT W-active neurons) because of their biphasic narrow action potential and higher rate of spontaneous discharge. The 5-HT W-active neurons were subdivided into four groups, types I, II, III, and IV, on the basis of differences in firing pattern during wake-sleep states, their waking selectivity of discharge being in the order type I&gt;type II&gt;type III&gt;type IV. During the transition from sleep to waking, the vast majority of waking-specific or waking-selective type I and II neurons discharged after onset of waking, as seen with non-5-HT W-specific neurons. Triphasic DR W/PS-active neurons were characterized by a low rate of spontaneous discharge and a similar distribution to that of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive, dopaminergic neurons. Triphasic DR slow-wave sleep (SWS)-active and SWS/PS neurons were also characterized by slow firing. At the transition from sleep to waking, sleep-selective neurons with no discharge activity during waking ceased firing before onset of waking, while, at the transition from waking to sleep, they fired after onset of sleep. The present study shows a marked heterogeneity and functional topographic organization of both serotonergic and non-serotonergic mouse DR neurons and suggests that they play different roles in behavioral state control and the sleep/waking switch.
Neuronal signaling consumes much of the brain energy, mainly through the restoration of the membrane potential (MP) by ATP-consuming ionic pumps. We have reported that, compared with waking, ATP levels increase during the initial hours of natural slow-wave sleep, a time with prominent electroencephalogram (EEG) delta oscillations (0.5-4.5 Hz). We have hypothesized that there is a delta oscillation-ATP increase coupling, since, during delta waves, neurons exhibit a prolonged hyperpolarizing phase followed by a very brief phase of action potentials. However, direct proof of this hypothesis is lacking, and rapid changes in EEG/neuronal activity preclude measurement in the naturally sleeping brain. Thus, to induce a uniform state with pure delta oscillations and one previously shown to be accompanied by a similar pattern of neuronal activity during delta waves as natural sleep, we used ketamine-xylazine treatment in rats. We here report that, with this treatment, the high-energy molecules ATP and ADP increased in frontal and cingulate cortices, basal forebrain, and hippocampus compared with spontaneous waking. Moreover, the degree of ATP increase positively and significantly correlated with the degree of EEG delta activity. Supporting the hypothesis of decreased ATP consumption during delta activity, the ATP-consuming Na+-K+-ATPase mRNA levels were significantly decreased, whereas the mRNAs for the ATP-producing cytochrome c oxidase (COX) subunits COX III and COX IVa were unchanged. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis of a cortical delta oscillation-dependent reduction in ATP consumption, thus providing the brain with increased ATP availability, and likely occurring because of reduced Na+-K+-ATPase-related energy consumption.
The present study examined the specific action-sentence compatibility effect. We examined the action representation and semantic processes indexed by event-related potentials (ERPs, N400 effect) when plausible or implausible actions were performed within a dynamic context (video tapes showing a sequence of four action frames). Two different semantic anomalies were reproduced in the final action frame, which consisted of an object that did not have the semantic properties required (functionally unusual) for the action goal (Experiment 1) or an object that was incorrectly used with regard to the instrumental properties required for the target action (Experiment 2). Fifteen participants performed an explicit task to distinguish congruous from incongruous actions for the final action frame. The ERP analysis showed a significant N400-like effect that was frontally distributed in response to incongruous conditions for both Experiment 1 and 2. Similarly, response times (RTs) increased in response to incongruous actions. Nevertheless, a temporo-parietal cortical distribution was more prevalent in the unusual object-action representation (Experiment 1) than in the incorrect object-action representation (Experiment 2). These results may be explained by assuming that in Experiment 1, the relationship between the action and its intentional goals was violated, with a cortical-specific temporo-parietal response, whereas in Experiment 2 the intentional goal to perform the action was not violated. It can be argued that the N400-like effect was similar to the N400, which is generally evoked by linguistic stimuli, and these results suggest that N400 increases as the difficulty in accessing the semantic memory increases.
S100B, a glial-secreted protein, is believed to play a major role in neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease, Down syndrome, traumatic brain injury, and spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). SCA1 is a trinucleotide repeat disorder in which the expanded polyglutamine mutation in the protein ataxin-1 primarily targets Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. Currently, the exact mechanism of S100B-mediated Purkinje cell damage in SCA1 is not clear. However, here we show that S100B may act via the activation of the receptor for advanced glycation end product (RAGE) signaling pathway, resulting in oxidative stress-mediated injury to mutant ataxin-1-expressing neurons. To combat S100B-mediated neurodegeneration, we have designed a selective thermally responsive S100B inhibitory peptide, Synb1-ELP-TRTK. Our therapeutic polypeptide was developed using three key elements: (1) the elastin-like polypeptide (ELP), a thermally responsive polypeptide, (2) the TRTK12 peptide, a known S100B inhibitory peptide, and (3) a cell-penetrating peptide, Synb1, to enhance intracellular delivery. Binding studies revealed that our peptide, Synb1-ELP-TRTK, interacts with its molecular target S100B and maintains a high S100B binding affinity as comparable with the TRTK12 peptide alone. In addition, in vitro studies revealed that Synb1-ELP-TRTK treatment reduces S100B uptake in SHSY5Y cells. Furthermore, the Synb1-ELP-TRTK peptide decreased S100B-induced oxidative damage to mutant ataxin-1-expressing neurons. To test the delivery capabilities of ELP-based therapeutic peptides to the cerebellum, we treated mice with fluorescently labeled Synb1-ELP and observed that thermal targeting enhanced peptide delivery to the cerebellum. Here, we have laid the framework for thermal-based therapeutic targeting to regions of the brain, particularly the cerebellum. Overall, our data suggest that thermal targeting of ELP-based therapeutic peptides to the cerebellum is a novel treatment strategy for cerebellar neurodegenerative disorders.
Uncontrollable stress can interfere with instrumental learning and induce anxiety in humans and rodents. While evidence supports a role for serotonin (5-HT) and serotonin 2C receptors (5-HT(2C)R) in the behavioral consequences of uncontrollable stress, the specific sites of action are unknown. These experiments sought to delineate the role of 5-HT and 5-HT(2C)R in the dorsal striatum (DS) and the lateral/basolateral amygdala (BLA) in the expression of stress-induced instrumental escape deficits and exaggerated fear, as these structures are critical to instrumental learning and fear behaviors. Using in vivo microdialysis, we first demonstrated that prior uncontrollable, but not controllable, stress sensitizes extracellular 5-HT in the dorsal striatum, a result that parallels prior work in the BLA. Additionally, rats were implanted with bi-lateral cannula in either the DS or the BLA and exposed to uncontrollable tail shock stress. One day later, rats were injected with 5-HT(2C)R antagonist (SB242084) and fear and instrumental learning behaviors were assessed in a shuttle box. Separately, groups of non-stressed rats received an intra-DS or an intra-BLA injection of the 5-HT(2C)R agonist (CP809101) and behavior was observed. Intra-DS injections of the 5-HT(2C)R antagonist prior to fear/escape tests completely blocked the stress-induced interference with instrumental escape learning; a partial block was observed when injections were in the BLA. Antagonist administration in either region did not influence stress-induced fear behavior. In the absence of prior stress, intra-DS administration of the 5-HT(2C)R agonist was sufficient to interfere with escape behavior without enhancing fear, while intra-BLA administration of the 5-HT(2C)R agonist increased fear behavior but had no effect on escape learning. Results reveal a novel role of the 5-HT(2C)R in the DS in the expression of instrumental escape deficits produced by uncontrollable stress and demonstrate that the involvement of 5-HT(2C)R activation in stress-induced behaviors is regionally specific.
Excessive alcohol intake, characteristic of an alcohol use disorder (AUD), results in neurodegeneration as well as cognitive deficits that may recover in abstinence. Neurodegeneration in psychiatric disorders such as AUDs is due to various effects on tissue integrity. Several groups report that alcohol-induced neurodegeneration and recovery include a role for adult neurogenesis. Therefore, the initial purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of alcohol on the temporal profile of neural progenitor cells using the radial glia marker, vimentin, in a model of an AUD. However, striking vimentin expression throughout corticolimbic regions led, instead, to the discovery of a significant gliosis response in this model. Adult male rats were subjected to a 4-day binge model of an AUD and brains harvested for immunohistochemistry at 0, 2, 4, 7, 14, and 28 days following the last dose of ethanol. A prominent increase in vimentin immunoreactivity was apparent at 4 and 7 days post binge that returned to control levels by 14 days in the corticolimbic regions examined. Vimentin-positive cells co-labeled with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), which suggested that cells were reactive astrocytes. A second experiment supported that increased vimentin was not primarily due to alcohol withdrawal seizures and is more likely due to alcohol-induced cell death. As this gliosis was remarkably distinct in regions where cell death had not previously been reported in this model, adjacent tissue sections were processed for FluoroJade B staining for cell death. FluoroJade B-positive cells were evident immediately following the last ethanol dose as expected, but were significantly elevated in the hippocampal dentate gyrus and CA3 regions and corticolimbic regions from 2 to 7 days post binge. Intriguingly, vimentin labeling of astrogliosis is more widespread than FluoroJade B labeling of cell death, which suggests that 4-day binge ethanol consumption is more damaging than originally realized.
The POU-domain transcription POU4F3 is expressed in the sensory cells of the inner ear. Expression begins shortly after commitment to the hair cell (HC) fate, and continues throughout life. It is required for terminal HC differentiation and survival. To explore regulation of the murine Pou4f3 gene, we linked enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) to 8.5 kb of genomic sequence 5' to the start codon in transgenic mice. eGFP was uniformly present in all embryonic and neonatal HCs. Expression of eGFP was also observed in developing Merkel cells and olfactory neurons as well as adult inner and vestibular HCs, mimicking the normal expression pattern of POU4F3 protein, with the exception of adult outer HCs. Apparently ectopic expression was observed in developing inner ear neurons. On a Pou4f3 null background, the transgene produced expression in embryonic HCs which faded soon after birth both in vivo and in vitro. Pou4f3 null HCs treated with caspase 3 and 9 inhibitors survived longer than untreated HCs, but still showed reduced expression of eGFP. The results suggest the existence of separate enhancers for different HC types, as well as strong autoregulation of the Pou4f3 gene. Bioinformatic analysis of four divergent mammalian species revealed three highly conserved regions within the transgene: 400 bp immediately 5' to the Pou4f3 ATG, a short sequence at -1.3 kb, and a longer region at -8.2 to -8.5 kb. The latter contained E-box motifs that bind basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factors, including motifs activated by ATOH1. Cotransfection of HEK293 or VOT-E36 cells with ATOH1 and the transgene as a reporter enhanced eGFP expression when compared with the transgene alone. Chromatin immunoprecipitation of the three highly conserved regions revealed binding of ATOH1 to the distal-most conserved region. The results are consistent with regulation of Pou4f3 in HCs by ATOH1 at a distal enhancer.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate, by use of in vivo microdialysis technique, the regulatory role of galanin on acetylcholine (ACh) release in the CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus (DG) subregions of rat dorsal and ventral hippocampus. In the ventral hippocampus, local infusions of galanin (1.5 nmol) into CA1, and CA3, but not DG (3 nmol), decreased basal ACh release to 58.6% and 68.4%, respectively. In addition, local infusion of galanin (1.5 nmol) into the ventral DG, and CA3 areas decreased basal ACh levels in the CA1 to 51.2% and 84%, respectively. This observation implies that the effects of galanin are unlikely to be mediated via galanin autoreceptors on the cholinergic terminals, but rather via mechanisms involving galanin internalization and modulation of hippocampo-septo-hippocampal loops, attenuation of the excitability of the principal cells, or indirect modulation by galanin-containing vasopressin terminals to the ventral and/or dorsal hippocampus. In the dorsal hippocampus, galanin infusion (1.5 nmol) into the CA1 region increased ACh release to 128.2% of the control levels, but infusions of galanin had no effects in the CA3 and DG. In all cases, the ACh levels returned to basal values within 100 min after the galanin infusion. It is concluded that the attenuating effects of galanin on ACh release in the ventral hippocampus and increase in ACh release in the dorsal hippocampus are in line and support the current view on molecular and functional distinction between the ventral hippocampus being involved preferentially in motivational and emotional behavior, whereas the dorsal hippocampus is primarily implicated in cognitive processes of learning and memory.
Structural and functional abnormalities in the neurovascular unit (NVU) have been recently observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Statins, which are used clinically for reducing cholesterol levels, can also exert beneficial vascular actions. Thus, we examined the protective effects of statins on NVU disturbances in a mouse AD model. Amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic (Tg) mice were used as a model of AD. Atorvastatin (30 mg/kg/day, p.o.) or pitavastatin (3 mg/kg/day, p.o.) were administered from 5 to 20 months of age. Changes in the NVU, including the endothelium and basement membrane, as well as astrogliosis and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) activation, were assessed. There was a reduction in immunopositive staining for N-acetyl glucosamine oligomer (NAGO) in the endothelium and in collagen IV in the APP vehicle (APP/Ve) group, with collagen IV staining most weakest near senile plaques (SPs). There was also an increase in intensity and number of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes, particularly around the SP, where MMP-9 was more strongly labeled. Double immunofluorescent analysis showed that astrocytic endfeet had detached from the capillary endothelium in the APP/Ve group. Treatment with atorvastatin or pitavastatin ameliorated the activation of MMP-9. Overall, these data suggest that statins may have therapeutic potential for AD by protecting NVU.
There is a consensus that active (REM) sleep (AS) is controlled by cholinergic projections from the laterodorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei (LDT/PPT) to neurons in the nucleus pontis oralis (NPO) that generate AS (i.e. AS-Generator neurons). The present study was designed to provide evidence that other projections to the NPO, such as those from the amygdala, are also capable of inducing AS. Accordingly, the responses of neurons, recorded intracellularly in the NPO, were examined following stimulation of the ipsilateral central nucleus of the amygdala (CNA) in urethane-anesthetized rats. Single pulse stimulation in the CNA produced an early, fast depolarizing potential (EPSP) in neurons within the NPO. The mean latency to the onset of these excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) was 3.60.2 ms. A late, small-amplitude inhibitory synaptic potential (IPSP) was present following EPSPs in a portion of the NPO neurons. Following stimulation of the CNA with a train of 8-10 pulses, NPO neurons exhibited a sustained depolarization (5-10 mV) of their resting membrane potential. When single subthreshold intracellular depolarizing current pulses were delivered to NPO neurons, CNA-induced EPSPs were sufficient to promote the discharge of these cells. Stimulation of the CNA with a short train of stimuli induced potent temporal facilitation of EPSPs in NPO neurons. Two forms of synaptic plasticity were revealed by the patterns of response of NPO neurons following stimulation of the CNA: paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) and post-tetanic potentiation (PTP). Six of recorded NPO neurons were identified morphologically with neurobiotin. They were medium to large, multipolar cells with diameters &gt;20 M, which resemble AS-on cells in the NPO. The present results demonstrate that amygdalar projections are capable of exerting a powerful excitatory postsynaptic drive that activates NPO neurons. Therefore, we suggest that the amygdala is capable of inducing AS via direct projections to AS-Generator neurons in the NPO.
The master circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) is dominantly entrained by external light/dark cycle to run with a period of a solar day, that is, 24 h, and synchronizes various peripheral clocks located in the body's cells and tissues accordingly. A daily restricted normocaloric feeding regime synchronizes the peripheral clocks but has no effect on SCN rhythmicity. The aim of this study was to elucidate whether feeding regime may affect the molecular mechanism generating SCN rhythmicity under conditions in which the rhythmicity is disturbed, as occurs under constant light. The rats were maintained under constant light for 30 days and were either fed ad libitum during the whole period, or their access to food was restricted to only 6 h a day during the last 2 weeks in constant light. Locomotor activity was monitored during the whole experiment. On the last day in constant light, daily expression profiles of the clock genes Per1, Per2, Bmal1, and Rev-erb were determined in the SCN of both groups by in situ hybridization. Due to their exposure to constant light, the rats fed ad libitum became completely arrhythmic, while those exposed to the restricted feeding were active mostly during the time of food availability. In the SCN of behaviorally arrhythmic rats, no oscillations in Rev-erb and Bmal1 gene expression were detected, but very low amplitude, borderline significant, oscillations in Per1 and Per2 persisted. Restricted feeding induced significant circadian rhythms in Rev-erb and Bmal1 gene expression, but did not affect the low amplitude oscillations of Per1 and Per2 expression. These findings demonstrate that, under specific conditions, when the rhythmicity of the SCN is disturbed and other temporal entraining cues are lacking, the SCN molecular clockwork may likely sense temporal signals from changes in metabolic state delivered by normocaloric food.
The identification and characterization of excitatory and inhibitory neurons are significant steps in understanding neural network functions. In this study, we investigated the intrinsic electrophysiological properties of neurons in the prepositus hypoglossi nucleus (PHN), a brainstem structure that is involved in gaze holding, using whole-cell recordings in brainstem slices from vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT)-Venus transgenic rats, in which inhibitory neurons express the fluorescent protein Venus. To characterize the intrinsic properties of these neurons, we recorded afterhyperpolarization (AHP) profiles and firing patterns from Venus-expressing [Venus] and Venus-non-expressing [Venus] PHN neurons. Although both types of neurons showed a wide variety of AHP profiles and firing patterns, oscillatory firing was specific to Venus neurons, while a firing pattern showing only a few spikes was specific to Venus neurons. In addition, AHPs without a slow component and delayed spike generation were preferentially displayed by Venus neurons, whereas a firing pattern with constant interspike intervals was preferentially displayed by Venus neurons. We evaluated the mRNAs expression of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD65, GAD67) and glycine transporter 2 (GlyT2) to determine whether the recorded Venus neurons were GABAergic or glycinergic. Of the 67 Venus neurons tested, GlyT2 expression alone was detected in only one neuron. Approximately 40% (28/67) expressed GAD65 and/or GAD67 (GABAergic neuron), and the remainder (38/67) expressed both GAD(s) and GlyT2 (GABA&amp;GLY neuron). These results suggest that most inhibitory PHN neurons use either GABA or both GABA and glycine as neurotransmitters. Although the overall distribution of firing patterns in GABAergic neurons was similar to that of GABA&amp;GLY neurons, only GABA&amp;GLY neurons exhibited a firing pattern with a long first interspike interval. These differential electrophysiological properties will be useful for the identification of specific types of PHN neurons.
Anorexia nervosa is a severe illness and shows one of the highest death rates among psychiatric or psychosomatic diseases. However, despite several lines of research, the etiology of this disease is still unknown. One of those features is the rigidity of behaviors, for example, controlling of weight and pursuing of thinness, that often meets the criteria for obsessive-compulsive behavior. In this study, it was investigated whether the clinical feature of compulsivity in anorexia nervosa patients relates to regional brain activation. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, 12 severely anorectic women were compared to 12 normal-weight female individuals following a cue-reactivity paradigm. Cues comprised food cues of high and low calorie content as well as eating-related utensils. Voxel-based morphometric analysis indicated significantly overall reduced gray matter volume and significantly increased cerebrospinal fluids in anorexia nervosa (AN) patients, which was controlled for in subsequent analyses. Following the high-calorie stimulation, AN patients activated the right caudate body and right precuneus, whereas control subjects did not show significant regional activations. In both other conditions, low-calorie foods and eating utensils, regional brain activations did not survive FDR thresholds. During the high-calorie condition, compulsivity, that is, the subscore &quot;obsessive thoughts,&quot; predicted activation of the superior frontal gyrus [Brodmann areas (BA) 10], inferior frontal gyrus, anterior cingulate cortex (BA 32), cingulate gyrus (BA 24), caudate body, cuneus, pre- and postcentral gyrus. The subscore &quot;compulsive acts&quot; correlated with activation of the claustrum during the high-calorie condition and predicted a number of deactivations of frontal and temporal regions. We conclude that in severely anorectic individuals, the degree of compulsivity predicts activation and deactivation of the fronto-striatal pathway.
Aquaporins (AQPs) play a physiological role in several organs and tissues, and their alteration is associated with disorders of water regulation. The identification of molecular interactions, which are crucial in determining the rate of water flux through the channel, is of pivotal role for the discovery of molecules able to target those interactions and therefore to be used for pathologies ascribable to an altered AQP-dependent water balance. In the present study, a mutational screening of human aquaporin-4 (AQP4) gene was performed on subjects with variable degrees of hearing loss. One heterozygous missense mutation was identified in a Spanish sporadic case, leading to an Asp/Glu amino acid substitution at position 184 (D184E). A BLAST analysis revealed that the amino acid D184 is conserved across species, consistently with a crucial role in the structure/function of AQP4 water channels. The mutation induces a significant reduction in water permeability as measured by the Xenopus laevis oocytes swelling assay and by the use of mammalian cells by total internal reflection microscopy. By Western blot, immunofluorescence and 2D Blue Native/SDS-PAGE we show that the reduction in water permeability is not ascribable to a reduced expression of AQP4 mutant protein or to its incorrect plasma membrane targeting and aggregation into orthogonal arrays of particles. Molecular dynamics simulation provided a molecular explanation of the mechanism whereby the mutation induces a loss of function of the channel. Substituting glutamate for aspartate affects the mobility of the D loop, which acquires a higher propensity to equilibrate in a &quot;closed conformation&quot;, thus affecting the rate of water flux. We speculate that this mutation, combined with other genetic defects or concurrently with certain environmental stimuli, could confer a higher susceptibility to deafness.
Stem cells have a number of properties, which make them excellent candidates for the treatment of various neurologic disorders, the most important of which being their ability to migrate to and differentiate predictably at sites of pathology in the brain. The disease-directed migration and well-characterized differentiation patterns of stem cells may eventually provide a powerful tool for the treatment of both localized and diffuse disease processes within the human brain. A thorough understanding of the molecular mechanisms governing their migratory properties and their choice between different differentiation programs is essential if these cells are to be used therapeutically in humans. This review focuses on summarizing the migration and differentiation of therapeutic neural and mesenchymal stem cells in different disease models in the brain and also discusses the promise of these cells to eventually treat various forms of neurologic disease.
Achieving movements with accuracy despite the inevitable variability of the neuromuscular mechanisms is an important everyday life problem, which has to be solved for the production of any adapted motor act, such as walking, writing, catching, or pointing. To solve this problem when we have to make goal-directed movements as fast as possible, we systematically increase movement time when accuracy requirements increase, a ubiquitous phenomenon qualified as speed-accuracy trade-off. It has been proposed that this speed-accuracy trade-off reflects an optimal compromise between speed and accuracy in the presence of biological noise and that increasing movement speed inevitably leads to decreased motor accuracy. However, the recent finding that muscle cocontraction improves movement accuracy may challenge this view and begs the question of how movement speed control and cocontraction control coexist. Here, we show that humans are in fact able to move faster while preserving movement accuracy, by using a strategy where muscles are cocontracted around the joint. As this energetically costly cocontraction strategy was not naturally used, this result has two important implications. It first demonstrates that a speed modulation strategy is preferred to a cocontraction strategy for fast, accurate movements, and it also suggests that energy economy prevents us to execute accurate movements as fast as we could do. Consequently, we propose that the mechanisms underlying the speed-accuracy trade-off are more complex than previously thought, and suggest the existence of a previously unknown speed-energy-accuracy trade-off for goal-directed movements.
Food restriction (FR) decreases brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in hypothalamic and hindbrain regions that regulate feeding and metabolic efficiency, while increasing expression in hippocampal and neocortical regions. Drugs of abuse alter BDNF expression within the mesocorticolimbic dopamine (DA) pathway, and modifications of BDNF expression within this pathway alter drug-directed behavior. Although FR produces a variety of striatal neuroadaptations and potentiates the rewarding effects of abused drugs, the effects of FR on BDNF expression and function within the DA pathway are unknown. The primary purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of FR on protein levels of BDNF and its tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB) receptor in component structures of the mesocorticolimbic pathway. Three to four weeks of FR, with stabilization of rats at 80% of initial body weight, did not alter BDNF or TrkB levels in nucleus accumbens, caudate-putamen, or medial prefrontal cortex. However, FR decreased TrkB levels in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), without change in levels of BDNF protein or mRNA. The finding that FR also decreased TrkB levels in substantia nigra, with elevation of BDNF protein, suggests that decreased TrkB in VTA could be a residual effect of increased BDNF during an earlier phase of FR. Voltage-clamp recordings in VTA DA neurons indicated decreased glutamate receptor transmission. These data might predict lower average firing rates in FR relative to ad libitum fed subjects, which would be consistent with previous evidence of decreased striatal DA transmission and upregulation of postsynaptic DA receptor signaling. However, FR subjects also displayed elevated VTA levels of phospho-ERK1/2, which is an established mediator of synaptic plasticity. Because VTA neurons are heterogeneous with regard to neurochemistry, function, and target projections, the relationship(s) between the three changes observed in VTA, and their involvement in the augmented striatal and behavioral responsiveness of FR subjects to drugs of abuse, remains speculative.
Physical (exteroceptive) stimuli and emotional (interoceptive) stimuli are thought to influence stress-related physiologic and behavioral responses through different neural mechanisms. Previous studies have demonstrated that stress-induced activation of brainstem serotonergic systems is influenced by environmental factors such as temperature. In order to further investigate the effects of environmental influences on stress-induced activation of serotonergic systems, we exposed adult male Wistar rats to either home cage control conditions or a 15-min swim in water maintained at 19 C, 25 C, or 35 C and conducted dual immunohistochemical staining for c-Fos, a marker of immediate-early nuclear activation, and tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), a marker of serotonergic neurons. Changes in core body temperature were documented using biotelemetry. As expected, exposure to cold (19 C) swim, relative to warm (35 C) swim, increased c-Fos expression in the external lateral part of the parabrachial nucleus (LPBel), an important part of the spinoparabrachial pathway involved in sensation of cold, cutaneous stimuli, and in serotonergic neurons in the raphe pallidus nucleus (RPa), an important part of the efferent mechanisms controlling thermoregulatory warming responses. In addition, exposure to cold (19 C) swim, relative to 35 C swim, increased c-Fos expression in the dorsal raphe nucleus, ventrolateral part/periaqueductal gray (DRVL/VLPAG) and dorsal raphe nucleus, interfascicular part (DRI). Both of these subregions of the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) have previously been implicated in thermoregulatory responses. Altogether, the data are consistent with the hypothesis that midbrain serotonergic neurons, possibly via activation of afferents to the DR by thermosensitive spinoparabrachial pathways, play a role in integration of physiologic and behavioral responses to interoceptive stress-related cues involved in forced swimming and exteroceptive cues related to cold ambient temperature.
Convergent epidemiological, clinical, and experimental findings indicate that hypercholesterolemia contributes to the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like dementia, but the exact underlying mechanisms remains unknown. In this study, we evaluated the cognitive performance of mice submitted to a model of hypercholesterolemia, as well as its relationship with mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress, two key events involved in AD pathogenesis. Wild-type C57bl/6 or low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLr)-deficient mice were fed with either standard or cholesterol-enriched diet for a 4-week period and tested for spatial learning and memory in the object location task. LDLr/ mice displayed spatial learning and memory impairments regardless of diet. Moreover, LDLr/ mice fed cholesterol-enriched diet presented a significant decrease in the mitochondrial complexes I and II activities in the cerebral cortex, which were negatively correlated with respective blood cholesterol levels. Additionally, hypercholesterolemic LDLr/ mice presented a significant decrease in glutathione levels, about 40% increase in the thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances levels, as well as an imbalance between the peroxide-removing-related enzymes glutathione peroxidase/glutathione reductase activities in the cerebral cortex. These findings indicate a significant relationship between hypercholesterolemia, cognitive impairment, and cortico-cerebral mitochondrial dysfunctional/oxidative stress. Because of the involvement of such alterations in AD patients, our data render this mouse model of hypercholesterolemia a useful approach to comprehend the molecular events mediating AD pathogenesis.
In a previous study the simple, naturally derived coumarin scopoletin (SCT) was identified as an inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), using a pharmacophore-based virtual screening approach. In this study the potential of SCT as procholinergic and cognition-enhancing therapeutic was investigated in a more detailed way, using different experimental approaches like measuring newly synthesized acetylcholine (ACh) in synaptosomes, long-term potentiation (LTP) experiments in hippocampal slices, and behavior studies. SCT enhanced the K+-stimulated release of ACh from rat frontal cortex synaptosomes, showing a bell-shaped dose effect curve (E(max): 4 M). This effect was blocked by the nicotinic ACh receptor (nAChR) antagonists mecamylamine (MEC) and dihydro--erythroidine (DHE). The nAChR agonist (and AChE inhibitor) galantamine induced a similar increase in ACh release (E(max): 1 M). SCT potentiated LTP in hippocampal slices of rat brain. The high-frequency stimulation (HFS)-induced, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor dependent LTP of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials at CA3-CA1 synapses was greatly enhanced by pre-HFS application of SCT (4 M for 4 min). This effect was mimicked by nicotine (2 M) and abolished by MEC, suggesting an effect on nAChRs. SCT did not restore the total inhibition of LTP by NMDA receptor antagonist D, L-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5). SCT (2 g, i.c.v.) increased T-maze alternation and ameliorated novel object recognition of mice with scopolamine-induced cholinergic deficit. It also reduced age-associated deficits in object memory of 15-18-month-old mice (2 mg/kg sc). Our findings suggest that SCT possesses memory-improving properties, which are based on its direct nAChR agonistic activity. Therefore, SCT might be able to rescue impaired cholinergic functions by enhancing nAChR-mediated release of neurotransmitters and promoting neural plasticity in hippocampus.
Recent evidence indicates that individuals with Williams syndrome (WS), a rare genetically based neurodevelopmental disorder, show abnormalities of parietal and cerebellar regions of the brain that may be involved in the visual control of locomotion. Here we examined whether parietal and cerebellar abnormalities contribute to deficits in spatiotemporal characteristics and foot placement variability during obstacle crossing in adults with WS, when compared with an IQ-matched group of adults with Down syndrome (DS) and typically developing adult controls. We used the GAITRite walkway to examine the spatiotemporal characteristics and foot placement variability relative to a small ground-based obstacle in the travel path. We found that adults with WS showed late adjustments to spatiotemporal gait characteristics alongside an exaggerated and more spatially constrained visual guidance of foot positioning in the final steps prior to stepping over the obstacle. In contrast, the adults with DS showed longer step duration and more variable step length and step duration during the crossing and recovery steps after the obstacle, suggestive of cerebellar dysfunction. Although the controls were able to reduce the variability of foot placement across the obstacle crossing trials, both the WS and DS groups did not become more consistent with practice. These findings indicate a less flexible and overly constrained visuomotor system in WS, which is consistent with more widespread and diffuse abnormalities in parietal and cerebellar regions.
Large-billed crows (Corvus macrorhynchos), highly social birds, form stable dominance relationships based on the memory of win/loss outcomes of first encounters and on individual discrimination. This socio-cognitive behaviour predicts the existence of neural mechanisms for integration of social behaviour control and individual discrimination. This study aimed to elucidate the neural substrates of memory-based dominance in crows. First, the formation of dominance relationships was confirmed between males in a dyadic encounter paradigm. Next, we examined whether neural activities in 22 focal nuclei of pallium and subpallium were correlated with social behaviour and stimulus familiarity after exposure to dominant/subordinate familiar individuals and unfamiliar conspecifics. Neural activity was determined by measuring expression level of the immediate-early-gene (IEG) protein Zenk. Crows displayed aggressive and/or submissive behaviour to opponents less frequently but more discriminatively in subsequent encounters, suggesting stable dominance based on memory, including win/loss outcomes of the first encounters and individual discrimination. Neural correlates of aggressive and submissive behaviour were found in limbic subpallium including septum, bed nucleus of the striae terminalis (BST), and nucleus taeniae of amygdala (TnA), but also those to familiarity factor in BST and TnA. Contrastingly, correlates of social behaviour were little in pallium and those of familiarity with exposed individuals were identified in hippocampus, medial meso-/nidopallium, and ventro-caudal nidopallium. Given the anatomical connection and neural response patterns of the focal nuclei, neural networks connecting pallium and limbic subpallium via hippocampus could be involved in the integration of individual discrimination and social behaviour control in memory-based dominance in the crow.
Components of the brain's dopaminergic system, such as dopamine receptors, undergo final maturation in adolescence. Exposure to social stress during human adolescence contributes to substance abuse behaviors. We utilized a rat model of adolescent social stress to investigate the neural mechanisms underlying this correlation. Rats exposed to repeated social defeat in adolescence (P35-P39) exhibited increased conditioned place preference (CPP) for amphetamine (1 mg/kg) in adulthood (P70). In contrast, rats experiencing foot-shock during the same developmental period exhibited amphetamine CPP levels similar to non-stressed controls. Our previous experiments suggested adolescent defeat alters dopamine activity in the mesocorticolimbic system. Furthermore, dopamine receptors have been implicated in the expression of amphetamine CPP. Therefore, we hypothesized that alteration to dopamine receptor expression in the mesocorticolimbic system may be associated with to heightened amphetamine CPP of adult rats exposed to adolescence defeat. We measured D1 and D2 dopamine receptor protein content in the medial prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens (NAc), and dorsal striatum following either adolescent social defeat or foot-shock stress and then adult amphetamine CPP. In controls, amphetamine CPP training reduced D2 receptor protein content in the NAc core. However, this down-regulation of NAc core D2 receptors was blocked by exposure to social defeat but not foot-shock stress in adolescence. These results suggest social defeat stress in adolescence alters the manner in which later amphetamine exposure down-regulates D2 receptors. Furthermore, persistent alterations to adult D2 receptor expression and amphetamine responses may depend on the type of stress experienced in adolescence.
Glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors play a pivotal role in different forms of memory. The dysfunction of NMDA receptors contributes to the pathology of central nervous system (CNS) disorders. To further investigate the role of the NMDA receptors in brain processes, we analyzed and compared the gene expression profiles in the hippocampus of NR2B overexpression-induced memory-enhanced mice (Tg mice) with those of their wild-type littermates. Results reveal that 249 genes, which are mainly involved in neurotransmission, signal transduction, cytoskeletal structure, hormone activity, and transcription, were significantly affected in Tg mice. Interestingly, the intracellular calcium channel proteins ryanodine receptor (RyR) 1 and 3, as well as functionally related proteins such as the histidine-rich calcium-binding protein and triadin 2, were upregulated. The Homer-1c protein was also increased in Tg mice and formed a complex with the RyR protein in the mouse brain, suggesting that Homer-1c is an important modulator in both intracellular calcium signaling and overall neuronal signaling by simultaneously interacting with the NMDA receptors and RyR. Western blot and real-time PCR results show that the expression of phospho-CREB, c-fos, and the immediate-early genes Egr2 and Egr4 were also upregulated in Tg mice. The current study demonstrates that a chronic increase in the activation of NMDA receptors affected the expression of a large number of genes and may provide important clues for a better understanding of the molecular mechanism of NMDA receptor-modulated learning and memory, as well as of CNS disorders.
New molecular genetics approaches have been developed over the past several years to study brain serotonin (5-HT) neuron development and the roles of 5-HT neurons in behavior and physiology. These approaches were enabled by manipulation of the gene encoding the Pet-1 ETS transcription factor whose expression in the brain is restricted to developing and adult 5-HT neurons. Targeting of the Pet-1 gene led to the development of a mouse line with a severe and stable deficiency of embryonic 5-HT-synthesizing neurons. The Pet-1 transcription regulatory region has been used to create several new 5-HT neuron-type transgenic tools that have greatly increased the experimental accessibility of the small number of brain 5-HT neurons. Permanent and specific marking of 5-HT neurons with Pet-1-based transgenic tools have now been used for flow cytometry, whole cell electrophysiological recordings, progenitor fate mapping, and live time lapse imaging of these neurons. Additional tools provide multiple strategies for conditional temporal targeting of gene expression in 5-HT neurons at different stages of life. Pet-1-based approaches have led to advances in understanding the role of 5-HT neurons in respiration, thermoregulation, emotional behaviors, maternal behavior, and the mechanism of antipsychotic drug actions. In addition, these approaches have begun to reveal the molecular basis of 5-HT neuron heterogeneity and the transcriptional mechanisms that direct 5-HT neuron-type identity, maturation, and maintenance.
The presynaptic serotonin (5-HT) transporter (SERT) is a key regulator of 5-HT signaling and is a major target for antidepressant medications and psychostimulants. In recent years, studies of natural and engineered genetic variation in SERT have provided new opportunities to understand structural dimensions of drug interactions and regulation of the transporter, to explore 5-HT contributions to antidepressant action, and to assess the impact of SERT-mediated 5-HT contributions to neuropsychiatric disorders. Here we review three examples from our recent studies where genetic changes in SERT, identified or engineered, have led to new models, findings, and theories that cast light on new dimensions of 5-HT action in the CNS and periphery. First, we review our work to identify specific residues through which SERT recognizes antagonists, and the conversion of this knowledge to the creation of mice lacking high-affinity antidepressant and cocaine sensitivity. Second, we discuss our studies of functional coding variation in SERT that exists in commonly used strains of inbred mice, and how this variation is beginning to reveal novel 5-HT-associated phenotypes. Third, we review our identification and functional characterization of multiple, hyperactive SERT coding variants in subjects with autism. Each of these activities has driven the development of new model systems that can be further exploited to understand the contribution of 5-HT signaling to risk for neuropsychiatric disorders and their treatment.
With the widespread use of brain imaging studies, neurosurgeons have seen a marked increase in the number of incidental intracranial lesions, including vascular abnormalities. Specifically, the detection of incidentally discovered aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, cavernous angiomas, developmental venous anomalies, and capillary telangiectasias has increased. The best management strategy for most of these lesions is controversial. Treatment options include observation, open surgery, endovascular procedures, and radiosurgery. Multiple factors should be taken into account when discussing treatment indications, including the natural history of the disease and the risk of the treatment. In this article, the authors focus on the natural history of these lesions and the risk of the treatment, and they give recommendations regarding the most appropriate management strategy based on the current evidence in the literature and their experience with intracranial vascular abnormalities.
Cavernous malformations (CMs) are angiographically occult vascular malformations that are frequently found incidentally on MR imaging. Despite this benign presentation, these lesions could cause symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage, seizures, and focal neurological deficits. Cavernomas can be managed conservatively with neuroimaging studies, surgically with lesion removal, or with radiosurgery. Considering recent studies examining the CM's natural history, imaging techniques, and possible therapeutic interventions, the authors provide a concise review of the literature and discuss the optimal management of incidental CMs.

Exposure to pesticides has been linked to an increased vulnerability to neurodegenerative diseases. In order to study whether the exposure to the organophosphate chlorpyrifos renders the brain prone to amyloid-beta peptide deposition and accelerates its neuropathological and behavioural effects, Wistar rats were injected a single subcutaneous dose of chlorpyrifos (250 mg/kg) and subsequently infused with A(1-42) peptide (i.c.v.) for 15 days. No effects of either treatment were noted in the classic water maze test. The animals infused with A peptide showed worse performance when the platform was both hidden and moved from trial to trial. Both groups showed worse performance when the platform was visible and moved from trial to trial. No amyloid deposition was observed in hippocampus or cerebral cortex after the infusion period, although microtubule-associated protein 1A (MAP1A) immunoreactivity was significantly reduced in hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, whereas chlorpyrifos exposure produced a significant reduction of microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) in the prefrontal cortex. Therefore, behavioural deficits could be related to a loss of dendrite and spine processes in these brain regions.






Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is a powerful technique for the noninvasive assessment of the central nervous system. To facilitate the application of this technique to in vivo studies, we characterised a mouse model of the leukodystrophy, Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD), comparing high-resolution ex vivo DTI findings with quantitative histological analysis of selected areas of the brain. The mice used in this study (Plp1-transgenic) carry transgenic copies of the Plp1 gene and are models for PMD as a result of gene duplication. Plp1 transgenic mice display a mild ataxia and experience frequent seizures around the time at which they were imaged. Axial ((1) ) and radial (RD) diffusivities and fractional anisotropy (FA) data were analysed using an exploratory whole-brain voxel-based method, a voxel-based approach using tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS), and by application of conventional region of interest (ROI) analyses to selected white matter tracts. Raw t value maps and TBSS analyses indicated widespread changes throughout the brain of Plp1-transgenic mice compared with the wild-type. ROI analyses of the corpus callosum, anterior commissure and hippocampal fimbria showed that FA was reduced significantly, whereas (1) and RD were increased significantly, in Plp1-transgenic mice compared with the wild-type. The DTI data derived from ROI analyses were subsequently compared with histological measures taken in the same regions. These revealed an almost complete absence of myelin, preservation of axons, marked astrocytosis and increased or unchanged cell densities. These data contribute to our growing understanding of the basis of anisotropic water diffusion in the normal and diseased nervous system.
It has been shown that double wave vector diffusion weighting, which employs two gradient pulse pairs of independent directions, can provide information about tissue structure that is not easily available otherwise, such as cell size or shape in a tissue sample. One approach to measure cell size is based on the signal difference between parallel and antiparallel gradient orientations at small mixing times between the two diffusion weightings. A major difficulty for in vivo application is the small size of the signal difference if clinical MR systems with limited gradient hardware are employed. In this study, the method is applied to human brain tissue in vivo, using whole-body gradients. Data are reported for the corticospinal tracts. The characteristics of the observed signal difference between parallel and antiparallel gradient orientations are consistent with both analytical and numerical predictions. As an estimate of pore size, the resulting mean squared radius of gyration of the pores amounts to approximately 4 m(2) . An analysis that accounts for the finite values of gradient pulse duration and diffusion time yields a volume contribution-weighted mean pore diameter of 13 m if a cylindrical pore shape is assumed. The results demonstrate that the technique can be applied in vivo.

Evolving neuroscience reveals an ever-strong relationship between children's earliest development/environment and later life experience, including physical and mental health, school performance and behaviour. Paediatricians, family physicians and other primary care providers need to make the most of well-baby visits-here a focus on an enhanced 18-month visit-to address a widening 'opportunity gap' in Canada. An enhanced visit entails promoting healthier choices and positive parenting to families, using anticipatory guidance and physician-prompt tools, and connecting children and families with local community resources. This statement demonstrates the need for measuring/monitoring key indicators of early childhood health and well-being. It offers specific recommendations to physicians, governments and organizations for a universally established and supported assessment of every Canadian child's developmental health at 18 months.
A boy presented with an abnormal P wave shown on an electrocardiogram (ECG) checkup at school. An echocardiogram and contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) showed cor triatriatum with a slit-like opening between the accessory chamber and the left atrium located along the interatrial septum. The boy underwent open heart surgery for excision of the anomalous membrane, and a postoperative ECG showed normal P waves. The excised tissue was examined immnunohistopathologically using antihyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated potassium channel 4 (HCN4) antibody and other staining. The authors confirmed the existence of cells positive to HCN4, indicating that they were sinoatrial node cells or at least cells with electrical automaticity.
Rett syndrome (RTT), a neurodevelopmental condition characterized by delayed-onset loss of spoken language and the development of distinctive hand stereotypies, affects approximately 1 in 10,000 live female births. Clinical diagnosis has been based on symptoms such as loss of acquired purposeful hand skills, autistic behaviors, motor dysfunctions, seizure disorders, and gait abnormalities. RTT is a genetic disease and is caused almost exclusively by mutations in the X-linked gene, MECP2, to produce a phenotype that is thought to be primarily of neurological origin. Clinical reports show RTT patients to have a smaller brain volume, especially in the cerebral hemispheres, and alterations in various neurotransmitter systems, including acetylcholine, dopamine, serotonin, glutamate, substance P, and various trophic factors. Because of its monogenetic characteristic, disruption of Mecp2 is readily recapitulated in mice to produce a prominent RTT-like phenotype and provide an excellent platform for understanding the pathogenesis of RTT. As shown in human studies, Mecp2 mutants also display subtle alterations in neuronal morphology, including smaller cortical neurons with a higher-packing density and reduced dendritic complexity. Neurophysiological studies in Mecp2-mutant mice consistently report alterations in synaptic function, notably, defects in synaptic plasticity. These data suggest that RTT might be regarded as a synaptopathy (disease of the synapse) and thus potentially amenable to rational therapeutic intervention.
Infantile spasms constitute an age-dependent epilepsy, highly associated with cognitive impairment, autism, and movement disorders. Previous classification systems focused on a distinction between symptomatic and cryptogenic etiologies, and have not kept pace with recent discoveries of mutations in genes in key pathways of central nervous system development in patients with infantile spasms. Children with certain genetic syndromes are much likelier to manifest infantile spasms, and we review the literature to propose a genetic classification of these disorders. Children demonstrating genetic associations with infantile spasms also manifest phenotypes beyond epilepsy that may be explained by recent advances in the understanding of underlying biological mechanisms. Therefore we propose a biologic classification of genes highly associated with infantile spasms, and articulate models for infantile spasms pathogenesis based on those data. The two best described pathways of pathogenesis involve abnormalities in the gene regulatory network of gamma-aminobutyric acidergic forebrain development and abnormalities in molecules expressed at the synapse. These genetic and biologic classifications are flexible, and they should encourage much needed progress in syndrome recognition, clinical genetic testing, and the development of new therapies targeting specific pathways of pathogenesis.
Obesity is a major health problem in the world. Since effective remedies are rare, researchers are trying to discover new therapies for obesity, and acupuncture is among the most popular alternative approaches. This study investigated the anti-obesity mechanisms of EA, using a rat model of diet-induced obesity. After feeding with a high-fat diet for 9 weeks, a number of rats who gained weight that surpassed the maximal body weight of rats in the chow-fed group were considered obese and employed in the study. A 2 Hz EA treatment at the acupoints ST36/SP6 with the intensity increasing stepwise from 0.5-1-1.5 mA was given once a day for 30 min. Rats treated with EA showed significantly decreased food intake and reduced body weight compared with the rats in DIO and restraint group. EA treatment increased peptide levels of -MSH and mRNA levels of its precursor POMC in the arcuate nuclear of hypothalamus (ARH) neurons. In addition, the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) content of -MSH was elevated by EA application. ARH lesions by monosodium glutamate abolished the inhibition effect of EA on food intake and body weight. A non-acupoint stimulation did not show the benefit effect on food intake inhibition and body weight reduction compared with restraint and ST36/SP6 EA treatment. We concluded that EA treatment at ST36/SP6 acted through ARH to significantly inhibit food intake and body weight gain when fed a high-fat diet and that the stimulation of -MSH expression and release might be involved in the mechanism.
The present study examines the biophysical properties and functional implications of I (h) in hippocampal area CA3 interneurons with somata in strata radiatum and lacunosum-moleculare. Characterization studies showed a small maximum h-conductance (2.60.3nS, n=11), shallow voltage dependence with a hyperpolarized half-maximal activation (V (1/2)=-91mV), and kinetics characterized by double-exponential functions. The functional consequences of I (h) were examined with regard to temporal summation and impedance measurements. For temporal summation experiments, 5-pulse mossy fiber input trains were activated. Blocking I (h) with 50M ZD7288 resulted in an increase in temporal summation, suggesting that I (h) supports sensitivity of response amplitude to relative input timing. Impedance was assessed by applying sinusoidal current commands. From impedance measurements, we found that I (h) did not confer theta-band resonance, but flattened the impedance-frequency relations instead. Double immunolabeling for hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated proteins and glutamate decarboxylase 67 suggests that all four subunits are present in GABAergic interneurons from the strata considered for electrophysiological studies. Finally, a model of I (h) was employed in computational analyses to confirm and elaborate upon the contributions of I (h) to impedance and temporal summation.
The responses of rats to intracranial injections of cholinergic drugs implicate acetylcholine in the control of male mating behavior and suggest specific brain areas as mediators of these effects. In particular, past work has linked the medial preoptic area (MPOA) to the control of intromission frequency but implicated areas near the lateral ventricles in effects on the initiation and spacing of intromissions. Studies of responses to systemic cholinergic treatments suggest that acetylcholine is even more important for the control of mating behavior in male hamsters but provide no information on the relevant brain areas. To fill this gap, we observed the effects of central injections of the cholinergic agonist oxotremorine that approached the MPOA along contrasting paths. Both studies suggest that increased cholinergic activity in or near the MPOA can facilitate behavior by reducing the postejaculatory interval and possibly affecting other parts of the mechanisms controlling the initiation of copulation and the efficiency of performance early in an encounter. In addition, oxotremorine caused other changes in behavior that could not be tied to the MPOA and may reflect actions at more dorsal sites, possibly including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial septum. These effects were notably heterogeneous, including facilitatory and disruptive effects on male behavior along with a facilitation of lordosis responses to manual stimulation. These results emphasize the number and diversity of elements of sexual behavior in hamsters that are under the partial control of forebrain cholinergic mechanisms.
Physical activity decreases cocaine self-administration in laboratory animals and is associated with positive outcomes in substance abuse treatment programs; however, less is known about its efficacy in preventing the establishment of regular patterns of substance use in drug-naive individuals. The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of access to a running wheel on the acquisition of cocaine self-administration in experimentally naive rats. Male, Long-Evans rats were obtained at weaning and assigned to sedentary (no wheel) or exercising (access to wheel) conditions immediately upon arrival. After six weeks, rats were surgically implanted with intravenous catheters and placed in operant conditioning chambers for 2 h/day for 15 consecutive days. Each session began with a noncontingent priming infusion of cocaine, followed by a free-operant period in which each response on the active lever produced an infusion of cocaine on a fixed ratio (FR1) schedule of reinforcement. For days 1-5, responding was reinforced with 0.25 mg/kg/infusion cocaine; for days 6-15, responding was reinforced with 0.75 mg/kg/infusion cocaine. In addition, all rats were calorically restricted during days 11-15 to 85% to 95% of their free-feeding body weight. Compared to sedentary rats, exercising rats acquired cocaine self-administration at a significantly slower rate and emitted significantly fewer active lever presses during the 15 days of behavioral testing. These data indicate that access to a running wheel inhibits the acquisition of cocaine self-administration, and that physical activity may be an effective intervention in substance abuse prevention programs.
Previous studies showed the role of basolateral amygdala (BLA) in cannabinoid-induced antinociception. Several lines of evidence indicated that the nucleus accumbens (NAc) receives excitatory glutamatergic inputs primarily from limbic-related structures, including the hippocampus, BLA, and various thalamic nuclei. Additionally, it has been shown that the NAc plays an important role in mediating the suppression of animal models of pain. In the present study, we examined the role of NMDA and AMPA/kainate receptors within the NAc in antinociception induced by intra-BLA cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 in rats. 126 adult male albino Wistar rats weighing 230-280 g were unilaterally implanted by two separate cannulae into the BLA and NAc. Dose-response antinociceptive effects of different doses of intra-BLA WIN55,212-2 (5, 10 and 15 g/0.3 l/rat) were evaluated in this study. Moreover, animals received intra-accumbal infusions of either NMDA receptor antagonist, AP5 (0.5, 2.5 and 5 g/0.5 l saline) or AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist, CNQX (0.1, 0.5 and 2.5 g/0.5 l DMSO), just 2 min before microinjection of WIN55,212-2 into the BLA. Antinociceptive responses of drugs were obtained by tail-flick analgesiometer and represented as maximal possible effect (%MPE) at 5, 15, 30, 45 and 60 min after their administrations. Results showed that intra-accumbal AP5 dose-dependently prevented antinociception induced by intra-BLA administration of WIN55,212-2 (15 g/rat) in time set intervals. Nonetheless, administration of AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist, CNQX, could not affect WIN-induced analgesia. Additionally, solely administration of intra-accumbal injection of CNQX (2.5 g/0.5 l DMSO), but not AP5 (5 g/0.5 l saline), could significantly change the baseline tail-flick latencies in the rats. It seems that NMDA receptors located in the NAc, in part, mediate the antinociceptive responses of cannabinoid within the BLA in acute model of pain.
The novel antidepressant agomelatine behaves as an agonist at melatonergic MT(1) and MT(2) receptors and as an antagonist at serotonin 5-HT(2C) receptors. This study investigated the effects of agomelatine and fluoxetine in a genetic model of depression called H/Rouen mice Male and female H/Rouen (helpless line) and NH/Rouen (nonhelpless line) mice, received once daily for 3 weeks agomelatine (10 and 50 mg/kgi.p.), fluoxetine (10 mg/kgi.p.) or vehicle. Immobility duration in the tail suspension test (TST) was assessed on day 1 (D1), day 8 (D8), day 15 (D15) and day 22 (D22). Locomotor activity in a novel environment was assessed on day 18 (D18) and anhedonia (2-bottle sucrose preference test) was considered after the end of chronic treatment, from days 22 to 25. Agomelatine (50 mg/kg) significantly reduced immobility at D15 (p&lt;0.01), and D22 (p&lt;0.001) in treated H/Rouen mice whereas agomelatine at 10 mg/kg did not induce a statistically significant change. Fluoxetine reduced immobility at D8 (p&lt;0.01), D15 (p&lt;0.001) and D22 (p&lt;0.001). Locomotor activity was unchanged in all treated groups as compared to vehicle groups. In the sucrose test, there was a significant decrease in sucrose preference in H/Rouen mice compared with NH/Rouen mice receiving vehicle. Both agomelatine doses (10 mg/kg (p=0.05) and 50 mg/kg (p&lt;0.001) as well as fluoxetine (p&lt;0.001) significantly increased the sucrose preference in H/Rouen mice as compared with H/Rouen mice that had received vehicle. These data indicate that the novel antidepressant agomelatine has antidepressant-like properties in H/Rouen mice, a genetic model of depression.
Opioids are the most effective analgesic drugs for the management of moderate or severe pain, yet their clinical use is often limited because of the onset of adverse side effects. Drugs in this class produce most of their physiological effects through activation of the  opioid receptor; however, an increasing number of studies demonstrate that different opioids, while presumably acting at this single receptor, can activate distinct downstream responses, a phenomenon termed functional selectivity. Functional selectivity of receptor-mediated events can manifest as a function of the drug used, the cellular or neuronal environment examined, or the signaling or behavioral measure recorded. This review summarizes both in vitro and in vivo work demonstrating functional selectivity at the  opioid receptor in terms of G protein coupling, receptor phosphorylation, interactions with -arrestins, receptor desensitization, internalization and signaling, and details on how these differences may relate to the progression of analgesic tolerance after their extended use.
Obsessive compulsive disorder is prevalent, disabling, incompletely understood, and often resistant to current therapies. Established treatments consist of specialized cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy with medications targeting serotonergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission. However, remission is rare, and more than a quarter of OCD sufferers receive little or no benefit from these approaches, even when they are optimally delivered. New insights into the disorder, and new treatment strategies, are urgently needed. Recent evidence suggests that the ubiquitous excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate is dysregulated in OCD, and that this dysregulation may contribute to the pathophysiology of the disorder. Here we review the current state of this evidence, including neuroimaging studies, genetics, neurochemical investigations, and insights from animal models. Finally, we review recent findings from small clinical trials of glutamate-modulating medications in treatment-refractory OCD. The precise role of glutamate dysregulation in OCD remains unclear, and we lack blinded, well-controlled studies demonstrating therapeutic benefit from glutamate-modulating agents. Nevertheless, the evidence supporting some important perturbation of glutamate in the disorder is increasingly strong. This new perspective on the pathophysiology of OCD, which complements the older focus on monoaminergic neurotransmission, constitutes an important focus of current research and a promising area for the ongoing development of new therapeutics.
We present a new embodiment of the graded autocatalysis replication domain (GARD) for the growth, replication and evolution of lipid vesicles based on a semi-empirical foundation using experimentally measured kinetic values of selected extant lipid species. Extensive simulations using this formalism elucidated the details of the dependence of the replication and properties of the vesicles on the physicochemical properties and concentrations of the lipids, both in the environment and in the vesicle. As expected, the overall concentration and number of amphiphilic components strongly affect average replication time. Furthermore, variations in acyl chain length and unsaturation of vesicles also influence replication rate, as do the relative concentrations of individual lipid types. Understanding of the dependence of replication rates on physicochemical parameters opens a new direction in the study of prebiotic vesicles and lays the groundwork for future studies involving the competition between lipid vesicles for available amphiphilic monomers.


Just as eyes are often considered a gateway to the soul, the human voice offers a window through which we gain access to our fellow human beings' minds - their attitudes, intentions and feelings. Whether in talking or singing, crying or laughing, sighing or screaming, the sheer sound of a voice communicates a wealth of information that, in turn, may serve the observant listener as valuable guidepost in social interaction. But how do human beings extract information from the tone of a voice? In an attempt to answer this question, the present article reviews empirical evidence detailing the cerebral processes that underlie our ability to decode emotional information from vocal signals. The review will focus primarily on two prominent classes of vocal emotion cues: laughter and speech prosody (i.e. the tone of voice while speaking). Following a brief introduction, behavioral as well as neuroimaging data will be summarized that allows to outline cerebral mechanisms associated with the decoding of emotional voice cues, as well as the influence of various context variables (e.g. co-occurring facial and verbal emotional signals, attention focus, person-specific parameters such as gender and personality) on the respective processes. Building on the presented evidence, a cerebral network model will be introduced that proposes a differential contribution of various cortical and subcortical brain structures to the processing of emotional voice signals both in isolation and in context of accompanying (facial and verbal) emotional cues.

Suitably designed optical fibers are shown to offer a powerful tool for functional brain mapping, facilitating the detection of Cherenkov radiation generated by relativistic positrons from positron-emitting radionuclides. Fiber probes support a low-loss delivery of the high-intensity short-wavelength part of the Cherenkov spectrum, which is strongly absorbed by biotissues, and lower the threshold positron energy  required for Cherenkov radiation relative to  values typical of biotissues, thus enhancing the conversion of positron energy into Cherenkov radiation.
An important open problem of computational neuroscience is the generic organization of computations in networks of neurons in the brain. We show here through rigorous theoretical analysis that inherent stochastic features of spiking neurons, in combination with simple nonlinear computational operations in specific network motifs and dendritic arbors, enable networks of spiking neurons to carry out probabilistic inference through sampling in general graphical models. In particular, it enables them to carry out probabilistic inference in Bayesian networks with converging arrows (&quot;explaining away&quot;) and with undirected loops, that occur in many real-world tasks. Ubiquitous stochastic features of networks of spiking neurons, such as trial-to-trial variability and spontaneous activity, are necessary ingredients of the underlying computational organization. We demonstrate through computer simulations that this approach can be scaled up to neural emulations of probabilistic inference in fairly large graphical models, yielding some of the most complex computations that have been carried out so far in networks of spiking neurons.
Experiments in systems neuroscience can be seen as consisting of three steps: (1) selecting the signals we are interested in, (2) probing the system with carefully chosen stimuli, and (3) getting data out of the brain. Here I discuss how emerging techniques in molecular biology are starting to improve these three steps. To estimate its future impact on experimental neuroscience, I will stress the analogy of ongoing progress with that of microprocessor production techniques. These techniques have allowed computers to simplify countless problems; because they are easier to use than mechanical timers, they are even built into toasters. Molecular biology may advance even faster than computer speeds and has made immense progress in understanding and designing molecules. These advancements may in turn produce impressive improvements to each of the three steps, ultimately shifting the bottleneck from obtaining data to interpreting it.
The neuronal system underlying learning, generation and recognition of song in birds is one of the best-studied systems in the neurosciences. Here, we use these experimental findings to derive a neurobiologically plausible, dynamic, hierarchical model of birdsong generation and transform it into a functional model of birdsong recognition. The generation model consists of neuronal rate models and includes critical anatomical components like the premotor song-control nucleus HVC (proper name), the premotor nucleus RA (robust nucleus of the arcopallium), and a model of the syringeal and respiratory organs. We use Bayesian inference of this dynamical system to derive a possible mechanism for how birds can efficiently and robustly recognize the songs of their conspecifics in an online fashion. Our results indicate that the specific way birdsong is generated enables a listening bird to robustly and rapidly perceive embedded information at multiple time scales of a song. The resulting mechanism can be useful for investigating the functional roles of auditory recognition areas and providing predictions for future birdsong experiments.
Neuronal degeneration is a hallmark of many DNA repair syndromes. Yet, how DNA damage causes neuronal degeneration and whether defects in different repair systems affect the brain differently is largely unknown. Here, we performed a systematic detailed analysis of neurodegenerative changes in mouse models deficient in nucleotide excision repair (NER) and transcription-coupled repair (TCR), two partially overlapping DNA repair systems that remove helix-distorting and transcription-blocking lesions, respectively, and that are associated with the UV-sensitive syndromes xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) and Cockayne syndrome (CS). TCR-deficient Csa(-/-) and Csb(-/-) CS mice showed activated microglia cells surrounding oligodendrocytes in regions with myelinated axons throughout the nervous system. This white matter microglia activation was not observed in NER-deficient Xpa(-/-) and Xpc(-/-) XP mice, but also occurred in Xpd(XPCS) mice carrying a point mutation (G602D) in the Xpd gene that is associated with a combined XPCS disorder and causes a partial NER and TCR defect. The white matter abnormalities in TCR-deficient mice are compatible with focal dysmyelination in CS patients. Both TCR-deficient and NER-deficient mice showed no evidence for neuronal degeneration apart from p53 activation in sporadic (Csa(-/-), Csb(-/-)) or highly sporadic (Xpa(-/-), Xpc(-/-)) neurons and astrocytes. To examine to what extent overlap occurs between both repair systems, we generated TCR-deficient mice with selective inactivation of NER in postnatal neurons. These mice develop dramatic age-related cumulative neuronal loss indicating DNA damage substrate overlap and synergism between TCR and NER pathways in neurons, and they uncover the occurrence of spontaneous DNA injury that may trigger neuronal degeneration. We propose that, while Csa(-/-) and Csb(-/-) TCR-deficient mice represent powerful animal models to study the mechanisms underlying myelin abnormalities in CS, neuron-specific inactivation of NER in TCR-deficient mice represents a valuable model for the role of NER in neuronal maintenance and survival.




The Sun is the most abundant source of optical radiation for the child eye. New hand-held visible lasers are a threat to the child eye. Some scientific data suggest that near infrared radiation may cause cumulative damage in the ocular lens. The child eye usually is exposed to ambient solar radiation, gazing at the horizon. Ambient Sun ultraviolet radiation (UVR) exposure to the child is complex due to atmospheric scattering and strong dependence on background reflection. Solar exposure causes biological damage, only by photochemical mechanisms. UVR exposure to a child eye is mainly a threat to the anterior segment of the eye, but also age dependently to the retina. Above threshold exposure to UVR, for short delay onset of damage, causes a toxic reaction on the surface of the eye, snow blindness, and cataract. Sub-threshold daily exposure to UVR over decades is associated with several ocular surface pathologies and eye lid cancer. Visible radiation is a threat to the retina. A single above threshold exposure, for short delay onset of damage to the retina causes immediate photochemical Type II retinal damage, Sun blindness. A single exposure of the retina to a very high intensity laser beam may cause thermal or thermo-mechanical damage in the retina. In environments with high irradiance of optical radiation, the child eye should be protected. Legislation and public information is required for avoidance of damage from high intensity laser systems. More research is urgently needed to exclude the potential hazard of near infrared radiation.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a progressive loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons associated with intracellular Lewy inclusion bodies. The result is poverty of movement, increased muscle rigidity, and tremor at rest and on posture. Midbrain/nigral structural abnormalities can be demonstrated in vivo with both transcranial sonography (TCS) and diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DTI) while positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) ligands exist to demonstrate dopamine terminal dysfunction. These radiotracers are markers of dopamine storage capacity, vesicular monoamine and dopamine transporter availability. While loss of putamen dopaminergic function leads to motor disability, Lewy bodies not only target dopamine neurons but have also been observed in serotoninergic, noradrenergic, and cholinergic neurons. As a consequence, non-dopaminergic neurotransmission is also impaired resulting in non-motor symptoms including sleep disturbance, fatigue, depression, dementia, and autonomic dysfunction. PET and SPECT ligands exist to interrogate the function of monoaminergic and cholinergic neurons. Cortical and limbic Lewy body disease is seen in more advanced PD and this can be detected with FDG PET as abnormal covariance between levels of resting brain metabolism in these regions. Additionally, widespread microglial activation can be detected in PD with PET. This review discusses the role of structural and functional imaging for understanding parkinsonian syndromes and aiding in their diagnosis and management.
Major depressive disorders (MDD) are among the most debilitating diseases worldwide and occur with a high prevalence in elderly individuals. Neurodegenerative diseases (in particular Alzheimer's disease, AD) do also show a strong age-dependent increase in incidence and prevalence among the elderly population. A high number of geriatric patients with MDD show cognitive deficits and a very high proportion of AD patients present co-morbid MDD, which poses difficult diagnostic and prognostic questions. Especially in prodromal and in very early stages of AD, it is almost impossible to differentiate between pure MDD and MDD with underlying AD. Here, we give a comprehensive review of the literature on the current state of candidate biomarkers for MDD (&quot;positive MDD markers&quot;) and briefly refer to established and validated diagnostic AD biomarkers in order to rule out underlying AD pathophysiology in elderly MDD subjects with cognitive impairments (&quot;negative MDD biomarkers&quot;). In summary, to date there is no evidence for positive diagnostic MDD biomarkers and the only way to delineate MDD from AD is to use &quot;negative MDD&quot; biomarkers. Because of this highly unsatisfactory current state of MDD biomarker research, we propose a research strategy targeting to detect and validate positive MDD biomarkers, which is based on a complex (genetic, molecular and neurophysiological) biological model that incorporates current state of the art knowledge on the pathobiology of MDD. This model delineates common pathways and the intersection between AD and MDD. Applying these concepts to MDD gives hope that positive MDD biomarkers can be successfully identified in the near future.
During the last two decades, imaging of neural activation has become an invaluable tool for assessing the functional organization of the human brain in vivo. Due to its widespread application in neuroscience, functional neuroimaging has raised the interest of clinical researchers in its possible use as a diagnostic biomarker. A hallmark feature of many neurodegenerative diseases is their chronic non-linear dynamic and highly complex preclinical course. Neurodegenerative diseases unfold over years to decades through clinically silent and asymptomatic stages of early adaptive, compensatory to pathophysiological (i.e. actively neurodegenerative) and decompensatory mechanisms in the brain - phases that are increasingly being considered as critical for primary and secondary preventive and therapeutic measures. Emerging evidence supports the concept of a potentially fully reversible functional phase that may precede the onset of micro- and macrostructural and cognitive decline, a potentially late-stage &quot;neurodegenerative&quot; phase of a primary neurodegenerative disorder. Alzheimer's disease serves as an ideal model to test this hypothesis supported by the neural network model of the healthy and diseased brain. Being highly dynamic in nature, brain activation and neuronal network functional connectivity represent not only candidate diagnostic but also candidate surrogate markers for interventional trials. Potential caveats of functional imaging are critically reviewed with focus on confound variables such as altered neurovascular coupling as well as parameters related to task- and study design.
Schizophrenia is one of the most disabling forms of mental illness. One of the most important challenges is to establish biological markers which can accurately identify at-risk individuals in preclinical stages and thus improve the effects of early intervention strategies. Here, we review recent findings in the field of molecular genetics, CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) based markers as well as structural and functional neuroimaging in the light of their relevance for schizophrenia biomarker research. We also examine evidence supporting the hypothesis that schizophrenia and neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease may share certain pathophysiological features, e.g. chronic inflammation and oxidative stress, and discuss their possible role in schizophrenia. The heterogeneous, multifaceted and multifactorial nature of the traditionally clinically operationalized entity &quot;schizophrenia&quot; presents an enormous challenge towards the identification of single diagnostic or surrogate markers. We propose that abnormal neural coordination is a major point of convergence of a number of crucial pathophysiological pathways. Therefore, functional markers reflecting disturbed neural coordination might be particularly attractive biomarker candidates, because of their ability to integrate the influence of diverse pathophysiological mechanisms. Similarly, combinatorial and multimodal approaches may be a promising way to more accurately capture the complex biological underpinnings schizophrenia. We consider the development of such integrative biomarkers to be essential in order to facilitate a timely diagnosis of schizophrenia. They should also advance our understanding of the subtle and intricate biological nature of schizophrenia.
The diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases within neurology and psychiatry are hampered by the difficulty in getting biopsies and thereby validating the diagnosis by pathological findings. Biomarkers for other types of disease have been readily adopted into the clinical practice where for instance troponins are standard tests when myocardial infarction is suspected. However, the use of biomarkers for neurodegeneration has not been fully incorporated into the clinical routine. With the development of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers that reflect pathological events within the central nervous system (CNS), important clinical diagnostic tools are becoming available. This review summarizes the most promising biomarker candidates that may be used to monitor different types of neurodegeneration and protein inclusions, as well as different types of metabolic changes, in living patients in relation to the clinical phenotype and disease progression over time. Our aim is to provide the reader with an updated lexicon on currently available biomarker candidates, how far they have come in development and how well they reflect pathogenic processes in different neurodegenerative diseases. Biomarkers for specific pathogenetic processes would also be valuable tools both to study disease pathogenesis directly in patients and to identify and monitor the effect of novel treatment strategies.


The objective of our study was to examine the electroencephalogram (EEG) abnormalities associated with clozapine treatment. It was a cross-sectional study on 87 psychiatric patients on clozapine treatment. 32 channel digital EEG was recorded and analysed visually for abnormalities. EEG abnormalities were observed in 63.2% of patients. Both slowing and epileptiform activities were noted in 41.4% of patients. The EEG abnormalities were not associated with dose or duration of clozapine exposure.
We examined age differences in the effectiveness of multiple repetitions and providing associative facts on tune memory. For both tune and fact recognition, three presentations were beneficial. Age was irrelevant in fact recognition, but older adults were less successful than younger in tune recognition. The associative fact did not affect young adults' performance. Among older people, the neutral association harmed performance; the emotional fact mitigated performance back to baseline. Young adults seemed to rely solely on procedural memory, or repetition, to learn tunes. Older adults benefitted by using emotional associative information to counteract memory burdens imposed by neutral associative information.



The main concern in face-processing research is to understand the processes underlying the identification of faces. In the study reported here, we addressed this issue by examining whether local or global information supports face identification. We developed a new methodology called &quot;iHybrid.&quot; This technique combines two famous identities in a gaze-contingent paradigm, which simultaneously provides local, foveated information from one face and global, complementary information from a second face. Behavioral face-identification performance and eye-tracking data showed that the visual system identified faces on the basis of either local or global information depending on the location of the observer's first fixation. In some cases, a given observer even identified the same face using local information on one trial and global information on another trial. A validation in natural viewing conditions confirmed our findings. These results clearly demonstrate that face identification is not rooted in a single, or even preferred, information-gathering strategy.
To reproduce the duration of an event precisely, one needs to represent the temporal information without being influenced by other magnitude attributes (e.g., size) of the event. In the present study, however, task-irrelevant numerical magnitude automatically affected participants' reproduction of the duration of a stimulus. In Experiment 1, participants made key-press responses to reproduce the duration of numbers. Reproduced durations were shorter for small numbers (e.g., 1) than for large numbers (e.g., 9). In contrast, in Experiment 2, participants' reproductions of a standard duration were longer when their key-press response was accompanied by visual presentation of a small number than when it was accompanied by presentation of a large number. These results clearly demonstrate that number-time interference extends beyond simple mapping between stimulus categories and response alternatives. The findings support the notion that either a common magnitude representation or closely connected magnitude representations underlie numerical and temporal processing.
People's knowledge about the world often contains misconceptions that are well-learned and firmly believed. Although such misconceptions seem hard to correct, recent research has demonstrated that errors made with higher confidence are more likely to be corrected with feedback, a finding called the hypercorrection effect. We investigated whether this effect persists over a 1-week delay. Subjects answered general-knowledge questions about science, rated their confidence in each response, and received correct answer feedback. Half of the subjects reanswered the same questions immediately, while the other half reanswered them after a 1-week delay. The hypercorrection effect occurred on both the immediate and delayed final tests, but error correction decreased on the delayed test. When subjects failed to correct an error on the delayed test, they sometimes reproduced the same error from the initial test. Interestingly, high-confidence errors were more likely than low-confidence errors to be reproduced on the delayed test. These findings help to contextualize the hypercorrection effect within the broader memory literature by showing that high-confidence errors are more likely to be corrected, but they are also more likely to be reproduced if the correct answer is forgotten.
The question of whether a stimulus onset may capture attention when it is entirely irrelevant to the task and even in the absence of any attentional settings for abrupt onset or any dynamic changes has been highly controversial. In the present study, we designed a novel irrelevant capture task to address this question. Participants engaged in a continuous task making sequential forced choice (letter or digit) responses to each item in an alphanumeric matrix that remained on screen throughout many responses. This task therefore involved no attentional settings for onset or indeed any dynamic changes, yet the brief onset of an entirely irrelevant distractor (a cartoon picture) resulted in significant slowing of the two (Experiment 1) or three (Experiment 2) responses immediately following distractor appearance These findings provide a clear demonstration of attention being captured and captivated by a distractor that is entirely irrelevant to any attentional settings of the task.
Recent research has revealed that the presence of irrelevant visual information during retrieval of long-term memories diminishes recollection of task-relevant visual details. Here, we explored the impact of irrelevant auditory information on remembering task-relevant visual details by probing recall of the same previously viewed images while participants were in complete silence, exposed to white noise, or exposed to ambient sounds recorded at a busy caf. The presence of auditory distraction diminished objective recollection of goal-relevant details, relative to the silence and white noise conditions. Critically, a comparison with results from a previous study using visual distractors showed equivalent effects for auditory and visual distraction. These findings suggest that disruption of recollection by external stimuli is a domain-general phenomenon produced by interference between resource-limited, top-down mechanisms that guide the selection of mnemonic details and control processes that mediate our interactions with external distractors.




P2Y receptors are G protein-coupled receptors composed of eight known subunits (P2Y(1, 2, 4, 6, 11, 12, 13, 14)), which are involved in different functions in neural tissue. The present study investigates the expression pattern of P2Y(4) receptors in the rat central nervous system (CNS) using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. The specificity of the immunostaining has been verified by preabsorption, Western blot, and combined use of immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Neurons expressing P2Y(4) receptors were distributed widely in the rat CNS. Heavy P2Y(4) receptor immunostaining was observed in the magnocellular neuroendocrine neurons of the hypothalamus, red nucleus, pontine nuclei, mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, motor trigeminal nucleus, ambiguous nucleus, inferior olive, hypoglossal nucleus, and dorsal motor vagus nucleus. Both neurons and astrocytes express P2Y(4) receptors. P2Y(4) receptor immunostaining signals were mainly confined to cell bodies and dendrites of neurons, suggesting that P2Y(4) receptors are mainly involved in regulating postsynaptic events. In the hypothalamus, all the vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT) neurons and all the orexin A neurons were immunoreactive for P2Y(4) receptors. All the neurons expressing P2Y(4) receptors were found to express N-methyl-D: -aspartate receptor 1 (NR1). These data suggest that purines and pyrimidines might be involved in regulation of the release of the neuropeptides VP, OT, and orexin in the rat hypothalamus via P2Y(4) receptors. Further, the physiological and pathophysiological functions of the neurons may operate through coupling between P2Y(4) receptors and NR1.
In four experiments, a computerized Corsi-like paradigm was used to assess which of the many reference frames are used in visuospatial short-term memory. By varying the relative orientation (slanted +/-45 or in an upright position) of the head and the displays, we modulate the utility of the allocentric, egocentric (eye- and head-centred), and template-centred reference frames. The results of all experiments showed the crucial importance of the gravitational allocentric reference frames while using visuospatial short-term memory to retain a spatial sequence of elements. The results also provide some support for a mental rotation process involved in recognition following angular displacement of a multi-item display.
Computational systems are useful in neuroscience in many ways. For instance, they may be used to construct maps of brain structure and activation, or to describe brain processes mathematically. Furthermore, they inspired a powerful theory of brain function, in which the brain is viewed as a system characterized by intrinsic computational activities or as a &quot;computational information processor. &quot;Although many neuroscientists believe that neural systems really perform computations, some are more cautious about computationalism or reject it. Thus, does the brain really compute? Answering this question requires getting clear on a definition of computation that is able to draw a line between physical systems that compute and systems that do not, so that we can discern on which side of the line the brain (or parts of it) could fall. In order to shed some light on the role of computational processes in brain function, available neurobiological data will be summarized from the standpoint of a recently proposed taxonomy of notions of computation, with the aim of identifying which brain processes can be considered computational. The emerging picture shows the brain as a very peculiar system, in which genuine computational features act in concert with noncomputational dynamical processes, leading to continuous self-organization and remodeling under the action of external stimuli from the environment and from the rest of the organism.

Stroke, Multiple Sclerosis (MS), traumatic brain injuries (TBI) and neuropathies are the most important diseases in neurological rehabilitation financed by the German Pension Insurance. The primary goal is vocational (re)integration. Driven by multiple findings of neuroscience research the traditional holistic approach with mainly empirically derived strategies was developed further and improved by new evidence-based interventions. This process had been, and continues to be, necessary to meet the health-economic pressures for ever shorter and more efficient rehab measures. Evidence-based interventions refer to symptom-oriented measures, to team-management concepts, as well as to education and psychosocial interventions. Drug therapy and/or neurophysiological measures can be added to increase neuroregeneration and neuroplasticity. Evidence-based aftercare concepts support sustainability and steadiness of rehab results.Mirror therapy, robot-assisted training, mental training, task-specific training, and above all constraint-induced movement therapy (CIMT) can restore motor arm and hand functions. Treadmill training and robot-assisted training improve stance and gait. Botulinum toxine injections in combination with physical and redressing methods are superior in managing spasticity. Guideline-oriented management of associated pain syndromes (myofascial, neuropathic, complex-regional=dystrophic) improve primary outcome and quality of life. Drug therapy with so-called co-analgetics and physical therapy play an important role in pain management. Swallowing disorders lead to higher mortality and morbidity in the acute phase; stepwise diagnostics (screening, endoscopy, radiology) and specific swallowing therapy can reduce these risks and frequently can restore normal eating und drinking.In our modern industrial societies communicative and cognitive disturbances are more impairing than the above mentioned disorders. Speech and language therapy (SLT) is dominant in communicative disorders; the therapists use communicative and/or linguistics-oriented strategies. SLT must begin early after disease onset and with high frequency to elicit good results. PC-assisted (self-)training, possibly telemedically applied, can increase training frequency and time and, hence, improve outcome in aphasia. High-frequency and task-specific training, often PC-assisted, were found to be relevant for improving cognitive functions in all dimensions. Several strategies seem to be efficient in neglect. Visual field deficits can be treated restitutively and compensatingly by PC-assisted training. Attention, memory and executive dysfunctions each require multimodal specific treatment strategies, performed in single and group therapy and in PC-assisted training. Also, education of patients to cope with their impairments and disabilities is another important part. Combined medically and vocationally oriented rehabilitation settings are necessary for raising the rate of return-to-work, especially in patients with motor hand impairments or cognitive disorders. Education of patients and relatives to cope with the chronic neurological diseases and disablements highly improve the sustainability of rehab results and can, in the long run, also reduce mortality and admission to nursing homes. Appropriate physical activity and sports are relevant in the phase of aftercare, by stabilizing both motor coordination and cognitive factors; in MS patients fatigue can be diminished effectively.The main mental comorbidities are anxiety and depression. Pharmacological and psychological treatments have been found to be equally important in this context. Frequently, these mental disorders appear in the phase of aftercare and long-term course only, then worsening outcome sustainability. Efficient concepts to deal with this aspect are still missing. The ambulatory health care system can not cope with it until now.The multitude of evidence-based interventions have over the last 20 years after the Rehab Commission of the Federation of the German Pension Insurance Institutes contributed decisively to even improving primary outcomes and quality of life of neurological patients in spite of shortened length of stay and other restrictions. Neurorehabilitative research, especially the clinically oriented part, had a major influence on the process of professionalization of all members in the neurorehabilitative team. This fact enables new and more efficient organizational structures and working processes within the team; the discussion on this topic has however only just started.


In 1836, Marc Dax presented a revolutionary conclusion based on both his clinical observations and reports from the literature: the localisation of language in the left hemisphere. Twenty-seven years later, his son, Gustave Dax, extended and enriched his work. Their involvement in 19th century neuropsychology is impressive and recognition should have been considerable. However, according to the vast majority of historians of neurology, neuropsychology and aphasiology, the priority in establishing the dominance of the left brain hemisphere for speech goes to Paul Broca in an undivided way. Is it possible that Marc Dax's and his son, Gustave Dax's works were entirely unknown? Were they known and utterly forgotten? Were they ignored? How did we get to know that they existed? The aim of the present paper is to try to answer those and other questions and to demonstrate that there is abundance of data pointing out that the priority of the discovery of left hemisphere dominance for speech ought to be, at least, shared by Dax and Broca.
In order to propose possible challenges of bioethics in the twenty-first century medicine, it is necessary to consider that there were some past challenges (at the origin of this new discipline called bioethics), that the challenges have been modified with scientific, biomedical and humanistic breakthroughs, considering at the same time that challenges that may arise in the future will be, in different ways, a result of this historical evolution. The major challenges would be in the future: the unsolved problems of justice, equity and poverty; the challenges posed by the introduction of new technologies with the nanomedicine paradigm; and finally, the challenges driven by breakthroughs in neurosciences with the neuroethics paradigm.
Olfactory dysfunction appears to be one of the earliest signs of several age-related neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer`s disease (AD) or Parkinson`s disease (PD). To rate performance and olfactory deficits in patients with cognitive disorders, various olfactory tasks have been used such as odor detection, discrimination, recognition memory, identification and naming but no study has been focused on just noticeable difference (JND), a sensitive tool of detection. The aim of this study was to investigate and compare variations in JNDs in healthy elderly and in patients with cognitive disorders associated with dementia. The results showed significantly higher olfactory JNDs in a population with cognitive disorders associated with dementia - i.e. a lower olfactory detection performance - compared to a control population paired in age, gender and education level. Additionally, the findings of the present study showed strong correlations between cognitive performances and JND scores in the control population contrary to the patient population. These findings are discussed in relation to the relevance of using olfactory JNDs in the diagnosis of dementias.
Carotid duplex ultrasonography (CDU) is one of the most well-known imaging methods for arteriosclerosis and ischemic stroke. For neurosurgeons, it is very important for the details of carotid plaque to be thoroughly investigated by CDU. Symptomatic carotid plaque is very fragile and easily changes morphologically, and so requires frequent CDU examination. Furthermore, after carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and carotid artery stenting (CAS), restenosis is evaluated with CDU. CDU facilitates not only morphological imaging in the B mode, but also allows a flow study with color Doppler and duplex imaging. So, CDU can help assess the presence of proximal and intracranial artery lesions in spite of only having a cervical view, and the patency of the extracranial artery to intracranial artery bypass is revealed with CDU, which shows a rich velocity and low pulsatility index (PI) in duplex imaging. For the examiner, it is necessary to ponder on what duplex imaging means in examinations, and to summarize all imaging finding.
Walking with hiking poles has become a popular way of exercising. Walking with poles is advocated as a physical activity that significantly reduces the loading of the hip, knee and ankle joints. We have previously observed that pole walking does not lead to a reduction of the load on the knee joint. However, it is unclear whether an increased force transmitted through the poles can reduce the load on the knee joint. Thus, the purpose of the present study was to investigate if an increased load transmitted through the arms to the poles could reduce the knee joint compression force during level walking with poles. We hypothesized that an increased pole force would result in a reduction of the knee joint compression force. Gait analyses from 10 healthy subjects walking with poles were obtained. The pole force was measured simultaneously during the gait analyses. The knee joint compression forces were estimated by using a biomechanical knee joint model. The results showed that the subjects were able to increase the pole force by 2.4 times the normal pole force. However, this did not lead to a reduction in the knee joint compressive force and we rejected our hypothesis. In conclusion, the use of poles during level walking does not seem to reduce knee joint compressive loads. However, it is possible that the use of poles in other populations (e.g. osteoarthritis patients) and in terrain would unload the knee joint. This should be investigated in the future.

N400, an event-related brain potential (ERP) waveform elicited by meaningful stimuli, is normally reduced (made less negative) by relatedness between the eliciting stimulus and preceding ones (N400 semantic priming). Schizophrenia patients' N400 semantic priming deficits suggest impairment in using meaningful context to activate related concepts in semantic memory. We aimed to examine the degree to which this impairment can be ameliorated by task instructions that more explicitly require processing of stimulus meaning. We recorded ERPs from 16 schizophrenia patients and 16 controls who viewed prime words each followed at 750-ms stimulus-onset asynchrony by an unrelated or related target word, or a nonword, in a non-semantic task (indicating whether a letter occurred in the target) compared to an explicit semantic task (judging prime-target relatedness). Consistent with previous work, controls exhibited greater N400 semantic priming (larger amplitude reductions for related versus unrelated targets) in the semantic task than in the orthographic task. Schizophrenia patients showed this same pattern, although their N400 semantic priming effects were smaller than controls' across tasks. Nevertheless, patients' priming effects increased as much as did controls' from the orthographic to the semantic task. Thus, connections among related concepts in schizophrenia patients' semantic memory appear grossly intact, such that, given a meaningful stimulus, they can make use of explicit cues to activate related concepts at a neurophysiological level, although their ability to do so remains less than normal. These data provide support for further research on semantic-cueing strategies for cognitive remediation of verbal memory in schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia patients (SZ) show early visual processing deficits in many, but not all, tasks. These deficits may be associated with dysregulation of intrinsic oscillatory activity that compromises signal-to-noise in the SZ brain. This question was studied using visual steady-state stimulation and post-steady-state presentation of transient visual stimuli. SZ had higher intrinsic oscillatory activity at the steady-state stimulation frequency (12.5 Hz) and at the 6.25 Hz subharmonic, showed a significant decrease in visual steady-state magnitude over 2s of stimulation, and were unable to promptly terminate the steady-state response following stimulation offset. If adjustment for levels of intrinsic brain activity were made, however, it would have appeared that SZ had activity of similar magnitude as healthy subjects following steady-state stimulus termination, indicating that such adjustments could substantially alter theoretical interpretations. Visual evoked potential abnormalities (N1/P2 amplitudes) present among SZ at the initiation of steady-state stimulation were less apparent in the 750 ms immediately following steady-state stimulation offset. Higher intrinsic oscillatory brain activity may be a fundamental characteristic of SZ that merits further evaluation for understanding this disorder's neuropathological correlates and associated symptomatology.

The objectivity of forensic science decision making has received increased attention and scrutiny. However, there are only a few published studies experimentally addressing the potential for contextual bias. Because of the esteem of DNA evidence, it is important to study and assess the impact of subjectivity and bias on DNA mixture interpretation. The study reported here presents empirical data suggesting that DNA mixture interpretation is subjective. When 17 North American expert DNA examiners were asked for their interpretation of data from an adjudicated criminal case in that jurisdiction, they produced inconsistent interpretations. Furthermore, the majority of 'context free' experts disagreed with the laboratory's pre-trial conclusions, suggesting that the extraneous context of the criminal case may have influenced the interpretation of the DNA evidence, thereby showing a biasing effect of contextual information in DNA mixture interpretation.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly malignant brain cancer characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation, diffuse infiltration, a tendency for necrosis, significant angiogenesis, intense resistance to apoptosis, and widespread genomic aberrations. Prognosis is poor and treatments are largely palliative, although there are subsets of patients that have prolonged survival. Greater understanding of the tumor biology of GBM has been achieved in the past decade, leading to the prospect of novel targeted therapies and biomarker-based individualization of therapy. The goal of this review is to describe the tumor biology and pathologic features of GBM, guidelines for classification and diagnosis, the current status of prognostic and predictive biomarkers, and the role of the blood-brain barrier in delivering therapy for GBM.
Congenital muscular dystrophies (CMDs) are clinically and genetically heterogeneous neuromuscular disorders with onset at birth or in infancy in which the muscle biopsy is compatible with a dystrophic myopathy. In the past 10 years, knowledge of neuromuscular disorders has dramatically increased, particularly with the exponential boost of disclosing the genetic background of CMDs. This review will highlight the clinical description of the most important forms of CMD, paying particular attention to the main keys for diagnostic approach. The diagnosis of CMDs requires the concurrence of expertise in multiple specialties (neurology, morphology, genetics, neuroradiology) available in a few centers worldwide that have achieved sufficient experience with the different CMD subtypes. Currently, molecular diagnosis is of paramount importance not only for phenotype-genotype correlations, genetic and prenatal counseling, and prognosis and aspects of management, but also concerning the imminent availability of clinical trials and treatments.
Congenital fiber-type disproportion is a form of congenital myopathy that may be best viewed as a syndrome rather than as a formal diagnosis. The central histologic abnormality is that type 1 fibers are consistently smaller than type 2 fibers by at least 35%-40%. Care is needed in diagnosing patients, as this histologic abnormality can occur in other congenital myopathies and in other neuromuscular disorders. Many of the genetic causes have been identified. Careful surveillance of respiratory function is required in all patients until the specific genetic cause is known and advice can be individualized.
The core myopathies, Central Core Disease and Multiminicore Disease, are heterogeneous congenital myopathies with the common defining histopathological feature of focally reduced oxidative enzyme activity (central cores, multiminicores). Mutations in the gene encoding for the skeletal muscle ryanodine (RyR1) receptor are the most common cause. Mutations in the selenoprotein N (SEPN1) gene cause a less common variant. Pathogenic mechanisms underlying dominant RYR1 mutations have been extensively characterized, whereas those associated with recessive RYR1 and SEPN1 mutations are emerging. Identifying a specific genetic defect from the histopathological diagnosis of a core myopathy is complex and ought to be informed by a combined appraisal of histopathological, clinical, and, increasingly, muscle magnetic resonance imaging data. The present review aims at giving an overview of the main genetic and clinicopathological findings, with a major emphasis on features likely to inform the diagnostic process, as well as current treatments and perspectives for future research.
In this issue of Seminars in Pediatric Neurology, each chapter will focus on the features and management of individual congenital myopathies. This introductory chapter will provide an overview of the clinical features that alert the clinician to the likely diagnosis of a congenital myopathy, and specific features on history and examination that are characteristic of a specific genetic subtype. Most congenital myopathies share a common pattern of clinical features, which makes it difficult to predict the genetic cause in a patient by clinical assessment alone. Although no single feature is specific for the congenital myopathies, the presence of this common pattern highlights patients in whom a muscle biopsy is likely to provide important diagnostic information. The diagnosis of a specific congenital myopathy should only be made when the defining morphologic feature is the predominant pathologic change, other possible causes have been excluded, and the clinical course is nonprogressive or only slowly progressive.
Protein kinase C (PKC) belongs to the AGC (cAMP-dependent protein kinase/PKG/PKC) protein kinase family which plays an important role in the morphine-induced desensitization of R-opioid receptors. This cellular process is believed to contribute to the development and maintenance of morphine tolerance. Therefore, the study of PKC signaling transduction on morphine tolerance has an important clinical significance. The present review summarizes the possible involvement of PKC in opioid tolerance.



In the early 21st century, developing countries are experiencing an ever-increasing burden of stroke due its high morbidity and associated disability. Given the limited health resources available in developing countries, stroke prevention there is of paramount importance. This narrative review summarizes currently available evidence for stroke prevention in the developing world and outlines their major strategies and priorities.






The alpha-7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (7nAChR) and the dopamine D(2) receptor (D(2) R) are both implicated in attentional processes and cognition, mediated in part through the prefrontal cortex (PFC). We examined the dual electron microscopic immunolabeling of 7nAChR and either D(2) R or the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) in rodent PFC to assess convergent functional activation sites. Immunoreactivity (ir) for 7nAChR and/or D(2) R was seen in the same as well as separate neuronal and glial profiles. At least half of the dually labeled profiles were somata and dendrites, while most labeled axon terminals expressed only D(2) R-ir. The D(2) R-labeled terminals were without synaptic specializations or formed inhibitory or excitatory-type synapses with somatodendritic profiles, some of which expressed the 7nAChR and/or D(2) R. Astrocytic glial processes comprised the majority of nonsomatodendritic 7nAChR or 7nAChR and D(2) R-labeled profiles. Glial processes containing 7nAChR-ir were frequently located near VAChT-labeled terminals and also showed perisynaptic and perivascular associations. We conclude that in rodent PFC 7nACh and D(2) R activation can dually modulate (1) postsynaptic dendritic responses within the same or separate but synaptically linked neurons in which the D(2) R has the predominately presynaptic distribution, and (2) astrocytic signaling that may be crucial for synaptic transmission and functional hyperemia.
Two isolates, with an optimum growth temperature of about 35-37C and an optimum pH for growth between 6.5 and 7.5, were recovered from a deep mineral water aquifer in Portugal. Strains form rod-shaped cells and were non-motile. These strains were non-pigmented, strictly aerobic, catalase and oxidase positive. Strains F2-233(T) and F2-223 assimilated carbohydrates, organic acids and amino acids. Major fatty acids were novel iso internally branched such as 17:0 iso 10-methyl, 17:0 iso and 15:0 iso 8-methyl. The peptidoglycan contained meso-diaminopimelic acid and menaquinone MK-7 was the major respiratory quinone. Analysis of the 16S rRNA gene shows the strains to cluster with species of the genera Thermoleophilum, Patulibacter, Conexibacter and Solirubrobacter to which they have pairwise sequence similarity in the range 87-88%. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, physiological and biochemical characteristics we describe a new species of a novel genus represented by strain F2-233(T) (=CECT 7815(T)=LMG 26412(T)) for which we propose the name Gaiella occulta gen. nov., sp. nov. We also propose that this organism represents a novel family named Gaiellaceae fam. nov. of a novel order named Gaiellales ord. nov.
Gene expression was investigated in the major brain subdivisions (telencephalon, diencephalon, midbrain and hindbrain) in a representative reptile, Alligator mississipiensis, during the later stages of embryonic development. The following genes were examined: voltage-gated sodium channel isoforms: NaV1.1 and NaV1.2; synaptic vesicle 2a (SV2a); synaptophysin; and calbindin 2. With the exception of synaptophysin, which was only expressed in the telencephalon, all genes were expressed in all brain regions sampled at the time periods examined. For NaV1.1, gene expression varied according to brain area sampled. When compared with NaV1.1, the pattern of NaV1.2 gene expression differed appreciably. The gene expression of SV2a was the most robust of any of the genes examined. Of the other genes examined, although differences were noted, no statistically significant changes were found either between brain part or time interval. Although limited, the present analysis is the first quantitative mRNA gene expression study in any reptile during development. Together with future experiments of a similar nature, the present gene expression results should determine which genes are expressed in major brain areas at which times during development in Alligator. When compared with other amniotes, these results will prove useful for determining how gene expression during development influences adult brain structure.
To assess whether phospholipase A2 (PLA2) plays a role in the pathogenesis of spinal cord injury (SCI), we compared lesions either induced by PLA2 alone or by a contusive SCI. At 24-h post-injury, both methods induced a focal hemorrhagic pathology. The PLA2 injury was mainly confined within the ventrolateral white matter, whereas the contusion injury widely affected both the gray and white matter. A prominent difference between the two models was that PLA2 induced a massive demyelination with axons remaining in the lesion area, whereas the contusion injury induced axonal damage and myelin breakdown. At 4 weeks, no cavitation was found within the PLA2 lesion, and numerous axons were myelinated by host-migrated Schwann cells. Among them, 45% of animals had early transcranial magnetic motor-evoked potential (tcMMEP) responses. In contrast, the contusive SCI induced a typical centralized cavity with reactive astrocytes forming a glial border. Only 15% of rats had early tcMMEP responses after the contusion. BBB scores were similarly reduced in both models. Our study indicates that PLA2 may play a unique role in mediating secondary SCI likely by targeting glial cells, particularly those of oligodendrocytes. This lesion model could also be used for studying demyelination and remyelination in the injured spinal cord associated with PLA2-mediated secondary SCI.
Application of bioluminescence imaging has increased tremendously in the past decade and has significantly contributed to core conceptual advances in biomedical research. This technology provides valuable means for monitoring of different biological processes in immunology, oncology, virology and neuroscience. In this review, we discuss current trends in bioluminescence and its application in different fields with an emphasis on cancer research.
Understanding the neurophysiological mechanisms of learning is important for both fundamental and clinical neuroscience. We present a neurophysiologically inspired framework for understanding cortical mechanisms of feedback-guided learning. This framework is based on dynamic changes in systems-level oscillatory synchronization, reflecting changes in synaptic plasticity between stimulus-processing and motor areas that are modulated in a top-down fashion by different areas of the prefrontal cortex. We make new and testable predictions for how large-scale cortical networks support learning from feedback. Testing these predictions may provide new insights into the basic mechanisms underlying learning and how these mechanisms may be impaired in clinical disorders in which feedback learning is compromised.
Psychiatric genetics research, as exemplified by the DISC1 gene, aspires to inform on mental health etiology and to suggest improved strategies for intervention. DISC1 was discovered in 2000 through the molecular cloning of a chromosomal translocation that segregated with a spectrum of major mental illnesses in a single large Scottish family. Through in vitro experiments and mouse models, DISC1 has been firmly established as a genetic risk factor for a spectrum of psychiatric illness. As a consequence of its protein scaffold function, the DISC1 protein impacts on many aspects of brain function, including neurosignaling and neurodevelopment. DISC1 is a pathfinder for understanding psychopathology, brain development, signaling and circuitry. Although much remains to be learnt and understood, potential targets for drug development are starting to emerge, and in this review, we will discuss the 10 years of research that has helped us understand key roles of DISC1 in psychiatric disease.
Although early clinical observations implicated dopamine dysfunction in the neuropathology of schizophrenia, accumulating evidence suggests that multiple neurotransmitter pathways are dysregulated. The psychotomimetic actions of NMDA receptor antagonists point to an imbalance of glutamatergic signaling. Encouragingly, numerous preclinical and clinical studies have elucidated several potential targets for increasing NMDA receptor function and equilibrating glutamatergic tone, including the metabotropic glutamate receptors 2, 3 and 5, the muscarinic acetylcholine receptors M(1) and M(4), and the glycine transporter GlyT1. Highly specific allosteric and orthosteric ligands have been developed that modify the activity of these novel target proteins, and in this review we summarize both the glutamatergic mechanisms and the novel compounds that are increasing the promise for a multifaceted pharmacological approach to treat schizophrenia.
Synchronised neuronal oscillations at beta frequencies are prevalent in the human motor system, but their function is unclear. In this Opinion article, we propose that the levels of beta oscillations provide a measure of the likelihood that a new voluntary action will need to be actuated. Oscillatory beta activity is in turn modulated by net dopamine levels at sites of cortical input to the basal ganglia. We hypothesise that net dopamine levels are modulated in response to salient internal and external cues. Crucially, the resulting modulation of beta activity is predictive, enabling the appropriate prospective resourcing and preparation of potential actions. Loss of dopamine, as in Parkinson's disease, annuls this function, unless net dopaminergic activity can be elevated through medication.
The direction-selective circuit in the retina extracts the directional information of image motion in the visual scene. It is a classic model for neural circuit analysis because its input and output are well-defined and accessible to physiological measurements. However, the neural basis of direction selectivity is still not fully understood. Indeed, this ostensibly simple computation arises from a collection of complex neural mechanisms at all levels of circuit organization. In this review, we describe recent advances in genetic, imaging and optogenetic techniques that have improved our understanding of the synaptic organization and development underlying retinal direction selectivity.
The Child and Adolescent Twin Study in Sweden (CATSS) is an ongoing longitudinal twin study targeting all twins born in Sweden since July 1, 1992. Since 2004, parents of twins are interviewed regarding the children's somatic and mental health and social environment in connection with their 9th or 12th birthdays (CATSS-9/12). By January 2010, 8,610 parental interviews concerning 17,220 twins had been completed, with an overall response rate of 80%. At age 15 (CATSS-15) and 18 (CATSS-18), twins and parents complete questionnaires that, in addition to assessments of somatic and mental health, include measures of personality development and psychosocial adaptation. Twin pairs in CATSS-9/12 with one or both twins screening positive for autism spectrum disorders, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, tic disorders, developmental coordination disorder, learning disorders, oppositional defiant disorder, conduct disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and/or eating problems have been followed with in-depth questionnaires on family, social environment and personality, and subsequently by clinical assessments at age 15 together with randomly selected population controls, including 195 clinically assessed twin pairs from the first 2 year cohorts (CATSS-15/DOGSS). This article describes the cohorts and study groups, data collection, and measures used. Prevalences, distributions, heritability estimates, ages at onset, and sex differences of mental health problems in the CATSS-9/12, that were analyzed and found to be overall comparable to those of other clinical and epidemiological studies. The CATSS study has the potential of answering important questions on the etiology of childhood mental health problems and their role in the development of later adjustment problems.

Zebrafish (Danio rerio), is one of the most extensively studied chordate model animal in the field of neuroscience and development biology. Understanding the proteome profile of various tissues and organs of Danio rerio has become increasingly important for inching it as an alternate translational model animal. This study aimed in understanding the proteome profile of D. rerio brain's olfactory bulb exclusively. The proteome pattern of olfactory bulb of D. rerio was determined using the two-dimensional gel electrophoresis approach involving both full range and three various narrow pH range immobilized pH gradient strips, followed by mass spectrometry and tandem mass spectrometry analysis. 221 various proteins were characterized based on matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry and tandem mass spectrometry analysis as olfactory bulb-specific proteins. The identified proteins represented various pI, mass, functions, and localization. The different proteins acknowledged in this study were found to be associated with diverse metabolic pathways, enzymatic activities, and neurological functions. Glycolysis, gluconeogenesis, and oxidative phosphorylation are the major metabolic pathways found associated with the identified proteins. The identified protein catalogue was also found to be participating in various network pathways such as GABAergic neurophysiological neurotransmission, remodeling of cytoskeleton, neurofilaments, and cell adhesion. This study provides the D. rerio olfactory bulb two-dimensional gel electrophoresis proteome map and the details of 221 olfactory bulb-specific proteins.

The interaction between the group I metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors plays a critical role in spinal hyperexcitability and hyperalgesia. The cellular mechanisms underlying this interaction remain unknown. Utilizing an ex vivo spinal slice preparation from young adult rats, we investigated the group I mGlu receptor modulation of NMDA receptor-mediated current in superficial dorsal horn neurons by patch clamp recording after complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced hind paw inflammation. We show that NMDA receptor-mediated dorsal root stimulation-evoked EPSC (eEPSC) and NMDA-induced current was enhanced in the inflamed rats, compared to nave rats and this effect was attenuated by AIDA (1 mM), a group I mGlu receptor antagonist. There were also increases in the frequency and amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents in the presence of tetrodotoxin, suggesting enhanced presynaptic glutamate release probability and postsynaptic membrane responsiveness in inflamed rats. DHPG (10 M), a selective group I mGlu receptor agonist, further facilitated NMDA receptor-mediated eEPSC and NMDA-induced current in inflamed rats. The DHPG-produced facilitation of NMDA-induced current was blocked by intracellular dialysis of GDP-beta-S (1 mM), a G protein antagonist, and BAPTA (15 mM), an intracellular calcium chelating agent; and by pretreatment with U73,122 (10 M), a PLC inhibitor, or 2-APB (100 M), an IP-receptor antagonist. These findings support the hypothesis that signal transduction coupling between group I mGlu receptors and NMDA receptors underlies the activation of NMDA receptors in spinal hyperexcitability and hyperalgesia.
Research has implicated the perirhinal cortex (PRh) in several aspects of object recognition memory. The specific role of the hippocampus (HPC) remains controversial, but its involvement in object recognition may pertain to processing contextual information in relation to objects rather than object representation per se. Here we investigated the roles of the PRh and HPC in object memory reconsolidation using the spontaneous object recognition task for rats. Intra-PRh infusions of the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin immediately following memory reactivation prevented object memory reconsolidation. Similar deficits were observed when a novel object or a salient contextual change was introduced during the reactivation phase. Intra-HPC infusions of anisomycin, however, blocked object memory reconsolidation only when a contextual change was introduced during reactivation. Moreover, disrupting functional interaction between the HPC and PRh by infusing anisomycin unilaterally into each structure in opposite hemispheres also impaired reconsolidation when reactivation was done in an altered context. These results show for the first time that the PRh is critical for reconsolidation of object memory traces and provide insight into the dynamic process of object memory storage; the selective requirement for hippocampal involvement following reactivation in an altered context suggests a substantial circuit level object trace reorganization whereby an initially PRh-dependent object memory becomes reliant on both the HPC and PRh and their interaction. Such trace reorganization may play a central role in reconsolidation-mediated memory updating and could represent an important aspect of lingering consolidation processes proposed to underlie long-term memory modulation and stabilization.
Mechanisms of homeostatic plasticity scale synaptic strength according to changes in overall activity to maintain stability in neuronal network function. This study investigated mechanisms of GABAergic homeostatic plasticity. Cultured neurons exposed to depolarizing conditions reacted with an increased firing rate (high activity, HA) that normalized to control levels after 48 h of treatment. HA-treated hippocampal neurons displayed an attenuated response to further changes in depolarization, and the firing rate in HA-treated neurons increased above normalized levels when inhibition was partially reduced back to the level of control neurons. The amplitude and frequency of mIPSCs in hippocampal neurons increased after 48 h of HA, and increases in the size of GABA(A) receptor 2 subunit clusters and presynaptic GAD-65 puncta were observed. Investigation of the time course of inhibitory homeostasis suggested that accumulation of GABA(A) receptors preceded presynaptic increases in GAD-65 puncta size. Interestingly, the size of GABA(A) receptor 2 subunit clusters that colocalized with GAD-65 were larger at 12 h, coinciding in time with the increase found in mIPSC amplitude. The rate of internalization of GABA(A) receptors, a process involved in regulating the surface expression of inhibitory receptors, was slower in HA-treated neurons. These data also suggest that increased receptor expression was consolidated with presynaptic changes. HA induced an increase in postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors through a decrease in the rate of internalization, leading to larger synaptically localized receptor clusters that increased GABAergic synaptic strength and contributed to the homeostatic stabilization of neuronal firing rate.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common progressive neurodegenerative disorders, characterized by resting tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia, and postural instability. These symptoms are associated with massive loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) causing an estimated 70-80% depletion of dopamine (DA) in the striatum, where their projections are located. Although the etiology of PD is unknown, mitochondrial dysfunctions have been associated with the disease pathophysiology. We used a mouse model expressing a mitochondria-targeted restriction enzyme, PstI or mito-PstI, to damage mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in dopaminergic neurons. The expression of mito-PstI induces double-strand breaks in the mtDNA, leading to an oxidative phosphorylation deficiency, mostly due to mtDNA depletion. Taking advantage of a dopamine transporter (DAT) promoter-driven tetracycline transactivator protein (tTA), we expressed mito-PstI exclusively in dopaminergic neurons, creating a novel PD transgenic mouse model (PD-mito-PstI mouse). These mice recapitulate most of the major features of PD: they have a motor phenotype that is reversible with l-DOPA treatment, a progressive neurodegeneration of the SN dopaminergic population, and striatal DA depletion. Our results also showed that behavioral phenotypes in PD-mito-PstI mice were associated with striatal dysfunctions preceding SN loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons and that other neurotransmitter systems [noradrenaline (NE) and serotonin (5-HT)] were increased after the disruption of DA neurons, potentially as a compensatory mechanism. This transgenic mouse model provides a novel model to study the role of mitochondrial defects in the axonal projections of the striatum in the pathophysiology of PD.
In the cortex, the interactions among neurons give rise to transient coherent activity patterns that underlie perception, cognition, and action. Recently, it was actively debated whether the most basic interactions, i.e., the pairwise correlations between neurons or groups of neurons, suffice to explain those observed activity patterns. So far, the evidence reported is controversial. Importantly, the overall organization of neuronal interactions and the mechanisms underlying their generation, especially those of high-order interactions, have remained elusive. Here we show that higher-order interactions are required to properly account for cortical dynamics such as ongoing neuronal avalanches in the alert monkey and evoked visual responses in the anesthetized cat. A Gaussian interaction model that utilizes the observed pairwise correlations and event rates and that applies intrinsic thresholding identifies those higher-order interactions correctly, both in cortical local field potentials and spiking activities. This allows for accurate prediction of large neuronal population activities as required, e.g., in brain-machine interface paradigms. Our results demonstrate that higher-order interactions are inherent properties of cortical dynamics and suggest a simple solution to overcome the apparent formidable complexity previously thought to be intrinsic to those interactions.
The auditory system represents sound-source directions initially in head-centered coordinates. To program eye-head gaze shifts to sounds, the orientation of eyes and head should be incorporated to specify the target relative to the eyes. Here we test (1) whether this transformation involves a stage in which sounds are represented in a world- or a head-centered reference frame, and (2) whether acoustic spatial updating occurs at a topographically organized motor level representing gaze shifts, or within the tonotopically organized auditory system. Human listeners generated head-unrestrained gaze shifts from a large range of initial eye and head positions toward brief broadband sound bursts, and to tones at different center frequencies, presented in the midsagittal plane. Tones were heard at a fixed illusory elevation, regardless of their actual location, that depended in an idiosyncratic way on initial head and eye position, as well as on the tone's frequency. Gaze shifts to broadband sounds were accurate, fully incorporating initial eye and head positions. The results support the hypothesis that the auditory system represents sounds in a supramodal reference frame, and that signals about eye and head orientation are incorporated at a tonotopic stage.
Many psychiatric disorders are characterized by abnormal risky decision-making and dysregulated dopamine receptor expression. The current study was designed to determine how different dopamine receptor subtypes modulate risk-taking in young adult rats, using a &quot;Risky Decision-making Task&quot; that involves choices between small &quot;safe&quot; rewards and large &quot;risky&quot; rewards accompanied by adverse consequences. Rats showed considerable, stable individual differences in risk preference in the task, which were not related to multiple measures of reward motivation, anxiety, or pain sensitivity. Systemic activation of D2-like receptors robustly attenuated risk-taking, whereas drugs acting on D1-like receptors had no effect. Systemic amphetamine also reduced risk-taking, an effect which was attenuated by D2-like (but not D1-like) receptor blockade. Dopamine receptor mRNA expression was evaluated in a separate cohort of drug-naive rats characterized in the task. D1 mRNA expression in both nucleus accumbens shell and insular cortex was positively associated with risk-taking, while D2 mRNA expression in orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal cortex predicted risk preference in opposing nonlinear patterns. Additionally, lower levels of D2 mRNA in dorsal striatum were associated with greater risk-taking. These data strongly implicate dopamine signaling in prefrontal cortical-striatal circuitry in modulating decision-making processes involving integration of reward information with risks of adverse consequences.
Dystrobrevin is a major component of a dystrophin-associated protein complex. It is widely expressed in mammalian tissues, including the nervous system, in which it is localized to the presynaptic nerve terminal with unknown function. In a genetic screen for suppressors of a lethargic phenotype caused by a gain-of-function isoform of SLO-1 in Caenorhabditis elegans, we isolated multiple loss-of-function (lf) mutants of the dystrobrevin gene dyb-1.dyb-1(lf) phenocopied slo-1(lf), causing increased neurotransmitter release at the neuromuscular junction, increased frequency of Ca(2+) transients in body-wall muscle, and abnormal locomotion behavior. Neuron- and muscle-specific rescue experiments suggest that DYB-1 is required for SLO-1 function in both neurons and muscle cells. DYB-1 colocalized with SLO-1 at presynaptic sites in neurons and dense body regions in muscle cells, and dyb-1(lf) caused SLO-1 mislocalization in both types of cells without altering SLO-1 protein level. The neuronal phenotypes of dyb-1(lf) were partially rescued by mouse -dystrobrevin-1. These observations revealed novel functions of the BK channel in regulating muscle Ca(2+) transients and of dystrobrevin in controlling neurotransmitter release and muscle Ca(2+) transients by localizing the BK channel.
Despite its clinical relevance, direct electrical stimulation (DES) of the human brain is surprisingly poorly understood. Although we understand several aspects of electrical stimulation at the cellular level, surface DES evokes a complex summation effect in a large volume of brain tissue, and the effect is difficult to predict as it depends on many local and remote physiological and morphological factors. The complex stimulation effects are reflected in the heterogeneity of behavioural effects that are induced by DES, which range from evocation to inhibition of responses - sometimes even when DES is applied at the same cortical site. Thus, it is a misconception that DES - in contrast to other neuroscience techniques - allows us to draw unequivocal conclusions about the role of stimulated brain areas.

Glutamate is the neurotransmitter responsible for fast excitatory transmission from vagal afferents to second order neurons in the NTS. Antagonism of NMDA-type glutamate receptors in the NTS increases food intake and attenuates reduction of food intake by vagally mediated satiation signals, such as cholecystokinin. Although, the cellular location(s) of NMDA receptors that participate in satiation is uncertain, recent findings suggest that attenuation of satiation by NMDA receptor antagonists is due, at least in part, to their action on primary vagal afferents themselves. While evidence is accumulating that NMDA receptors located on vagal afferent endings in the hindbrain are involved in control of food intake, there also is preliminary evidence that peripheral NMDA receptors also may influence vagal control of food intake. Hence, NMDA receptor expression on central and perhaps peripheral vagal afferent endings could provide a parsimonious mechanism for modulation of satiation signals by endogenously released glutamate.
The discovery of the T1R family of Class C G protein-coupled receptors in the peripheral gustatory system a decade ago has been a tremendous advance for taste research, and its conceptual reach has extended to other organ systems. There are three proteins in the family, T1R1, T1R2, and T1R3, encoded by their respective genes, Tas1r1, Tas1r2, and Tas1r3. T1R2 combines with T1R3 to form a heterodimer that binds with sugars and other sweeteners. T1R3 also combines with T1R1 to form a heterodimer that binds with l-amino acids. These proteins are expressed not only in taste bud cells, but one or more of these T1Rs have also been identified in the nasal epithelium, gut, pancreas, liver, kidney, testes and brain in various mammalian species. Here we review current perspectives regarding the functional role of these receptors, concentrating on sweet taste and feeding. We also discuss behavioral findings suggesting that a glucose polymer mixture, Polycose, which rodents avidly prefer, appears to activate a receptor that does not depend on the combined expression of T1R2 and T1R3. In addition, although the T1Rs have been implicated as playing a role in glucose sensing, T1R2 knock-out (KO) and T1R3 KO mice display normal chow and fluid intake as well as normal body weight compared with same-sex littermate wild type (WT) controls. Moreover, regardless of whether they are fasted or not, these KO mice do not differ from their WT counterparts in their Polycose intake across a broad range of concentrations in 30-minute intake tests. The functional implications of these results and those in the literature are considered.
Epidemiological studies estimate that greater than 60% of the adult US population may be categorized as either overweight or obese, and there is a growing appreciation that the complications of obesity extend to the central nervous system (CNS). While the vast majority of these studies have focused on the hypothalamus, more recent studies suggest that the complications of obesity may also affect the structural and functional integrity of the hippocampus. A potential contributor to obesity-related CNS abnormalities is the adipocyte-derived hormone leptin. In this regard, decreases in CNS leptin activity may contribute to deficits in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and suggest that leptin resistance, a well-described phenomenon in the hypothalamus, may also be observed in the hippocampus. Unfortunately, the myriad of metabolic and endocrine abnormalities in diabetes/obesity phenotypes makes it challenging to assess the role of leptin in hippocampal neuroplasticity deficits associated with obesity models. To address this question, we examined hippocampal morphological and behavioral plasticity following lentivirus-mediated downregulation of hypothalamic insulin receptors (hypo-IRAS). Hypo-IRAS rats exhibit increases in body weight, adiposity, plasma leptin and triglyceride levels. As such, hypo-IRAS rats develop a phenotype that is consistent with features of the metabolic syndrome. In addition, hippocampal morphological plasticity and performance of hippocampal-dependent tasks are adversely affected in hypo-IRAS rats. Leptin-mediated signaling is also decreased in hypo-IRAS rats. We will discuss these findings in the context of how hyperleptinemia and hypertriglyceridemia may represent mechanistic mediators of the neurological consequences of impaired hippocampal synaptic plasticity in obesity.
The experience of self is unique and pivotal to clinically relevant cognitive and emotional functions. However, well-controlled data on specialized brain regions and functional networks underlying the experience of self remain limited. This functional magnetic resonance imaging study investigated neural activity and connectivity specific to processing one's own face in healthy women by examining neural responses to the pictures of the subjects' own faces in contrast to faces of their own mothers, female friends and strangers during passive viewing, emotional and self-relevance evaluations. The processing of one's own face in comparison to processing of familiar faces revealed significant activity in right anterior insula (AI) and left inferior parietal lobule (IPL), and less activity in right posterior cingulate/precuneus (PCC/PCu) across all tasks. Further, the seed-based correlation analysis of right AI, and left IPL, showed differential functional networks in self and familiar faces contrasts. There were no differences in valence and saliency ratings between self and familiar others. Our preliminary results suggest that the self-experience cued by self-face is processed predominantly by brain regions and related networks that link interoceptive feelings and sense of body ownership to self-awareness and less by regions of higher order functioning such as autobiographical memories.
Many people have reported experiencing on at least one occasion what are often labeled &quot;paranormal phenomena,&quot; and some people report having such experiences frequently. From a neuroscience perspective, this begs the question of whether and how information emanating from outside of our bodies may be received by the human brain in a manner capable of influencing our conscious perceptions, other than through the conventionally accepted routes of our sensory organs for sight, sound, touch, taste and smell-i.e., exploring the existence, nature, and basis of presumed suprapentasensory (SPS) perception. The present review article, in an examination of investigations aimed at identifying SPS-associated neurologic substrates, critically reviews recently published literature covering EEG studies of reported perceptions of &quot;sensed presence&quot; and ganzfeld-induced imagery, neuronuclear imaging studies of experimentally induced experiences considered to be explicitly &quot;religious&quot; or &quot;spiritual,&quot; and brain imaging studies that seek to understand neurologic correlates of individuals' proneness to reporting such experiences. The limitations of present studies (as well as of the conclusions that can be drawn from them), and potential avenues for addressing those limitations in future studies, are also considered.
We present MINEMO (Minimal Information for Neural ElectroMagnetic Ontologies), a checklist for the description of event-related potentials (ERP) studies. MINEMO extends MINI (Minimal Information for Neuroscience Investigations)to the ERP domain. Checklist terms are explicated in NEMO, a formal ontology that is designed to support ERP data sharing and integration. MINEMO is also linked to an ERP database and web application (the NEMO portal). Users upload their data and enter MINEMO information through the portal. The database then stores these entries in RDF (Resource Description Framework), along with summary metrics, i.e., spatial and temporal metadata. Together these spatial, temporal, and functional metadata provide a complete description of ERP data and the context in which these data were acquired. The RDF files then serve as inputs to ontology-based labeling and meta-analysis. Our ultimate goal is to represent ERPs using a rich semantic structure, so results can be queried at multiple levels, to stimulate novel hypotheses and to promote a high-level, integrative account of ERP results across diverse study methods and paradigms.


Persistent relapse to addictive drugs constitutes the most challenging problem in addiction therapy, and is linked to impaired prefrontal cortex regulation of motivated behaviors involving the nucleus accumbens. Using a rat model of heroin addiction, we show that relapse requires long-term potentiation (LTP)-like increases in synaptic strength in the prefrontal cortex projection to the nucleus accumbens. The increased synaptic strength was paralleled by dendritic spine enlargement in accumbens spiny neurons and required up-regulated surface expression of NMDA2b-containing receptors (NR2B). Accordingly, blocking NR2B before reinstating heroin-seeking prevented the induction of LTP-like changes in spine remodeling and synaptic strength, and inhibited heroin relapse. These data show that LTP-like neuroplasticity in prefrontal-accumbens synapses is initiated by NR2B stimulation and strongly contributes to heroin relapse. Moreover, the data reveal NR2B-containing NMDA receptors as a previously unexplored therapeutic target for treating heroin addiction.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) plays an important role in stress, anxiety, obesity, and energy homeostasis via activation of NPY-Y1 receptors (Y1Rs) in the brain. However, global knockout of the Npy1r gene has low or no impact on anxiety and body weight. To uncover the role of limbic Y1Rs, we generated conditional knockout mice in which the inactivation of the Npy1r gene was restricted to excitatory neurons of the forebrain, starting from juvenile stages (Npy1r(rfb)). Npy1r(rfb) mice exhibited increased anxiety and reduced body weight, less adipose tissue, and lower serum leptin levels. Npy1r(rfb) mutants also had a hyperactive hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis, as indicated by higher peripheral corticosterone and higher density of NPY immunoreactive fibers and corticotropin releasing hormone immunoreactive cell bodies in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. Importantly, through fostering experiments, we determined that differences in phenotype between Npy1r(rfb) and Npy1r(2lox) mice became apparent when both genotypes were raised by FVB/J but not by C57BL/6J dams, suggesting that limbic Y1Rs are key targets of maternal care-induced programming of anxiety and energy homeostasis.

Although near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) was originally designed for clinical monitoring of tissue oxygenation, it has also been developing into a useful tool for neuroimaging studies (functional NIRS). Over the past 30 years, technology has developed and NIRS has found a wide range of applications. However, the accuracy and reliability of NIRS have not yet been widely accepted, mainly because of the difficulties in selective and quantitative detection of signals arising in cerebral tissue, which subject the use of NIRS to a number of practical restrictions. This review summarizes the strengths and advantages of NIRS over other neuroimaging modalities and demonstrates specific examples. The issues of selective quantitative measurement of cerebral haemoglobin during brain activation are also discussed, together with the problems of applying the methods of functional magnetic resonance imaging data analysis to NIRS data analysis. Finally, near-infrared optical tomography--the next generation of NIRS--is described as a potential technique to overcome the limitations of NIRS.
Reliable optical detection of single action potentials in mammalian neurons has been one of the longest-standing challenges in neuroscience. Here we achieved this goal by using the endogenous fluorescence of a microbial rhodopsin protein, Archaerhodopsin 3 (Arch) from Halorubrum sodomense, expressed in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. This genetically encoded voltage indicator exhibited an approximately tenfold improvement in sensitivity and speed over existing protein-based voltage indicators, with a roughly linear twofold increase in brightness between -150 mV and +150 mV and a sub-millisecond response time. Arch detected single electrically triggered action potentials with an optical signal-to-noise ratio &gt;10. Arch(D95N) lacked endogenous proton pumping and had 50% greater sensitivity than wild type but had a slower response (41 ms). Nonetheless, Arch(D95N) also resolved individual action potentials. Microbial rhodopsin-based voltage indicators promise to enable optical interrogation of complex neural circuits and electrophysiology in systems for which electrode-based techniques are challenging.
G protein coupled inward rectifier K(+) channels (GIRK) are activated by the G() subunits of G proteins upon activation of G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). Receptor-stimulated GIRK currents are known to possess a curious property, termed &quot;agonist-dependent relaxation,&quot; denoting a slow current increase upon stepping the membrane voltage from positive to negative potentials. Regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins have earlier been implicated in this phenomenon since RGS coexpression was required for relaxation to be observed in heterologous expression systems. However, a recent study presented contrasting evidence that GIRK current relaxation reflects voltage sensitive agonist binding to the GPCR. The present study re-examined the role of RGS protein in agonist-dependent relaxation and found that RGS coexpression is not necessary for the relaxation phenomenon. However, RGS4 speeds up relaxation kinetics, allowing the phenomenon to be observed using shorter voltage steps. These findings resolve the controversy regarding the role of RGS protein vs. GPCR voltage sensitivity in mediating agonist-dependent relaxation of GIRK currents.
Resilience research has usually focused on identifying protective factors associated with specific stress conditions (e.g., war, trauma) or psychopathologies (e.g., post-traumatic stress disorder [PTSD]). Implicit in this research is the concept that resilience is a global construct, invariant to the unfavorable circumstances or the psychopathologies that may develop (i.e., the mechanisms underlying the resilience of an individual in all cases are expected to be similar). Here we contribute to the understanding of resilience-and its counterpart, vulnerability-by employing an approach that makes use of this invariant quality. We outline two main characteristics that we would expect from indicators of a vulnerable state: that they should appear across disorders regardless of specific circumstances, and that they should appear much before the disorder is evident. Next, we identify two sets of factors that exhibit this pattern of association with psychopathological states. The first was a set of &quot;low-level&quot; sensory, motor and regulatory irregularities that have been reported across the clinical literature; we suggest that these can serve as behavioral indicators of a vulnerable state. The second was the set of aberrations in network metrics that have been reported in the field of systems neuroscience; we suggest that these can serve as network indicators of a vulnerable state. Finally, we explore how behavioral indicators may be related to network indicators and discuss the clinical and research-related implications of our work.
Microtubule-associated protein 1B (MAP1B) is prominently expressed during early stages of neuronal development, and it has been implicated in axonal growth and guidance. MAP1B expression is also found in the adult brain in areas of significant synaptic plasticity. Here, we demonstrate that MAP1B is present in dendritic spines, and we describe a decrease in the density of mature dendritic spines in neurons of MAP1B-deficient mice that was accompanied by an increase in the number of immature filopodia-like protrusions. Although these neurons exhibited normal passive membrane properties and action potential firing, AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic currents were significantly diminished. Moreover, we observed a significant decrease in Rac1 activity and an increase in RhoA activity in the post-synaptic densities of adult MAP1B(+/-) mice when compared with wild type controls. MAP1B(+/-) fractions also exhibited a decrease in phosphorylated cofilin. Taken together, these results indicate a new and important role for MAP1B in the formation and maturation of dendritic spines, possibly through the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. This activity of MAP1B could contribute to the regulation of synaptic activity and plasticity in the adult brain.
The -aminobutyric acid (GABA) transporters (GATs) are located in the plasma membrane of neurons and astrocytes and are responsible for termination of GABAergic transmission. It has previously been shown that brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) modulates GAT-1-mediated GABA transport in nerve terminals and neuronal cultures. We now report that BDNF enhances GAT-1-mediated GABA transport in cultured astrocytes, an effect mostly due to an increase in the V(max) kinetic constant. This action involves the truncated form of the TrkB receptor (TrkB-t) coupled to a non-classic PLC-/PKC- and ERK/MAPK pathway and requires active adenosine A(2A) receptors. Transport through GAT-3 is not affected by BDNF. To elucidate if BDNF affects trafficking of GAT-1 in astrocytes, we generated and infected astrocytes with a functional mutant of the rat GAT-1 (rGAT-1) in which the hemagglutinin (HA) epitope was incorporated into the second extracellular loop. An increase in plasma membrane of HA-rGAT-1 as well as of rGAT-1 was observed when both HA-GAT-1-transduced astrocytes and rGAT-1-overexpressing astrocytes were treated with BDNF. The effect of BDNF results from inhibition of dynamin/clathrin-dependent constitutive internalization of GAT-1 rather than from facilitation of the monensin-sensitive recycling of GAT-1 molecules back to the plasma membrane. We therefore conclude that BDNF enhances the time span of GAT-1 molecules at the plasma membrane of astrocytes. BDNF may thus play an active role in the clearance of GABA from synaptic and extrasynaptic sites and in this way influence neuronal excitability.
For a feedforward loop of oscillatory Hodgkin-Huxley neurons interacting via excitatory chemical synapses, we show that a great variety of spatiotemporal periodic firing patterns can be encoded by properly chosen communication delays and synaptic weights, which contributes to the concept of temporal coding by spikes. These patterns can be obtained by a modulation of the multiple coexisting stable in-phase synchronized states or traveling waves propagating along or against the direction of coupling. We derive explicit conditions for the network parameters allowing us to achieve a desired pattern. Interestingly, whereas the delays directly affect the time differences between spikes of interacting neurons, the synaptic weights control the phase differences. Our results show that already such a simple neural circuit may unfold an impressive spike coding capability.

Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) is widely distributed in the brain of many species. In the hypothalamus, CART neurotransmission has been implicated in diverse functions including energy balance, stress response, and temperature and endocrine regulation. Although some studies have been performed in primates, very little is known about the distribution of CART neurons in New World monkeys. New World monkeys are good models for systems neuroscience, as some species have evolved several behavioral and anatomical characteristics shared with humans, including diurnal and social habits, intense maternal care, complex manipulative abilities and well-developed frontal cortices. In the present study, we assessed the distribution of CART mRNA and peptide in the hypothalamus of the capuchin monkey (Cebus apella) and the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We found that the distribution of hypothalamic CART neurons in these monkeys is similar to what has been described for rodents and humans, but some relevant differences were noticed. Only in capuchin monkeys CART neurons were observed in the suprachiasmatic and the intercalatus nuclei, whereas only in marmoset CART neurons were observed in the dorsal anterior nucleus. We also found that the only in marmoset displayed CART neurons in the periventricular preoptic nucleus and in an area seemingly comprising the premammillary nucleus. These hypothalamic sites are both well defined in rodents but poorly defined in humans. Our findings indicate that CART expression in hypothalamic neurons is conserved across species but the identified differences suggest that CART is also involved in the control of species-specific related functions.
Obesity is a chronic disease characterized by persistent low-grade inflammation with alterations in gut motility. Motor abnormalities suggest that obesity has effects on the enteric nervous system (ENS), which controls virtually all gut functions. Recent studies have revealed that the gut microbiota can affect obesity and increase inflammatory tone by modulating mucosal barrier function. Furthermore, the observation that inflammatory conditions influence the excitability of enteric neurons may add to the gut dysfunction in obesity. In this article, we discuss recent advances in understanding the role of gut microbiota and inflammation in the pathogenesis of obesity and obesity-related gastrointestinal dysfunction. The potential contribution of sirtuins in protecting or regulating the circuitry of the ENS under inflamed states is also considered.
Cues associated with rewards acquire the ability to engage the same brain systems as rewards themselves. However, reward cues have multiple properties. For example, they not only act as predictors of reward capable of evoking conditional responses (CRs), but they may also acquire incentive motivational properties. As incentive stimuli they can evoke complex emotional and motivational states. Here we sought to determine whether the predictive value of a reward cue is sufficient to engage brain reward systems, or whether the cue must also be attributed with incentive salience. We took advantage of the fact that there are large individual differences in the extent to which reward cues are attributed with incentive salience. When a cue (conditional stimulus, CS) is paired with delivery of food (unconditional stimulus, US), the cue acquires the ability to evoke a CR in all rats; that is, it is equally predictive and supports learning the CS-US association in all. However, only in a subset of rats is the cue attributed with incentive salience, becoming an attractive and desirable incentive stimulus. We used in situ hybridization histochemistry to quantify the ability of a food cue to induce c-fos mRNA expression in rats that varied in the extent to which they attributed incentive salience to the cue. We found that a food cue induced c-fos mRNA in the orbitofrontal cortex, striatum (caudate and nucleus accumbens), thalamus (paraventricular, intermediodorsal and central medial nuclei), and lateral habenula, only in rats that attributed incentive salience to the cue. Furthermore, patterns of &quot;connectivity&quot; between these brain regions differed markedly between rats that did or did not attribute incentive salience to the food cue. These data suggest that the predictive value of a reward cue is not sufficient to engage brain reward systems-the cue must also be attributed with incentive salience.
Longevity genes attenuate the aging process, but their expression in the brain during aging remains unknown. Loss of the majority of heteromeric brain nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) results in premature brain aging, and altered regulation of longevity genes could be involved. Using in situ hybridization, the expression of SIRT1, Ku70, Nampt, p53, forkhead Box O3 (FoxO3), and mitochondria uncoupling protein 5 (UCP5) was determined in neocortex and hippocampus of young adult 3-month and middle-aged 18-month-old wild-type (WT), and age-matched mice lacking 2* heteromeric nAChRs (2-/-). Age-related structural changes were detected in WT mice. In particular, cortical thickness was decreased but neuronal density increased, and hippocampal volume increased with age. In contrast, young 2-/- mice exhibited increased cortical neuronal density, and with age, cortical thickness decreased more dramatically, and hippocampal volume did not increase. Thus, young 2-/- mice exhibited cortical signs of aging, and aging was accelerated at 18 months. The longevity genes probed exhibited similar expression patterns in frontal brain structures, with strong expression in hippocampus, medial habenula (MHb), and cortex. In WT mice, age significantly decreased expression of all genes except SIRT1 in cortical structures, and a similar pattern was detected in the MHb. Genotype had no effect on expression in young adults in either cortex or MHb, but increased mRNA expression of SIRT1, Nampt, and Ku70 was detected in cortex, hippocampus, and MHb of aged 2-/- mice compared with WT mice. This is the first study to determine age-related expression of survival genes in forebrain areas. Although, structural changes indicative of accelerated aging are evident in young 2-/- mice, the data suggest that nAChRs do not directly regulate expression of survival genes. However, loss of 2* nAChRs could result in augmented cellular stress, which indirectly increases expression of SIRT1, Nampt, and Ku70 as an adaptive response to provide protection against neurodegeneration.
Ligand-induced translocation of the G-protein-coupled receptor, neurokinin 3 (NK3-R), to the nucleus of hypothalamic neurons was reported using antibodies (ABs) raised against the C-terminal region of NK3-R. The current work was undertaken to substantiate the ability of NK3-R to enter the nucleus and identify which portion of the NK3-R molecule enters the nucleus. ABs directed at epitopes in the N-terminal and second extracellular loop of the rat NK3-R molecule were used to evaluate western blots of whole tissue homogenates and nuclear fractions from multiple brain areas. Specificity of the protein bands recognized by these ABs was demonstrated using Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells transfected with rat or human NK3-R. Both ABs prominently recognized a diffuse protein band of 56-65 kDa (56 kDa=predicted size) and distinct 70-kDa and 95-kDa proteins in homogenates of multiple brain areas. The 95-kDa protein recognized by the extracellular loop AB was enriched in nuclear fractions. Recognition of these proteins by ABs directed at different regions of the NK3-R supports their identification as NK3-R. The size differences reflect variable glycosylation and possibly linkage to different cytosolic and nuclear proteins. Recognition of protein bands by both ABs in nuclear fractions is consistent with the full-length NK3-R entering the nucleus. Hypotension increased the density of the 95-kDa band in nuclear fractions from the supraoptic nucleus indicating activity-induced nuclear translocation. Since NK3-R is widely distributed in the CNS, the presence of NK3-R in nuclei from multiple brain regions suggests that it may broadly influence CNS gene expression in a ligand-dependent manner.
The neuroplasticity and regenerative properties of the olfactory system make it a useful model for studying the ability of the nervous system to recover from damage. We have developed a novel method for examining the effects of long-term deafferentation and regeneration of the olfactory organ and resulting influence on the olfactory bulb in adult zebrafish. To test the hypothesis that repeated damage to the olfactory epithelium causes reduced olfactory bulb afferent input and cessation of treatment allows recovery, we chronically ablated the olfactory organ every 2-3 days for 3 weeks with the detergent Triton X-100 while another group was allowed 3 weeks of recovery following treatment. Animals receiving chronic treatment showed severe morphological disruption of the olfactory organ, although small pockets of epithelium remained. These pockets were labeled by anti-calretinin, indicating the presence of mature olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs). Following a recovery period, the epithelium was more extensive and neuronal labeling increased, with three different morphologies of sensory neurons observed. Repeated peripheral exposure to Triton X-100 also affected the olfactory bulb. Bulb volumes and anti-tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity, which is an indicator of afferent activity, were diminished in the olfactory bulb of the chronically treated group compared to the control side. In the recovery group, there was little difference in bulb volume or antibody staining. These results suggest that repeated, long-term nasal irrigation with Triton X-100 eliminates a substantial number of mature OSNs and reduces afferent input to the olfactory bulb. It also appears that these effects are reversible and regeneration will occur in both the peripheral olfactory organ and the olfactory bulb when given time to recover following cessation of treatment. We report here a new method that allows observation not only of the effects of deafferentation on the olfactory bulb but also the effects of reinnervation.
Maternal malnutrition results in learning deficits and predisposition to anxiety and depression in the offspring that extend into adulthood. At the cellular level, learning and memory rely on the production of new neurons in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus, and hippocampal neurogenesis has been associated with the etiology and treatment of depression, but whether adult neurogenesis is affected by malnutrition during early life is not known. To investigate the effects of perinatal undernutrition on neurogenesis at adulthood, pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were fed either ad libitum (C) or were undernourished by reducing their daily food intake by 50% in relation to the C group during gestation and lactation (FR/FR). At birth, one subset of control pups was cross-fostered to food-restricted dams to constitute a third group of animals that were undernourished during the lactation period only (AdLib/FR). At 90 days of age, pups were injected with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and sacrificed 2 h, 1 week, or 3 weeks later. The number of BrdU-labeled cells in the DG was significantly reduced in the offspring of FR/FR dams in relation to controls at all the time points examined. However, the proportion of new cells exhibiting a neuronal phenotype was higher in FR/FR rats than in controls as revealed by the colabeling at 3 weeks of the BrdU-labeled cells with neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN). AdLib/FR animals exhibited also reduced BrdU labeling at 2 h and 1 week. Nevertheless, we found no significant differences at 3 weeks in either the number of BrdU-labeled cells or in the proportion of new neurons between controls and AdLib/FR rats. These results indicate that the decreased number of hippocampal neurons in perinatally undernourished rats is due to the deleterious effects of early nutrient restriction on cell proliferation but not on the neuronal differentiation process of the new generated cells.
l-glutamate, an umami taste substance, is a key molecule coupled to a food intake signaling pathway. Furthermore, recent studies have unveiled new roles for dietary glutamate on gut-brain axis communication via activation of gut glutamate receptors and subsequent vagus nerve. In the present study, we mapped activation sites of the rat forebrain after intragastric load of 60 mM monosodium l-glutamate (MSG) by measurement of Fos protein, a functional marker of neuronal activation. The same concentration of d-glucose (sweet) and NaCl (salty) was used as controls. MSG administration exclusively produced enhanced Fos expression in four hypothalamic regions (the medial preoptic area, lateral hypothalamic area, dorsomedial nucleus, and arcuate nucleus). On the other hand, glucose administration exclusively enhanced Fos induction in the nucleus accumbens. Both MSG and glucose enhanced Fos induction in three brain regions (the habenular nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, and central nucleus of the amygdala). However, MSG induced Fos inductions were more potent than those of glucose in the habenular nucleus and paraventricular nucleus. Importantly, the present study identified for the first time two brain areas (the paraventricular and arcuate hypothalamic nuclei) that are more potently activated by intragastric MSG loads compared with glucose and NaCl. Overall, our results suggest significant activation of a neural network comprising the habenular nucleus, amygdala, and the hypothalamic subnuclei following intragastric load with glutamate.
The firing activity of dorsal raphe neurons is related to arousal state. However, it is unclear how this firing activity is precisely related to cortical activity, in particular oscillations occurring during sleep rhythms. Here we conducted single-cell extracellular recordings and juxtacellular labelling while monitoring electrocorticogram (ECoG) activity in urethane anaesthetised rats, to relate activity in neurochemically identified groups of neurons to cortical slow-wave activity (SWA). We observed that electrophysiological heterogeneity in dorsal raphe neurons revealed different neurochemical groups of DRN neurons and was mirrored by significant differences in the phase and strength of coupling to the cortical slow oscillations. Spike firing relationship of clock-like neurons, identified as 5-HT (5-hydroxytryptamine) or serotonin neurons, was higher during the inactive component of the oscillations. In contrast, half of the identified bursting 5-HT neurons did not exhibit strong cortical entrainment; those that did fired most during the inactive component of the SWA. Two groups of putatively non-5-HT neurons (irregular slow-firing and fast-firing) exhibited significant coherence and fired most during the active component of the SWA. These findings indicate that within the DRN electrophysiologically and neurochemically discrete neuronal groups exhibit distinct relations to cortical activity.
Triple reuptake inhibitors (TRIs) that block the dopamine transporter (DAT), norepinephrine transporter (NET), and serotonin transporter (SERT) are being developed as a new class of antidepressant that may have better efficacy and fewer side effects compared with traditional antidepressants. The purpose of this study was to characterize a new chemical entity, 4-[2-(dimethylamino)-1-(1-hydroxycyclohexyl)ethyl] phenyl 4-methoxybenzoate hydrochloride (TP1). TP1 was designed as a prodrug of desvenlafaxine. Competitive radioligand binding assays were performed using cells expressing the human dopamine (DA) transporter (hDAT), the human serotonin (5-HT) transporter (hSERT), and the human norepinephrine (NE) transporter (hNET) with K(i) values for TP1 of 190 nM, 2076 nM, and 1023 nM, respectively. Uptake assays were performed with IC(50) values for TP1 of 712 nM, 521 nM, and 628 nM, respectively. TP1 (0.06 mmol/kg, orally) rapidly penetrated rat brain and hypothalamus, translated into desvenlafaxine within 1 h, and demonstrated higher bioavailability and better pharmacokinetic properties than desvenlafaxine succinate (DVS). TP1 (0.06 mmol/kg, orally) significantly increased extracellular levels of DA, NE, and 5-HT compared with baseline in the rat hypothalamus by microdialysis assay. In dose-response assays, oral administration of TP1 reduced the time of immobility in a dose-dependent manner during tail suspension test and forced swimming test (FST). This antidepressant-like effect manifests in the absence of significant increases in motor activity even at doses of up to 32 mg/kg. The ability of TP1 to inhibit the reuptake of three biogenic amines closely linked to the etiology of depression may result in a therapeutic profile different from antidepressants that inhibit the reuptake of serotonin and/or NE.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the existence of possible functional correlation between GABA-A and dopamine (DA) receptors of the dorsal hippocampus and the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in passive avoidance learning. Two guide cannulas were stereotaxically implanted in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus and the VTA of male Wistar rats. In order to measure memory retrieval, the animals were trained in a step-through type passive avoidance task and tested 24 h after training. Post-training intra-CA1 administration of a GABA-A receptor agonist, muscimol (0.01-0.02 g/rat) dose-dependently impaired memory retrieval. Post-training intra-VTA administration of SCH23390 (a dopamine D1 receptor antagonist; 0.1-0.8 g/rat) or sulpiride (a D2 receptor antagonist; 0.5-1.5 g/rat) decreased the inhibitory effect of muscimol (0.02 g/rat, intra-CA1) on memory retrieval. Intra-VTA administration of the same doses of SCH23390, but not sulpiride, decreased the step-through latencies. On the other hand, post-training administration of muscimol (0.02 g/rat) into the VTA inhibited memory retrieval. The administration of SCH23390 (0.01-0.2 g/rat) or sulpiride (0.1-1 g/rat) into the CA1 region, immediately after training, had no effect on memory retrieval. Furthermore, the amnesic effect of intra-VTA administration of muscimol was significantly decreased by intra-CA1 administration of sulpiride (0.5 and 1 g/rat, intra-CA1), but not SCH23390. The practical conclusion is that the relationship between the hippocampus and the VTA may regulate memory formation in passive avoidance learning. Also, the correlation between the hippocampus and VTA by a dopaminergic system may be involved in mediating muscimol-induced amnesia.
Neuronal Toll-like receptors (TLRs)-2 and -4 have been shown to play a pivotal role in ischemic brain injury, and the interleukin-1 receptor associated kinases (IRAKs) are considered to be the key signaling molecules involved downstream of TLRs. Here, we investigated the expression levels of IRAK-1 and -4 and the effects of IRAK-1/4 inhibition on brain ischemic insult and neuronal hypoxia-induced injury. Male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats and the rat neuroblastoma B35 cell line were used in these experiments. Permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was induced by the intraluminal filament technique, and B35 cells were stimulated with the hypoxia-mimetic, cobalt chloride (CoCl(2)). Following induction of hypoxia/ischemia (H/I), B35 cells and cerebral cortical neurons expressed higher levels of IRAK-1 and -4. Furthermore, IRAK-1/4 inhibition decreased the mortality rate, functional deficits, and ischemic infarct volume by 7 days after MCAO. Similarly, IRAK-1/4 inhibition attenuated CoCl(2)-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis in B35 cells in vitro. Our results show that IRAK-1/4 inhibition decreased the nuclear translocation of the nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-B) p65 subunit, the levels of activated (phosphorylated) c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and cleaved caspase-3, and the secretion of TNF- and IL-6 in B35 cells at 6 h after CoCl(2) treatment. These data suggest that IRAK-1/4 inhibition plays a neuroprotective role in H/I-induced brain injury.
Cocaine induces apoptotic effects in cultured cells and in the developing brain, but the aberrant activation of cell death in the adult brain remains inconclusive, especially in humans. This postmortem human brain study examined the status of canonical apoptotic pathways, signaling partners, and the cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1), a sensor of DNA damage, in prefrontal cortex (PFC) of a small but well-characterized cohort of cocaine abusers (n=10). For comparison, the chosen targets were also quantified in the cerebral cortex of cocaine-treated rats. In the PFC of cocaine abusers, FS7-associated cell surface antigen (Fas) receptor aggregates and Fas-associated death domain (FADD) adaptor were reduced (-26% and -66%, respectively) as well as the content of mitochondrial cytochrome c (-61%). In the same brain samples of cocaine abusers, the proteolytic cleavage of PARP-1 was increased (+39%). Nuclear PARP-1 degradation, possibly a consequence of increased mitochondrial oxidative stress, involved the activation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) and not that of caspase-3. In the PFC of cocaine abusers, several signaling molecules associated with cocaine/dopamine and/or apoptotic pathways were not significantly altered, with the exception of anti-apoptotic truncated DARPP-32 (t-DARPP), a truncated isoform of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32), whose content was decreased (-28%). Chronic exposure to cocaine in rats, including withdrawal for 3 days, did not alter Fas-FADD receptor complex, cytochrome c, caspase-3/fragments, AIF, PARP-1 cleavage, and associated signaling in the cerebral cortex. Chronic cocaine and abstinence, however, increased the content of t-DARPP (+39% and +47%) in rat brain cortex. The major findings indicate that cocaine addiction in humans is not associated with abnormal activation of extrinsic and intrinsic apoptotic pathways in PFC. The downregulation of Fas-FADD receptor complex and cytochrome c could reflect the induction of contraregulatory adaptations or non-apoptotic (neuroplastic) actions induced by the psychostimulant. The enhanced degradation of nuclear PARP-1, a hallmark of apoptosis, indicates the possibility of aberrant cell death.
Anxiety disorders are among the most common and well studied psychiatric disorders in humans. A number of animal models have been established to study the mechanisms of anxiety and to test putative anxiolytic drugs. Gpr26 belongs to the G-protein-coupled receptor family and is exclusively expressed in brain tissue. To investigate the biological function of Gpr26 in vivo, we have generated Gpr26 knockout mice. The mutant mice grew and developed normally but displayed increased levels of anxiety-like behaviors in the open field and elevated plus maze tests, as well as a higher level of depression-like behaviors in the forced-swim and tail-suspension tests. Meanwhile, no significant alteration in spatial learning and memory abilities were found for Gpr26-deficient mice in the Morris water maze test. Previous studies demonstrated that lower protein kinase A (PKA)-cAMP responsive element-binding protein (CREB)-neuropeptide Y (NPY) signaling in the amygdala is linked to higher anxiety and excessive alcohol-drinking behaviors in rats. Therefore, we further examined the phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) and CREB levels in the brains of Gpr26-deficient mice. Reduced pCREB levels were observed in the central amygdala but not in the other regions, while total CREB levels remained comparable between wild-type and mutant mice. Combined, our data indicate that Gpr26 is important for emotion regulation in mice, a function probably mediated by the phosphorylation of CREB in the central amygdala.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) has emerged as an important part of the neural circuitry regulating depressive-like behaviors. Given that the NAc GABAergic medium spiny neurons project to the ventral pallidum (VP), it is reasonable to suggest that the VP may also be involved in these behaviors. Consequently, we explored the role of the VP GABAergic terminals during depressive-like behaviors in rats using the forced swim test (FST) and the sucrose preference test (SPT). Microdialysis coupled with micellar electrokinetic chromatography was used to monitor in vivo changes of GABA in the VP during the FST. GABA levels significantly increased during day-1 and day-2 during swimming, returning to the pre-swimming levels after the test. Basal concentrations of GABA on day-2 of the FST significantly increased with respect to day-1. In another set of experiments, intra-VP injections of vigabatrin (a GABA transaminase inhibitor) increased extracellular GABA and immobility behaviors in the FST while the direct GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline reduced immobility behaviors. In the SPT, intra-VP vigabatrin injection significantly reduced preference for sucrose while bicuculline did not produce any change. At the postsynaptic side, we used semiquantitative RT-PCR to measure mRNA expression of 17 GABAA receptor subunits (1-6, 1-3, 2, , , , , and 1-3) in rats subjected to the FST. We found a significant reduction of 3 and 2 subunit expression and an increase of  subunit expression after day-2 in rats subject to the FST which might enhance tonic inhibition of the VP. Furthermore, immunoblot experiments revealed that protein expression of 2 and  subunits changed 6 days after FST in a way similar to mRNA expression. These results suggest that the enhanced VP-GABAergic tone might trigger a low motivational state, anhedonia and a possible memory mechanism for unpleasant experiences.
Principal cells of the lateral superior olive (LSO) compute interaural intensity differences by comparing converging excitatory and inhibitory inputs. The excitatory input carries information from the ipsilateral ear, and the inhibitory input carries information from the contralateral ear. Throughout life, the excitatory input pathway releases glutamate. In adulthood, the inhibitory input pathway releases glycine. During a period of major developmental refinement in the LSO, however, synaptic terminals of the immature inhibitory input pathway release not only glycine, but also GABA and glutamate. To determine whether glutamate released by terminals in either pathway could spill over to activate postsynaptic N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors under the other pathway, we made whole-cell recordings from LSO principal cells in acute slices of neonatal rat brainstem bathed in the use-dependent NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 and stimulated in the two opposing pathways. We found that during the first postnatal week glutamate spillover occurs bidirectionally from both immature excitatory terminals and immature inhibitory terminals. We further found that a population of postsynaptic NMDA receptors is shared: glutamate released from either pathway can diffuse to and activate these receptors. We suggest that these shared receptors contain the GluN2B subunit and are located extrasynaptically.
When bearing certain frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism (FTDP) mutations, overexpression of human tau resulted in a decrease of the dentate gyrus ventral blade, apparently due to a reduction in the proliferation of neuronal precursors and an increase in neuronal cell death. This degenerative process was accompanied by a dramatic increase in behavioral despair, as evident in the Porsolt swim test. Interestingly, we observed an increase in GABAergic innervation in the molecular layer of the dorsal dentate gyrus but not in the ventral domain. We suggest that this increase in GABAergic innervation reflects a compensatory neuroprotective response to the overexpression of toxic tau, which may prevent or delay degeneration in the dorsal blade of the dental gyrus. Finally, we suggest that this transgenic mouse, which overexpresses human FTPD tau, may serve as a useful model to study specific functions of the ventral dentate gyrus.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has long been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). PD brain tissues show evidence for mitochondrial respiratory chain Complex I deficiency. Pharmacological inhibitors of Complex I, such as rotenone, cause experimental parkinsonism. The cytoprotective protein DJ-1, whose deletion is sufficient to cause genetic PD, is also known to have mitochondria-stabilizing properties. We have previously shown that DJ-1 is over-expressed in PD astrocytes, and that DJ-1 deficiency impairs the capacity of astrocytes to protect co-cultured neurons against rotenone. Since DJ-1 modulated, astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection against rotenone may depend upon proper astrocytic mitochondrial functioning, we hypothesized that DJ-1 deficiency would impair astrocyte mitochondrial motility, fission/fusion dynamics, membrane potential maintenance, and respiration, both at baseline and as an enhancement of rotenone-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. In astrocyte-enriched cultures, we observed that DJ-1 knock-down reduced mitochondrial motility primarily in the cellular processes of both untreated and rotenone treated cells. In these same cultures, DJ-1 knock-down did not appreciably affect mitochondrial fission, fusion, or respiration, but did enhance rotenone-induced reductions in the mitochondrial membrane potential. In neuron-astrocyte co-cultures, astrocytic DJ-1 knock-down reduced astrocyte process mitochondrial motility in untreated cells, but this effect was not maintained in the presence of rotenone. In the same co-cultures, astrocytic DJ-1 knock-down significantly reduced mitochondrial fusion in the astrocyte cell bodies, but not the processes, under the same conditions of rotenone treatment in which DJ-1 deficiency is known to impair astrocyte-mediated neuroprotection. Our studies therefore demonstrated the following new findings: (i) DJ-1 deficiency can impair astrocyte mitochondrial physiology at multiple levels, (ii) astrocyte mitochondrial dynamics vary with sub-cellular region, and (iii) the physical presence of neurons can affect astrocyte mitochondrial behavior.
The blockade of the inhibitory mechanisms for sodium intake with GABAergic activation in the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN) induces strong ingestion of water and hypertonic NaCl in satiated and normovolemic rats. A question that remains is if the activity of facilitatory mechanisms, like angiotensin II, is necessary for sodium and water intake induced by muscimol (GABA(A) receptor agonist) injected into the LPBN. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the effects of the blockade of angiotensinergic AT(1) receptors with losartan injected i.c.v. on 0.3 M NaCl and water intake induced by muscimol injected into the LPBN in satiated and normovolemic rats. Male Holtzman rats with stainless steel cannulas implanted bilaterally into the LPBN and unilaterally into the lateral ventricle were used. Bilateral injections of muscimol (0.5 nmol/0.2 l) into the LPBN combined with i.c.v. injection of vehicle induced 0.3 M NaCl (31.7  1.8 ml/240 min, vs. saline: 0.4  0.3 ml/240 min) and water intake (21.5  1.9 ml/240 min, vs. saline: 0.8  0.2 ml/240 min). Losartan (50 and 100 g/1.0 l) injected i.c.v. reduced the effects of LPBN-muscimol on 0.3 M NaCl (18.9  1.9 and 9.9  1.7 ml/240 min, respectively) and water intake (9.8  1.7 and 5.1  1.1 ml/240 min, respectively). The results suggest that the activation of central AT(1) angiotensinergic receptors is essential for hypertonic NaCl and water intake induced by the blockade of the inhibitory mechanisms with muscimol injected into the LPBN in satiated and normovolemic rats.
There is increasing evidence that pain transmission on one side of the body is influenced by a painful state on the other side. We have investigated this phenomenon by studying the activation pattern (using C-fos labeling) of spinal glycinergic and GABAergic (Gly/GABA) neurons after capsaicin injection in the ipsilateral hind paw of rats that were preconditioned with an acute or chronic pain stimulus in the contralateral hind paw or rats that were not preconditioned (control). For this purpose, fluorescent in situ hybridization with GlyT2 and GAD67 mRNA probes was combined with fluorescent C-fos immunohistochemistry. Rats were preconditioned with acute (capsaicin, Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA) 1.5 h), chronic inflammatory (CFA 20 h and 4 days), neuropathic (spared nerve injury (SNI) 2 weeks), or control pain stimuli (saline 20 h and 4 days; sham-SNI 2 weeks). We found that after capsaicin injection in rats preconditioned with CFA inflammation (4 days), sham-SNI or with SNI neuropathic pain, the numbers (27  3, 21  2, and 21  2, respectively) and percentages (55%  4, 43%  2, and 42%  2, respectively) of C-fos activated neurons that were Gly/GABA increased significantly as compared with control (10  1 and 25%  2). The increase in the total number of C-fos activated Gly/GABA neurons was present primarily in the superficial dorsal horn (laminae I and II; control: 9%; CFA 4 days: 56%; SNI 2 weeks: 42%). This increase in C-fos activation of Gly/GABA neurons occurred without significant changes in the total number of C-fos activated neurons, and without any significant changes in the mechanical thresholds in the hind paws after capsaicin injection. The results showed that one-sided chronic pain, especially inflammation, significantly increases the C-fos activation pattern of spinal Gly/GABA neurons on the other side of the spinal cord. This further underlines the existence of a dynamic interaction between ipsi- and contralateral spinal neurons in the processing of nociceptive information.
The aim of the present study was to identify potential biomarkers for depression in the search for novel disease targets and treatment regimens. Furthermore, the study includes a search for biomarkers involved in treatment resistance and stress resilience in order to investigate mechanisms underlying antidepressant drug refraction and stress-coping strategies. Depression-related transcriptomic changes in gene expression profiles were investigated in laser-captured microdissected (LCM) rat hippocampal granular cell layers (GCL) using the chronic mild stress (CMS) rat model of depression and chronic administration of two selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), escitalopram and sertraline. CMS rats were segregated into diverging groups according to behavioral readouts, and under stringent constraints, the associated differential gene regulations were analyzed. Accordingly, we identified four genes associated with recovery, two genes implicated in treatment resistance, and three genes involved in stress resilience. The identified genes associated with mechanisms of cellular plasticity, including signal transduction, cell proliferation, cell differentiation, and synaptic release. Hierarchical clustering analysis confirmed the subgroup segregation pattern in the CMS model. Thus antidepressant treatment refractors cluster with anhedonic-like rats, and, interestingly, stress-resilient rats cluster with rats undergoing antidepressant-mediated recovery from anhedonia, suggesting antidepressant mechanisms of action to emulate endogenous stress-coping strategies.
Our previous studies of limb coordination in healthy right- and left-handers led to the development of a theoretical model of motor lateralization, dynamic dominance, which was recently supported by studies in patients with unilateral stroke. One of our most robust findings was on single-joint movements in young healthy subjects [Sainburg and Schaefer (2004) J Neurophysiol 92:1374-1383]. In this study, subjects made elbow joint reaching movements toward four targets of different amplitudes with each arm. Although both arms achieved equivalent task performance, each did so through different strategies. The dominant arm strategy scaled peak acceleration with peak velocity and movement extent, while the nondominant strategy adjusted acceleration duration to achieve the different velocities and distances. We now propose that these observed interlimb differences can be explained using a serial hybrid controller in which movements are initiated using predictive control and terminated using impedance control. Further, we propose that the two arms should differ in the relative time that control switches from the predictive to the impedance mechanisms. We present a mathematical formulation of our hybrid controller and then test the plausibility of this control paradigm by investigating how well our model can explain interlimb differences in experimental data. Our findings confirm that the model predicts early shifts between controllers for left arm movements, which rely on impedance control mechanisms, and late shifts for right arm movements, which rely on predictive control mechanisms. This is the first computational model of motor lateralization and is consistent with our theoretical model that emerged from empirical findings. It represents a first step in consolidating our theoretical understanding of motor lateralization into an operational model of control.
Sleep disordered breathing (SDB), which is characterized by intermittent hypoxia (IH) during sleep, causes substantial cardiovascular and neurocognitive complications and has become a growing public health problem. SDB is associated with suppression of growth hormone (GH) secretion, the latter being integrally involved in the growth, development, and function of the CNS. Since GH treatment is able to attenuate neurocognitive deficits in a hypoxic-ischemic stroke model, GH, GH receptor (GHR) mRNA expression, and GH protein expression were assessed in rat hippocampus after exposures to chronic sustained hypoxia (CH, 10% O(2)) or IH (10% O(2) alternating with 21% O(2) every 90 s). In addition, the effect of GH treatment (50 g/kg daily s.c. injection) on erythropoietin (EPO), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), and GLUT-1 mRNA expression and neurobehavioral function was assessed. CH significantly increased GH mRNA and protein expression, as well as insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). In contrast, IH only induced a moderate increase in GH mRNA and a slight elevation in GH protein at day 1, but no increases in IGF-1. CH, but not IH, up-regulated GHR mRNA in the hippocampus. IH induced marked neurocognitive deficits compared with CH or room air (RA). Furthermore, exogenous GH administration increased hippocampal mRNA expression of IGF-1, EPO, and VEGF, and not only reduced IH-induced hippocampal injury, but also attenuated IH-induced cognitive deficits. Thus, exogenous GH may provide a viable therapeutic intervention to protect IH-vulnerable brain regions from SDB-associated neuronal loss and associated neurocognitive dysfunction.
Progesterone (PROG) shows neuroprotective effects in numerous lesion models, including a mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD) induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). However, the possible beneficial effects of PROG on the behavioral and neurochemical impairments incurred in the hemiparkinsonian 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model have not been investigated. Vehicle or PROG (4 mg/kg or 8 mg/kg) was daily applied over 13 days after unilateral injection of 6-OHDA into the dorsal striatum of male rats. Turning behavior, foot slips on a horizontal grid, and forelimb use during rearing in a cylinder were observed on days 4, 5, 9, 10, 13, and 14 postlesion, and then the brain samples were analyzed by HPLC-EC. Chronic 8 mg/kg of PROG administration increased the DOPAC/dopamine (DA) ratio in the lesioned striatum, ipsiversive turnings, and the number of hind limb slips and decreased the symmetrical use of forelimbs. Thus, contrary to hypothesis, the chronic treatment with PROG exasperated rather than alleviated the motor impairments in the hemiparkinsonian rats. Because previous studies with the MPTP model had shown protective effects when PROG treatment was administrated before the lesion, our results do not rule out such potential neuroprotective action with prelesion PROG treatment. However, our results raise the question of possible negative interactions between PROG and parkinsonian symptoms in males.
Nucleus accumbens dopamine (DA) is a critical component of the brain circuitry regulating behavioral output during reinforcement-seeking behavior. Several studies have investigated the characteristics of accumbens DA release during the performance of well-learned operant behaviors, but relatively few have focused on the initial acquisition of particular instrumental behaviors or operant schedules. The present experiments focused on the initial acquisition of operant performance on a reinforcement schedule by studying the transition from a fixed ratio 1 (FR1) schedule to another operant schedule with a higher ratio requirement (i.e. fixed ratio 5 [FR5]). Microdialysis sessions were conducted in different groups of rats that were tested on either the FR1 schedule; the first, second, or third day of FR5 training; or after weeks of FR5 training. Consistent with previous studies, well-trained rats performing on the FR5 schedule after weeks of training showed significant increases in extracellular DA in both core and shell subregions of nucleus accumbens during the behavioral session. On the first day of FR5 training, there was a substantial increase in DA release in nucleus accumbens shell (i.e. approximately 300% of baseline). In contrast, accumbens core DA release was greatest on the second day of FR5 training. In parallel experiments, DA release in core and shell subregions did not significantly increase during free consumption of the same high carbohydrate food pellets that were used in the operant experiments, despite the very high levels of food intake in experienced rats. However, in rats exposed to the high-carbohydrate food for the first time, there was a tendency for extracellular DA to show a small increase. These results demonstrate that transient increases in accumbens DA release occur during the initial acquisition of ratio performance, and suggest that core and shell subregions show different temporal patterns during acquisition of instrumental behavior.
Muscarinic cholinergic neurotransmission in the amygdala is critical for memory consolidation in emotional/motivational learning tasks, but little is known about the neuronal distribution of different receptor subtypes. Immunohistochemistry was used in the present investigation to localize the m2 receptor (M2R). Differential patterns of M2R-immunoreactivity (M2R-ir) were observed in the somata and neuropil of the various amygdalar nuclei. Neuropilar M2R-ir was strongest in rostral portions of the basolateral nuclear complex (BLC). M2R-positive (M2R+) somata were seen in low numbers in all nuclei of the amygdala. Most M2R+ neurons associated with the BLC were in the lateral nucleus and external capsule. These cells were nonpyramidal neurons that contained glutamatic acid decarboxylase (GAD), somatostatin (SOM), and neuropeptide Y (NPY), but not parvalbumin (PV), calretinin (CR), or cholecystokinin (CCK). Little or no M2R-ir was observed in GAD+, PV+, CR+, or CCK+ axons in the BLC, but it was seen in some SOM+ axons and many NPY+ axons. M2R-ir was found in a small number of spiny and aspiny neurons of the central nucleus that were mainly located along the lateral and ventral borders of its lateral subdivision. Many of these cells contained SOM and NPY. M2R+ neurons were also seen in the medial nucleus, including a distinct subpopulation of neurons that surrounded its anteroventral subdivision. The latter neurons were negative for all neuronal markers analyzed. The intercalated nuclei (INs) were associated with two types of large M2R+ neurons, spiny and aspiny. The small principal neurons of the INs were M2R-negative. The somata and dendrites of the large spiny neurons, which were actually found in a zone located just outside of the rostral INs, expressed SOM and NPY, but not GAD. These findings indicate that acetylcholine can modulate a variety of discrete neuronal subpopulations in various amygdalar nuclei via M2Rs, especially neurons that express SOM and NPY.
Monkey studies report greater activity in the lateral intraparietal area and more efficient saccades when targets coincide with the location of prior reward cues, even when cue location does not indicate which responses will be rewarded. This suggests that reward can modulate spatial attention and visual selection independent of the &quot;action value&quot; of the motor response. Our goal was first to determine whether reward modulated visual selection similarly in humans, and next, to discover whether reward and penalty differed in effect, if cue effects were greater for cognitively demanding antisaccades, and if financial consequences that were contingent on stimulus location had spatially selective effects. We found that motivational cues reduced all latencies, more for reward than penalty. There was an &quot;inhibition-of-return&quot;-like effect at the location of the cue, but unlike the results in monkeys, cue valence did not modify this effect in prosaccades, and the inhibition-of-return effect was slightly increased rather than decreased in antisaccades. When financial consequences were contingent on target location, locations without reward or penalty consequences lost the benefits seen in noncontingent trials, whereas locations with consequences maintained their gains. We conclude that unlike monkeys, humans show reward effects not on visual selection but on the value of actions. The human saccadic system has both the capacity to enhance responses to multiple locations simultaneously, and the flexibility to focus motivational enhancement only on locations with financial consequences. Reward is more effective than penalty, and both interact with the additional attentional demands of the antisaccade task.
Entorhinal grid cells have periodic, hexagonally patterned firing locations that scale up progressively along the dorsal-ventral axis of medial entorhinal cortex. This topographic expansion corresponds with parallel changes in cellular properties dependent on the hyperpolarization-activated cation current (Ih), which is conducted by hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels. To test the hypothesis that grid scale is determined by Ih, we recorded grid cells in mice with forebrain-specific knockout of HCN1. We find that, although the dorsal-ventral gradient of the grid pattern was preserved in HCN1 knockout mice, the size and spacing of the grid fields, as well as the period of the accompanying theta modulation, was expanded at all dorsal-ventral levels. There was no change in theta modulation of simultaneously recorded entorhinal interneurons. These observations raise the possibility that, during self-motion-based navigation, Ih contributes to the gain of the transformation from movement signals to spatial firing fields.
An animal's survival may depend on detecting new events or objects in its environment, and it is likely that the brain has evolved specific mechanisms to detect such changes. In sensory systems, neurons often exhibit stimulus-specific adaptation (SSA) whereby they adapt to frequently occurring stimuli, but resume firing when &quot;surprised&quot; by rare or new ones. In the auditory system, SSA has been identified in the midbrain, thalamus, and auditory cortex (AC). It has been proposed that the SSA observed subcortically originates in the AC as a higher-order property that is transmitted to the subcortical nuclei via corticofugal pathways. Here we report that SSA in the auditory thalamus of the rat remains intact when the AC is deactivated by cooling, thus demonstrating that the AC is not necessary for the generation of SSA in the thalamus. The AC does, however, modulate the responses of thalamic neurons in a way that strongly indicates a gain modulation mechanism. The changes imposed by the AC in thalamic neurons depend on the level of SSA that they exhibit.
Relational reasoning, or the ability to identify and consider relationships between multiple mental representations, is a fundamental component of high-level cognition (Robin and Holyoak, 1995). The capacity to reason with relations enables abstract thought and may be at the core of what makes human cognition unique (Penn et al., 2008). This capacity improves throughout childhood and adolescence (Ferrer et al., 2009). Here, we sought to better understand the neural mechanisms that support its emergence. We have hypothesized previously, based on fMRI research in adults, that (1) inferior parietal lobe (IPL) plays a central role in representing relationships between mental representations (first-order relations) and (2) rostrolateral prefrontal cortex (RLPFC) integrates inputs from IPL to build second-order relational structures (i.e., relations between relations). In the present study, we examined fMRI and cortical thickness data from 85 children and adolescents (ages 6-18 years). Participants performed a relational matching task in which they viewed arrays of four visual stimuli and determined whether two stimuli shared a particular feature (a first-order relational judgment) or whether two pairs of stimuli matched according to the same feature (a second-order relational judgment). fMRI results provide evidence for increased functional selectivity across ages 6-18 years in RLPFC and IPL. Specifically, young children engaged RLPFC and IPL indiscriminately for first-order and second-order relational judgments, and activation for first-order relations diminished with age whereas activation for second-order relations stayed elevated. Examination of cortical thickness revealed that increased functional selectivity in RLPFC could be partly accounted for by cortical thinning in IPL.
The membrane-associated palmitoylated protein 5 (MPP5 or PALS1) is thought to organize intracellular PALS1-CRB-MUPP1 protein scaffolds in the retina that are involved in maintenance of photoreceptor-Mller glia cell adhesion. In humans, the Crumbs homolog 1 (CRB1) gene is mutated in progressive types of autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa and Leber congenital amaurosis. However, there is no clear genotype-phenotype correlation for CRB1 mutations, which suggests that other components of the CRB complex may influence the severity of retinal disease. Therefore, to understand the physiological role of the Crumbs complex proteins, especially PALS1, we generated and analyzed conditional knockdown mice for Pals1. Small irregularly shaped spots were detected throughout the PALS1 deficient retina by confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy and spectral domain optical coherence tomography. The electroretinography a- and b-wave was severely attenuated in the aged mutant retinas, suggesting progressive degeneration of photoreceptors. The histological analysis showed abnormal retinal pigment epithelium structure, ectopic photoreceptor nuclei in the subretinal space, an irregular outer limiting membrane, half rosettes of photoreceptors in the outer plexiform layer, and a thinner photoreceptor synaptic layer suggesting improper photoreceptor cell layering during retinal development. The PALS1 deficient retinas showed reduced levels of Crumbs complex proteins adjacent to adherens junctions, upregulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein indicative of gliosis, and persisting programmed cell death after retinal maturation. The phenotype suggests important functions of PALS1 in the retinal pigment epithelium in addition to the neural retina.
Systematic errors in human path integration were previously associated with processing deficits in the integration of space and time. In the present work, we hypothesized that these errors are de facto the result of a system that aims to optimize its performance by incorporating knowledge about prior experience into the current estimate of displacement. We tested human linear and angular displacement estimation behavior in a production-reproduction task under three different prior experience conditions where samples were drawn from different overlapping sample distributions. We found that (1) behavior was biased toward the center of the underlying sample distribution, (2) the amount of bias increased with increasing sample range, and (3) the standard deviation for all conditions was linearly dependent on the mean reproduced displacements. We propose a model of bayesian estimation on logarithmic scales that explains the observed behavior by optimal fusion of an experience-dependent prior expectation with the current noisy displacement measurement. The iterative update of prior experience is modeled by the formulation of a discrete Kalman filter. The model provides a direct link between Weber-Fechner and Stevens' power law, providing a mechanistic explanation for universal psychophysical effects in human magnitude estimation such as the regression to the mean and the range effect.
Our present understanding of the neural mechanisms and sensorimotor transformations that govern the planning of arm and eye movements predominantly come from invasive parieto-frontal neural recordings in nonhuman primates. While functional MRI (fMRI) has motivated investigations on much of these same issues in humans, the highly distributed and multiplexed organization of parieto-frontal neurons necessarily constrain the types of intention-related signals that can be detected with traditional fMRI analysis techniques. Here we employed multivoxel pattern analysis (MVPA), a multivariate technique sensitive to spatially distributed fMRI patterns, to provide a more detailed understanding of how hand and eye movement plans are coded in human parieto-frontal cortex. Subjects performed an event-related delayed movement task requiring that a reach or saccade be planned and executed toward one of two spatial target positions. We show with MVPA that, even in the absence of signal amplitude differences, the fMRI spatial activity patterns preceding movement onset are predictive of upcoming reaches and saccades and their intended directions. Within certain parieto-frontal regions we show that these predictive activity patterns reflect a similar spatial target representation for the hand and eye. Within some of the same regions, we further demonstrate that these preparatory spatial signals can be discriminated from nonspatial, effector-specific signals. In contrast to the largely graded effector- and direction-related planning responses found with fMRI subtraction methods, these results reveal considerable consensus with the parieto-frontal network organization suggested from primate neurophysiology and specifically show how predictive spatial and nonspatial movement information coexists within single human parieto-frontal areas.
Kainate receptors (KARs) have been implicated in a number of neurological disorders, including epilepsy. KARs are tetrameric, composed of a combination of GluK1-GluK5 subunits. We examined the contribution of GluK2 and GluK5 subunits to activation and desensitization of the heteromeric receptor. Heteromeric GluK2/K5 receptors expressed in HEK-293T cells showed markedly higher glutamate sensitivity than GluK2 homomers and did not desensitize at low glutamate concentrations. Mutation of residue E738 in GluK2 substantially lowered its glutamate sensitivity. However, heteromeric KARs containing this mutant GluK2 [GluK2(E738D)] assembled with wild-type GluK5 showed no change in glutamate EC(50) compared with wild-type heteromeric KARs. Instead, higher concentrations of glutamate were required to produce desensitization. This suggested that, within the heteromeric receptor, glutamate binding to the high-affinity GluK5 subunit alone was sufficient for channel activation but not desensitization, whereas agonist binding to the low-affinity GluK2 subunit was not necessary to open the channel but instead caused the channel to enter a closed, desensitized state. To test this hypothesis in wild-type receptors, we used the competitive antagonist kynurenate, which has higher affinity for the GluK2 than the GluK5 subunit. Coapplication of kynurenate with glutamate to heteromeric receptors reduced the onset of desensitization without affecting the peak current response, consistent with our hypothesis. Our results suggest that GluK2 and GluK5 subunits can be individually activated within the heteromeric receptor and that these subunits serve dramatically different functional roles.
Rhythmic activity in populations of cortical neurons accompanies, and may underlie, many aspects of primary sensory processing and short-term memory. Activity in the gamma band (30 Hz up to &gt;100 Hz) is associated with such cognitive tasks and is thought to provide a substrate for temporal coupling of spatially separate regions of the brain. However, such coupling requires close matching of frequencies in co-active areas, and because the nominal gamma band is so spectrally broad, it may not constitute a single underlying process. Here we show that, for inhibition-based gamma rhythms in vitro in rat neocortical slices, mechanistically distinct local circuit generators exist in different laminae of rat primary auditory cortex. A persistent, 30-45 Hz, gap-junction-dependent gamma rhythm dominates rhythmic activity in supragranular layers 2/3, whereas a tonic depolarization-dependent, 50-80 Hz, pyramidal/interneuron gamma rhythm is expressed in granular layer 4 with strong glutamatergic excitation. As a consequence, altering the degree of excitation of the auditory cortex causes bifurcation in the gamma frequency spectrum and can effectively switch temporal control of layer 5 from supragranular to granular layers. Computational modeling predicts the pattern of interlaminar connections may help to stabilize this bifurcation. The data suggest that different strategies are used by primary auditory cortex to represent weak and strong inputs, with principal cell firing rate becoming increasingly important as excitation strength increases.
Cell death has been reported in the CNS in models of neuropathic pain (Sugimoto et al., 1990; Whiteside and Munglani, 2001; Scholz et al., 2005; Fuccio et al., 2009). In our present study, we examined the effects of spinal nerve ligation (SNL) on the number of neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), a brainstem region involved in modulation of nociception. In rats receiving SNL, we found that the number of RVM neurons decreased by 23% in the side ipsilateral to the surgery. The loss of RVM neurons was also associated with a bilateral increase in the number of glia as well as bilateral activation of both astrocytes and microglia. Administration of tauroursodeoxycholic acid (TUDCA), which reportedly inhibits apoptosis, significantly reduced the loss of neurons, the increase in glia, and the mechanical hypersensitivity induced by SNL. Among RVM neurons, we found that serotonergic (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) neurons decreased by 35% ipsilateral to SNL. Consistent with these findings, the density of 5-HT-immunoreactive varicosities in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord was 15-30% lower, ipsilateral to SNL. To test the function of the remaining 5-HT neurons, we administered the 5-HT neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT). Interestingly, after 5,7-DHT, mechanical withdrawal thresholds increased significantly. We conclude that nerve injury induces death of antinociceptive RVM neurons that can be reduced or abolished by TUDCA. We propose that the loss of RVM neurons shifts the balance of descending control from pain inhibition to pain facilitation.
The pedunculopontine tegmentum nucleus (PPT) is critically involved in the regulation of wakefulness (W) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, but our understanding of the mechanisms of this regulation remains incomplete. The present study was designed to determine the role of PPT intracellular calcium/calmodulin kinase (CaMKII) signaling in the regulation of W and sleep. To achieve this aim, three different concentrations (0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 nmol) of the CaMKII activation inhibitor, KN-93, were microinjected bilaterally (100 nl/site) into the PPT of freely moving rats, and the effects on W, slow-wave sleep (SWS), REM sleep, and levels of phosphorylated CaMKII (pCaMKII) expression in the PPT were quantified. These effects, which were concentration-dependent and affected wake-sleep variables for 3 h, resulted in decreased W, due to reductions in the number and duration of W episodes; increased SWS and REM sleep, due to increases in episode duration; and decreased levels of pCaMKII expression in the PPT. Regression analyses revealed that PPT levels of pCaMKII were positively related with the total percentage of time spent in W (R(2) = 0.864; n = 28 rats; p &lt; 0.001) and negatively related with the total percentage of time spent in sleep (R(2) = 0.863; p &lt; 0.001). These data provide the first direct evidence that activation of intracellular CaMKII signaling in the PPT promotes W and suppresses sleep. These findings are relevant for designing a drug that could treat excessive sleepiness by promoting alertness.
Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) defects are an important cause of disease and may underlie aging and aging-related alterations (1,2). The mitochondrial theory of aging suggests a role for mtDNA mutations, which can alter bioenergetics homeostasis and cellular function, in the aging process (3). A wealth of evidence has been compiled in support of this theory (1,4), an example being the mtDNA mutator mouse (5); however, the precise role of mtDNA damage in aging is not entirely understood (6,7). Observing the activity of respiratory enzymes is a straightforward approach for investigating mitochondrial dysfunction. Complex IV, or cytochrome c oxidase (COX), is essential for mitochondrial function. The catalytic subunits of COX are encoded by mtDNA and are essential for assembly of the complex (Figure 1). Thus, proper synthesis and function are largely based on mtDNA integrity (2). Although other respiratory complexes could be investigated, Complexes IV and II are the most amenable to histochemical examination (8,9). Complex II, or succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), is entirely encoded by nuclear DNA (Figure 1), and its activity is typically not affected by impaired mtDNA, although an increase might indicate mitochondrial biogenesis (10-12). The impaired mtDNA observed in mitochondrial diseases, aging, and age-related diseases often leads to the presence of cells with low or absent COX activity (2,12-14). Although COX and SDH activities can be investigated individually, the sequential double-labeling method (15,16) has proved to be advantageous in locating cells with mitochondrial dysfunction (12,17-21). Many of the optimal constitutions of the assay have been determined, such as substrate concentration, electron acceptors/donors, intermediate electron carriers, influence of pH, and reaction time (9,22,23). 3,3'-diaminobenzidine (DAB) is an effective and reliable electron donor (22). In cells with functioning COX, the brown indamine polymer product will localize in mitochondrial cristae and saturate cells (22). Those cells with dysfunctional COX will therefore not be saturated by the DAB product, allowing for the visualization of SDH activity by reduction of nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT), an electron acceptor, to a blue formazan end product (9,24). Cytochrome c and sodium succinate substrates are added to normalize endogenous levels between control and diseased/mutant tissues (9). Catalase is added as a precaution to avoid possible contaminating reactions from peroxidase activity (9,22). Phenazine methosulfate (PMS), an intermediate electron carrier, is used in conjunction with sodium azide, a respiratory chain inhibitor, to increase the formation of the final reaction products (9,25). Despite this information, some critical details affecting the result of this seemly straightforward assay, in addition to specificity controls and advances in the technique, have not yet been presented.
The work investigated the protective role of vitamin E on vanadium induced neurotoxicity. Three adult female rats were divided into three groups, A-C with each dam and her pups forming a group. Group A served as control. The dam in Group B was given 3mg/kg b.w./day of vanadium from PND 1 while the Group C dam were given 3mg/kg b.w./day of vanadium, for 14 days and 500mg/kg b.w. of vitamin E 72 hourly in the same time frame. The results showed that pups from Group B, exhibited behavioural deficits in most tests, a significant reduction in body weight gain and absolute brain weight; in addition immunohistochemistry showed reactive astrogliosis induced by vanadium exposure. All these findings were however attenuated in pups whose dam was exposed to vanadium and vitamin E depicting the significant protective effects of this antioxidant against vanadium. This study is novel in that both vanadium and vitamin E were introduced through the lactation route. We conclude that though caution remains essential in the posology of vitamin E, the management of lactating mothers who have been exposed to vanadium occupationally, environmentally or therapeutically with supplementation of this antioxidant may be beneficial at least in the short term to both mother and offspring.
A challenge in neuroscience is to understand the mechanisms underlying synapse formation. Most excitatory synapses in the brain are built on spines, which are actin-rich protrusions from dendrites. Spines are a major substrate of brain plasticity, and spine pathologies are observed in various mental illnesses. Here we investigate the role of neurobeachin (Nbea), a multidomain protein previously linked to cases of autism, in synaptogenesis. We show that deletion of Nbea leads to reduced numbers of spinous synapses in cultured neurons from complete knockouts and in cortical tissue from heterozygous mice, accompanied by altered miniature postsynaptic currents. In addition, excitatory synapses terminate mostly at dendritic shafts instead of spine heads in Nbea mutants, and actin becomes less enriched synaptically. As actin and synaptopodin, a spine-associated protein with actin-bundling activity, accumulate ectopically near the Golgi apparatus of mutant neurons, a role emerges for Nbea in trafficking important cargo to pre- and postsynaptic compartments.
Multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) is a rare inflammatory neuropathy characterized by slowly progressive, asymmetric distal limb weakness without sensory loss. The clinical presentation of MMN may mimic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, other variants of motor neuron disease, or chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy with asymmetric onset. Differentiation is important, as these diseases differ in prognosis and treatment. The electrophysiological finding of conduction block in the absence of abnormalities in sensory nerves is the hallmark of MMN, but can be difficult to detect. Intravenous immunoglobulin is efficacious in most patients, but long-term maintenance therapy does not prevent slowly progressive axonal degeneration. Moreover, cyclophosphamide, although effective, has substantial adverse effects, and the efficacy of other immunosuppressive drugs, including rituximab, is not established. The underlying pathological mechanisms of MMN are unclear, but IgM autoantibodies against the ganglioside GM1 may cause changes in nodal and perinodal structures that compromise nerve conduction. Further elucidation of the disease mechanisms may ultimately lead to improved treatment strategies. In this Review, we discuss the diagnostic criteria for MMN, and provide an update on the current understanding of MMN pathogenesis. We also describe available treatments and promising new therapeutic strategies.


In the early 1970s, receptors for neurotransmitters acting via second messengers had not been identified biochemically nor were there definitive links to such messengers. The discovery by John W. Kebabian and Paul Greengard of a dopamine-sensitive adenyl cyclase, accordingly, was a giant step forward. The investigators first characterized the enzyme in sympathetic ganglia wherein dopamine-producing cells link pre- and post-synaptic neurons. Then, in the corpus striatum, the brain area enriched in dopamine, they delineated the enzyme\x{2019}s properties and showed that it was inhibited by antipsychotic drugs, leading to a large body of research on dopamine as a mediator of antipsychotic drug action and putative roles for this transmitter in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.


Epilepsy is a chronic neurological disorder characterized by recurrent seizures, and is highly resistant to medication with up to 40% of patients continuing to experience seizures whilst taking oral antiepileptic drugs. Recent research suggests that this may be due to abnormalities in the blood-brain barrier, which prevent the passage of therapeutic substances into the brain. We sought to develop a drug delivery material that could be implanted within the brain at the origin of the seizures to release antiepileptic drugs locally and avoid the blood brain barrier. We produced poly-lactide-co-glycolide drop-cast films and wet-spun fibers loaded with the novel antiepileptic drug Levetiracetam, and investigated their morphology, in vitro drug release characteristics, and brain biocompatibility in adult rats. The best performing structures released Levetiracetam constantly for at least 5 months in vitro, and were found to be highly brain biocompatible following month-long implantations in the motor cortex of adult rats. These results demonstrate the potential of polymer-based drug delivery devices in the treatment of epilepsy and warrant their investigation in animal models of focal epilepsy.  2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Biomed Mater Res Part A:, 2011.
TDP-43 (TAR DNA-binding protein 43) inclusions are a hallmark of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In this study, we report that TDP-43 and nuclear factor B (NF-B) p65 messenger RNA and protein expression is higher in spinal cords in ALS patients than healthy individuals. TDP-43 interacts with and colocalizes with p65 in glial and neuronal cells from ALS patients and mice expressing wild-type and mutant TDP-43 transgenes but not in cells from healthy individuals or nontransgenic mice. TDP-43 acted as a co-activator of p65, and glial cells expressing higher amounts of TDP-43 produced more proinflammatory cytokines and neurotoxic mediators after stimulation with lipopolysaccharide or reactive oxygen species. TDP-43 overexpression in neurons also increased their vulnerability to toxic mediators. Treatment of TDP-43 mice with Withaferin A, an inhibitor of NF-B activity, reduced denervation in the neuromuscular junction and ALS disease symptoms. We propose that TDP-43 deregulation contributes to ALS pathogenesis in part by enhancing NF-B activation and that NF-B may constitute a therapeutic target for the disease.

Brain-specific microRNAs (miRs) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are both involved in synaptic function. We previously reported that upregulation of miR-132 is involved in BDNF-increased synaptic proteins, including glutamate receptors (NR2A, NR2B, and GluR1) in mature cortical neurons [7]. However, the potential role of other growth factors in miR-132 induction has not been clarified. Here, we examined the effect of growth factors including basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), and epidermal growth factor (EGF), on expression of miR-132 and glutamate receptors in immature cortical neurons. We found that BDNF and bFGF upregulated levels of miR-132 in cortical cultures, though bFGF failed to increase glutamate receptors such as NR2A, NR2B, and GluR1. IGF-1, GDNF, and EGF did not have a positive influence on miR-132 and glutamate receptors in neuronal cultures. Furthermore, bFGF significantly upregulated miR-132 in cultured astroglial cells, while other growth factors failed to elicit such a response. It is possible that the growth factor-stimulated neuronal and glial action of miR-132 plays a critical role in brain function.
Variations in the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor 2B subunit gene (GRIN2B) have been associated with schizophrenia, a psychiatric disorder associated with reduced left-hemispheric language dominance. Here, we investigated, whether different polymorphisms in GRIN2B influence language lateralization and handedness in healthy individuals. In a cohort of 424 genetically unrelated participants we found significant association between the synonymous GRIN2B variation rs1806201 and language lateralization assessed using the dichotic listening task. Individuals carrying the heterozygous CT genotype exhibited more pronounced left-hemispheric language dominance as compared to both homozygous CC and TT individuals. Such an association was not identified for handedness. These findings suggest that variation in NMDA-receptors contributes to the interindividual variability of language lateralization.
Ceftriaxone is a beta-lactam antibiotic which has been found to increase the expression and function of the major glutamate transporter, GLT-1. It has previously been shown that GLT-1 expression is decreased in the nucleus accumbens following cocaine self-administration and extinction training; ceftriaxone given in the days immediately prior to reinstatement testing attenuates both cue- and cocaine-primed reinstatement. Here we tested the ability of ceftriaxone pre-treatment (for 5 days prior to the first cocaine exposure) to prevent the induction of cocaine sensitization and the acquisition of cocaine self-administration. We also tested whether ceftriaxone administered only during self-administration attenuates the reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking. We found that ceftriaxone did not affect the acquisition of cocaine self-administration but was able to attenuate reinstatement weeks after ceftriaxone administration ceased. This attenuation in reinstatement was accompanied by a restoration of GLT-1 expression in the nucleus accumbens. Ceftriaxone also attenuated locomotor behavior following the first cocaine injection and prevented the induction of cocaine but not caffeine sensitization. While ceftriaxone-treated animals did not sensitize to caffeine, they displayed reduced caffeine-induced locomotion following repeated caffeine treatment, indicating a possible dopaminergic effect of ceftriaxone. Taken together, these results indicate that ceftriaxone produces enduring changes in glutamate homeostasis in the nucleus accumbens which counteract addiction-related behaviors.
In rodents, administration of a mixture of the psychostimulant d-amphetamine and the benzodiazepine chlordiazepoxide results in supra-additive hyperlocomotion, a phenomenon used to identify mood stabilizers. In an attempt to determine whether the d-amphetamine/chlordiazepoxide assay could extend to other behaviors that are affected in mania, we evaluated the effects of the mixture on prepulse inhibition. In addition, we combined chlordiazepoxide with the selective dopamine reuptake inhibitor GBR 12909 or the noradrenergic stimulant (-) ephedrine, and tested these alternative mixtures in locomotor activity and prepulse inhibition tests. Chlordiazepoxide (3mg/kg) robustly potentiated amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, but did not change the amphetamine-induced disruption of prepulse inhibition. This indicates that the d-amphetamine-chlordiazepoxide-induced hyperlocomotion does not extend to other dopamine-driven behaviors. GBR 12909 (16mg/kg) and (-) ephedrine (50mg/kg) both enhanced locomotor activity and disrupted PPI, but combined treatment of either of these compounds with chlordiazepoxide had no significant additive effect on locomotor activity or prepulse inhibition. These findings suggest that the effect of the d-amphetamine/chlordiazepoxide mixture cannot be accounted for by the dopamine enhancing properties of amphetamine alone. Last, valproic acid (120-240mg/kg) did not reduce the GBR-induced hyperactivity. Therefore, further pharmacological evaluation of GBR 12909-induced hyperactivity is warranted to determine its pharmacological potential to model mania-like behavior. Based on the current results, it is concluded that the utility of the pharmacological d-amphetamine/chlordiazepoxide assay as a tool to study brain mechanisms relevant to mania is limited.
Brain-process foundations of deceptive behaviour have become a subject of intensive study both in fundamental and applied neuroscience. Recently, utilization of transcranial magnetic stimulation has enhanced methodological rigour in this research because in addition to correlational studies causal effects of the distinct cortical systems involved can be studied. In these studies, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex has been implied as the brain area involved in deceptive behaviour. However, combined brain imaging and stimulation research has been concerned mostly with deceptive behaviour in the contexts of mock thefts and/or denial of recognition of critical objects. Spontaneous, &quot;criminally decontextuated&quot; propensity to lying and its dependence on the activity of selected brain structures has remained unexplored. The purpose of this work is to test whether spontaneous propensity to lying can be changed by brain stimulation. Here, we show that when subjects can name the colour of presented objects correctly or incorrectly at their free will, the tendency to stick to truthful answers can be manipulated by stimulation targeted at dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Right hemisphere stimulation decreases lying, left hemisphere stimulation increases lying. Spontaneous choice to lie more or less can be influenced by brain stimulation.
Is the human kinematics automatically imitated when an individual observes transitive actions (i.e. directed upon an object) executed with different effectors and then executes either the same or a different action? In three experiments participants executed actions of reaching-grasping after observation of reaching-grasping, bringing-to-the-mouth, foot-touching, and arrow-touching. Both power and precision interactions were presented. The kinematics of all movements was those typical of humans. The observed variations in velocity due to the type of interaction were imitated when an interacting biological effector (i.e. arm, mouth and foot) was presented. In contrast, no imitation was observed when a non-biological effector (i.e. the arrow) was presented. The results of the present study suggest that there exists a kinematic representation of the rules governing the types of interaction of biological effectors with objects. It is automatically activated by action observation and affects kinematic landmarks of the successive action, i.e. the peak velocities and accelerations. This representation is common to different biological effectors probably because it shares the aim of those actions.
Motor cortex injuries in adulthood lead to poor performance in behavioral tasks sensitive to limb movements in the rat. We have shown previously that motor cortex injury on day 10 or day 55 allow significant spontaneous recovery but not injury in early adolescence (postnatal day 35 &quot;P35&quot;). Previous studies have indicated that injection of basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) enhances behavioral recovery after neonatal cortical injury but such effect has not been studied following motor cortex lesions in early adolescence. The present study undertook to investigate the possibility of such behavioral recovery. Rats with unilateral motor cortex lesions were assigned to two groups in which they received FGF-2 or bovine serum albumin (BSA) and were tested in a number of behavioral tests (postural asymmetry, skilled reaching, sunflower seed manipulation, forepaw inhibition in swimming). Golgi-Cox analysis was used to examine the dendritic structure of pyramidal cells in the animals' parietal (layer III) and forelimb (layer V) area of the cortex. The results indicated that rats injected with FGF-2 (but not BSA) showed significant behavioral recovery that was associated with increased dendritic length and spine density. The present study suggests a role for FGF-2 in the recovery of function following injury during early adolescence.
Aim of the research was to study, by means of descriptive and multivariate analyses, whether, and how, learning influences the behavioral structure of rat response to pain. To this purpose, a hot-plate test daily repetition procedure was carried out on male Wistar rats for five days. A 6-day interval without stimulation elapsed before last test was carried out on day 12. After composition of an ethogram, descriptive (number, latency, per cent distribution) and multivariate analyses (cluster, stochastic) were carried out for each scheduled test day. One-way ANOVA and Newman-Keuls post-hoc test for multiple comparisons revealed significant changes for climbing, jumping, front-paw licking and stamping mean latencies. Student's t-test, carried out between days 1 and 12, showed that significant modifications persisted over time only for climbing and jumping. Cluster analysis evidenced three different clusters: exploratory (sniffing, walking), primary noxious evoked elements (front-paw licking, hind-paw licking, stamping), and escape (climbing and jumping), each showing modifications during test repetition. Comparison between days 1 and 12 revealed substantial differences in similarity values of escape patterns whereas, for the response to pain ones, a conservative structure of dendrograms was maintained. Stochastic analysis revealed a progressive increase of transitions toward jumping and a significant reduction of the ones between sniffing and walking. Such modifications persisted also after 6 days without any stimulation. Present study shows that learning provokes a complex and fine temporal evolution of the innermost behavioral structure of rat response to pain aiming at a more efficient escape strategy.
Beside a critical role in nicotine addiction, the role of nicotinic receptors in cognitive or emotional processes remains difficult to elucidate, mostly because of a lack of specificity of compounds and because they up or down regulate easily. Using knockout mice may be one key to elucidate the role of nicotinic receptors stimulated by their endogenous ligand acetylcholine. We and others have previously explored the behaviour of mice knockout for the beta2-subunit containing nicotinic receptor - 2*nAChRs - 2(-/-) mice. These mice exhibit a particular kind of hyperactive locomotion, with profound deficits in cognitive and social interaction tasks, only when they have to show flexible choices. We wonder here whether the latter is due to a lack of motor control - i.e. motor impulsivity, a lack of estimation of reward value - i.e. cognitive impulsivity, and/or a lack of appropriate ranking or choice between different motivations. We designed behavioural tasks allowing the study of these distinct processes in mice. Our current results highlight the important role of 2*nAChRs in flexible behaviours in conflicting situations, such as social contact, spatial exploration and food consumption. They also show that the cognitive deficits exhibited by 2(-/-) mice cannot be explained by impaired inhibitory behaviours. Although social cognition is considerably enriched in humans as compared to rodents, we provide here novel data for the neurobiology of flexible social behaviours that could ultimately be useful for humans. Indeed, the ability to show flexible behaviours and to display adapted social interactions is profoundly impaired in a myriad of psychiatric disorders.
Pramipexole, a dopamine D3/D2 receptor agonist, induces penile erection when administered subcutaneously (s.c.) or into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of male rats, like apomorphine, a mixed D1/D2 receptor agonist, and PD 168,077, a D4 receptor agonist. A U-inverted dose-response curve was found with pramipexole and apomorphine, but not with PD 168,077 (0.025-0.5mg/kg s.c.). Pramipexole effect was abolished by L-741,626, a D2 receptor antagonist (2.5 and 5mg/kg s.c.) and raclopride, a D2/D3 receptor antagonist (0.025 and 0.1mg/kg s.c.), but not by SB277011A (2.5 and 10mg/kg s.c.) or FAUC 365 (1 and 2mg/kg s.c.), two D3 receptor antagonists, or L-745,870 (1 and 5mg/kg i.p.), a D4 receptor antagonist. Similar results were found with apomorphine (0.08mg/kg s.c.), although its effect was also partially reduced by L-745,870. In contrast, PD 168,077 effect was abolished by L-745,870, but not L-741,626, SB277011A, FAUC 365 or raclopride. Similar results were found when dopamine agonists (5-200ng/rat) and antagonists (1-5g/rat) were injected into the paraventricular nucleus. However, no U-inverted dose-response curve was found with any of the three dopamine agonists injected into this nucleus. As pramipexole- and apomorphine-induced penile erection was reduced mainly by D2, but not D3 or D4 antagonists, D2 receptors are those that mediate the pro-erectile effect of these dopamine agonists. Although the selective stimulation of paraventricular D4 receptors induces penile erection, D4 receptors seem to play only a modest role in the pro-erectile effect of the above dopamine agonists.
Findings are mixed regarding the expression of tolerance after repeated ethanol exposure, perhaps in part due to dose/frequency variations in exposure regimens. The present study compared age-related differences in tolerance development following 10 days of 1g/kg twice daily, 2g/kg once daily, or intermittent 4g/kg ethanol exposure regimens. To measure expression of chronic tolerance and acute tolerance, ethanol-induced motor impairment was assessed on day 12, with functionally equivalent ethanol doses administered across age (2g/kg - adolescents; 1.5g/kg - adults). Subsequent challenge doses resulted in lower brain ethanol concentrations in both age groups as a function of the chronic ethanol regimens. Expected age-related differences emerged in acute tolerance expression in non-manipulated animals, with adolescents, but not adults showing acute tolerance. Regimens sufficient to induce alterations in ethanol metabolism did not result in chronic functional tolerance at either age, although chronic injections were sufficient to induce acute tolerance in adults.
The present study aims to investigate the effects of paradoxical sleep deprivation (PSD) on the waking EEG and amino acid neurotransmitters in the hippocampus and cortex of rats. Animals were deprived of paradoxical sleep for 72h by using the multiple platform method. The EEG power spectral analysis was carried out to assess the brain's electrophysiological changes due to sleep deprivation. The concentrations of amino acid neurotransmitters were assessed in the hippocampus and cortex using HPLC. Control data showed slight differences from normal animals in the delta, theta and alpha waves while an increase in the beta wave was obtained. After 24h of PSD, delta relative power increased and the rest of EEG wave's power decreased with respect to control. After 48h and 72h the spectral power analysis showed non-significant changes to control. The amino acid neurotransmitter analysis revealed a significant increase in cortical glutamate, glycine and taurine levels while in the hippocampus, glutamate, aspartate, glutamine and glycine levels increased significantly. Both the waking EEG and neurotransmitter analyses suggest that PSD induced neurochemical and electrophysiological changes that may affect brain proper functionality.
As a model for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), transgenic hSOD1(G93A) mice constitute the standard tool for evaluating future therapeutic strategies. Due to axonal retraction from neuromuscular junctions, the animals suffer from muscle wasting leading to weakness and paralysis of the extremities, which in early stages can be detected by measuring weight loss. Suspecting that underlying mechanisms might yield subtle neuromuscular abnormalities ahead of weight loss onset, we wanted to determine a behavioural test to detect disease onset time earlier. We compared the monitoring of weight with the &quot;forced&quot; examination of grip strength and the investigation of freely behaving animals within an open field. Additionally, we compared two different data analysis methods: (1) two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni correction (2) break point analysis calculating symptom onset time points for each animal. Break point analysis revealed onset times that significantly preceded those obtained by standard two-way ANOVA. Open field analysis of freely moving animals could not give an advantage over weight loss measurements. Grip strength assessment of hindlimbs detected disease onset 36 days before the first evidence of weight loss, providing a maximal treatment window of 84 days on average before the death of male animals. We conclude that grip strength analysis of hindlimbs is a very sensitive and reproducible motor behavioural test, which can even be applied to small cohorts of animals. Combined with break point analysis, it represents the method of choice to detect early disease onset in hSOD1(G93A) mice.
Interaction of the urokinase receptor (uPAR) with its binding partners such as the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) at the cell surface triggers a series of proteolytic and signaling events that promote invasion and metastasis. Here, we report the discovery of a small molecule (IPR-456) and its derivatives that inhibit the tight uPARuPA protein-protein interaction. IPR-456 was discovered by virtual screening against multiple conformations of uPAR sampled from explicit-solvent molecular dynamics simulations. Biochemical characterization reveal that the compound binds to uPAR with submicromolar affinity (K(d) = 310 nM) and inhibits the tight protein-protein interaction with an IC(50) of 10 M. Free energy calculations based on explicit-solvent molecular dynamics simulations suggested the importance of a carboxylate moiety on IPR-456, which was confirmed by the activity of several derivatives including IPR-803. Immunofluorescence imaging showed that IPR-456 inhibited uPA binding to uPAR of breast MDA-MB-231 tumor cells with an IC(50) of 8 M. The compounds blocked MDA-MB-231 cell invasion, but IPR-456 showed little effect on MDA-MB-231 migration and no effect on adhesion, suggesting that uPAR mediates these processes through its other binding partners.
Recent advances in cell biology and gene regulation suggest mechanisms whereby associative learning could be performed by single cells. Therefore, we explored a model of classical conditioning in human macrophages in vitro. In macrophage cultures, bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS; unconditioned stimulus) was paired once with streptomycin (conditioned stimulus). Secretion of interleukin-6 (IL-6) was used as response measure. At evocation, conditioning was not observed. Levels of IL-6 were higher only in those cultures that had been exposed to LPS in the learning phase (p's &lt; .05), regardless whether they received the conditioned stimulus or not at evocation.However, habituation was evident, with a 62% loss of the IL-6 response after three LPS presentations (p &lt; .001). If further experiments confirm that simple learning can occur in immune cells, this may have bearings not only on immune regulation, but also on the brain response to molecular signals detected in the periphery. Importantly, whether capacities for simple learning in single cells extend beyond habituation, and how this would be demonstrated, remain open questions.
It has been shown that anti-cancer drug induces secretion of serotonin (5-HT) from small intestine which activates serotonin type 3 (5-HT(3)) receptor to cause nausea and vomiting. In general, antagonist for 5-HT(3) receptor is used as anti-emetics during chemotherapy. However, we found that anti-cancer drug irinotecan itself inhibits 5-HT-gated current through the homomeric 5-HT(3A) and heteromeric 5-HT(3AB) receptor in a concentration-dependent manner. The inhibitory effect of irinotecan on 5-HT(3A) receptor was more potent than that on 5-HT(3AB) receptor. On the other hand, SN-38, a metabolite of irinotecan, had no effect on the responsiveness. Our findings suggest that irinotecan itself could have anti-emetic activities through inhibition of the 5-HT(3A) and 5-HT(3AB) receptor.
Improgan, a non-opioid analgesic, is known to act in the rodent brain stem to produce highly effective antinociception in several acute pain tests. However, improgan has not been studied in any models of chronic pain. To assess the efficacy of improgan in an animal model of neuropathic pain, the effects of this drug were studied on mechanical allodynia following unilateral spinal nerve ligation (SNL) in rats. Intracerebroventricular (icv) improgan (40-80 g) produced complete, reversible, dose-dependent attenuation of hind paw mechanical allodynia for up to 1h after administration, with no noticeable behavioral or motor side effects. Intracerebral (ic) microinjections of improgan (5-30 g) into the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) also reversed the allodynia, showing this brain area to be an important site for improgan's action. The recently-demonstrated suppression of RVM ON-cell activity by improgan may account for the presently-observed anti-allodynic activity. The present findings suggest that brain-penetrating, improgan-like drugs developed for human use could be effective medications for the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Membrane-associated guanylate kinases (MAGUKs) are a large family of scaffold proteins that play essential roles in tethering membrane receptors, adhesion molecules, and macromolecular signaling complexes for tissue developments, cell-cell communications, and intracellular signal transductions. The defining feature of the MAGUK family scaffolds is that each member contains a conserved core consisting of a PSD-95/Dlg/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain, an Src homology 3 (SH3) domain, and a catalytically inactive guanylate kinase (GuK) domain arranged in tandem, although the structural features and functional implications of the PDZ-SH3-GuK tandem arrangement are unclear. The structure of the ZO-1 PDZ3-SH3-GuK tandem solved in this study reveals that the PDZ domain directly interacts with the SH3-GuK module, forming a structural supramodule with distinct target binding properties with respect to the isolated domains. Structure-based sequence analysis suggests that the PDZ-SH3-GuK tandems of other members of the MAGUK family also form supramodules.
Two genes on chromosome 21, namely dual specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (Dyrk1A) and regulator of calcineurin 1 (RCAN1), have been implicated in some of the phenotypic characteristics of Down syndrome, including the early onset of Alzheimer disease. Although a link between Dyrk1A and RCAN1 and the nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) pathway has been reported, it remains unclear whether Dyrk1A directly interacts with RCAN1. In the present study, Dyrk1A is shown to directly interact with and phosphorylate RCAN1 at Ser(112) and Thr(192) residues. Dyrk1A-mediated phosphorylation of RCAN1 at Ser(112) primes the protein for the GSK3-mediated phosphorylation of Ser(108). Phosphorylation of RCAN1 at Thr(192) by Dyrk1A enhances the ability of RCAN1 to inhibit the phosphatase activity of calcineurin (Caln), leading to reduced NFAT transcriptional activity and enhanced Tau phosphorylation. These effects are mediated by the enhanced binding of RCAN1 to Caln and its extended half-life caused by Dyrk1A-mediated phosphorylation. Furthermore, an increased expression of phospho-Thr(192)-RCAN1 was observed in the brains of transgenic mice overexpressing the Dyrk1A protein. These results suggest a direct link between Dyrk1A and RCAN1 in the Caln-NFAT signaling and Tau hyperphosphorylation pathways, supporting the notion that the synergistic interaction between the chromosome 21 genes RCAN1 and Dyrk1A is associated with a variety of pathological features associated with DS.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors (GluRs) are ligand-gated ion channels with a modular structure. The ion channel itself shares structural similarity, albeit an inverted membrane topology, with P-loop channels. Like P-loop channels, prokaryotic GluR subunits (e.g. GluR0) have two transmembrane segments. In contrast, eukaryotic GluRs have an additional transmembrane segment (M4), located C-terminal to the ion channel core. However, the structural/functional significance of this additional transmembrane segment is poorly defined. Although topologically similar to GluR0, mammalian AMPA receptor (GluA1) subunits lacking the M4 segment do not display surface expression. This lack of expression is not due to the M4 segment serving as an anchor to the ligand-binding domain because insertion of an artificial polyleucine transmembrane segment does not rescue surface expression. Specific interactions between M4 and the ligand-binding domain are also unlikely because insertion of polyglycines into the linker connecting them has no deleterious effects on function or surface expression. However, tryptophan and cysteine scanning mutagenesis of the M4 segment, as well as recovery of function in the polyleucine background, defined a unique face of the M4 helix that is required for GluR surface expression. In the AMPA receptor structure, this face forms intersubunit contacts with the transmembrane helices of the ion channel core (M1 and M3) from another subunit within the homotetramer. Thus, our experiments show that a highly specific interaction of the M4 segment with an adjacent subunit is required for surface expression of AMPA receptors. This interaction may represent a mechanism for regulating AMPA receptor biogenesis.
Malaria is one of the deadliest infectious diseases worldwide. The most severe form is caused by the eukaryotic protozoan parasite Plasmodium falciparum. Recent studies have highlighted the importance of post-translational regulations for the parasite's progression throughout its life cycle, protein ubiquitylation being certainly one of the most abundant. The specificity of its components and the wide range of biological processes in which it is involved make the ubiquitylation pathway a promising source of suitable targets for anti-malarial drug development. Here, we combined immunofluorescent microscopy, biochemical assays, in silico prediction, and mass spectrometry analysis using the multidimensional protein identification technology, or MudPIT, to describe the P. falciparum ubiquitome. We found that ubiquitin conjugates are detected at every morphological stage of the parasite erythrocytic cycle. Furthermore, we detected that more than half of the parasite's proteome represents possible targets for ubiquitylation, especially proteins found to be present at the most replicative stage of the asexual cycle, the trophozoite stage. A large proportion of ubiquitin conjugates were also detected at the schizont stage, consistent with a cell activity slowdown to prepare for merozoite differentiation and invasion. Finally, for the first time in the human malaria parasite, our results strongly indicate the presence of heterologous mixed conjugations, SUMO/UB. This discovery suggests that sumoylated proteins may be regulated by ubiquitylation in P. falciparum. Altogether, our results present the first stepping stone toward a better understanding of ubiquitylation and its role(s) in the biology of the human malaria parasite.
A subset of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs modulates the  cleavage site in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) to selectively reduce production of A42. It is unclear precisely how these -secretase modulators (GSMs) act to preferentially spare A40 production as well as Notch processing and signaling. In an effort to determine the substrate requirements in NSAID/GSM activity, we determined the effects of sulindac sulfide and flurbiprofen on -cleavage of artificial constructs containing several -secretase substrates. Using FLAG-tagged constructs that expressed extracellularly truncated APP, Notch-1, or CD44, we found that these substrates have different sensitivities to sulindac sulfide. -Secretase cleavage of APP was altered by sulindac sulfide, but CD44 and Notch-1 were either insensitive or only minimally altered by this compound. Using chimeric APP constructs, we observed that the transmembrane domain (TMD) of APP played a pivotal role in determining drug sensitivity. Substituting the APP TMD with that of APLP2 retained the sensitivity to -cleavage modulation, but replacing TMDs from Notch-1 or ErbB4 rendered the resultant molecules insensitive to drug treatment. Specifically, the GXXXG motif within APP appeared to be critical to GSM activity. Consequently, the modulatory effects on -cleavage appears to be substrate-dependent. We hypothesize that the substrate present in the -secretase complex influences the conformation of the complex so that the binding site of GSMs is either stabilized or less favorable to influence the cleavage of the respective substrates.
The Ts65Dn mouse is the best-studied animal model for Down syndrome. In the experiments described here, NMDA-mediated or mGluR-mediated LTD was induced in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices from Ts65Dn and euploid control mice by bath application of 20 M NMDA for 3 min and 50 M DHPG for 5 min, respectively. We found that Ts65Dn mice display exaggerated NMDA-induced, but not mGluR-induced, LTD in the CA1 region of the hippocampus compared with euploid control animals. In addition, this abnormal level of LTD can be pharmacologically rescued by the NMDA receptor antagonist memantine.
Recent advances in our understanding of the underlying genetic architecture of psychiatric disorders has blown away the diagnostic boundaries that are defined by currently used diagnostic manuals. The disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) gene was originally discovered at the breakpoint of an inherited chromosomal translocation, which segregates with major mental illnesses. In addition, many biological studies have indicated a role for DISC1 in early neurodevelopment and synaptic regulation. Given that DISC1 is thought to drive a range of endophenotypes that underlie major mental conditions, elucidating the biology of DISC1 may enable the construction of new diagnostic categories for mental illnesses with a more meaningful biological foundation.

Studies in humans and animal models link maternal infection and imbalanced levels of inflammatory mediators in the foetal brain to the aetiology of neuropsychiatric disorders. In a number of animal models, it was shown that exposure to viral or bacterial agents during a period that corresponds to the second trimester in human gestation triggers brain and behavioural abnormalities in the offspring. However, little is known about the early cellular and molecular events elicited by inflammation in the foetal brain shortly after maternal infection has occurred. In this study, maternal infection was mimicked by two consecutive intraperitoneal injections of 200 g of LPS (lipopolysaccharide)/kg to timed-pregnant rats at GD15 (gestational day 15) and GD16. Increased thickness of the CP (cortical plate) and hippocampus together with abnormal distribution of immature neuronal markers and decreased expression of markers for neural progenitors were observed in the LPS-exposed foetal forebrains at GD18. Such effects were accompanied by decreased levels of reelin and the radial glial marker GLAST (glial glutamate transporter), and elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in maternal serum and foetal forebrains. Foetal inflammation elicited by maternal injections of LPS has discrete detrimental effects on brain development. The early biochemical and morphological changes described in this work begin to explain the sequelae of early events that underlie the neurobehavioural deficits reported in humans and animals exposed to prenatal insults.



Reward prediction error (RPE) signals are central to current models of reward-learning. Temporal difference (TD) learning models posit that these signals should be modulated by predictions, not only of magnitude but also timing of reward. Here we show that BOLD activity in the VTA conforms to such TD predictions: responses to unexpected rewards are modulated by a temporal hazard function and activity between a predictive stimulus and reward is depressed in proportion to predicted reward. By contrast, BOLD activity in ventral striatum (VS) does not reflect a TD RPE, but instead encodes a signal on the variable relevant for behavior, here timing but not magnitude of reward. The results have important implications for dopaminergic models of cortico-striatal learning and suggest a modification of the conventional view that VS BOLD necessarily reflects inputs from dopaminergic VTA neurons signaling an RPE.
Hippocampal CA1 and CA3 pyramidal neuron place cells encode the spatial location of an animal through localized firing patterns called &quot;place fields.&quot; To explore the mechanisms that control place cell firing and their relationship to spatial memory, we studied mice with enhanced spatial memory resulting from forebrain-specific knockout of the HCN1 hyperpolarization-activated cation channel. HCN1 is strongly expressed in CA1 neurons and in entorhinal cortex grid cells, which provide spatial information to the hippocampus. Both CA1 and CA3 place fields were larger but more stable in the knockout mice, with the effect greater in CA1 than CA3. As HCN1 is only weakly expressed in CA3 place cells, their altered activity likely reflects loss of HCN1 in grid cells. The more pronounced changes in CA1 likely reflect the intrinsic contribution of HCN1. The enhanced place field stability may underlie the effect of HCN1 deletion to facilitate spatial learning and memory.
Endophilin is a membrane-binding protein with curvature-generating and -sensing properties that participates in clathrin-dependent endocytosis of synaptic vesicle membranes. Endophilin also binds the GTPase dynamin and the phosphoinositide phosphatase synaptojanin and is thought to coordinate constriction of coated pits with membrane fission (via dynamin) and subsequent uncoating (via synaptojanin). We show that although synaptojanin is recruited by endophilin at bud necks before fission, the knockout of all three mouse endophilins results in the accumulation of clathrin-coated vesicles, but not of clathrin-coated pits, at synapses. The absence of endophilin impairs but does not abolish synaptic transmission and results in perinatal lethality, whereas partial endophilin absence causes severe neurological defects, including epilepsy and neurodegeneration. Our data support a model in which endophilin recruitment to coated pit necks, because of its curvature-sensing properties, primes vesicle buds for subsequent uncoating after membrane fission, without being critically required for the fission reaction itself.
Attention and memory are typically studied as separate topics, but they are highly intertwined. Here we discuss the relation between memory and two fundamental types of attention: perceptual and reflective. Memory is the persisting consequence of cognitive activities initiated by and/or focused on external information from the environment (perceptual attention) and initiated by and/or focused on internal mental representations (reflective attention). We consider three key questions for advancing a cognitive neuroscience of attention and memory: to what extent do perception and reflection share representational areas? To what extent are the control processes that select, maintain, and manipulate perceptual and reflective information subserved by common areas and networks? During perception and reflection, to what extent are common areas responsible for binding features together to create complex, episodic memories and for reviving them later? Considering similarities and differences in perceptual and reflective attention helps integrate a broad range of findings and raises important unresolved issues.
The advent of superresolution microscopy has opened up new research opportunities into dynamic processes at the nanoscale inside living biological specimens. This is particularly true for synapses, which are very small, highly dynamic, and embedded in brain tissue. Stimulated emission depletion (STED) microscopy, a recently developed laser-scanning technique, has been shown to be well suited for imaging living synapses in brain slices using yellow fluorescent protein as a single label. However, it would be highly desirable to be able to image presynaptic boutons and postsynaptic spines, which together form synapses, using two different fluorophores. As STED microscopy uses separate laser beams for fluorescence excitation and quenching, incorporation of multicolor imaging for STED is more difficult than for conventional light microscopy. Although two-color schemes exist for STED microscopy, these approaches have several drawbacks due to their complexity, cost, and incompatibility with common labeling strategies and fluorophores. Therefore, we set out to develop a straightforward method for two-color STED microscopy that permits the use of popular green-yellow fluorescent labels such as green fluorescent protein, yellow fluorescent protein, Alexa Fluor 488, and calcein green. Our new (to our knowledge) method is based on a single-excitation/STED laser-beam pair to simultaneously excite and quench pairs of these fluorophores, whose signals can be separated by spectral detection and linear unmixing. We illustrate the potential of this approach by two-color superresolution time-lapse imaging of axonal boutons and dendritic spines in living organotypic brain slices.
NMDA receptors are glutamate-activated ion channel complexes central to the functioning of the mammalian nervous system. Opening of the NMDA receptor ion channel pore is initiated by agonist-induced conformational changes in the extracellular ligand-binding domain (LBD) but the dynamic mechanism of this process remains unresolved. We studied how a disulfide bond in the obligatory GluN1 subunit-the sole site of redox modulation in NMDA receptors-controls this activation gating mechanism. This disulfide bond is located in the hinge region of the LBD, and presumably constrains agonist-induced cleft closure of the clamshell-like LBD. Elimination of this bond, by either DTT-mediated reduction or mutagenesis, enhances gating efficiency such that pore opening now occurs with higher frequency and longer duration. The most prominent effect was to shift opening modes to long duration openings reminiscent of a high P(o) gating mode that the NMDA receptor exhibits under ambient oxidizing conditions. In terms of preopen gating steps, elimination of this bond has effects only on the fast gating step consistent with this step being GluN1-specific and reflecting GluN1 gating movements immediately before channel opening. Overall, our results suggest that the dynamics of the GluN1 LBD have strong effects on late pore opening steps including regulating the duration of pore opening. This redox-mediated gating modulation could be an underlying mechanism of NMDA receptor malfunction in redox-dependent disease states and presents a potential target of pharmacologic action.

Concentration invariance-the capacity to recognize a given odorant (analyte) across a range of concentrations-is an unusually difficult problem in the olfactory modality. Nevertheless, humans and other animals are able to recognize known odors across substantial concentration ranges, and this concentration invariance is a highly desirable property for artificial systems as well. Several properties of olfactory systems have been proposed to contribute to concentration invariance, but none of these alone can plausibly achieve full concentration invariance. We here propose that the mammalian olfactory system uses at least six computational mechanisms in series to reduce the concentration-dependent variance in odor representations to a level at which different concentrations of odors evoke reasonably similar representations, while preserving variance arising from differences in odor quality. We suggest that the residual variance then is treated like any other source of stimulus variance, and categorized appropriately into &quot;odors&quot; via perceptual learning. We further show that nave mice respond to different concentrations of an odorant just as if they were differences in quality, suggesting that, prior to odor categorization, the learning-independent compensatory mechanisms are limited in their capacity to achieve concentration invariance.
The electrical activity pattern of endocrine pituitary cells regulates their basal secretion level. Rat somatotrophs and lactotrophs exhibit spontaneous bursting and have high basal levels of hormone secretion, while gonadotrophs exhibit spontaneous spiking and have low basal hormone secretion. It has been proposed that the difference in electrical activity between bursting somatotrophs and spiking gonadotrophs is due to the presence of large conductance potassium (BK) channels on somatotrophs but not on gonadotrophs. This is one example where the role of an ion channel type may be clearly established. We demonstrate here that BK channels indeed promote bursting activity in pituitary cells. Blocking BK channels in bursting lacto-somatotroph GH4C1 cells changes their firing activity to spiking, while further adding an artificial BK conductance via dynamic clamp restores bursting. Importantly, this burst-promoting effect requires a relatively fast BK activation/deactivation, as predicted by computational models. We also show that adding a fast-activating BK conductance to spiking gonadotrophs converts the activity of these cells to bursting. Together, our results suggest that differences in BK channel expression may underlie the differences in electrical activity and basal hormone secretion levels among pituitary cell types and that the rapid rate of BK channel activation is key to its role in burst promotion.
HCN1-4 subunits form Na+/K+-permeable ion channels that are activated by hyperpolarization and carry the current known as I(h). I(h) has been characterized in vestibular hair cells of the inner ear, but its molecular correlates and functional contributions have not been elucidated. We examined Hcn mRNA expression and immunolocalization of HCN protein in the mouse utricle, a mechanosensitive organ that contributes to the sense of balance. We found that HCN1 is the most highly expressed subunit, localized to the basolateral membranes of type I and type II hair cells. We characterized I(h) using the whole-cell, voltage-clamp technique and found the current expressed in 84% of the cells with a mean maximum conductance of 4.4 nS. I(h) was inhibited by ZD7288, cilobradine, and by adenoviral expression of a dominant-negative form of HCN2. To determine which HCN subunits carried I(h), we examined hair cells from mice deficient in Hcn1, 2, or both. I(h) was completely abolished in hair cells of Hcn1/ mice and Hcn1/2/ mice but was similar to wild-type in Hcn2/ mice. To examine the functional contributions of I(h), we recorded hair cell membrane responses to small hyperpolarizing current steps and found that activation of I(h) evoked a 5-10 mV sag depolarization and a subsequent 15-20 mV rebound upon termination. The sag and rebound were nearly abolished in Hcn1-deficient hair cells. We also found that Hcn1-deficient mice had deficits in vestibular-evoked potentials and balance assays. We conclude that HCN1 contributes to vestibular hair cell function and the sense of balance.
The cysteine-rich protein (CRP) family is a subgroup of LIM domain proteins. CRP1, which cross-links actin filaments to make actin bundles, is the only CRP family member expressed in the CNS with little known about its function in nerve cells. Here, we report that CRP1 colocalizes with actin in the filopodia of growth cones in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. Knockdown of CRP1 expression by short hairpin RNA interference results in inhibition of filopodia formation and dendritic growth in neurons. Overexpression of CRP1 increases filopodia formation and neurite branching, which require its actin-bundling activity. Expression of CRP1 with a constitutively active form of Cdc42, a GTPase involved in filopodia formation, increases filopodia formation in COS-7 cells, suggesting cooperation between the two proteins. Moreover, we demonstrate that neuronal activity upregulates CRP1 expression in hippocampal neurons via Ca influx after depolarization. Ca/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV (CaMKIV) and cAMP response element binding protein mediate the Ca-induced upregulation of CRP1 expression. Furthermore, CRP1 is required for the dendritic growth induced by Ca influx or CaMKIV. Together, these data are the first to demonstrate a role for CRP1 in dendritic growth.
We investigated the properties of neostriatal neuropeptide Y (NPY)-expressing interneurons in transgenic GFP (green fluorescent protein)-NPY reporter mice. In vitro whole-cell recordings and biocytin staining demonstrated the existence of a novel class of neostriatal NPY-expressing GABAergic interneurons that exhibit electrophysiological, neurochemical, and morphological properties strikingly different from those of previously described NPY-containing, plateau-depolarization low-threshold spike (NPY-PLTS) interneurons. The novel NPY interneuron type (NPY-neurogliaform) differed from previously described NPY-PLTS interneurons by exhibiting a significantly lower input resistance and hyperpolarized membrane potential, regular, nonaccommodating spiking in response to depolarizing current injections, and an absence of plateau depolarizations or low-threshold spikes. NPY-neurogliaform interneurons were also easily distinguished morphologically by their dense, compact, and highly branched dendritic and local axonal arborizations that contrasted sharply with the sparse and extended axonal and dendritic arborizations of NPY-PLTS interneurons. Furthermore, NPY-neurogliaform interneurons did not express immunofluorescence for somatostatin or nitric oxide synthase that was ubiquitous in NPY-PLTS interneurons. IPSP/Cs could only rarely be elicited in spiny projection neurons (SPNs) in paired recordings with NPY-PLTS interneurons. In contrast, the probability of SPN innervation by NPY-neurogliaform interneurons was extremely high, the synapse very reliable (no failures were observed), and the resulting postsynaptic response was a slow, GABA(A) receptor-mediated IPSC that has not been previously described in striatum but that has been elicited from NPY-GABAergic neurogliaform interneurons in cortex and hippocampus. These properties suggest unique and distinctive roles for NPY-PLTS and NPY-neurogliaform interneurons in the integrative properties of the neostriatum.
Synaptic transmission mediated by AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) is regulated by scaffold proteins in the postsynaptic density. SAP90/PSD-95-associated protein 3 (SAPAP3) is a scaffold protein that is highly expressed in striatal excitatory synapses. While loss of SAPAP3 is known to cause obsessive-compulsive disorder-like behaviors in mice and reduce extracellular field potentials in the striatum, the mechanism by which SAPAP3 regulates excitatory neurotransmission is largely unknown. This study demonstrates that Sapap3 deletion reduces AMPAR-mediated synaptic transmission in striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) through postsynaptic endocytosis of AMPARs. Striatal MSNs in Sapap3 KO mice have fewer synapses with AMPAR activity and a higher proportion of silent synapses. We further find that increased metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) activity in Sapap3 KO mice underlies the decrease in AMPAR synaptic transmission and excessive synapse silencing. These findings suggest a model whereby the normal role of SAPAP3 is to inhibit mGluR5-driven endocytosis of AMPARs. The results of this study provide the first evidence for the mechanism by which the SAPAP family of scaffold proteins regulates AMPAR synaptic activity.
The cerebellum dedicates a majority of the brain's neurons to processing a wide range of sensory, motor, and cognitive signals. Stereotyped circuitry within the cerebellar cortex suggests that similar computations are performed throughout the cerebellum, but little is known about whether diverse precerebellar neurons are specialized for the nature of the information they convey. In vivo recordings indicate that firing responses to sensory or motor stimuli vary dramatically across different precerebellar nuclei, but whether this reflects diverse synaptic inputs or differentially tuned intrinsic excitability has not been determined. We targeted whole-cell patch-clamp recordings to neurons in eight precerebellar nuclei which were retrogradely labeled from different regions of the cerebellum in mice. Intrinsic physiology was compared across neurons in the medial vestibular, external cuneate, lateral reticular, prepositus hypoglossi, supragenual, Roller/intercalatus, reticularis tegmenti pontis, and pontine nuclei. Within the firing domain, precerebellar neurons were remarkably similar. Firing faithfully followed temporally modulated inputs, could be sustained at high rates, and was a linear function of input current over a wide range of inputs and firing rates. Pharmacological analyses revealed common expression of Kv3 currents, which were essential for a wide linear firing range, and of SK (small-conductance calcium-activated potassium) currents, which were essential for a wide linear input range. In contrast, membrane properties below spike threshold varied considerably within and across precerebellar nuclei, as evidenced by variability in postinhibitory rebound firing. Our findings indicate that diverse precerebellar neurons perform similar scaling computations on their inputs but may be differentially tuned to synaptic inhibition.
Animal studies suggest the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) plays an important role in decision-making. In rats, DA depletion decreases tolerance for effort and probability costs, while drugs enhancing DA increase tolerance for these costs. However, data regarding the effect of DA manipulations on effort and probability costs in humans remain scarce. The current study examined acute effects of d-amphetamine, an indirect DA agonist, on willingness of healthy human volunteers to exert effort for monetary rewards at varying levels of reward value and reward probability. Based on preclinical research, we predicted amphetamine would increase exertion of effort, particularly when reward probability was low. Over three sessions, 17 healthy normal adults received placebo, d-amphetamine 10 mg, and 20 mg under counterbalanced double-blind conditions and completed the Effort Expenditure for Rewards Task. Consistent with predictions, amphetamine enhanced willingness to exert effort, particularly when reward probability was lower. Amphetamine did not alter effects of reward magnitude on willingness to exert effort. Amphetamine sped task performance, but its psychomotor effects were not strongly related to its effects on decision-making. This is the first demonstration in humans that dopaminergic manipulations alter willingness to exert effort for rewards. These findings help elucidate neurochemical substrates of choice, with implications for neuropsychiatric diseases characterized by dopaminergic dysfunction and motivational deficits.
Mutations in the gene encoding -III spectrin give rise to spinocerebellar ataxia type 5, a neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive thinning of the molecular layer, loss of Purkinje cells and increasing motor deficits. A mouse lacking full-length -III spectrin (-III/) displays a similar phenotype. In vitro and in vivo analyses of Purkinje cells lacking -III spectrin, reveal a critical role for -III spectrin in Purkinje cell morphological development. Disruption of the normally well ordered dendritic arborization occurs in Purkinje cells from -III/ mice, specifically showing a loss of monoplanar organization, smaller average dendritic diameter and reduced densities of Purkinje cell spines and synapses. Early morphological defects appear to affect distribution of dendritic, but not axonal, proteins. This study confirms that thinning of the molecular layer associated with disease pathogenesis is a consequence of Purkinje cell dendritic degeneration, as Purkinje cells from 8-month-old -III/ mice have drastically reduced dendritic volumes, surface areas and total dendritic lengths compared with 5- to 6-week-old -III/ mice. These findings highlight a critical role of -III spectrin in dendritic biology and are consistent with an early developmental defect in -III/ mice, with abnormal Purkinje cell dendritic morphology potentially underlying disease pathogenesis.
Why does the world appear stable despite the visual motion induced by eye movements during fixation? We find that the answer must reside in how visual motion signals are interpreted by perception, because MT neurons in monkeys respond to the image motion caused by eye drifts in the presence of a stationary stimulus. Several features suggest a visual origin for the responses of MT neurons during fixation: spike-triggered averaging yields a peak image velocity in the preferred direction that precedes spikes by 60 ms; image velocity during fixation and firing rate show similar peaks in power at 4-5 Hz; and average MT firing during a period of fixation is related monotonically to the image speed along the preferred axis of the neurons 60 ms earlier. The percept caused by the responses of MT neurons during fixation depends on the distribution of activity across the population of neurons of different preferred speeds. For imposed stimulus motion, the population response peaks for neurons that prefer the actual target speed. For small image motions caused by eye drifts during fixation, the population response is large, but is noisy and does not show a clear peak. This representation of image motion in MT would be ignored if perception interprets the population response in the context of a prior of zero speed. Then, we would see a stable scene despite MT responses caused by eye drifts during fixation.
The mechanotransduction of vestibular sensory cells depends on the high endolymphatic potassium concentration ([K+]) maintained by a fine balance between K+ secretion and absorption by epithelial cells. Despite the crucial role of endolymph as an electrochemical motor for mechanotransduction, little is known about the processes that govern endolymph formation. To address these, we took advantage of an organotypic rodent model, which regenerates a genuine neonatal vestibular endolymphatic compartment, facilitating the determination of endolymphatic [K+] and transepithelial potential (Vt) during endolymph formation. While mature Vt levels are almost immediately achieved, K+ accumulates to reach a steady [K+] by day 5 in culture. Inhibition of sensory cell K+ efflux enhances [K+] regardless of the blocker used (FM1.43, amikacin, gentamicin, or gadolinium). Targeting K+ secretion with bumetanide partially and transiently reduces [K+], while ouabain application and Kcne1 deletion almost abolishes it. Immunofluorescence studies demonstrate that dark cells do not express Na-K-2Cl cotransporter 1 (the target of bumetanide) in cultured and young mouse utricles, while Na/K-ATPase (the target of ouabain) is found in dark cells and transitional cells. This global analysis of the involvement of endolymphatic homeostasis actors in the immature organ (1) confirms that KCNE1 channels are necessary for K+ secretion, (2) highlights Na/K-ATPase as the key endolymphatic K+ provider and shows that Na-K-2Cl cotransporter 1 has a limited impact on K+ influx, and (3) demonstrates that transitional cells are involved in K+ secretion in the early endolymphatic compartment.
This study examines the neural computations performed by neurons in the auditory system to be selective for the direction and velocity of signals sweeping upward or downward in frequency, termed spectral motion. We show that neurons in the auditory midbrain of Mexican free-tailed bats encode multiple spectrotemporal features of natural communication sounds. These features to which each neuron is tuned are nonlinearly combined to produce selectivity for spectral motion cues present in their conspecific calls, such as direction and velocity. We find that the neural computations resulting in selectivity for spectral motion are analogous to models of motion selectivity studied in vision. Our analysis revealed that auditory neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) are avoiding spectrotemporal modulations that are redundant across different bat communication signals and are specifically tuned for modulations that distinguish each call from another by their frequency-modulated direction and velocity, suggesting that spectral motion is the neural computation through which IC neurons are encoding specific features of conspecific vocalizations.
The multiple memory systems hypothesis posits that different neural circuits function in parallel and may compete for information processing and storage. For example, instrumental conditioning would depend on the striatum, whereas spatial memory may be mediated by a circuit centered on the hippocampus. However, the nature of the task itself is not sufficient to select durably one system over the other. In this study, we investigated the effects of natural and pharmacological rewards on the selection of a particular memory system during learning. We compared the effects of food- or drug-induced activation of the reward system on cue-guided versus spatial learning using a Y-maze discrimination task. Drug-induced reward severely impaired the acquisition of a spatial discrimination task but spared the cued version of the task. Immunohistochemical analysis of the phosphorylated form of the cAMP response element binding (CREB) protein and c-Fos expression induced by behavioral testing revealed that the spatial deficit was associated with a decrease of both markers within the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex. In contrast, drug reward potentiated the cued learning-induced CREB phosphorylation within the dorsal striatum. Administration of the protein kinase A inhibitor 8-Bromo-adenosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate Rp isomer (Rp-cAMPS) into the dorsal striatum before training completely reversed the drug-induced spatial deficit and restored CREB phosphorylation levels within the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex. Therefore, drug-induced striatal hyperactivity may underlie the declarative memory deficit reported here. This mechanism could represent an important early step toward the development of addictive behaviors by promoting conditioning to the detriment of more flexible forms of memory.




Functional MRI signal was recorded while participants perceived stimuli presented using moving dots. In two conditions of interest, the motion of dots depicted intentions: dots representing the joints of an agent performing an action, and dots representing individual agents behaving contingently. The finding of a common cluster in the posterior part of the medial frontal cortex involved in intentional action representation validates the hypothesis that perception of these two conditions requires a similar internal representation. A cluster responding to the behaving group only is found in the anterior medial frontal cortex. These results support a division of the medial frontal cortex according to social stimuli attributes, with anterior areas responding to higher-order group behaviours integrating the action of multiple individual agents.
We have shown previously that stimulus-induced modulation of noise correlation in rat somatosensory cortex conveys additional information about the delivery of tactile stimulation. Here we investigated whether noise correlation is also modulated by an external sensory stimulus in rat prefrontal cortex and, if so, whether such modulation conveys additional information on stimulus delivery. Noise correlation was significantly reduced after the onset of a conditional stimulus (auditory tone) that signaled an electric foot shock in the prefrontal cortex. However, noise correlation contributed little to the transmission of information on stimulus delivery. These results indicate that a meaningful sensory stimulus reduces noise correlation in rat prefrontal cortex, but such modulation does not play a significant role in conveying information on stimulus delivery.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune-mediated neurodegenerative disease with characteristic foci of inflammatory demyelination in the brain, spinal cord, and optic nerves. Recent studies have demonstrated not only that axonal damage and neuronal loss are significant pathologic components of MS, but that this neuronal damage is thought to cause the permanent neurologic disability often seen in MS patients. Emerging finding suggests that altered redox homeostasis and increased oxidative stress, primarily implicated in the pathogenesis of MS, are a trigger for activation of a brain stress response. Relevant to maintenance of redox homeostasis, integrated mechanisms controlled by vitagenes operate in brain in preserving neuronal survival during stressful conditions. Vitagenes encode for heat shock proteins (Hsp) Hsp32, Hsp70, the thioredoxin and the sirtuin protein systems. In the present study we assess stress response mechanisms in the CSF, plasma and lymphocytes of control patients compared to MS patients. We found that the levels of vitagenes Hsp72, Hsc70, HO-1, as well as oxidative stress markers carbonyls and hydroxynonenals were significantly higher in the blood and CSF of MS patients than in control patients. In addition, an increased expression of Trx and sirtuin 1, together with a decrease in the expression of TrxR were observed. Our data strongly support a pivotal role for redox homeostasis disruption in the pathogenesis of MS and, consistently with the notion that new therapies that prevent neurodegeneration through nonimmunomodulatory mechanisms can have a tremendous potential to work synergistically with current MS therapies, unravel important targets for new cytoprotective strategies.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia, is characterized by the deposition of amyloid plaques, accumulation of fibrillary tangles in neurons, neurite degeneration, loss of neurons, and a progressive loss of cognitive function. The pathogenesis of AD is not fully understood, and no strong disease-modifying therapies are currently available. Recent studies suggest that the pan-neurotrophin receptor, p75NTR, is a critical factor involved in the pathogenesis of AD. In this review, we have discussed the roles of p75NTR in the production of amyloid-beta (A), neuronal death, neurite degeneration, tau hyperphosphorylation, cell cycle re-entry and cognition decline in AD, and proposed that p75NTR is a potential target for the development of therapeutic drugs for AD. Finally we provide perspectives in developing various therapeutic strategies targeting different aspects of AD hallmarks which relate to p75NTR functions and breaking the p75NTR-mediated positive feedback loop which promotes the cascades in the pathogenesis of AD.

During the lead optimization of NK(1)/NK(3) receptor antagonists program, a focused exploration of molecules bearing a lactam moiety was performed. The aim of the investigation was to identify the optimal position of the carbonyl and hydroxy methyl group in the lactam moiety, in order to maximize the in vitro affinity and the level of insurmountable antagonism at both NK(1) and NK(3) receptors. The synthesis and biological evaluation of these novel lactam derivatives, with potent and balanced NK(1)/NK(3) activity, were reported in this paper.
The synthesis, evaluation, and structure-activity relationships of a class of -lactam 1,3-diaminopropan-2-ol transition-state isostere inhibitors of BACE are discussed. Two strategies for optimizing lead compound 1a are presented. Reducing the overall size of the inhibitors resulted in the identification of -lactam 1i, whereas the introduction of conformational constraint on the prime-side of the inhibitor generated compounds such as the 3-hydroxypyrrolidine inhibitor 28n. The full in vivo profile of 1i in rats and 28n in Tg 2576 mice is presented.

Polyphosphoinositides are lipid signaling molecules generated from phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) with critical roles in vesicular trafficking and signaling. It is poorly understood where PtdIns is located within cells and how it moves around between membranes. Here we identify a hitherto-unrecognized highly mobile membrane compartment as the site of PtdIns synthesis and a likely source of PtdIns of all membranes. We show that the PtdIns-synthesizing enzyme PIS associates with a rapidly moving compartment of ER origin that makes ample contacts with other membranes. In contrast, CDP-diacylglycerol synthases that provide PIS with its substrate reside in the tubular ER. Expression of a PtdIns-specific bacterial PLC generates diacylglycerol also in rapidly moving cytoplasmic objects. We propose a model in which PtdIns is synthesized in a highly mobile lipid distribution platform and is delivered toother membranes during multiple contacts by yet-to-be-defined lipid transfer mechanisms.
Hox transcription factors exhibit an evolutionarily conserved functional hierarchy, termed phenotypic suppression, in which the activity of posterior Hox proteins dominates over more anterior Hox proteins. Using directly regulated Hox targeted reporter genes in Drosophila, we show that posterior Hox proteins suppress the activities of anterior ones by competing for cofactor-dependent DNA binding. Furthermore, we map a motif in the posterior Hox protein Abdominal-A (AbdA) that is required for phenotypic suppression and facilitates cooperative DNA binding with the Hox cofactor Extradenticle (Exd). Together, these results suggest that Hox-specific motifs endow posterior Hox proteins with the ability to dominate over more anterior ones via a cofactor-dependent DNA-binding mechanism.
Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA) impairs motor function in men and is linked to a CAG repeat mutation in the androgen receptor (AR) gene. Defects in motoneuronal retrograde axonal transport may critically mediate motor dysfunction in SBMA, but the site(s) where AR disrupts transport is unknown. We find deficits in retrograde labeling of spinal motoneurons in both a knock-in (KI) and a myogenic transgenic (TG) mouse model of SBMA. Likewise, live imaging of endosomal trafficking in sciatic nerve axons reveals disease-induced deficits in the flux and run length of retrogradely transported endosomes in both KI and TG males, demonstrating that disease triggered in muscle can impair retrograde transport of cargo in motoneuron axons, possibly via defective retrograde signaling. Supporting the idea of impaired retrograde signaling, we find that vascular endothelial growth factor treatment of diseased muscles reverses the transport/trafficking deficit. Transport velocity is also affected in KI males, suggesting a neurogenic component. These results demonstrate that androgens could act via both cell autonomous and non-cell autonomous mechanisms to disrupt axonal transport in motoneurons affected by SBMA.
A sensitive and specific ultra performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method for the simultaneous quantification of nicotine, its metabolites cotinine and trans-3'-hydroxycotinine and varenicline in human plasma was developed and validated. Sample preparation was realized by solid phase extraction of the target compounds and of the internal standards (nicotine-d4, cotinine-d3, trans-3'-hydroxycotinine-d3 and CP-533,633, a structural analog of varenicline) from 0.5 mL of plasma, using a mixed-mode cation exchange support. Chromatographic separations were performed on a hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography column (HILIC BEH 2.1100 mm, 1.7 m). A gradient program was used, with a 10 mM ammonium formate buffer pH 3/acetonitrile mobile phase at a flow of 0.4 mL/min. The compounds were detected on a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer, operated with an electrospray interface in positive ionization mode and quantification was performed using multiple reaction monitoring. Matrix effects were quantitatively evaluated with success, with coefficients of variation inferior to 8%. The procedure was fully validated according to Food and Drug Administration guidelines and to Socit Franaise des Sciences et Techniques Pharmaceutiques. The concentration range was 2-500 ng/mL for nicotine, 1-1000 ng/mL for cotinine, 2-1000 ng/mL for trans-3'-hydroxycotinine and 1-500 ng/mL for varenicline, according to levels usually measured in plasma. Trueness (86.2-113.6%), repeatability (1.9-12.3%) and intermediate precision (4.4-15.9%) were found to be satisfactory, as well as stability in plasma. The procedure was successfully used to quantify nicotine, its metabolites and varenicline in more than 400 plasma samples from participants in a clinical study on smoking cessation.
Worker honey bees undergo a socially regulated, highly stable lipid loss as part of their behavioral maturation. We used large-scale transcriptomic and proteomic experiments, physiological experiments and RNA interference to explore the mechanistic basis for this lipid loss. Lipid loss was associated with thousands of gene expression changes in abdominal fat bodies. Many of these genes were also regulated in young bees by nutrition during an initial period of lipid gain. Surprisingly, in older bees, which is when maximum lipid loss occurs, diet played less of a role in regulating fat body gene expression for components of evolutionarily conserved nutrition-related endocrine systems involving insulin and juvenile hormone signaling. By contrast, fat body gene expression in older bees was regulated more strongly by evolutionarily novel regulatory factors, queen mandibular pheromone (a honey bee-specific social signal) and vitellogenin (a conserved yolk protein that has evolved novel, maturation-related functions in the bee), independent of nutrition. These results demonstrate that conserved molecular pathways can be manipulated to achieve stable lipid loss through evolutionarily novel regulatory processes.

Impulsive-compulsive behaviours (ICBs) are an increasingly well-recognised adverse-effect of dopaminergic medications used to treat Parkinson's disease. ICBs include pathological gambling, compulsive sexual behaviour, compulsive buying, and binge eating, together with punding and the addiction-like compulsive use of dopamine replacement therapy, or dopamine dysregulation syndrome. The prevalence of ICBs was approximately 14% in a large study undertaken in specialist movement disorder clinics. Dopamine dysregulation syndrome is more associated with compulsive l-dopa use, whereas other ICBs are more linked with oral dopamine agonist use. Other mechanisms implicated in the development and perpetuation of ICBs in PD include aberrant learning from reward-related situations, including decreased learning from negative feedback, increased measures of impulsivity or sensation seeking, and strong preference for immediate over future rewards. Treatment options for impulsive-compulsive behaviours include pharmacological, surgical and psychological interventions. The early recognition and prevention of ICBs, coupled with awareness of clinical risk factors for the development of these behaviours is of paramount importance, given the lack of specific treatments for these sometimes debilitating behaviours.
Though the core symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) are motor-related, a majority of patients also have neuropsychiatric symptoms concerning mood, behavior and cognition. Apathy and depression are considered among the most frequent ones, and have a negative impact on global functioning and quality of life. Recent neuroimaging studies have provided specific findings related with these symptoms. Depression in PD has been specifically associated with morphological and functional changes in prefrontal cortex, cingulate and thalamus, as with 5-HT transmission reduction in posterior cingulated and amygdala-hippocampus complex. Apathy has received less attention, but has been related with gray matter volume reductions or functional deficits in many regions, as anterior and posterior cingulate and dorsolateral or inferior frontal gyrus. Some of these deficits may be also related with a more pronounced reduction in striatal dopamine transmission. As neuroimaging studies give more arguments to the mechanisms of these symptoms, they also stimulate research for a better individualization of specific affective dimensions in Parkinson's disease.
Somatoform Disorders (SFMD) were recently described in Parkinson Disease (PD) and Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB). The present paper updates the observations in our cohort of patients and further details clinical phenomenology. Of 3178 patients consecutively referred to our Institutions from 1999, 1572 subjects had neurodegenerative diseases and 1718 psychiatric disorders. After 2-9 years of follow up, 488 patients were labelled as PD, 415 as Alzheimer Disease, 162 as DLB, 48 as Progressive Supranuclear Palsy, 48 as Multiple System Atrophy and 49 as Fronto-Temporal Dementia. The frequency of SFMD (DSM-IV-TR criteria) was determined in each diagnostic category by direct observation of SFMD symptoms, psychiatric interviews, SCL 90Rss, collection of previous general practitioners and hospital charts. The frequency of SFMD was considerably higher in DLB (29 patients, 18%) and PD (37 patients, 7.5%) than in any other group (0-2%). The frequency of SFMD in psychiatric patients was 2%. SFMD in PD and DLB were characterised by motor and non-motor patterns and were often accompanied by catatonic signs consisting of posturing stereotypies and negativism (55%). SFMD symptoms preceded PD motor signs by 6 months-5 years in 92% of the 29 DLB and 37 PD patients and in 70% SFMD were recurrent at follow-up. In 93% of these patients, hypochondria was a preceding or concomitant background.
Dementia is a frequent and devastating non-motor complication of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). There is growing evidence of a synergistic role of Alzheimer's-type brain lesions containing  and amyloid- (A) proteins and cortical Lewy aggregates in PD-related dementia (PDD). Therefore, biomarkers of both  and A may be seen as diagnostic and predictive markers of PDD. Here, we review the available studies in PD and PDD using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) total , phospho-, and/or A levels, and PET probes targeting Alzheimer's-type lesions. Overall, high CSF  and phospho- levels and/or low CSF A levels have been found in part of PDD patients, and a longitudinal study has found greater worsening in cognitive performance over time in non-demented PD patients with low baseline CSF A levels. Few studies are available on the use of PET imaging in PD, all of them using the Pittsburgh B compound (PIB), and with figures of about 30% of scans with PIB uptake in the AD-range in PDD. We conclude that these CSF and PET markers deserve further evaluation as candidate biomarkers of dementia in PD. According to this, we are currently undertaking a longitudinal project on the predictive value of dementia of the combined use of CSF  and A and (18)F-FDDNP PET in PD.
A subtle cognitive impairment can be detected early in the course of Parkinson's disease (PD). Executive, memory and visuospatial functions are specifically affected, but the underlying pathophysiological basis is not well elucidated yet and may be heterogeneous. The recent identification of a PD-related cognitive metabolic pattern (PDCP), including hypometabolism in associative frontal, parietal and posterior limbic structures, has integrated the classical notion of a striato-frontal syndrome at the basis of cognitive dys-function. Recent evidence suggests that whilst executive dys-function is seen in virtually all PD patients, visuospatial and memory impairment may share a higher risk for the subsequent development of dementia. By means of perfusion SPECT and [18F]FDG-PET, cortical dys-function may be highlighted since the early stages, it is more evident in PD patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), and reaches the maximum in PD dementia (PDD). Posterior temporo-parieto-occipital dys-function in associative and limbic cortex, closely resembling that found in Alzheimer's disease patients, is found in PDD, with a more severe occipital hypometabolism and a relatively milder hypometabolism in medial temporal lobe structures. Furthermore, deficit of acetylcholinesterase (AchE) can be found by means of [11C]MP4A-PET already in early stage of PD, especially in posterior regions, then becoming more severe in PDD and in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Administration of AchE inhibitors to PDD patients increased brain metabolism in bilateral frontal and left parietal regions, and left posterior cingulate. Finally, the recent availability of radiopharmaceuticals able to disclose amyloid brain deposition has allowed to demonstrate amyloid load in a part of patients with PDD, possibly due to diffuse rather than neuritic plaques. Brain PET and SPECT have strongly contributed to the understanding of the pathophysiology of cognitive impairment in PD and may serve as probes to monitor the effects of therapeutic interventions.
Pain is a well-recognized feature of Parkinson disease (PD), and for some patients it is the most disabling symptom. Patients with PD may experience various types of pain, and the treatment of their pain depends on its presumed cause. However, in many patients, both pain that appears to be unrelated to PD and PD-related pain can be alleviated by medical and surgical interventions that target the motor symptoms of PD. In this article we review reports on the improvement of pain in PD by surgical interventions such as subthalamic deep brain stimulation (STN DBS), and discuss the possible mechanisms by which STN DBS improves pain in PD.
The choice of a scale has important implications for the results of clinical research, including epidemiological and treatment studies. In addition to the requirements for any clinical scale, evaluation of rating scales for depression and apathy in Parkinson's disease (PD) faces additional challenges, reflecting the overlap of syndromes, controversies on the concept particularly of apathy, fluctuations related to medication, and difficulties in assessment. However, a number of rating scales are available which have been assessed for use in patients with PD, and the evidence for the use of these scales is discussed. A number of scales fulfil the basic requirements but further studies on their properties are required. Scales for screening need to have different properties than scales for rating severity. Overall, there is no perfect scale, but the choice of scale needs to take into account clinimetric properties, validity in the sample examined, content and purpose.
Depression and apathy are among the most common neuropsychiatric disturbances in Parkinson's disease (PD), and among the most important factors associated with a poor quality of life. However, their neural bases remain unclear. The results of the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies on depression in PD differ dramatically. Some of them proposed a role of morphologic changes in the mediodorsal thalamus. In contrast to previous voxel-based morphometry (VBM) data, our study did not confirm a decrease in gray matter (GM) density in any brain region of depressed PD patients. Instead, a more severe white matter (WM) loss in the right frontal lobe was found, including the anterior cingulate bundle and the inferior orbitofrontal (OF) region. We suggested that the negative correlation between the severity of depression and WM density in the right OF region reinforces the hypothesis of depression in PD as a &quot;disconnection syndrome&quot;. Only one MRI study using VBM found that high apathy scores correlated with low GM density values in the right (posterior) cingulate gyrus and the bilateral inferior frontal gyrus, in line with the findings in Alzheimer's disease and elderly adults with major depression.
Oxidative stress is one of the mechanisms which may be important in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. In the current study, the effects of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) perfusion on hydroxyl radical formation in the mouse striatum were investigated using the in vivo salicylate trapping microdialysis technique. The latter uses salicylate as a trapping agent for hydroxyl radicals with formation of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid (2,3-DHBA), which is measured by HPLC. Two different approaches of the technique were validated in mice. First, perfusion of the trapping agent salicylate (1 mM) via the probe in combination with 6-OHDA (5 M) was used to screen for radical scavenging properties of compounds in mice. Alternatively, striatal administration of 6-OHDA in a concentration known to induce nigrostriatal denervation (1mM), without the trapping agent, allowed to maximally challenge the neuronal microenvironment and as such to investigate both its acute and long-term effects. In the first method, as expected, glutathione (GSH) (1.5 mM) prevented the 6-OHDA-induced increase in 2,3-DHBA levels. In the second method, GSH prevented the hydroxyl radical formation, while depletion of GSH with 2-cyclohexen-1-one (CHO) resulted in significantly higher 2,3-DHBA levels than when 6-OHDA was perfused alone. Three weeks after the local 6-OHDA perfusion, the total striatal dopamine (DA) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) content were reduced by 30%, compared to the intact striatum, accompanied by a reduction in striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactive (ir) nerve terminals. This suggests that the second method can be used to determine the acute as well as the long-term effects of 6-OHDA in the mouse striatum.
A microbore liquid chromatography method coupled to UV detection was developed and validated in order to monitor the passage of compound 21 (C21), a non-peptide angiotensin II type 2 receptor agonist, to the striatum of rats. For this purpose, sampling from the striatum was performed using the in vivo microdialysis technique. Separations were performed on a C microbore (1mm i.d.) column using gradient elution. The retention time for C21 was found to be 6.3 min. The calibration curve was linear between 10 and 200 ng/ml with a correlation coefficient  0.999. The limit of detection and the limit of quantification were 3 and 10 ng/ml respectively. The intra-day and the inter-day precision (RSD%) ranged between 0.5 and 4.6% with an average recovery of 101.510.0% (meanSD, n=15). In vivo experiments were performed on rats to measure the concentration of C21 in striatal dialysates after intraperitoneal (10 or 50mg/kg) or intravenous injection (10 mg/kg or 20 mg/kg) of C21 and suggest minimal passage of the compound to the striatum.
Current pharmacological interventions for acute stroke are largely ineffective or confounded by adverse effects, emphasising the need to develop new pharmacological treatments for neuroprotection. We have developed a robust in vitro model previously used in rats to assess dopamine release in mouse caudate nucleus brain slices, measured by fast cyclic voltammetry, during oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) as a model for cerebral ischaemia: this model will allow the study of transgenic mouse strains. During the pre-OGD equilibration period we found that a temperature of 33C, with solution containing 10 mM glucose provided the optimum baseline conditions from which reliable OGD-induced changes in dopamine efflux could be measured, without being susceptible to spontaneous release events. During OGD we found no significant difference in any of the parameters measured between perfusion with glucose-free solution, and perfusion with solution containing 2 mM glucose. We therefore suggest, in agreement with previous work, that using 2 mM glucose during OGD is appropriate, and using these conditions we were able to reliably produce OGD-evoked dopamine release.
The fast sampling rates of fast scan cyclic voltammetry make it a favorable method for measuring changes in brain monoamine release and uptake kinetics in slice, anesthetized, and freely moving preparations. The most common analysis technique for evaluating changes in dopamine signaling uses well-established Michaelis-Menten kinetic methods that can accurately model dopamine release and uptake parameters across multiple experimental conditions. Nevertheless, over the years, many researchers have turned to other measures to estimate changes in dopamine release and uptake, yet to our knowledge no systematic comparison amongst these measures has been conducted. To address this lack of uniformity in kinetic analyses, we have created the Demon Voltammetry and Analysis software suite, which is freely available to academic and non-profit institutions. Here we present an explanation of the Demon Voltammetry acquisition and analysis features, and demonstrate its utility for acquiring voltammetric data under in vitro, in vivo anesthetized, and freely moving conditions. Additionally, the software was used to compare the sensitivity of multiple kinetic measures of release and uptake to cocaine-induced changes in electrically evoked dopamine efflux in nucleus accumbens core slices. Specifically, we examined and compared tau, full width at half height, half-life, T, T, slope, peak height, calibrated peak dopamine concentration, and area under the curve to the well-characterized Michaelis-Menten parameters, dopamine per pulse, maximal uptake rate, and apparent affinity. Based on observed results we recommend tau for measuring dopamine uptake and calibrated peak dopamine concentration for measuring dopamine release.

The anterior thalamic nuclei (ATN) are important for learning and memory as damage to this region produces a persistent amnestic syndrome. Dense connections between the ATN and the hippocampus exist, and importantly, damage to the ATN can impair hippocampal functioning. Acetylcholine (ACh) is a key neurotransmitter in the hippocampus, and in vivo measures of ACh are correlated to learning and memory performance. In the present study, complete lesions of the ATN impaired performance on two measures of hippocampal-dependent learning and memory (spontaneous alternation and delayed alternation) and severely disrupted behaviorally evoked ACh efflux within the hippocampus of adult male rats. In contrast, incomplete ATN lesions did not impair spontaneous alternation performance but did impair delayed alternation performance while blunting hippocampal ACh efflux. Interestingly, ATN lesions of any size did not affect basal concentrations of ACh in the hippocampus. These results demonstrate that the ATN have the capacity to modulate behaviorally relevant neuronal transmission within the hippocampus.
Neural stem/progenitor cell proliferation and differentiation are required to replace damaged neurons and regain brain function after hypoxic-ischemic events. DNA base lesions accumulating during hypoxic-ischemic stress are removed by DNA glycosylases in the base-excision repair pathway to prevent cytotoxicity and mutagenesis. Expression of the DNA glycosylase endonuclease VIII-like 3 (Neil3) is confined to regenerative subregions in the embryonic and perinatal brains. Here we show profound neuropathology in Neil3-knockout mice characterized by a reduced number of microglia and loss of proliferating neuronal progenitors in the striatum after hypoxia-ischemia. In vitro expansion of Neil3-deficient neural stem/progenitor cells revealed an inability to augment neurogenesis and a reduced capacity to repair for oxidative base lesions in single-stranded DNA. We propose that Neil3 exercises a highly specialized function through accurate molecular repair of DNA in rapidly proliferating cells.
Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) control the eukaryotic cell cycle, and a single CDK, Cdc28 (also known as Cdk1), is necessary and sufficient for cell cycle regulation in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Cdc28 regulates cell cycle-dependent processes such as transcription, DNA replication and repair, and chromosome segregation. To gain further insight into the functions of Cdc28, we performed a high-throughput chemical-genetic array (CGA) screen aimed at unraveling the genetic network of CDC28. We identified 107 genes that strongly genetically interact with CDC28. Although these genes serve multiple cellular functions, genes involved in cell cycle regulation, transcription, and chromosome metabolism were overrepresented. DOA1, which is involved in maintaining free ubiquitin levels, as well as the RAD6-BRE1 pathway, which is involved in transcription, displayed particularly strong genetic interactions with CDC28. We discovered that DOA1 is important for cell cycle entry by supplying ubiquitin. Furthermore, we found that the RAD6-BRE1 pathway functions downstream of DOA1/ubiquitin but upstream of CDC28, by promoting transcription of cyclins. These results link cellular ubiquitin levels and the Rad6-Bre1 pathway to cell cycle progression.
Pharmacological, genetic and expression studies implicate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor hypofunction in schizophrenia (SCZ). Similarly, several lines of evidence suggest that autism spectrum disorders (ASD) could be due to an imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission. As part of a project aimed at exploring rare and/or de novo mutations in neurodevelopmental disorders, we have sequenced the seven genes encoding for NMDA receptor subunits (NMDARs) in a large cohort of individuals affected with SCZ or ASD (n=429 and 428, respectively), parents of these subjects and controls (n=568). Here, we identified two de novo mutations in patients with sporadic SCZ in GRIN2A and one de novo mutation in GRIN2B in a patient with ASD. Truncating mutations in GRIN2C, GRIN3A and GRIN3B were identified in both subjects and controls, but no truncating mutations were found in the GRIN1, GRIN2A, GRIN2B and GRIN2D genes, both in patients and controls, suggesting that these subunits are critical for neurodevelopment. The present results support the hypothesis that rare de novo mutations in GRIN2A or GRIN2B can be associated with cases of sporadic SCZ or ASD, just as it has recently been described for the related neurodevelopmental disease intellectual disability. The influence of genetic variants appears different, depending on NMDAR subunits. Functional compensation could occur to counteract the loss of one allele in GRIN2C and GRIN3 family genes, whereas GRIN1, GRIN2A, GRIN2B and GRIN2D appear instrumental to normal brain development and function.
A conditioned taste aversion (CTA) is acquired when an animal consumes a novel taste (CS) and then experiences the symptoms of poisoning (US). Following CTA training, animals will avoid the taste that was previously associated with malaise. This defensive reaction to a learned fear can be extinguished by repeated exposure to the CS alone (CS-only; CSO-EXT). However, following a latency period in which the CS is not presented, the CTA will spontaneously recover (SR). Through the use of an explicitly unpaired extinction procedure (EU-EXT) we have shown that we can speed up extinction and attenuate SR of the CTA. Here we compared and contrasted the ability of CSO and EU extinction procedures to affect c-Fos expression in the periaqueductal gray (PAG). Fluid-deprived Sprague-Dawley rats acquired a strong CTA [via 3 pairings of 0.3% oral saccharin (SAC; the CS) and 81mg/kg i.p. lithium chloride (LiCl; the US)] followed by extinction trials consisting of multiple exposures to either, (a) the CS every-other day (CSO-EXT), or (b) CS and US on alternate days (EU-EXT). A different group of rats did not receive multiple CS exposures and served as a &quot;no extinction&quot; (NE) control. Both extinction procedures resulted in 90% reacceptance of SAC (achieving asymptotic extinction). Some of the animals were sacrificed for c-Fos immunohistochemical analysis following asymptotic extinction. Other rats entered a 30-day latency period where they drank water only. These remaining animals were then tested for SR with a final exposure to SAC before being sacrificed for c-Fos immunohistochemistry. As reported previously, rats in the CS-only group exhibited a significant SR of the CTA. However, animals in the EU extinction group reached asymptotic extinction more rapidly than did CSO rats and they did not show SR of the CTA. As compared to rats that retained their CTA, both groups of extinguished rats showed suppression in the number of c-Fos-labeled neurons in all 4 longitudinal columns of the PAG. The number of c-Fos-labeled cells in the PAG was generally low but there was a reliable increase in c-Fos expression in dorsolateral PAG (dlPAG) following the SR test in the brains of rats that went through the EU-EXT procedure as compared with those that either went through the more-traditional CSO extinction procedure or experienced no extinction at all. The number of c-Fos-labeled neurons in the dlPAG was significantly correlated with the amount of SAC consumed at the SR test. Surprisingly, the brains of EU-extinguished rats and CSO extinguished rats did not differ in the number of c-Fos-labeled neurons in gustatory neocortex, medial prefrontal cortex, basolateral amygdala, or the central nucleus of the amygdala. Thus, behavioral differences in SR between the EU and CSO extinction animals were not represented by corresponding changes in the neural activity of several brain nuclei classically associated with extinction learning. However a detailed analysis of PAG c-Fos expression provided hints about some of the physiological changes evoked by these 2 extinction paradigms that produce very different behavioral outcomes. The findings are clinically relevant as we seek the development of treatments for deficits in fear extinction (e.g. PTSD, phobias).
Adiponectin can act in the brain to increase energy expenditure and reduce body weight by mechanisms not entirely understood. We found that adiponectin type 1 and type 2 receptors (AdipoR1 and AdipoR2) are expressed in warm sensitive neurons of the hypothalamic preoptic area (POA) which play a critical role in the regulation of core body temperature (CBT) and energy balance. Thus, we tested the ability of adiponectin to influence CBT in wild-type mice and in mice deficient for AdipoR1 or AdipoR2. Local injection of adiponectin into the POA induced prolonged elevation of core body temperature and decreased respiratory exchange ratio (RER) indicating that increased energy expenditure is associated with increased oxidation of fat over carbohydrates. In AdipoR1 deficient mice, the ability of adiponectin to raise CBT was significantly blunted and its ability to decrease RER was completely lost. In AdipoR2 deficient mice, adiponectin had only diminished hyperthermic effects but reduced RER similarly to wild type mice. These results indicate that adiponectin can contribute to energy homeostasis by regulating CBT by direct actions on AdipoR1 and R2 in the POA.
Neural circuits are organized into functional topographic maps. In order to visualize complex circuit architecture we developed an approach to reliably label the global patterning of multiple topographic projections. The cerebellum is an ideal model to study the orderly arrangement of neural circuits. For example, the compartmental organization of spinocerebellar mossy fibers has proven to be an indispensable system for studying mossy fiber patterning. We recently showed that wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) conjugated to Alexa 555 and 488 can be used for tracing spinocerebellar mossy fiber projections in developing and adult mice (Reeber et al. 2011). We found three major properties that make the WGA-Alexa tracers desirable tools for labeling neural projections. First, Alexa fluorophores are intense and their brightness allows for wholemount imaging directly after tracing. Second, WGA-Alexa tracers label the entire trajectory of developing and adult neural projections. Third, WGA-Alexa tracers are rapidly transported in both retrograde and anterograde directions. Here, we describe in detail how to prepare the tracers and other required tools, how to perform the surgery for spinocerebellar tracing and how best to image traced projections in three dimensions. In summary, we provide a step-by-step tracing protocol that will be useful for deciphering the organization and connectivity of functional maps not only in the cerebellum but also in the cortex, brainstem, and spinal cord.
Differences and similarities in microstructural white matter alterations between bipolar I and bipolar II disorder were investigated. Twelve patients with bipolar I disorder, 12 patients with bipolar II disorder and 22 healthy controls underwent diffusion tensor imaging. Fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps were compared between groups using voxel-based whole brain analyses. Both bipolar I and II groups had a FA decrease in the corpus callosum, cingulate and right prefrontal regions, and a ADC increase in the medial frontal, anterior cingulate, insular and temporal regions, compared to controls. The bipolar I group had a FA decrease in the right temporal white matter and a ADC increase in the frontal, temporal, parietal and thalamic regions, compared to the bipolar II group. The results suggest disrupted integrity of commissural fibers and white matter in the anterior paralimbic structures in bipolar disorder. Relative sparing of the dorsal system and long association fibers may differentiate bipolar II from I disorder.

The study of developmentally regulated transcription factors by chromatin immunoprecipitation and deep sequencing (ChIP-seq) faces two major obstacles: availability of ChIP-grade antibodies and access to sufficient number of cells. We describe versatile genome-wide analysis of transcription-factor binding sites by combining directed differentiation of embryonic stem cells and inducible expression of tagged proteins. We demonstrate its utility by mapping DNA-binding sites of transcription factors involved in motor neuron specification.
Arrays of electrodes for recording and stimulating the brain are used throughout clinical medicine and basic neuroscience research, yet are unable to sample large areas of the brain while maintaining high spatial resolution because of the need to individually wire each passive sensor at the electrode-tissue interface. To overcome this constraint, we developed new devices that integrate ultrathin and flexible silicon nanomembrane transistors into the electrode array, enabling new dense arrays of thousands of amplified and multiplexed sensors that are connected using fewer wires. We used this system to record spatial properties of cat brain activity in vivo, including sleep spindles, single-trial visual evoked responses and electrographic seizures. We found that seizures may manifest as recurrent spiral waves that propagate in the neocortex. The developments reported here herald a new generation of diagnostic and therapeutic brain-machine interface devices.
Sensory information about body sway is used to drive corrective muscle action to keep the body's centre of mass located over the base of support provided by the feet. Loss of vision, by closing the eyes, usually results in increased sway as indexed by fluctuations (i.e. standard deviation, s.d.) in the velocity of a marker at C7 on the neck, s.d. dC7. Variability in the rate of change of centre of pressure (s.d. dCoP), which indexes corrective muscle action, also increases during upright standing with eyes closed. Light touch contact by the tip of one finger with an environmental surface can reduce s.d. dC7 and s.d. dCoP as effectively as opening the eyes. We review studies of light touch and balance and then describe a novel paradigm for studying the nature of somatosensory information contributing to effects of light touch balance. We show that 'light tight touch' contact by the index finger held in the thimble of a haptic device results in increased anteroposterior (AP) sway with entraining by either simple or complex AP sinusoidal oscillations of the haptic device. Moreover, sway is also increased when the haptic device plays back the pre-recorded AP sway path of another person. Cross-correlations between hand and C7 motion reveal a 176 ms lead for the hand and we conclude that light tight touch affords an efficient route for somatosensory feedback support for balance. Furthermore, we suggest that the paradigm has potential to contribute to the understanding of interpersonal postural coordination with light touch in future research.
Rats explore objects by rhythmically whisking with their vibrissae. The goal of the present study is to learn more about the motor output used by rats to acquire texture information as well as the whisker motion evoked by texture contact. We trained four rats to discriminate between different grooved textures and used high-speed video to characterize whisker motion during the task. The variance in whisking parameters among subjects was notable. After whisker trimming, the animals changed their behaviour in ways that appear consistent with an optimization of whisker movement to compensate for lost information. These results lead to the intriguing notion that the rats use an information-seeking 'cognitive' motor strategy, instead of a rigid motor programme. Distinct stick/slip events occurred during texture palpation and their frequency increased in relation to the spatial frequency of the grooves. The results allow a preliminary assessment of three candidate texture-coding mechanisms-the number of grooves encountered during each touch, the temporal difference between groove contacts and the spatial pattern of groove contacts across the whiskers.
The number of individual cases of psychiatric disorders that can be ascribed to identified, rare, single mutations is increasing with great rapidity. Such mutations can be recapitulated in mice to generate animal models with direct etiological validity. Defining the underlying pathogenic mechanisms will require an experimental and theoretical framework to make the links from mutation to altered behavior in an animal or psychopathology in a human. Here, we discuss key elements of such a framework, including cell type-based phenotyping, developmental trajectories, linking circuit properties at micro and macro scales and definition of neurobiological phenotypes that are directly translatable to humans.
This article provides a summary of the efficacy, and relative efficacy, of 38 different drugs or drug combinations tested in standard postoperative pain trials. It will help clinicians and patients make informed choices about analgesia based on pain relief, duration of action, and adverse events, which can then be put into context for the individual patient, depending on local availability. This article highlights the fact that no single drug is effective in all patients--even the best drugs fail to provide good levels of pain relief in at least 30%. These patients should try a different analgesic.

Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) has recently been recognized as a signaling molecule as well as a cytoprotectant. Cystathionine -synthase (CBS) and cystathionine -lyase (CSE) are well-known as H(2)S-producing enzymes. We recently demonstrated that 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST) along with cysteine aminotransferase (CAT) produces H(2)S in the brain and in vascular endothelium. However, the cellular distribution and regulation of these enzymes are not well understood. Here we show that 3MST and CAT are localized to retinal neurons and that the production of H(2)S is regulated by Ca(2+); H(2)S, in turn, regulates Ca(2+) influx into photoreceptor cells by activating vacuolar type H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase). We also show that H(2)S protects retinal neurons from light-induced degeneration. The excessive levels of light exposure deteriorated photoreceptor cells and increased the number of TUNEL- and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG)-positive cells. Degeneration was greatly suppressed in the retina of mice administered with NaHS, a donor of H(2)S. The present study provides a new insight into the regulation of H(2)S production and the modulation of the retinal transmission by H(2)S. It also shows a cytoprotective effect of H(2)S on retinal neurons and provides a basis for the therapeutic target for retinal degeneration.

This article has been withdrawn at the request of the author(s) and/or editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.
The identification of highly potent and orally active phenylpyrazines for the inhibition of PDE10A is reported. The new analogues exhibit subnanomolar potency for PDE10A, demonstrate high selectivity against all other members of the PDE family, and show desired druglike properties. Employing structure-based drug design approaches, we methodically explored two key regions of the binding pocket of the PDE10A enzyme to alter the planarity of the parent compound 1 and optimize its affinity for PDE10A. Bulky substituents at the C9 position led to elimination of the mutagenicity of 1, while a crucial hydrogen bond interaction with Glu716 markedly enhanced its potency and selectivity. A systematic assessment of the ADME and PK properties of the new analogues led to druglike development candidates. One of the more potent compounds, 96, displayed an IC(50) for PDE10A of 0.7 nM and was active in predictive antipsychotic animal models.
Many data suggest that alpha synuclein (-syn) aggregation is involved in Parkinson's disease (PD) neurotoxicity and is accelerated by the pathogenetic point mutation A30P. The triplication of -syn gene has been linked to early-onset familial PD, suggesting that the cellular dosage of -syn is an important modulator of its toxicity. To verify this point, we developed an inducible model of -syn expression (both wild type [WT] and mutated A30P) in rat PC12/TetOn cells. At low expression level, both -syn(WT) and (A30P) did not aggregate, were not toxic, and displayed a protective action against oxidative stress triggered by hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). By increasing -syn expression, its antioxidant function was no longer detectable as for the A30P form, but again no aggregation and cell death were present both for the WT and the mutated protein. To clarify why -syn did not accumulate at high expression level, we inhibited macroautophagy by 3-methyladenine (3-MA) and the proteasome by MG132. In presence of 3-MA, -syn(WT) accumulated, A11 anti-oligomer antibody-positive aggregates were detectable, and cell toxicity was evident, while proteasome inhibition did not increase -syn(WT) accumulation. Macroautophagy or proteasome inhibition slightly increased -syn(A30P) toxicity, with no detectable aggregation. This model can provide useful details about -syn function, aggregation, and degradation pathways.
Using bone marrow (BM)-directed gene transfer and permanent transduction via recombinant SV40-derived vectors, we previously reported that BM-derived cells may be progenitors of CNS cells, such as neurons in normal adult animals. In this study, we asked whether the same was true for the CNS blood vessels, that is, whether marrow-resident precursors can migrate to the vasculature of the CNS. SV40-derived gene delivery vectors, carrying marker epitopes (FLAG or AU1), appended to carrier proteins, were injected directly into the femoral BM of rats or rabbits. Controls received intramarrow SV(BUGT), a control vector. Transgene expression was then examined in the vasculature. Endothelial cells expressing the transgenes were observed in the vessels of the striatum, principally localized in laminin- or CD31-positive structures (markers of brain blood vessels). Results in both animal models and with both transgenes were similar. Thus, under physiologic conditions and in the absence of CNS or vascular injury, BM-derived cells can migrate to, and form an endothelial lining for, brain blood vessels. Intramarrow gene delivery may provide an avenue to deliver genes to the vascular endothelium of the CNS.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) is widespread in the rodent brain. CART has been implicated in many different functions including reward, feeding, stress responses, sensory processing, learning and memory formation. Recent studies have suggested that CART may also play a role in neural development. Therefore, in the present study we compared the distribution pattern and levels of CART mRNA expression in the forebrain of male and female rats at different stages of postnatal development: P06, P26 and P66. At 6 days of age (P06), male and female rats showed increased CART expression in the somatosensory and piriform cortices, indusium griseum, dentate gyrus, nucleus accumbens, and ventral premammillary nucleus. Interestingly, we found a striking expression of CART mRNA in the ventral posteromedial and ventral posterolateral thalamic nuclei. This thalamic expression was absent at P26 and P66. Contrastingly, at P06 CART mRNA expression was decreased in the arcuate nucleus. Comparing sexes, we found increased CART mRNA expression in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus of adult females. In other regions including the CA1, the lateral hypothalamic area and the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, CART expression was not different comparing postnatal ages and sexes. Our findings indicate that CART gene expression is induced in a distinct temporal and spatial manner in forebrain sites of male and female rats. They also suggest that CART peptide participate in the development of neural pathways related to selective functions including sensory processing, reward and memory formation.
Here we evaluated the influence of physical exercise on behavior parameters and enzymatic status of rats supplemented with different dietary fatty acids (FA). Male Wistar rats fed diets enriched with soybean oil (SO), lard (L), or hydrogenated vegetable fat (HVF) for 48 weeks were submitted to swimming (30 min/d, five times per week) for 90 days. Dietary FA per se did not cause anxiety-like symptoms in the animals, but after physical exercise, SO group showed a better behavioral performance than L and the HVF groups in elevated plus maze (EPM). In Barnes maze, HVF group showed impaired memory acquisition as compared to L group, and exercise reversed this effect. SO-fed rats showed an improvement in memory acquisition after 1 day of training, whereas lard caused an improvement of memory only from day 4. HVF-fed rats showed no improvement of memory acquisition, but this effect was reversed by exercise in all training days. A lower activity of the Na(+)K(+)-ATPase in brain cortex of rats fed lard and HVF was observed, and this effect was maintained after exercise. Similarly, the HVF diet was related to lower activity of hippocampal Na(+)K(+)-ATPase, and exercise reduced activity of this enzyme in the SO and L groups. Our findings show influences of dietary FA on memory acquisition, whereas regular exercise improved this function and was beneficial on anxiety-like symptoms. As FA are present in neuronal membrane phospholipids and play a critical role in brain function, our results suggest that low incorporation of trans FA in neuronal membranes may act on cortical and hippocampal Na(+)K(+)-ATPase activity, but this change appears to be unrelated to the behavioral parameters primarily harmed by consumption of trans and less so by saturated FA, which were reversed by exercise.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a functional gastrointestinal disorder involving abdominal pain and bowel dysfunction. IBS pain symptoms have been hypothesized to depend on peripheral and central mechanisms, but the pathophysiology is still unclear. The aim of the present study was to assess the contribution of cerebral and cerebrospinal processes to pain inhibition deficits in IBS. Fourteen female patients with diarrhea-predominant IBS (IBS-D) and 14 healthy female volunteers were recruited. Acute pain and the nociceptive withdrawal reflex (RIII reflex) were evoked by transcutaneous electrical stimulation of the right sural nerve with modulation by hetero-segmental counter-irritation produced by sustained cold pain applied on the left forearm. Psychological symptoms were assessed by questionnaires. Shock pain decreased significantly during counter-irritation in the controls (P&lt;0.001) but not in IBS patients (P=0.52). Similarly, RIII-reflex amplitude declined during counter-irritation in the controls (P=0.009) but not in IBS patients (P=0.11). Furthermore, pain-related anxiety increased during counter-irritation in IBS patients (P=0.003) but not in the controls (P=0.74). Interestingly, across all subjects, counter-irritation analgesia was positively correlated with RIII-reflex inhibition (r=0.39, P=0.04) and negatively with pain-related anxiety (r=-0.61, P&lt;0.001). In addition, individual differences in counter-irritation analgesia were predicted independently by the modulation of RIII responses (P=0.03) and by pain catastrophizing (P=0.01), with the latter mediating the effect of pain-related anxiety. In conclusion, these results demonstrate that pain inhibition deficits in female IBS-D patients depend on two potentially separable mechanisms reflecting: (1) altered descending modulation and (2) higher-order brain processes underlying regulation of pain and affect.
This article reaches across disciplines to correlate results in molecular, cellular, behavioral, and clinical research to develop a more complete picture of how working memory (WM) functions. It identifies a new idea that deserves further investigation. NMDA glutamate receptors (NMDAR) are critical for memory function. NMDAR inhibition effectively reproduces principal manifestations of schizophrenia (SP), such as WM impairment and GABAergic deficit (mainly reduction of glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 (GAD67) and parvalbumin (PV) content). Nicotine and selective 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists reduce WM impairments in patients with SP and reverse WM deficits in animals treated with NMDAR antagonists. The mechanism of this effect is unknown. Importantly, WM recovery occurs even before restoration of NMDAR blockade-induced molecular alterations, including reduced GAD67 in interneurons. Our insight into the cognitive-enhancing effect of 7 nAChR agonists, particularly in the animal models of SP, combines reviews of recent findings on glutamate and nicotinic receptor expression in the neuronal circuits involved in WM, the properties of these receptors, their implication in WM regulation, generation of rhythmic neuronal activity, resulting in a proposed hypothesis for further investigations. We suggest that (1) cortical/hippocampal interneurons, particularly PV positive, play a crucial role in WM and that impairment of these cells in SP could be behind the WM deficit; (2) activation of 7 nAChRs could restore calcium signaling and intrinsic properties of these interneurons, and associated with these events, computational capacity, gamma rhythmic activity, and WM would also be restored.
We recently found that spontaneous eye movements occur during motor imagery of hand movements, which are similar to those made during physical execution. In physical execution, eye movements have been shown to play an important role during training. In motor imagery practice, however, their effect remains unclear. Therefore, in the present study, we examined the role of eye movements during motor imagery practice with specific interest in the impact of task complexity and effector specificity. Thirty-six young healthy participants were tested before and after 4 days of visual motor imagery training on a Virtual Radial Fitts' task with different indices of difficulty. Training was performed with the nondominant hand only. Subjects were divided into a group that trained while spontaneous eye movements were allowed, one that kept the eyes fixed during training, and a control group. Electro-oculography and electromyography signals were monitored to guarantee task compliance during imagery. The results indicated that eye movements during imagery did not affect the temporal parameters of the trained movement. They did, however, help to achieve maximal gains in movement accuracy and efficiency. These positive effects on the spatial parameters were most pronounced during conditions with high accuracy demands and were present for both the trained and the untrained hand. These findings contribute to guidelines for optimizing training protocols based on motor imagery.
GABAergic neurons of the medial septum of the basal forebrain make up a substantial portion of the septo-hippocampal pathway fibers, and are known to modulate hippocampal amino acid neurotransmission and support cognitive function. Importantly, these neurons are also implicated in age-related cognitive decline. Hypothalamic orexin/hypocretin neurons innervate and modulate the activity of these basal forebrain neurons and also provide direct inputs to the hippocampus. However, the precise role of orexin inputs in modulating hippocampal amino acid neurotransmission--as well as how these interactions are altered in aging--has not been defined. Here, orexin A (OxA) was administered to CA1 and the medial septum of young (3-4 months) and aged (27-29 months) Fisher 344 Brown Norway rats, and hippocampal GABA and glutamate efflux was analyzed by in vivo microdialysis. Following CA1 infusion of OxA, extracellular GABA and glutamate efflux was increased, but the magnitude of orexin-mediated efflux was not altered as a function of age. However, medial septum infusion of OxA did not impact hippocampal efflux in young rats, while aged rats exhibited a significant enhancement in GABA and glutamate efflux compared to young counterparts. Furthermore, immunohistochemical characterization of the medial septum revealed a significant decrease in parvalbumin (PV)-positive cell bodies in aged animals, and a significant reduction in orexin fiber innervation to the remaining GABAergic cells within the septum, while orexin innervation to the hippocampus was unaltered by the aging process. These findings indicate that: (1) OxA directly modulates hippocampal amino acid neurotransmission in young animals, (2) Aged animals show enhanced responsivity to exogenous OxA activation of the septo-hippocampal pathway, and (3) Aged animals undergo an intrinsic reduction in medial septum PV-immunoreactivity and a decrease in orexin innervation to remaining septal PV neurons. Alterations in orexin regulation of septo-hippocampal activity may contribute to age-related dysfunctions in arousal, learning, and memory.
Rotenone is a mitochondrial poison that causes dopamine cell death and is used as a model of Parkinson's disease in rodents. Recently, we showed that rotenone augments currents evoked by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) by relieving voltage-dependent Mg(2+) block in rat substantia nigra compacta (SNC) dopamine neurons. Because rotenone is well known to generate reactive oxygen species (ROS), we conducted the present experiments to evaluate the role of ROS in mediating the effect of rotenone on NMDA current augmentation. Using patch pipettes to record whole-cell currents from SNC neurons in slices of rat brain, we found that the ability of rotenone (100 nM) to increase NMDA (3-30 M) current was antagonized by the antioxidant agent n-acetylcysteine (1 mM). In contrast, mercaptosuccinate (1 mM), which blocks glutathione peroxidase and raises tissue levels of H(2)O(2), mimicked rotenone by augmenting inward currents evoked by NMDA. Because oxidation of dopamine can also generate ROS, we explored the role of dopamine on this action of rotenone. We prepared dopamine-depleted midbrain slices from rats that had been pretreated with reserpine (5 mg/kg ip) and alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine (AMPT, 250 mg/kg ip). Dopamine depletion blocked the ability of rotenone (100 nM) to increase inward current evoked by NMDA (30 M). Rotenone-dependent augmentation of NMDA current was also blocked by the monoamine oxidase inhibitor pargyline (100 M) in slices prepared from normal rats. In contrast, the dopamine precursor levodopa potentiated the action of rotenone on NMDA current. These results suggest that ROS and/or dopamine oxidation products mediate the ability of rotenone to potentiate NMDA currents. Because excessive NMDA receptor stimulation can produce excitotoxicity, our results suggest that oxidative metabolism of dopamine might facilitate the neurotoxicity of rotenone.
The Gttingen minipig (G-mini) is increasingly used as a non-primate model for human neurological diseases. We applied design-based stereology on five groups of G-minis aged 1 day, 14 days, 30 days, 100 days, and 2 years or older to estimate the pattern of postnatal neuron number development in the neocortex. Two time periods for the postnatal increase of neocortical neuron number were observed from the time of birth to day 14 (P=0.013) and from day 30 to day 100 (P&lt;0.001). No significant change in neuron number was found from day 14 to 30 (P=0.58) and day 100 onward (P=0.39). The average estimated total number of neurons in the neocortex was 236, 274, 264, 338, and 353 million, respectively. Since neurogenesis and neuronal migration in the human neocortex are generally accepted to be complete before term, the application of G-mini as human disease models may be inappropriate before day 100. However, G-mini may serve as a valuable model for the studies of ongoing neurogenesis in the living brain.
A significant proportion of patients with Parkinson's disease suffers from digestive symptoms. Bilateral deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus has become a reliable therapeutic option for parkinsonian patients, but its effects on digestive motility remain poorly investigated. The aim of our study was to assess whether subthalamic stimulation could induce changes in gastric, colonic, and rectal motility and modulate brain centers involved in gut motility. Methods: In anesthetized rats, unilateral subthalamic nucleus stereotactic implantation was performed while intra-gastric, -colonic, and -rectal pressures were recorded during the ON and OFF periods of the stimulation. c-Fos protein expression was quantified by immunostaining in the nucleus of the solitary tract, the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve, the locus coeruleus, and the Barrington's nucleus. Results: Compared to baseline, sham stimulation did not change phasic gastric, colonic or rectal motor activity. Unilateral subthalamic stimulation increased colonic phasic motility (P&lt;0.05) compared to baseline and the OFF period with no change in gastric and rectal motility. Pre-treatment with atropine, or specific D1 and D2 receptors antagonists prevented the rise in colonic motor activity. An increase in c-Fos protein-positive cells within all the studied nuclei was observed in the stimulated group compared to the sham group. Conclusions: Unilateral subthalamic stimulation impacts on gut motility in anesthetized rats with a significant increase in colonic motility probably via the modulation of several brain centers. These findings warrant further confirmation in parkinsonian rat models before being transposed to clinical conditions.
Compelling lines of evidence indicate that overexpression of dual-specificity tyrosine-(Y)-phosphorylation regulated kinase 1A (DYRK1A) in subjects with trisomy 21 (Down syndrome[DS]) contributes to the abnormal structure and function of the DS brain. In the present study, we used a novel, phospho-dependent antibody recognizing DYRK1A only with nonphosphorylated tyrosine 145 and 147 (DYRK1A Tyr-145/147P(-)), to investigate the expression pattern of this DYRK1A species in trisomic and disomic human and mouse brains. Immunoblotting and dephosphorylation experiments demonstrated higher levels of DYRK1A Tyr-145/147P(-) in postnatal trisomic brains in comparison with controls (by 40%) than those of the DYRK1A visualized by three other N- and C-terminally directed antibodies to DYRK1A. By immunofluorescence, the immunoreactivity to DYRK1A Tyr-145/147P(-) was the strongest in the nuclei of astroglial cells, which contrasted with the predominantly neuronal localization of DYRK1A visualized by the three other antibodies to DYRK1A we used. In addition, DYRK1A Tyr-145/147P(-) was enriched in the nuclei of neuronal progenitors and newly born neurons in the adult hippocampal proliferative zone and also occurred in some cholinergic axonal terminals. Our data show a distinctive expression pattern of DYRK1A forms nonphosphorylated at Tyr-145 and Tyr-147 in the brain tissue and suggest that DS subjects may exhibit not only upregulation of total DYRK1A, but also more subtle differences in phosphorylation levels of this kinase in comparison with control individuals.
During retinogenesis, the basic helix-loop-helix proneural gene math5 (atoh7) initiates the generation of the first-born neurons, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), by activating a network of RGC transcription factors, including Brn-3b (POU4F2). Herein, we show that the expression of DLX1 and DLX2 is significantly down-regulated in math5-null retina but is markedly increased in Brn-3b-null retina. Interestingly, Brn-3b interacts with DLX1 through its homeodomain, and this interaction represses DLX1 activity. Retrovirus-mediated mis-expression of DLX1 or DLX2 dramatically increases the number of amacrine/bipolar cells and concurrently reduces rod photoreceptors. Conversely, combined ectopic expression of Brn-3b with DLX1 or DLX2 promotes the production of RGCs and inhibits amacrine cell differentiation. Thus, DLX1/2 play an essential role in cell fate selection between amacrine and RGCs. Brn-3b suppresses the role of DLX1/2 through physical interaction and biases the competent precursors toward RGC fates.
Dysregulated cholinergic neurotransmission has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, particularly negative symptoms and cognitive deficits. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the role of neocortical cholinergic innervation and of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP) on social interaction and novel object recognition (NOR), a declarative memory task. The cholinergic corticopetal projection was lesioned by local infusion of the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin into nucleus basalis magnocellularis of adult male Lister hooded rats. Behavior was assessed 2.5 weeks later in a social interaction paradigm followed by the NOR task. We found that selective cholinergic denervation of neocortex led to a significant reduction in duration of social interaction, specifically active social interaction. Acute administration of PCP (1.0 mg/kg, s.c.) caused a marked decrease of active social interaction, such that there was no longer a difference between intact and denervated animals. Neither cholinergic denervation alone, nor PCP (1.0 mg/kg, s.c.) alone blocked the ability of rats to recognize a novel object. However, when animals lacking cortical cholinergic innervation were challenged by PCP, they were no longer able to recognize a novel object. This study indicates that rats lacking cholinergic innervation of neocortex have impaired social interaction and specifically that the duration of active contact is shortened. Animals with severe cortical cholinergic hypofunction maintain the ability to perform in a declarative memory test, although the task is carried out less intensively. However, a provocation of psychosis-like behavior by a dose of PCP that does not by itself impair performance in normal animals, will abolish the ability to recognize novel objects in animals lacking cortical cholinergic innervation. The present findings support a possible role for cortical cholinergic hypofunction in the negative and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia, and the potential for cholinergic augmentation as part of the pharmacological profile of antipsychotic drugs.
Testosterone has been previously shown to enhance adult neurogenesis within the dentate gyrus of adult male rats, whereas social isolation has been shown to cause a decrease in adult neurogenesis under some conditions. The current study tested the combined effects of testosterone and social isolation upon adult neurogenesis using two experiments involving adult male rats. For both experiments, half of the subjects were pair-housed and half were housed individually for the duration of the experiments (34 days). For experiment 1, the subjects were divided into four groups (n=8/group): (1) sham/pair-housed, (2) sham/isolated, (3) castrate/pair-housed, and (4) castrate/isolated. Rats in the castrate groups were bilaterally castrated, and rats in the sham groups were sham castrated. For experiment 2, all rats were castrated, and the effects of testosterone were tested using daily injections of testosterone propionate (0.500 mg/rat for 15 days) or the oil vehicle. Subjects were divided into four groups (n=8/group): (1) oil/pair-housed, (2) oil/isolated, (3) testosterone/pair-housed, and (4) testosterone/isolated. All rats were injected with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU, 200 mg/kg body mass), and immunohistochemistry was used to determine levels of neurogenesis following a 16-day cell survival period. For experiment 1, castrated subjects had significantly fewer BrdU-labeled cells along the granule cell layer and subgranular zone (GCL+SGZ) of the dentate gyrus than did intact subjects, and this effect was mainly due to low levels of neurogenesis in the castrate/isolated group. For experiment 2, social isolation caused a significant decrease in neurogenesis within the GCL+SGZ relative to the pair-housed groups. Testosterone injections did not buffer against this effect but instead tended to cause a decrease in neurogenesis. Thus, social isolation reduced hippocampal neurogenesis, but the effects of testosterone were inconsistent. This suggests that normal circulating levels of testosterone may buffer against the neurogenesis-impairing effects of isolation, whereas high doses of testosterone do not.
The Jenna mutant mouse harbours an S140G mutation in Tuba1a that impairs tubulin heterodimer formation resulting in defective neuronal migration during development. The consequence of decreased neuronal motility is a fractured pyramidal cell layer in the hippocampus and wave-like perturbations in the cerebral cortex. Here, we extend our characterisation of this mouse investigating the laminar architecture of the superior colliculus (SC). Our results reveal that the structure of the SC in mutant animals is intact; however, it is significantly thinner with an apparent fusion of the intermediate grey and white layers. Birthdate labelling at E12.5 and E13.5 showed that the S140G mutation impairs the radial migration of neurons in the SC. A quantitative assessment of neuronal number in adulthood reveals a massive reduction in postmitotic neurons in mutant animals, which we attribute to increased apoptotic cell death. Consistent with the role of the SC in modulating sensorimotor gating, and the circuitry that modulates this behaviour, we find that Jenna mutants exhibit an exaggerated acoustic startle response. Our results highlight the importance of Tuba1a for correct neuronal migration and implicate postnatal apoptotic cell death in the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the tubulinopathies.
Sustained motor improvement in human patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease has been described following electroconvulsive shock (ECS) treatment. In rats, ECS stimulates the expression of various trophic factors (TFs), some of which have been proposed to exert neuroprotective actions. We previously reported that ECS protects the integrity of the rat nigrostriatal dopaminergic system against 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced toxicity; in order to shed light into its neuroprotective mechanism, we studied glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) levels (the most efficient TF for dopaminergic neurons) in the substantia nigra (SN) and striatum of 6-OHDA-injected animals with or without ECS treatment. 6-OHDA injection decreased GDNF levels in the SN control animals, but not in those receiving chronic ECS, suggesting that changes in GDNF expression may participate in the ECS neuroprotective mechanism. To evaluate this possibility, we inhibit GDNF by infusion of GDNF function blocking antibodies in the SN of 6-OHDA-injected animals treated with ECS (or sham ECS). Animals were sacrificed 7 days after 6-OHDA infusion, and the integrity of the nigrostriatal system was studied by tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry and Cresyl Violet staining. Neuroprotection observed in ECS-treated animals was inhibited by GDNF antibodies in the SN. These results robustly demonstrate that GDNF is essential for the ECS neuroprotective effect observed in 6-OHDA-injected animals.
The endocannabinoid (eCB) system is thought to participate in developmental processes in the CNS. The rodent retina represents a valuable model to study CNS development because it contains well-identified cell types with established developmental timelines. The distribution of cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1R) was recently revealed in the developing retina; however, the expression patterns of other elements of this system remain unknown. In this study, we investigated the expression pattern of the degradative enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), a key regulator of the eCB system, in the rat retina during postnatal development. To identify the cells expressing the enzyme, co-stainings were carried out for FAAH and retinal cell type markers. FAAH was expressed at postnatal day (P) 1 in ganglion and cholinergic amacrine cells. In the course of development, it appeared in cones, horizontal, and bipolar cells. For most cell types (horizontal, cholinergic amacrine cells, and cone bipolar cells), FAAH was transiently expressed, suggesting an important redistribution of the enzyme during postnatal development and thus a potential role of the eCB system in developmental processes. Our results also indicated that, in the adult retina, FAAH is expressed in cones, rod bipolar cells, and some retinal ganglion cells. The presence of FAAH in adult animals supports the hypothesis that the eCB system is involved in retinal functions. Overall these results indicate that, as shown in other structures of the brain, the eCB system could play an instrumental role in the development and function of the retina.
Recent evidence showing center of pressure (COP) displacements increase following an external stabilization of the center of mass (COM) supports the theory that postural sway may be exploratory and serve as a means of acquiring sensory information. The aim of the current study was to further test this theory and rule out potential confounding effects of sensory illusions or motor drift on prior observations. Participants stood as still as possible in an apparatus which allowed movements of the COM to be stabilized (&quot;locked&quot;) without subject awareness, and they were provided real-time visual feedback of their COM or COP throughout the trial. If there was an influence of sensory illusions or motor drift, we hypothesized that the change in COP displacement with locking would be reduced when participants were provided visual confirmation of COM stabilization (COM feedback), or when they were aware of the position of the COP throughout the trial (COP feedback). Confirming our previous results, increases in COP displacement were observed when movements of the COM were stabilized. In addition, our results showed that increases in COP displacement could not be explained by the presence of sensory illusions or motor drift, since increases in COP were observed despite being provided convincing evidence that the COM had been stabilized, and when participants were aware of their COP position throughout the trial. These results provide further support for an exploratory role of postural sway. The theoretical basis of current clinical practices designed to deal with balance control deficits due to age or disease is typically based on the opinion that increases in sway are a consequence of a failing balance control system. Our results suggest that this may not be the case, and if sway is in fact exploratory, a serious re-evaluation of current clinical practices may be warranted.
Ginsenosides are the main active ingredients in ginseng and have recently been reported to have beneficial effects on the CNS. Ocotillol is a derivate of pseudoginsenoside-F11, which is an ocotillol-type ginsenoside found in American ginseng. We examined the effects of ocotillol (a) on neuronal activity of projection neurons, mitral cells (MC), in a mouse olfactory bulb brain slice preparation using whole-cell patch-clamp recording, and (b) on animal behavior by measuring locomotor activity of mice in vivo. Ocotillol displayed an excitatory effect on spontaneous action potential firing and depolarized the membrane potential of MCs. The effect was concentration-dependent, with an EC(50) of 4 M. In the presence of blockers of ionotropic glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione [CNQX], 10 M; D-AP5, 50 M; gabazine, 5 M), the excitatory effect of ocotillol on firing was abolished. Further experiments showed that the ocotillol-induced neuronal excitation persisted in the presence of GABA(A) receptor antagonist gabazine but was eliminated by applying AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist CNQX and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist D-AP5, suggesting that ionotropic glutamate transmission was involved in mediating the effects of ocotillol. Bath application of ocotillol evoked an inward current as well as an increased frequency of spontaneous glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs). Both the inward current and sEPSCs could be blocked by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists CNQX and D-AP5. These results indicate that the excitatory action of ocotillol on MCs was mediated by enhanced glutamate release. Behavioral experiments demonstrated that ocotillol increased locomotor activities of mice. Our results suggest that ocotillol-evoked neuronal excitability was mediated by increased release of glutamate, which may be responsible for the increased spontaneous locomotor activities in vivo.
Following body rotation, optimal updating of the position of a memorized target is attained when retinal error is perceived and corrective saccade is performed. Thus, it appears that these processes may enable the calibration of the vestibular system by facilitating the sharing of information between both reference frames. Here, it is assessed whether having sensory information regarding body rotation in the target reference frame could enhance an individual's learning rate to predict the position of an earth-fixed target. During rotation, participants had to respond when they felt their body midline had crossed the position of the target and received knowledge of result. During practice blocks, for two groups, visual cues were displayed in the same reference frame of the target, whereas a third group relied on vestibular information (vestibular-only group) to predict the location of the target. Participants, unaware of the role of the visual cues (visual cues group), learned to predict the location of the target and spatial error decreased from 16.2 to 2.0, reflecting a learning rate of 34.08 trials (determined from fitting a falling exponential model). In contrast, the group aware of the role of the visual cues (explicit visual cues group) showed a faster learning rate (i.e. 2.66 trials) but similar final spatial error 2.9. For the vestibular-only group, similar accuracy was achieved (final spatial error of 2.3), but their learning rate was much slower (i.e. 43.29 trials). Transferring to the Post-test (no visual cues and no knowledge of result) increased the spatial error of the explicit visual cues group (9.5), but it did not change the performance of the vestibular group (1.2). Overall, these results imply that cognition assists the brain in processing the sensory information within the target reference frame.
It is now well established that nicotine adversely affects the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). In contrast, nicotine has been reported to increase the transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER) of CaCo colon cancer cells. In the present study, the effects of nicotine upon the TEER and sucrose permeability of ECV304/C6 co-cultures and, for comparative purposes, CaCo cells has been investigated. Neither ECV304 nor C6 cells were found to express measurable membrane levels of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, as assessed by [H]-epibatidine binding. Nicotine treatment (0.01-1 M) for up to 48 h had little or no effect upon the TEER or sucrose permeability of either ECV304/C6 co-cultures or CaCo cells. It is concluded that in contrast to the situation for the BBB, ECV304 cells lack nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and the barrier properties of ECV304/C6 co-cultures are not affected to any important extent by nicotine. This study underlines the conclusions made by other authors that the ECV304/C6 co-culture system is of limited validity as a model of the BBB.
JC virus (JCV) encodes a small basic phosphoprotein from the late coding region called agnoprotein, which has been shown to play important regulatory roles in the viral replication cycle. In this study, we report that agnoprotein forms highly stable dimers and higher order oligomer complexes. This was confirmed by immunoblotting and mass spectrometry studies. These complexes are extremely resistant to strong denaturing agents, including urea and SDS. Central portion of the protein, amino acids spanning from 17 to 42 is important for dimer/oligomer formation. Removal of 17 to 42 aa region from the viral background severely affected the efficiency of the JCV replication. Extracts prepared from JCV-infected cells showed a double banding pattern for agnoprotein in vivo. Collectively, these findings suggest that agnoprotein forms functionally active homodimer/oligomer complexes and these may be important for its function during viral propagation and thus for the progression of PML.

Resistance to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) is a major problem in epilepsy treatment. However, mechanisms of resistance are only incompletely understood. We have recently shown that repeated administration of the AED phenytoin allows selecting resistant and responsive rats from the amygdala kindling model of epilepsy, providing a tool to study mechanisms of AED resistance. We now tested whether individual amygdala-kindled rats also differ in their anticonvulsant response to the major AED valproate (VPA) and which mechanism may underlie the different response to VPA. VPA has been proposed to act, at least in part, by reducing spontaneous activity in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr), a main basal ganglia output structure involved in seizure propagation, seizure control, and epilepsy-induced neuroplasticity. Thus, we evaluated whether poor anticonvulsant response to VPA is correlated with low efficacy of VPA on SNr firing rate and pattern in kindled rats. We found (1) that good and poor VPA responders can be selected in kindled rats by repeatedly determining the effect of VPA on the electrographic seizure threshold, and (2) a significant correlation between the anticonvulsant response to VPA in kindled rats and its effect on SNr firing rate and pattern. The less VPA was able to raise seizure threshold, the lower was the VPA-induced reduction of SNr firing rate and the VPA-induced regularity of SNr firing. The data demonstrate for the first time an involvement of the SNr in pharmacoresistant experimental epilepsy and emphasize the relevance of the basal ganglia as target structures for new treatment options.
The phases at which network neurons fire in rhythmic motor outputs are critically important for the proper generation of motor behaviors. The pyloric network in the crustacean stomatogastric ganglion generates a rhythmic motor output wherein neuronal phase relationships are remarkably invariant across individuals and throughout lifetimes. The mechanisms for maintaining these robust phase relationships over the long-term are not well described. Here we show that tonic nanomolar dopamine (DA) acts at type 1 DA receptors (D1Rs) to enable an activity-dependent mechanism that can contribute to phase maintenance in the lateral pyloric (LP) neuron. The LP displays continuous rhythmic bursting. The activity-dependent mechanism was triggered by a prolonged decrease in LP burst duration, and it generated a persistent increase in the maximal conductance (G(max)) of the LP hyperpolarization-activated current (I(h)), but only in the presence of steady-state DA. Interestingly, micromolar DA produces an LP phase advance accompanied by a decrease in LP burst duration that abolishes normal LP network function. During a 1 h application of micromolar DA, LP phase recovered over tens of minutes because, the activity-dependent mechanism enabled by steady-state DA was triggered by the micromolar DA-induced decrease in LP burst duration. Presumably, this mechanism restored normal LP network function. These data suggest steady-state DA may enable homeostatic mechanisms that maintain motor network output during protracted neuromodulation. This DA-enabled, activity-dependent mechanism to preserve phase may be broadly relevant, as diminished dopaminergic tone has recently been shown to reduce I(h) in rhythmically active neurons in the mammalian brain.
Ca-dependent synaptic vesicle recycling is critical for maintenance of neurotransmission. However, uncoupling the roles of Ca in synaptic vesicle fusion and retrieval has been difficult, as studies probing the role of Ca in endocytosis relied on measurements of bulk synaptic vesicle retrieval. Here, to dissect the role of Ca in these processes, we used a low signal-to-noise pHluorin-tagged vesicular probe to monitor single synaptic vesicle recycling in rat hippocampal neurons. We show that Ca increases synaptic vesicle fusion probability in the classical sense, but surprisingly decreases the rate of synaptic vesicle retrieval. This negative regulation of synaptic vesicle retrieval is blocked by the Ca chelator, EGTA, as well as FK506, a specific inhibitor of Ca-calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin. The slow time course of aggregate synaptic vesicle retrieval detected during repetitive activity could be explained by a progressive decrease in the rate of synaptic vesicle retrieval during the stimulation train. These results indicate that Ca entry during single action potentials slows the pace of subsequent synaptic vesicle recycling.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) triggers inflammatory responses that involve neutrophils, macrophages/microglia and astrocytes and molecules that potentially cause secondary tissue damage and functional impairment. Here, we assessed the contribution of the calcium-dependent K channel KCNN4 (KCa3.1, IK1, SK4) to secondary damage after moderate contusion lesions in the lower thoracic spinal cord of adult mice. Changes in KCNN4 mRNA levels (RT-PCR), KCa3.1 protein expression (Western blots), and cellular expression (immunofluorescence) in the mouse spinal cord were monitored between 1 and 28 d after SCI. KCNN4 mRNA and KCa3.1 protein rapidly increased after SCI; double labeling identified astrocytes as the main cellular source accounting for this upregulation. Locomotor function after SCI, evaluated for 28 d in an open-field test using the Basso Mouse Scale, was improved in a dose-dependent manner by treating mice with a selective inhibitor of KCa3.1 channels, TRAM-34 (triarylmethane-34). Improved locomotor function was accompanied by reduced tissue loss at 28 d and increased neuron and axon sparing. The rescue of tissue by TRAM-34 treatment was preceded by reduced expression of the proinflammatory mediators, tumor necrosis factor- and interleukin-1 in spinal cord tissue at 12 h after injury, and reduced expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase at 7 d after SCI. In astrocytes in vitro, TRAM-34 inhibited Ca signaling in response to metabotropic purinergic receptor stimulation. These results suggest that blocking the KCa3.1 channel could be a potential therapeutic approach for treating secondary damage after spinal cord injury.
The distribution of in vivo average firing rates within local cortical networks has been reported to be highly skewed and long tailed. The distribution of average single-cell inputs, conversely, is expected to be Gaussian by the central limit theorem. This raises the issue of how a skewed distribution of firing rates might result from a symmetric distribution of inputs. We argue that skewed rate distributions are a signature of the nonlinearity of the in vivo f-I curve. During in vivo conditions, ongoing synaptic activity produces significant fluctuations in the membrane potential of neurons, resulting in an expansive nonlinearity of the f-I curve for low and moderate inputs. Here, we investigate the effects of single-cell and network parameters on the shape of the f-I curve and, by extension, on the distribution of firing rates in randomly connected networks.
When shifting gaze to foveate a new target, humans mostly choose a unique set of eye and head movements from an infinite number of possible combinations. This stereotypy suggests that a general principle governs the movement choice. Here, we show that minimizing the impact of uncertainty, i.e., noise affecting motor performance, can account for the choice of combined eye-head movements. This optimization criterion predicts all major features of natural eye-head movements-including the part where gaze is already on target and the eye counter-rotates-such as movement durations, relative eye-head contributions, velocity profiles, and the dependency of gaze shifts on initial eye position. As a critical test of this principle, we show that it also correctly predicts changes in eye and head movement imposed by an experimental increase in the head moment of inertia. This suggests that minimizing the impact of noise is a simple and powerful principle that explains the choice of a unique set of movement profiles and segment coordination in goal-directed action.
Relapse to cocaine-seeking involves impairments in plasticity at glutamatergic synapses in the nucleus accumbens. Integrins are cell adhesion molecules that bind to the extracellular matrix and regulate aspects of synaptic plasticity, including glutamate receptor trafficking. To determine a role for integrins in cocaine-seeking, rats were trained to self-administer cocaine, the operant response extinguished, and cocaine-seeking induced by a conditioned cue or noncontingent cocaine injection. This cocaine self-administration protocol reduced the content of the 3 integrin subunit in postsynaptic density of the accumbens core at 24 h after the last self-administration session. However, after 3 weeks of forced abstinence plus extinction training, the level of 3 was elevated and was further regulated over 120 min during cocaine-induced drug-seeking. A small peptide ligand [arginine-glycine-aspartate (RGD)] that mimics extracellular matrix protein binding to integrins was microinjected into the accumbens core during self-administration or extinction training, or just before cocaine-reinstated drug seeking. The daily RGD injections during self-administration or just before a reinstatement session inhibited cocaine-induced drug-seeking, while RGD microinjection during extinction training was without consequence on reinstated cocaine-seeking. Daily RGD during self-administration also prevented the enduring changes in 3 levels. Finally, reduced surface expression of the GluR2 subunit of the AMPA receptor is associated with cocaine-seeking, and daily RGD microinjections during self-administration training normalized the surface expression of GluR2. Together, these data indicate that the regulation integrins may contribute to cocaine-reinstated drug-seeking, in part by promoting reduced GluR2 surface expression.
While much is known about the mechanisms that underlie sleep and circadian rhythms, the investigation into sex differences and gonadal steroid modulation of sleep and biological rhythms is in its infancy. There is a growing recognition of sex disparities in sleep and rhythm disorders. Understanding how neuroendocrine mediators and sex differences influence sleep and biological rhythms is central to advancing our understanding of sleep-related disorders. While it is known that ovarian steroids affect circadian rhythms in rodents, the role of androgen is less understood. Surprising findings that androgens, acting via androgen receptors in the master &quot;circadian clock&quot; within the suprachiasmatic nucleus, modulate photic effects on activity in males point to novel mechanisms of circadian control. Work in aromatase-deficient mice suggests that some sex differences in photic responsiveness are independent of gonadal hormone effects during development. In parallel, aspects of sex differences in sleep are also reported to be independent of gonadal steroids and may involve sex chromosome complement. This a summary of recent work illustrating how sex differences and gonadal hormones influence sleep and circadian rhythms that was presented at a Mini-Symposium at the 2011 annual meeting of the Society for Neuroscience.
Although the existence of prominent connections between the intralaminar thalamic nuclei and the basal ganglia has long been established, the limited knowledge of the functional relevance of this network has considerably hampered progress in our understanding of the neural mechanisms by which the thalamostriatal system integrates and regulates the basal ganglia circuitry. In this brief commentary, we will address this gap of knowledge through a discussion of the key points of a symposium entitled &quot;Thalamic Contributions to Basal Ganglia-Related Behavioral Switching and Reinforcement&quot; that will be presented at the 2011 Society for Neuroscience meeting. Recent anatomical and physiological data that support the role of the thalamostriatal system in action selection, attentional shifting, and reinforcement will be discussed. We will also address the possibility that degeneration of the thalamostriatal system could underlie some of the deficits in redirection of attention in response to salient stimuli seen in Parkinson's disease.
Melanopsin imparts an intrinsic photosensitivity to a subclass of retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs). Generally thought of as irradiance detectors, ipRGCs target numerous brain regions involved in non-image-forming vision. ipRGCs integrate their intrinsic, melanopsin-mediated light information with rod/cone signals relayed via synaptic connections to influence light-dependent behaviors. Early observations indicated diversity among these cells and recently several specific subtypes have been identified. These subtypes differ in morphological and physiological form, controlling separate functions that range from biological rhythm via circadian photoentrainment, to protective behavioral responses including pupil constriction and light avoidance, and even image-forming vision. In this Mini-Symposium review, we will discuss some recent findings that highlight the diversity in both form and function of these recently discovered atypical photoreceptors.
Our understanding of the roles played by zinc in the physiological and pathological functioning of the brain is rapidly expanding. The increased availability of genetically modified animal models, selective zinc-sensitive fluorescent probes, and novel chelators is producing a remarkable body of exciting new data that clearly establishes this metal ion as a key modulator of intracellular and intercellular neuronal signaling. In this Mini-Symposium, we will review and discuss the most recent findings that link zinc to synaptic function as well as the injurious effects of zinc dyshomeostasis within the context of neuronal death associated with major human neurological disorders, including stroke, epilepsy, and Alzheimer's disease.
The remarkable advances in cellular reprogramming have made it possible to generate a renewable source of human neurons from fibroblasts obtained from skin samples of neonates and adults. As a result, we can now investigate the etiology of neurological diseases at the cellular level using neuronal populations derived from patients, which harbor the same genetic mutations thought to be relevant to the risk for pathology. Therapeutic implications include the ability to establish new humanized disease models for understanding mechanisms, conduct high-throughput screening for novel biogenic compounds to reverse or prevent the disease phenotype, identify and engineer genetic rescue of causal mutations, and develop patient-specific cellular replacement strategies. Although this field offers enormous potential for understanding and treating neurological disease, there are still many issues that must be addressed before we can fully exploit this technology. Here we summarize several recent studies presented at a symposium at the 2011 annual meeting of the Society for Neuroscience, which highlight innovative approaches to cellular reprogramming and how this revolutionary technique is being refined to model neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases, such as autism spectrum disorders, schizophrenia, familial dysautonomia, and Alzheimer's disease.
Microglia were recently shown to play unexpected roles in normal brain development and adult physiology. This has begun to dramatically change our view of these resident &quot;immune&quot; cells. Here, we briefly review topics covered in our 2011 Society for Neuroscience minisymposium &quot;The Role of Microglia in the Healthy Brain.&quot; This summary is not meant to be a comprehensive review of microglia physiology, but rather to share new results and stimulate further research into the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which microglia influence postnatal development, adult neuronal plasticity, and circuit function.
How do neurons integrate intracellular communication from synapse to nucleus and back? Here we briefly summarize aspects of this topic covered by a symposium at Neuroscience 2011. A rich repertoire of signaling mechanisms link both dendritic terminals and axon tips with neuronal soma and nucleus, using motor-dependent transport machineries to traverse the long intracellular distances along neuronal processes. Activation mechanisms at terminals include localized translation of dendritic or axonal RNA, proteolytic cleavage of receptors or second messengers, and differential phosphorylation of signaling moieties. Signaling complexes may be transported in endosomes, or as non-endosomal complexes associated with importins and dynein. Anterograde transport of RNA granules from the soma to neuronal processes, coupled with retrograde transport of proteins translated locally at terminals or within processes, may fuel ongoing bidirectional communication between soma and synapse to modulate synaptic plasticity as well as neuronal growth and survival decisions.



Recent work in humans suggests that strong static magnets can modulate cortical excitability for a limited period of time. Can this provide an alternative to current neurostimulation approaches?
A recent study in the rat has shown that hippocampal place cells and entorhinal grid cells exhibit vertically-elongated firing fields, indicating that the rat's brain may encode the animal's elevation less accurately than its horizontal position.

miR-137 is a brain-enriched microRNA. Its role in neural development remains unknown. Here we show that miR-137 has an essential role in controlling embryonic neural stem cell fate determination. miR-137 negatively regulates cell proliferation and accelerates neural differentiation of embryonic neural stem cells. In addition, we show that the histone lysine-specific demethylase 1 (LSD1), a transcriptional co-repressor of nuclear receptor TLX, is a downstream target of miR-137. In utero electroporation of miR-137 in embryonic mouse brains led to premature differentiation and outward migration of the transfected cells. Introducing a LSD1 expression vector lacking the miR-137 recognition site rescued miR-137-induced precocious differentiation. Furthermore, we demonstrate that TLX, an essential regulator of neural stem cell self-renewal, represses the expression of miR-137 by recruiting LSD1 to the genomic regions of miR-137. Thus, miR-137 forms a feedback regulatory loop with TLX and LSD1 to control the dynamics between neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation during neural development.
Using the R6/1 mouse model of Huntington disease (HD), we have recently shown that voluntary physical activity was able to correct the depressive-like behaviours exhibited by the HD animals at a pre-motor symptomatic stage of the disease. Using the high performance liquid chromatography system, we have now evaluated the effect of exercise on monoamine metabolism in HD mice. We found that serotonin and its metabolite as well as dopamine and noradrenaline were reduced across several brain regions in female R6/1 animals. Our data also suggest that some of these neurochemical deficits were modulated by physical activity, in a genotype-region dependent manner. These newly identified changes could account for some of the behavioural effects of exercise previously reported in HD mice.
A critical step in neuronal development is the formation of axon/dendrite polarity, a process involving symmetry breaking in the newborn neuron. Local self-amplifying processes could enhance and stabilize the initial asymmetry in the distribution of axon/dendrite determinants, but the identity of these processes remains elusive. We here report that BDNF, a secreted neurotrophin essential for the survival and differentiation of many neuronal populations, serves as a self-amplifying autocrine factor in promoting axon formation in embryonic hippocampal neurons by triggering two nested positive-feedback mechanisms. First, BDNF elevates cytoplasmic cAMP and protein kinase A activity, which triggers further secretion of BDNF and membrane insertion of its receptor TrkB. Second, BDNF/TrkB signaling activates PI3-kinase that promotes anterograde transport of TrkB in the putative axon, further enhancing local BDNF/TrkB signaling. Together, these self-amplifying BDNF actions ensure stable elevation of local cAMP/protein kinase A activity that is critical for axon differentiation and growth.
We introduce a human retinal pigmented epithelial (RPE) cell-culture model that mimics several key aspects of early stage age-related macular degeneration (AMD). These include accumulation of sub-RPE deposits that contain molecular constituents of human drusen, and activation of complement leading to formation of deposit-associated terminal complement complexes. Abundant sub-RPE deposits that are rich in apolipoprotein E (APOE), a prominent drusen constituent, are formed by RPE cells grown on porous supports. Exposure to human serum results in selective, deposit-associated accumulation of additional known drusen components, including vitronectin, clusterin, and serum amyloid P, thus suggesting that specific protein-protein interactions contribute to the accretion of plasma proteins during drusen formation. Serum exposure also leads to complement activation, as evidenced by the generation of C5b-9 immunoreactive terminal complement complexes in association with APOE-containing deposits. Ultrastructural analyses reveal two morphologically distinct forms of deposits: One consisting of membrane-bounded multivesicular material, and the other of nonmembrane-bounded particle conglomerates. Collectively, these results suggest that drusen formation involves the accumulation of sub-RPE material rich in APOE, a prominent biosynthetic product of the RPE, which interacts with a select group of drusen-associated plasma proteins. Activation of the complement cascade appears to be mediated via the classical pathway by the binding of C1q to ligands in APOE-rich deposits, triggering direct activation of complement by C1q, deposition of terminal complement complexes and inflammatory sequelae. This model system will facilitate the analysis of molecular and cellular aspects of AMD pathogenesis, and the testing of new therapeutic agents for its treatment.


The dynamics of fingertip contact manifest themselves in the complex skin movements observed during the transition from a stuck state to a fully developed slip. While investigating this transition, we found that it depended on skin hydration. To quantify this dependency, we asked subjects to slide their index fingertip on a glass surface while keeping the normal component of the interaction force constant with the help of visual feedback. Skin deformation inside the contact region was imaged with an optical apparatus that allowed us to quantify the relative sizes of the slipping and sticking regions. The ratio of the stuck skin area to the total contact area decreased linearly from 1 to 0 when the tangential force component increased from 0 to a maximum. The slope of this relationship was inversely correlated to the normal force component. The skin hydration level dramatically affected the dynamics of the contact encapsulated in the course of evolution from sticking to slipping. The specific effect was to reduce the tendency of a contact to slip, regardless of the variations of the coefficient of friction. Since grips were more unstable under dry skin conditions, our results suggest that the nervous system responds to dry skin by exaggerated grip forces that cannot be simply explained by a change in the coefficient of friction.
Impairment of the blood brain barrier (BBB) in human brain ageing and its relationship to Alzheimer-type pathology remains poorly defined. We have investigated the BBB in temporal cortex of brain donations from a population-representative sample of 92 participants from the Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study (MRC CFAS), a longitudinal study with a programme of brain donation. BBB alteration was investigated by immunohistochemistry to albumin and fibrinogen and to the tight junction proteins claudin-5, zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) and occludin. BBB leakage showed wide population-variation and increased with progression of Alzheimer-type pathology, though with considerable overlap between different levels of Alzheimer-type pathology. This was accompanied by increased mean vascular density, but not by down-regulation of tight junction proteins. ZO-1 and occludin were also expressed in glia. Mechanisms leading to BBB leakage in brain ageing remain to be defined, but the population-variation in BBB changes and its early increase in relationship to Alzheimer-type pathology progression suggest that BBB dysfunction contributes to brain ageing.
A subset of congenital muscular dystrophies (CMDs) has central nervous system manifestations. There are good mouse models for these CMDs that include POMGnT1 knockout, POMT2 knockout and Large(myd) mice with all exhibiting defects in dentate gyrus. It is not known how the abnormal dentate gyrus is formed during the development. In this study, we conducted a detailed morphological examination of the dentate gyrus in adult and newborn POMGnT1 knockout, POMT2 knockout, and Large(myd) mice by immunofluorescence staining and electron microscopic analyses. We observed that the pial basement membrane overlying the dentate gyrus was disrupted and there was ectopia of granule cell precursors through the breached pial basement membrane. Besides these, the knockout dentate gyrus exhibited reactive gliosis in these mouse models. Thus, breaches in the pial basement membrane are associated with defective dentate gyrus development in mouse models of congenital muscular dystrophies.
Two-photon (2P) microscopy is widely used in neuroscience, but the optical properties of brain tissue are poorly understood. We have investigated the effect of brain tissue on the 2P point spread function (PSFp) by imaging fluorescent beads through living cortical slices. By combining this with measurements of the mean free path of the excitation light, adaptive optics and vector-based modeling that includes phase modulation and scattering, we show that tissue-induced wavefront distortions are the main determinant of enlargement and distortion of the PSFp at intermediate imaging depths. Furthermore, they generate surrounding lobes that contain more than half of the 2P excitation. These effects reduce the resolution of fine structures and contrast and they, together with scattering, limit 2P excitation. Our results disentangle the contributions of scattering and wavefront distortion in shaping the cortical PSFp, thereby providing a basis for improved 2P microscopy.
Wallerian degeneration is observed in many neurological disorders, and it is therefore important to elucidate the axonal degeneration mechanism to prevent, and further develop treatment for, such diseases. The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) has been implicated in Wallerian degeneration, but the underlying molecular mechanism remains unclear. Here we show that ZNRF1, an E3 ligase, promotes Wallerian degeneration by targeting AKT to degrade through the UPS. AKT phosphorylates glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3B), and thereby inactivates it in axons. AKT overexpression significantly delays axonal degeneration. Overexpression of the active (non-phosphorylated) form of GSK3B induces CRMP2 phosphorylation, which is required for the microtubule reorganization observed in the degenerating axon. The inhibition of GSK3B and the overexpression of non-phosphorylated CRMP2 both protected axons from Wallerian degeneration. These findings indicate that the ZNRF1-AKT-GSK3B-CRMP2 pathway plays an important role in controlling Wallerian degeneration.
Stress affects various forms of cognition. We found that moderate stress enhanced late reversal learning in a mouse touchscreen-based choice task. Ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) lesions mimicked the effect of stress, whereas orbitofrontal and dorsolateral striatal lesions impaired reversal. Stress facilitation of reversal was prevented by BDNF infusion into the vmPFC. These findings suggest a mechanism by which stress-induced vmPFC dysfunction disinhibits learning by alternate (for example, striatal) systems.
Deficits in prefrontal cholinergic function are implicated in cognitive impairment in many neuropsychiatric diseases, but acetylcholine's specific role remains elusive. Rhesus monkeys with selective lesions of cholinergic input to prefrontal cortex (PFC) were unimpaired in tests of decision making and episodic memory that require intact PFC, but were severely impaired on a spatial working memory task. These observations are consistent with a specific role for prefrontal acetylcholine in working memory.
Very little is known about how stimuli that are typically not rich in sugars, such as beer, trigger attractive gustatory responses in Drosophila. We identified a member of the gustatory receptor family, Gr64e, as a receptor that is required for feeding preference for beer and other sources that have fermenting yeast. We found that Gr64e is required for neuronal and behavioral responses to glycerol, an abundant component of growing yeast and fermentation products. Ectopic expression of Gr64e in an olfactory neuron conferred responsiveness to glycerol. We also found that Drosophila species that are predicted to carry pseudogenes of Gr64e had reduced glycerol sensitivity. Our results provide insight into the molecular mechanisms of feeding acceptance of yeast products and raise the possibility that Gr64e contributes to specific evolutionary variations in appetitive selectivity across Drosophila species.
The descriptive term of cerebral palsy encompasses the largest group of childhood movement disorders. Severity and pattern of clinical involvement varies widely dependent on the area of the central nervous system compromised. A multidisciplinary team approach is vital for all the aspects of management to improve function and minimise disability. From a medical viewpoint, there are two pronged approaches. First a focus on developmental and clinical comorbidities such as communication, behaviour, epilepsy, feeding problems, gastro-oesophageal reflux and infections; and second on specifics of muscle tone, motor control and posture. With regards to the latter, there is an increasing number of available treatments including oral antispasticity and antidystonic medications, injectable botulinum toxin, multilevel orthopaedic and neurosurgical options and a variety of complementary and alternative therapies.
In patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), esophageal exposure to both acid and duodenogastroesophageal reflux are more common than to acid reflux alone, suggesting that acidic bile acid in duodenal juice may contribute to the pathophysiology and severity of GERD. However, the mechanism whereby esophageal mucosal epithelial cells react to bile acid remains unclear. We visually examined the real-time response of mouse esophageal epithelial cells to bile acids using calcium (Ca(2+))-imaging methods. We investigated the effects of seven different bile acids. After stimulation for a few minutes, only Deoxycholate (DCA) under acidic conditions caused a elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i))in the cells in dose- and pH-dependent manners. Conjugated bile acids had no effect on the cells. Viability assay of the cells in the presence of DCA was in good agreement with the calcium imaging data. Besides, DCA-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increase in acidic conditions was observed not only in isolated primary cultured cells, but also in cells in the stratified squamous epithelium. This study suggests that DCA can pass through the anatomical barrier of the esophageal epithelium and induce calcium signaling in epithelial cells in a pH-dependent manner. This supports the hypothesis that bile acid reflux together with gastric acid can affect the esophageal mucosa, even under reflux times of a few minutes.
For someone on a food-restricted diet, food craving in response to food-paired cues may serve as a key behavioral transition point between abstinence and relapse to food taking. Food craving conceptualized in this way is akin to drug craving in response to drug-paired cues. A rich literature has been developed around understanding the behavioral and neurobiological determinants of drug craving; we and others have been focusing recently on translating techniques from basic addiction research to better understand addiction-like behaviors related to food. As done in previous studies of drug craving, we examine sucrose craving behavior by utilizing a rat model of relapse. In this model, rats self-administer either drug or food in sessions over several days. In a session, lever responding delivers the reward along with a tone+light stimulus. Craving behavior is then operationally defined as responding in a subsequent session where the reward is not available. Rats will reliably respond for the tone+light stimulus, likely due to its acquired conditioned reinforcing properties. This behavior is sometimes referred to as sucrose seeking or cue reactivity. In the present discussion we will use the term &quot;sucrose craving&quot; to subsume both of these constructs. In the past decade, we have focused on how the length of time following reward self-administration influences reward craving. Interestingly, rats increase responding for the reward-paired cue over the course of several weeks of a period of forced-abstinence. This &quot;incubation of craving&quot; is observed in rats that have self-administered either food or drugs of abuse. This time-dependent increase in craving we have identified in the animal model may have great potential relevance to human drug and food addiction behaviors. Here we present a protocol for assessing incubation of sucrose craving in rats. Variants of the procedure will be indicated where craving is assessed as responding for a discrete sucrose-paired cue following extinction of lever pressing within the sucrose self-administration context (Extinction without cues) or as responding for sucrose-paired cues in a general extinction context (Extinction with cues).
Synaptic plasticity is the experience-dependent change in connectivity between neurons that is believed to underlie learning and memory. Here, we discuss the cellular and molecular processes that are altered when a neuron responds to external stimuli, and how these alterations lead to an increase or decrease in synaptic connectivity. Modification of synaptic components and changes in gene expression are necessary for many forms of plasticity. We focus on excitatory neurons in the mammalian hippocampus, one of the best-studied model systems of learning-related plasticity.
The relation between the structure of the nervous system and its function is more poorly understood than the relation between structure and function in any other organ system. We explore why bridging the structure-function divide is uniquely difficult in the brain. These difficulties also explain the thrust behind the enormous amount of innovation centered on microscopy in neuroscience. We highlight some recent progress and the challenges that remain.




Dominance hierarchy has a profound impact on animals' survival, health, and reproductive success, but its neural circuit mechanism is virtually unknown. We found that dominance ranking in mice is transitive, relatively stable, and highly correlates among multiple behavior measures. Recording from layer V pyramidal neurons of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) showed higher strength of excitatory synaptic inputs in mice with higher ranking, as compared with their subordinate cage mates. Furthermore, molecular manipulations that resulted in an increase and decrease in the synaptic efficacy in dorsal mPFC neurons caused an upward and downward movement in the social rank, respectively. These results provide direct evidence for mPFC's involvement in social hierarchy and suggest that social rank is plastic and can be tuned by altering synaptic strength in mPFC pyramidal cells.
The growth factor family of neurotrophins has major roles both inside and outside the nervous system. Here, we report a detailed histological analysis of key phenotypes generated by the ablation of the Kinase D interacting substrate of 220kDa/Ankyrin repeat-rich membrane spanning (Kidins220/ARMS) protein, a membrane-anchored scaffold for the neurotrophin receptors Trk and p75(NTR). Kidins220 is important for heart development, as shown by the severe defects in the outflow tract and ventricle wall formation displayed by the Kidins220 mutant mice. Kidins220 is also important for peripheral nervous system development, as the loss of Kidins220 in vivo caused extensive apoptosis of DRGs and other sensory ganglia. Moreover, the neuronal-specific deletion of this protein leads to early postnatal death, showing that Kidins220 also has a critical function in the postnatal brain.
Virtual reality (VR) environments are increasingly being used by neuroscientists to simulate natural events and social interactions. VR creates interactive, multimodal sensory stimuli that offer unique advantages over other approaches to neuroscientific research and applications. VR's compatibility with imaging technologies such as functional MRI allows researchers to present multimodal stimuli with a high degree of ecological validity and control while recording changes in brain activity. Therapists, too, stand to gain from progress in VR technology, which provides a high degree of control over the therapeutic experience. Here we review the latest advances in VR technology and its applications in neuroscience research.
The primary motor cortex is a critical node in the network of brain regions responsible for voluntary motor behavior. It has been less appreciated, however, that the motor cortex exhibits sensory responses in a variety of modalities including vision and somatosensation. We review current work that emphasizes the heterogeneity in sensorimotor responses in the motor cortex and focus on its implications for cortical control of movement as well as for brain-machine interface development.
Seventy years ago George Romanes began to document the anatomical organization of the spinal motor system, uncovering a multilayered topographic plan that links the clustering and settling position of motor neurons to the spatial arrangement and biomechanical features of limb muscles. To this day, these findings have provided a structural foundation for analysis of the neural control of movement and serve asa guide for studies to explore mechanisms that direct the wiring of spinal motor circuits. In this brief essay we outline thecore of Romanes's findings and place them in the context of recent studies that begin to provide insightinto molecular programs that assign motor pool position and to resolve how motor neuron position shapes circuit assembly. Romanes's findings reveal how and why neuronal positioning contributes to sensory-motor connectivity and may have relevance to circuit organization in other regions of the central nervous system.
Mutations in Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) are associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Mutant SOD1 causes a complex array of pathological events, through toxic gain of function mechanisms, leading to selective motor neuron degeneration. Mitochondrial dysfunction is among the well established toxic effects of mutant SOD1, but its mechanisms are just starting to be elucidated. A portion of mutant SOD1 is localized in mitochondria, where it accumulates mostly on the outer membrane and inside the intermembrane space (IMS). Evidence in cultured cells suggests that mutant SOD1 in the IMS causes mitochondrial dysfunction and compromises cell viability. Therefore, to test its pathogenic role in vivo we generated transgenic mice expressing G93A mutant or wild-type (WT) human SOD1 targeted selectively to the mitochondrial IMS (mito-SOD1). We show that mito-SOD1 is correctly localized in the IMS, where it oligomerizes and acquires enzymatic activity. Mito-G93ASOD1 mice, but not mito-WTSOD1 mice, develop a progressive disease characterized by body weight loss, muscle weakness, brain atrophy, and motor impairment, which is more severe in females. These symptoms are associated with reduced spinal motor neuron counts and impaired mitochondrial bioenergetics, characterized by decreased cytochrome oxidase activity and defective calcium handling. However, there is no evidence of muscle denervation, a cardinal pathological feature of ALS. Together, our findings indicate that mutant SOD1 in the mitochondrial IMS causes mitochondrial dysfunction and neurodegeneration, but per se it is not sufficient to cause a full-fledged ALS phenotype, which requires the participation of mutant SOD1 localized in other cellular compartments.
The human brain is a complex network of interlinked regions. Recent studies have demonstrated the existence of a number of highly connected and highly central neocortical hub regions, regions that play a key role in global information integration between different parts of the network. The potential functional importance of these &quot;brain hubs&quot; is underscored by recent studies showing that disturbances of their structural and functional connectivity profile are linked to neuropathology. This study aims to map out both the subcortical and neocortical hubs of the brain and examine their mutual relationship, particularly their structural linkages. Here, we demonstrate that brain hubs form a so-called &quot;rich club,&quot; characterized by a tendency for high-degree nodes to be more densely connected among themselves than nodes of a lower degree, providing important information on the higher-level topology of the brain network. Whole-brain structural networks of 21 subjects were reconstructed using diffusion tensor imaging data. Examining the connectivity profile of these networks revealed a group of 12 strongly interconnected bihemispheric hub regions, comprising the precuneus, superior frontal and superior parietal cortex, as well as the subcortical hippocampus, putamen, and thalamus. Importantly, these hub regions were found to be more densely interconnected than would be expected based solely on their degree, together forming a rich club. We discuss the potential functional implications of the rich-club organization of the human connectome, particularly in light of its role in information integration and in conferring robustness to its structural core.
Mental imagery is involved in a wide variety of cognitive abilities, including reasoning, spatial navigation, and memory. Cognitive aging is associated with impairments in these abilities, suggesting that diminished fidelity of mental images in older adults may be related to diverse cognitive deficits. However, an age-related deficit in mental imagery and its role in memory impairment is still a matter of debate. Previous human fMRI studies demonstrated that visual imagery activates representations in category-selective visual cortex via top-down control mechanisms. Here, we use fMRI to show that normal aging is associated with diminished selectivity of visual cortex activation during visual imagery, with a corresponding reduction in the selectivity of functional connections between prefrontal cortex and visual cortices. Moreover, a relationship between reduced imagery selectivity and visual memory in older adults was established. These results reveal that aging disrupts neural networks that subserve mental imagery and offers evidence of this as a factor in age-related memory decline.
Serotonin (5-HT)-selective reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are widely administered for the treatment of depression, anxiety, and other neuropsychiatric disorders, but response rates are low, and side effects often lead to discontinuation. Side effect profiles suggest that SSRIs inhibit dopaminergic activity, but mechanistic insight remains scarce. Here we show that in mice, chronic 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) blockade during adulthood but not during development impairs basal ganglia-dependent behaviors in a dose-dependent and reversible fashion. Furthermore, chronic 5-HTT blockade reduces striatal dopamine (DA) content and metabolism. A causal relationship between reduced DA signaling and impaired basal ganglia-dependent behavior is indicated by the reversal of behavioral deficits through L-DOPA administration. Our data suggest that augmentation of DA signaling would reduce side effects and increase efficacies of SSRI-based therapy.
The manner in which groups of neurons represent events in the external world is a central question in neuroscience. Estimation of the information encoded by small groups of neurons has shown that in many neural systems, cells carry mildly redundant information. These measures average over all the activity patterns of a neural population. Here, we analyze the population code of the salamander and guinea pig retinas by quantifying the information conveyed by specific multicell activity patterns. Synchronous spikes, even though they are relatively rare and highly informative, convey less information than the sum of either spike alone, making them redundant coding symbols. Instead, patterns of spiking in one cell and silence in others, which are relatively common and often overlooked as special coding symbols, were found to be mostly synergistic. Our results reflect that the mild average redundancy between ganglion cells that was previously reported is actually the result of redundant and synergistic multicell patterns, whose contributions partially cancel each other when taking the average over all patterns. We further show that similar coding properties emerge in a generic model of neural responses, suggesting that this form of combinatorial coding, in which specific compound patterns carry synergistic or redundant information, may exist in other neural circuits.
Mitochondrial shape is determined by fission and fusion reactions, perturbation of which can contribute to neuronal injury and disease. Mitochondrial fission is catalyzed by dynamin-related protein 1 (Drp1), a large GTPase of the dynamin family that is highly expressed in neurons and regulated by various posttranslational modifications, including phosphorylation. We report here that reversible phosphorylation of Drp1 at a conserved Ser residue by an outer mitochondrial kinase (PKA/AKAP1) and phosphatase (PP2A/B2) impacts dendrite and synapse development in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. PKA/AKAP1-mediated phosphorylation of Drp1 at Ser656 increased mitochondrial length and dendrite occupancy, enhancing dendritic outgrowth but paradoxically decreasing synapse number and density. Opposing PKA/AKAP1, PP2A/B2-mediated dephosphorylation of Drp1 at Ser656 fragmented and depolarized mitochondria and depleted them from dendrites, stunting dendritic outgrowth but augmenting synapse formation. Raising and lowering intracellular calcium reproduced the effects of dephospho-Drp1 and phospho-Drp1on dendrite and synapse development, respectively, while boosting mitochondrial membrane potential with l-carnitine-fostered dendrite at the expense of synapse formation without altering mitochondrial size or distribution. Thus, outer mitochondrial PKA and PP2A regulate neuronal development by inhibiting and promoting mitochondrial division, respectively. We propose that the bioenergetic state of mitochondria, rather than their localization or shape per se, is the key effector of Drp1, altering calcium homeostasis to modulate neuronal morphology and connectivity.
The influential hypothesis that environmental geometry is critical for spatial orientation has been extensively tested behaviorally, and yet findings have been conflicting. Head direction (HD) cells, the neural correlate of the sense of direction, offer a window into the processes underlying directional orientation and may help clarify the issue. In the present study, HD cells were recorded as rats foraged in enclosures of varying geometry, with or without simultaneous manipulation of landmarks and self-motion cues (path integration). All geometric enclosures had single-order rotational symmetry and thus completely polarized the environment. They also had unique features, such as corners, which could, in principle, act as landmarks. Despite these strongly polarizing geometric cues, HD cells in nondisoriented rats never rotated with these shapes. In contrast, when a cue card (white or gray) was added to one wall, HD cells readily rotated with the enclosure. When path integration was disrupted by disorienting the rat, HD cells rotated with the enclosure even without the landmark. Collectively, these findings indicate that geometry exerts little or no influence on heading computations in nondisoriented rats, but it can do so in disoriented rats. We suggest that geometric processing is only a weak influence, providing a backup system for heading calculations and recruited only under conditions of disorientation.
Botulinum neurotoxin type A (BoNT/A) is a metalloprotease that blocks synaptic transmission via the cleavage of SNAP-25 (synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa). BoNT/A is successfully used in clinical neurology for the treatment of several neuromuscular pathologies and pain syndromes. Despite its widespread use, relatively little is known on BoNT/A intracellular trafficking in neurons. Using the visual pathway as a model system, here we show that catalytically active BoNT/A is capable of undergoing anterograde axonal transport and transcytosis. Following BoNT/A injection into the rat eye, significant levels of BoNT/A-cleaved SNAP-25 appeared in the retinorecipient layers of the superior colliculus (SC). Anterograde propagation of BoNT/A effects required axonal transport, ruling out a systemic spread of the toxin. Cleaved SNAP-25 was present in presynaptic structures of the tectum, but retinal terminals were devoid of the immunoreactivity, indicative of transcytosis. Experiments based on sequential administration of BoNT/A and BoNT/E showed a persistent catalytic activity of BoNT/A in tectal cells following its injection into the retina. Our findings demonstrate that catalytically active BoNT/A is anterogradely transported from the eye to the SC and transcytosed to tectal synapses. These data are important for a more complete understanding of the mechanisms of action of BoNT/A.
The error-related negativity (ERN) and positivity (Pe) are components of event-related potential (ERP) waveforms recorded from humans and are thought to reflect performance monitoring. Error-related signals have also been found in single-neuron responses and local-field potentials recorded in supplementary eye field and anterior cingulate cortex of macaque monkeys. However, the homology of these neural signals across species remains controversial. Here, we show that monkeys exhibit ERN and Pe components when they commit errors during a saccadic stop-signal task. The voltage distributions and current densities of these components were similar to those found in humans performing the same task. Subsequent analyses show that neither stimulus- nor response-related artifacts accounted for the error-ERPs. This demonstration of macaque homologues of the ERN and Pe forms a keystone in the bridge linking human and nonhuman primate studies on the neural basis of performance monitoring.
Astrocytes play a key role in modulating synaptic transmission by controlling the available extracellular GABA via the GAT-1 and GAT-3 GABA transporters (GATs). Using primary cultures of rat astrocytes, we show here that an additional level of regulation of GABA uptake occurs via modulation of the GATs by the adenosine A(1) (A(1)R) and A(2A) (A(2A)R) receptors. This regulation occurs through a complex of heterotetramers (two interacting homodimers) of A(1)R-A(2A)R that signal via two different G-proteins, G(s) and G(i/o), and either enhances (A(2A)R) or inhibits (A(1)R) GABA uptake. These results provide novel mechanistic insight into how G-protein-coupled receptor heteromers signal. Furthermore, we uncover a previously unknown mechanism in which adenosine, in a concentration-dependent manner, acts via a heterocomplex of adenosine receptors in astrocytes to significantly contribute to neurotransmission at the tripartite (neuron-glia-neuron) synapse.
Non-mammalian vertebrates have an intrinsically photosensitive iris and thus a local pupillary light reflex (PLR). In contrast, it is thought that the PLR in mammals generally requires neuronal circuitry connecting the eye and the brain. Here we report that an intrinsic component of the PLR is in fact widespread in nocturnal and crepuscular mammals. In mouse, this intrinsic PLR requires the visual pigment melanopsin; it also requires PLC4, a vertebrate homologue of the Drosophila NorpA phospholipase C which mediates rhabdomeric phototransduction. The Plcb4(-/-) genotype, in addition to removing the intrinsic PLR, also essentially eliminates the intrinsic light response of the M1 subtype of melanopsin-expressing, intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (M1-ipRGCs), which are by far the most photosensitive ipRGC subtype and also have the largest response to light. Ablating in mouse the expression of both TRPC6 and TRPC7, members of the TRP channel superfamily, also essentially eliminated the M1-ipRGC light response but the intrinsic PLR was not affected. Thus, melanopsin signalling exists in both iris and retina, involving a PLC4-mediated pathway that nonetheless diverges in the two locations.


Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disease characterized by degeneration of alpha motor neurons in the spinal cord, resulting in progressive proximal muscle weakness and paralysis. Estimated incidence is 1 in 6,000 to 1 in 10,000 live births and carrier frequency of 1/40-1/60. This disease is characterized by generalized muscle weakness and atrophy predominating in proximal limb muscles, and phenotype is classified into four grades of severity (SMA I, SMAII, SMAIII, SMA IV) based on age of onset and motor function achieved. This disease is caused by homozygous mutations of the survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) gene, and the diagnostic test demonstrates in most patients the homozygous deletion of the SMN1 gene, generally showing the absence of SMN1 exon 7. The test achieves up to 95% sensitivity and nearly 100% specificity. Differential diagnosis should be considered with other neuromuscular disorders which are not associated with increased CK manifesting as infantile hypotonia or as limb girdle weakness starting later in life. Considering the high carrier frequency, carrier testing is requested by siblings of patients or of parents of SMA children and are aimed at gaining information that may help with reproductive planning. Individuals at risk should be tested first and, in case of testing positive, the partner should be then analyzed. It is recommended that in case of a request on carrier testing on siblings of an affected SMA infant, a detailed neurological examination should be done and consideration given doing the direct test to exclude SMA. Prenatal diagnosis should be offered to couples who have previously had a child affected with SMA (recurrence risk 25%). The role of follow-up coordination has to be managed by an expert in neuromuscular disorders and in SMA who is able to plan a multidisciplinary intervention that includes pulmonary, gastroenterology/nutrition, and orthopedic care. Prognosis depends on the phenotypic severity going from high mortality within the first year for SMA type 1 to no mortality for the chronic and later onset forms.
In human populations, cigarettes and alcohol generally serve as gateway drugs, which people use first before progressing to marijuana, cocaine, or other illicit substances. To understand the biological basis of the gateway sequence of drug use, we developed an animal model in mice and used it to study the effects of nicotine on subsequent responses to cocaine. We found that pretreatment of mice with nicotine increased the response to cocaine, as assessed by addiction-related behaviors and synaptic plasticity in the striatum, a brain region critical for addiction-related reward. Locomotor sensitization was increased by 98%, conditioned place preference was increased by 78%, and cocaine-induced reduction in long-term potentiation (LTP) was enhanced by 24%. The responses to cocaine were altered only when nicotine was administered first, and nicotine and cocaine were then administered concurrently. Reversing the order of drug administration was ineffective; cocaine had no effect on nicotine-induced behaviors and synaptic plasticity. Nicotine primed the response to cocaine by enhancing its ability to induce transcriptional activation of the FosB gene through inhibition of histone deacetylase, which caused global histone acetylation in the striatum. We tested this conclusion further and found that a histone deacetylase inhibitor simulated the actions of nicotine by priming the response to cocaine and enhancing FosB gene expression and LTP depression in the nucleus accumbens. Conversely, in a genetic mouse model characterized by reduced histone acetylation, the effects of cocaine on LTP were diminished. We achieved a similar effect by infusing a low dose of theophylline, an activator of histone deacetylase, into the nucleus accumbens. These results from mice prompted an analysis of epidemiological data, which indicated that most cocaine users initiate cocaine use after the onset of smoking and while actively still smoking, and that initiating cocaine use after smoking increases the risk of becoming dependent on cocaine, consistent with our data from mice. If our findings in mice apply to humans, a decrease in smoking rates in young people would be expected to lead to a decrease in cocaine addiction.




Personalized medicine integrates an individual's genetic and other information for the prevention or treatment of complex disorders, and translational research seeks to identify those data most important to disease processes based on observations at the bench and the bedside. To understand complex disorders such as chronic pancreatitis, inflammatory bowel disease, liver cirrhosis, and other idiopathic chronic inflammatory diseases, physician-scientists must systematically collect data on relevant risks, clinical status, biomarkers, and outcomes. The author describes a &quot;matrix academic division&quot; (MAD), a highly effective academic program created at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center using translational research to rapidly develop personalized medicine for digestive diseases. MAD is designed to capture patient-specific data and biologic samples for analysis of steps in a complex process (reverse engineering), reconstructing the system conceptually and mathematically (disease modeling), and deciphering disease mechanism in individual patients to predict the effects of interventions (personalized medicine). MAD draws on the expertise of the medical school's and medical center's physician-scientists to translate essential disease information between the bed and the bench and to communicate with researchers from multiple domains, including epidemiology, genetics, cell biology, immunology, regenerative medicine, neuroscience, and oncology. The author illustrates this approach by describing its successful application to the reverse engineering of chronic pancreatitis.


GABAergic interneurons synchronize network activities and monitor information flow. Post-mortem studies have reported decreased densities of cortical interneurons in schizophrenia (SZ) and bipolar disorder (BPD). The entorhinal cortex (EC) and the adjacent subicular regions are a hub for integration of hippocampal and cortical information, a process that is disrupted in SZ. Here we contrast and compare the density of interneuron populations in the caudal EC and subicular regions in BPD type I (BPD-I), SZ, and normal control (NC) subjects. Post-mortem human parahippocampal specimens of 13 BPD-I, 11 SZ and 17 NC subjects were used to examine the numerical density of parvalbumin-, somatostatin- or calbindin-positive interneurons. We observed a reduction in the numerical density of parvalbumin- and somatostatin-positive interneurons in the caudal EC and parasubiculum in BPD-I and SZ, but no change in the subiculum. Calbindin-positive interneuron densities were normal in all brain areas examined. The profile of decreased density was strikingly similar in BPD-I and SZ. Our results demonstrate a specific reduction of parvalbumin- and somatostatin-positive interneurons in the parahippocampal region in BPD-I and SZ, likely disrupting synchronization and integration of cortico-hippocampal circuits.
The term frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) describes a group of disorders that are subdivided by the presence of one of a number of pathological proteins identified in the inclusion bodies observed post-mortem. The FUS variant is defined by the presence of the fused in sarcoma protein (FUS) in the pathological inclusions. However, similar to other FTLDs, the disease pathogenesis of FTLD-FUS remains largely poorly understood. Here we present data that the protein transportin1 (TRN1) is abundant in the FUS-positive inclusions. TRN1, the protein product of the TNP01 gene, is responsible for shuttling proteins containing an M9 nuclear localisation signal between the nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments. RNA interacting proteins, including FUS, have been implicated as targets of TRN1. Using TRN1 immunohistochemistry and Western blotting in this study, we investigated 13 cases of FTLD-FUS including 6 cases with neuronal intermediate filament inclusion disease (NIFID) and 7 atypical frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitinated inclusion (aFTLD-U) cases. The data from our immunohistochemical studies show that FUS-immunoreactive inclusions are also strongly labelled with the anti-TRN1 antibody and double-label immunofluorescence studies indicate good co-localisation between the FUS and TRN1 pathologies. Our biochemical investigations demonstrate that urea-soluble TRN1 is present in aFTLD-U and NIFID, but not in normal control brains. These findings implicate abnormalities of FUS transport in the pathogenesis of FTLD-FUS.


The present study addressed the relation between body semantics (i.e. semantic knowledge about the human body) and spatial body representations, by presenting participants with word pairs, one below the other, referring to body parts. The spatial position of the word pairs could be congruent (e.g. EYE / MOUTH) or incongruent (MOUTH / EYE) with respect to the spatial position of the words' referents. In addition, the spatial distance between the words' referents was varied, resulting in word pairs referring to body parts that are close (e.g. EYE / MOUTH) or far in space (e.g. EYE / FOOT). A spatial congruency effect was observed when subjects made an iconicity judgment (Experiments 2 and 3) but not when making a semantic relatedness judgment (Experiment 1). In addition, when making a semantic relatedness judgment (Experiment 1) reaction times increased with increased distance between the body parts but when making an iconicity judgment (Experiments 2 and 3) reaction times decreased with increased distance. These findings suggest that the processing of body-semantics results in the activation of a detailed visuo-spatial body representation that is modulated by the specific task requirements. We discuss these new data with respect to theories of embodied cognition and body semantics.
We used a discrete choice conjoint experiment to model the bullying prevention recommendations of 845 students from grades 5 to 8 (aged 9-14). Students made choices between experimentally varied combinations of 14 four-level prevention program attributes. Latent class analysis yielded three segments. The high impact segment (27.1%) recommended uniforms, mandatory recess activities, four playground supervisors, surveillance cameras, and 4-day suspensions when students bully. The moderate impact segment (49.5%) recommended discretionary uniforms and recess activities, four playground supervisors, and 3-day suspensions. Involvement as a bully or bully-victim was associated with membership in a low impact segment (23.4%) that rejected uniforms and surveillance cameras. They recommended fewer anti-bullying activities, discretionary recess activities, fewer playground supervisors, and the 2-day suspensions. Simulations predicted most students would recommend a program maximizing student involvement combining prevention with moderate consequences. The simulated introduction of mandatory uniforms, surveillance cameras, and long suspensions reduced overall support for a comprehensive program, particularly among students involved as bullies or bully-victims.
Nicholas Agar has recently argued that it would be irrational for future human beings to choose to radically enhance themselves by uploading their minds onto computers. Utilizing Searle's argument that machines cannot think, he claims that uploading might entail death. He grants that Searle's argument is controversial, but he claims, so long as there is a non-zero probability that uploading entails death, uploading is irrational. I argue that Agar's argument, like Pascal's wager on which it is modelled, fails, because the principle that we (or future agents) ought to avoid actions that might entail death is not action guiding. Too many actions fall under its scope for the principle to be plausible. I also argue that the probability that uploading entails death is likely to be lower than Agar recognizes.





Drug addiction is a complex disorder that has been shown to have a genetic component like several other diseases. Finding any factor that is associated with higher risk of addiction tendency may influence the strategies of prevention and treatment of drug abuse and also provide an avenue of further research in genetics, immunology, and other related fields. This case-control study aimed at finding the frequency rate of ABO blood groups and Rhesus (Rh) factor among opioid dependents. Therefore, 249 opioid dependents referred to the Drug Quit center at Bam, Iran (case group) were compared with 360 blood donors referred to the Blood Transfusion Center (control group) in regard to the frequency of blood groups and Rh factor. The two groups were matched for demographic features. The odds ratio for AB blood group in addicts was 3.98 compared to non-addicts (p &lt; .001) and the odds ratio of negative Rh in addicts compared to non-addicts was 4.27 (p &lt; .001). According to the findings, in this population the frequency of negative Rh and AB blood group were significantly less than the predictive values. The relationship between opioid use and blood group type requires a cohort study eliminating all extraneous factors in order to be proved.
Currarino syndrome (CS) is an autosomal dominant disorder of embryonic development characterized by the triad of anorectal abnormalities, partial sacral agenesis, and presacral mass. Mutations of the HLXB9 gene have been identified in most CS cases, but a precise genotype-phenotype correlation has not been described so far. We report the clinical case of a 44-year-old Caucasian woman with malignant neuroendocrine transformation of a pre-sacrococcygeal mass combined with bicornuate uterus, dermoid cyst of the ovaries, and chronic constipation. After the patient died, a sacrococcygeal malformation and anterior meningocele were diagnosed in her 22-year-old son. CS diagnosis was then retrospectively confirmed by molecular analysis of normal and pathological tissue specimens of the mother, with identification of a HLXB9 mutation (c.727C&gt;T; p.R243W). CS should be considered, and genetic counseling recommended, to all patients with presacral masses. Since malignant neuroendocrine transformation of presacral mass in CS is a possible complication, even thought rare, close follow up in these patients is advisable.


-Amyloid (A) accumulation and aggregation are hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). High-resolution three-dimensional (HR-3D) volumetric imaging allows for better analysis of fluorescence confocal microscopy and 3D visualization of A pathology in brain. Early intraneuronal A pathology was studied in AD transgenic mouse brains by HR-3D volumetric imaging. To better visualize and analyze the development of A pathology, thioflavin S staining and immunofluorescence using antibodies against A, fibrillar A, and structural and synaptic neuronal proteins were performed in the brain tissue of Tg19959, wild-type, and Tg19959-YFP mice at different ages. Images obtained by confocal microscopy were reconstructed into three-dimensional volumetric datasets. Such volumetric imaging of CA1 hippocampus of AD transgenic mice showed intraneuronal onset of A42 accumulation and fibrillization within cell bodies, neurites, and synapses before plaque formation. Notably, early fibrillar A was evident within individual synaptic compartments, where it was associated with abnormal morphology. In dendrites, increasing intraneuronal thioflavin S correlated with decreases in neurofilament marker SMI32. Fibrillar A aggregates could be seen piercing the cell membrane. These data support that A fibrillization begins within AD vulnerable neurons, leading to disruption of cytoarchitecture and degeneration of spines and neurites. Thus, HR-3D volumetric image analysis allows for better visualization of intraneuronal A pathology and provides new insights into plaque formation in AD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by -synuclein-containing Lewy bodies (LBs) and loss of melanized neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). Recently, a link between apolipoprotein E (ApoE) expression, -synuclein aggregation, and neurodegeneration was suggested. Here, we report on ApoE expression appearing in melanized neurons of the SN and in LBs in both PD and incidental LB disease cases. Interestingly, increased expression of the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (the receptor for ApoE) was also observed in incidental LB disease and PD. Our data suggest that alterations in lipoprotein homeostasis/signaling in melanized neurons of the SN are an early event during PD pathogenesis.
The regulation of cortisol synthesis and the expression of genes coding for steroidogenic proteins by 8-substituted cAMP and 8-substituted adenine derivatives were studied in bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells. At concentrations of 10-50 M, 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cAMP (8CPT-cAMP), but not the poorly hydrolyzable Sp-8CPT-cAMP, stimulated large increases in cortisol synthesis and CYP17 mRNA expression. Of the three Epac (exchange protein activated by cAMP)-specific cAMP analogs, 8CPT-2'-OMe-cAMP, but not 8HPT-2'-OMe-cAMP or 8MeOPT-2'-OMe-cAMP, induced mRNAs for CYP17 and CYP11a1 steroid hydroxylases and stimulated cortisol synthesis. 8-Substituted adenine derivatives (10-200 M), including 8PT-adenine, 8MeOPT-adenine, and 8CPT-adenine, stimulated similar large, concentration-dependent, and reversible increases in cortisol synthesis and steroid hydroxylase gene expression, whereas 8Br-adenine was ineffective. The phenylthio-adenine derivatives produced additive effects on cortisol synthesis when applied to AZF cells in combination with 8Br-cAMP. In contrast, no additivity was observed for these three compounds when used in combination with ACTH. 8PT-adenine did not activate PKA or inhibit DNA synthesis by AZF cells. 8PT-adenine-stimulated cortisol secretion and CYP17 steroid hydroxylase mRNA expression were potently inhibited by diphenyl-butylpiperidine T-type Ca(2+) antagonists. In AZF cells, 8PT-adenine and 8MeOPT-adenine induced the expression of both CACNA1H mRNA and associated Ca(v)3.2 Ca(2+) current. These results indicate that 8-chloro (but not 8-hydroxy- or 8-methoxy-)-phenylthio-cAMP analogs are converted to an active metabolite, 8CPT-adenine, that induces the expression of genes coding for steroidogenic proteins in bovine AZF cells. Other PT-adenine analogs also potently stimulate cortisol synthesis through the same unidentified signaling pathway that requires the expression of functional Ca(v)3.2 Ca(2+) channels. These phenylthio-adenine compounds and ACTH may stimulate cortisol synthesis through the same cAMP-independent mechanism.
Mucosal barrier dysfunction contributes to gastrointestinal diseases. Our aims were to validate urine sugar excretion as an in vivo test of small bowel (SB) and colonic permeability and to compare permeability in patients with irritable bowel syndrome-diarrhea (IBS-D) to positive and negative controls. Oral lactulose (L) and mannitol (M) were administered with (99m)Tc-oral solution, (111)In-oral delayed-release capsule, or directly into the ascending colon (only in healthy controls). We compared L and M excretion in urine collections at specific times in 12 patients with IBS-D, 12 healthy controls, and 10 patients with inactive or treated ulcerative or microscopic colitis (UC/MC). Sugars were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Primary endpoints were cumulative 0-2-h, 2-8-h, and 8-24-h urinary sugars. Radioisotopes in the colon at 2 h and 8 h were measured by scintigraphy. Kruskal-Wallis and Wilcoxon tests were used to assess the overall and pairwise associations, respectively, between group and urinary sugars. The liquid in the colon at 2 h and 8 h was as follows: health, 62  9% and 89  3%; IBS-D, 56  11% and 90  3%; and UC/MC, 35  8% and 78  6%, respectively. Liquid formulation was associated with higher M excretion compared with capsule formulation at 0-2 h (health P = 0.049; IBS-D P &lt; 0.001) but not during 8-24 h. UC/MC was associated with increased urine L and M excretion compared with health (but not to IBS-D) at 8-24 h, not at 0-2 h. There were significant differences between IBS-D and health in urine M excretion at 0-2 h and 2-8 h and L excretion at 8-24 h. Urine sugars at 0-2 h and 8-24 h reflect SB and colonic permeability, respectively. IBS-D is associated with increased SB and colonic mucosal permeability.
Sleep and feeding rhythms are highly coordinated across the circadian cycle, but the brain sites responsible for this coordination are unknown. We examined the role of neuropeptide Y (NPY) receptor-expressing neurons in the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) in this process by injecting the targeted toxin, NPY-saporin (NPY-SAP), into the arcuate nucleus (Arc). NPY-SAP-lesioned rats were initially hyperphagic, became obese, exhibited sustained disruption of circadian feeding patterns, and had abnormal circadian distribution of sleep-wake patterns. Total amounts of rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) and non-REMS (NREMS) were not altered by NPY-SAP lesions, but a peak amount of REMS was permanently displaced to the dark period, and circadian variation in NREMS was eliminated. The phase reversal of REMS to the dark period by the lesion suggests that REMS timing is independently linked to the function of MBH NPY receptor-expressing neurons and is not dependent on NREMS pattern, which was altered but not phase reversed by the lesion. Sleep-wake patterns were altered in controls by restricting feeding to the light period, but were not altered in NPY-SAP rats by restricting feeding to either the light or dark period, indicating that disturbed sleep-wake patterns in lesioned rats were not secondary to changes in food intake. Sleep abnormalities persisted even after hyperphagia abated during the static phase of the lesion. Results suggest that the MBH is required for the essential task of integrating sleep-wake and feeding rhythms, a function that allows animals to accommodate changeable patterns of food availability. NPY receptor-expressing neurons are key components of this integrative function.
The incretin and food intake suppressive effects of intraperitoneally administered glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) involve activation of GLP-1 receptors (GLP-1R) expressed on vagal afferent fiber terminals. Central nervous system processing of GLP-1R-driven vagal afferents results in satiation signaling and enhanced insulin secretion from pancreatic-projecting vagal efferents. As the vast majority of endogenous GLP-1 is released from intestinal l-cells following ingestion, it stands to reason that paracrine GLP-1 signaling, activating adjacent GLP-1R expressed on vagal afferent fibers of gastrointestinal origin, contributes to glycemic and food intake control. However, systemic GLP-1R-mediated control of glycemia is currently attributed to endocrine action involving GLP-1R expressed in the hepatoportal bed on terminals of the common hepatic branch of the vagus (CHB). Here, we examine the hypothesis that activation of GLP-1R expressed on the CHB is not required for GLP-1's glycemic and intake suppressive effects, but rather paracrine signaling on non-CHB vagal afferents is required to mediate GLP-1's effects. Selective CHB ablation (CHBX), complete subdiaphragmatic vagal deafferentation (SDA), and surgical control rats received an oral glucose tolerance test (2.0 g glucose/kg) 10 min after an intraperitoneal injection of the GLP-1R antagonist, exendin-(9-39) (Ex-9; 0.5 mg/kg) or vehicle. CHBX and control rats showed comparable increases in blood glucose following blockade of GLP-1R by Ex-9, whereas SDA rats failed to show a GLP-1R-mediated incretin response. Furthermore, GLP-1(7-36) (0.5 mg/kg ip) produced a comparable suppression of 1-h 25% glucose intake in both CHBX and control rats, whereas intake suppression in SDA rats was blunted. These findings support the hypothesis that systemic GLP-1R mediation of glycemic control and food intake suppression involves paracrine-like signaling on GLP-1R expressed on vagal afferent fibers of gastrointestinal origin but does not require the CHB.
Serotonin neurons of the caudal raphe facilitate ventilatory and sympathetic responses that develop following blood loss in conscious rats. Here, we tested whether serotonin projections to the caudal portion of the dorsomedial brain stem (including regions of the nucleus tractus solitarius that receive cardiovascular and chemosensory afferents) contribute to cardiorespiratory compensation following hemorrhage. Injections of the serotonin neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine produced &gt;90% depletion of serotonin nerve terminals in the region of injection. Withdrawal of 21% of blood volume over 10 min produced a characteristic three-phase response that included 1) a normotensive compensatory phase, 2) rapid sympathetic withdrawal and hypotension, and 3) rapid blood pressure recovery accompanied by slower recovery of heart rate and sympathetic activity. A gradual tachypnea developed throughout hemorrhage, which quickly reversed with the advent of sympathetic withdrawal. Subsequently, breathing frequency and neural minute volume (determined by diaphragmatic electromyography) declined below baseline following termination of hemorrhage but gradually recovered over time. Lesioned rats showed attenuated sympathetic and ventilatory responses during early compensation and later recovery from hemorrhage. Both ventilatory and sympathetic responses to chemoreceptor activation with potassium cyanide injection were attenuated by the lesion. In contrast, the gain of sympathetic and heart rate baroreflex responses was greater, and low-frequency oscillations in blood pressure were reduced after lesion. Together, the data are consistent with the view that serotonin innervation of the caudal dorsomedial brain stem contributes to sympathetic compensation during hypovolemia, possibly through facilitation of peripheral chemoreflex responses.
Presents Daniel M. Wegner, the 2011 winner of the American Psychological Association Award for Distinguished Scientific Contributions. &quot;For seminal contributions that span psychology's breadth--from cognitive to social to personality to clinical--and that reach beyond its borders to philosophy and neuroscience. Daniel M. Wegner's studies on transactive memory, action identification, ironic processes, and apparent mental causation all bear his characteristic mark: a beautiful idea brought to life by an elegant experiment. He has spent his scientific career identifying new and important problems and then offering solutions that sparkle with originality and insight. He has seen doors where others saw walls, opened them to reveal new rooms, and illuminated their dark corners.&quot; (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2011 APA, all rights reserved).
Presents Trevor W. Robbins, the 2011 winner of the American Psychological Association Award for Distinguished Scientific Contributions.&quot;For distinguished theoretical and empirical contributions to basic research in experimental psychology and neuroscience. Trevor W. Robbins has made innovative and landmark contributions to understanding monoaminergic and glutamatergic regulation of cortico-striatal-limbic function and its involvement in psychological processes and pathological states such as addiction, depression, schizophrenia, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder. His pioneering accomplishments have included the development of methodologies for parallel sophisticated behavioral assessments in humans, rodents, and monkeys combined with psychopharmacological and imaging studies across species. His vigor and dedication to research, exemplary leadership, scholarship, and stellar productivity have advanced our knowledge of brain function and inspired several generations of cognitive neuroscientists.&quot; (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2011 APA, all rights reserved).
Presents Barry J. Everitt, 2011 winner of the American Psychological Association Award for Distinguished Scientific Contributions. &quot;For distinguished theoretical and empirical contributions to basic research in experimental psychology and neuroscience. Barry J. Everitt's original and elegant research has greatly added to the understanding of monoaminergic and glutamatergic regulation of cortico-striatal-limbic function and its involvement in psychological processes and pathological states, notably addiction. His stellar contributions have included the development of animal models of addiction and groundbreaking studies on learning and memory processes. He has combined sophisticated behavioral approaches with molecular, cellular, anatomical, and psychopharmacological approaches in rodents. His energy and enthusiasm for research, creativity, and outstanding productivity have advanced our knowledge of brain function and inspired several generations of behavioral neuroscientists.&quot; (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2011 APA, all rights reserved).
We performed a prospective population-based study to describe the temporal pattern of the incidence and prevalence and the clinical features and phenotypes of ALS in Modena, Italy, from 2000 to 2009. From 2000 onwards, a prospective registry has been collecting all cases of incident ALS among residents in the province of Modena. This source was implemented by cases resulting from the provincial hospitals, and by death certificates. Based on 193 newly diagnosed cases, the crude average annual incidence rate of ALS was 2.9 cases per 100,000 person years (py); adjusted incidence rate was 2.8/100,000. The age-standardized incidence rates increased from 2.6 per 100,000 py in 2000-2004 to 2.9 per 100,000 py in 2005-2009, representing an annual increase of approximately 2% throughout the 10-year period. There was a constant increase in prevalence rates throughout the years of the study (from 5.8/100,000 on 31 December 2000 to 11.2/100,000 on 31 December 2009). Median life time was 29 months for patients diagnosed before the year 2000 and 36 months for patients diagnosed from 1 January 2000 (p &lt; 0.01). Thus, we report incidence rates similar to those reported by recent European population based studies, but we observed an increasing trend over the 10 years of the study. The increasing incidence is not explained by aging of the population, and our study raises the question as to whether local environmental or genetic factors are driving this temporal trend. Along with an increasing incidence, we found an important increase in prevalence and survival probably related to access to mutidisciplinary clinics and improvements in symptomatic care of ALS.
Head injury is one of the major causes of trauma-related morbidity and mortality in all age groups in the United Kingdom, and anaesthetists encounter this problem in many areas of their work. Despite a better understanding of the pathophysiological processes following traumatic brain injury and a wealth of research, there is currently no specific treatment. Outcome remains dependant on basic clinical care: management of the patient's airway with particular attention to preventing hypoxia; avoidance of the extremes of lung ventilation; and the maintenance of adequate cerebral perfusion, in an attempt to avoid exacerbating any secondary injury. Hypertonic fluids show promise in the management of patients with raised intracranial pressure. Computed tomography scanning has had a major impact on the early identification of lesions amenable to surgery, and recent guidelines have rationalised its use in those with less severe injuries. Within critical care, the importance of controlling blood glucose is becoming clearer, along with the potential beneficial effects of hyperoxia. The major improvement in outcome reflects the use of protocols to guide resuscitation, investigation and treatment and the role of specialist neurosciences centres in caring for these patients. Finally, certain groups are now recognised as being at greater risk, in particular the elderly, anticoagulated patient.
Nanometer-scaled liposomes are used frequently for research, therapeutic, and analytical applications as carriers for water-soluble molecules. Recent technical advances allow the monitoring of single liposomes, which provides information on heterogeneous properties that were otherwise hidden due to ensemble averaging. Recent observations demonstrated that the efficiency of entrapping water-soluble molecules increases with decreasing vesicle size. The molecular mechanism behind this observation is not clear, but enhanced molecule-membrane interactions due to the increase of the surface area-to-volume ratio could play an important role. To investigate this hypothesis, we extended our single liposome assay based on confocal fluorescence imaging by implementation of fluorescence anisotropy. This combination has not been widely exploited, and confocal fluorescence anisotropy imaging in particular has seldom been used. We investigated different small dye molecules and were able to determine if these molecules interact or not with the liposome membrane. We confirm the liposome size-dependent entrapment of molecules whereas the molecule-membrane interactions appear to be independent of liposome size. Our fluorescence anisotropy assay can be used as a general method to investigate molecule-membrane interactions or molecule-molecule interactions in a high-throughput manner in nanometer-scaled containers like liposomes.








One important task for the visual system is to group image elements that belong to an object and to segregate them from other objects and the background. We here present an incremental grouping theory (IGT) that addresses the role of object-based attention in perceptual grouping at a psychological level and, at the same time, outlines the mechanisms for grouping at the neurophysiological level. The IGT proposes that there are two processes for perceptual grouping. The first process is base grouping and relies on neurons that are tuned to feature conjunctions. Base grouping is fast and occurs in parallel across the visual scene, but not all possible feature conjunctions can be coded as base groupings. If there are no neurons tuned to the relevant feature conjunctions, a second process called incremental grouping comes into play. Incremental grouping is a time-consuming and capacity-limited process that requires the gradual spread of enhanced neuronal activity across the representation of an object in the visual cortex. The spread of enhanced neuronal activity corresponds to the labeling of image elements with object-based attention.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize GFP-expressing cells in the striatum of Cb6-Tg(Gad1-EGFP)G42Zjh/J mice, in which the Gad1 (also referred to as GAD67) promoter drives GFP expression (Gad1-GFP mouse). BACKGROUND: GFP-expressing cells of the GAD1-GFP mouse have been described to be a population of parvalbumin-positive basket interneurons residing in the cerebral cortex and the cerebellum. However, the cells in the dorsal striatum of these mice have not been characterized. METHODS: Using a combination of immunohistochemistry, electrophysiology, DiI labeling, and retrograde tracing, we investigated the phenotypes of GFP-expressing cells in the GAD1-GFP mice. RESULTS: A small number of striatal neurons express GFP in these mice. In the mature striatum, these cells are preferentially located in the lateral striatum with a strong expression in the lateral striatal streak. The GAD1-GFP positive neurons are distinct from the standard fast-spiking and low-threshold-spiking GAD-67 expressing striatal interneurons and appear to be a subset of medium spiny neurons. These neurons are generally colocalized with striosomal markers such as dynorphin, mu-opioid receptors, as well as CB1 and calretinin-immunopositive fibers. Striatal Gad1-GFP neurons can be separated into two groups based on the shape of the somata and patterns of action potential firing. Retrograde labeling indicated that a proportion of these cells are projection neurons. CONCLUSIONS: The examination of GAD1-GFP cells in these mice revealed 2 subpopulations of ventral striosomal striatal medium spiny neurons, based on morphology, patch-matrix segregation and membrane properties.

Social anxiety disorder (SAD) is highly prevalent and associated with a substantial societal economic burden, primarily due to high costs of productivity loss. Cognitive behavior group therapy (CBGT) is an effective treatment for SAD and the most established in clinical practice. Internet-based cognitive behavior therapy (ICBT) has demonstrated efficacy in several trials in recent years. No study has however investigated the cost-effectiveness of ICBT compared to CBGT from a societal perspective, i.e. an analysis where both direct and indirect costs are included. The aim of the present study was to investigate the cost-effectiveness of ICBT compared to CBGT from a societal perspective using a prospective design. We conducted a randomized controlled trial where participants with SAD were randomized to ICBT (n=64) or CBGT (n=62). Economic data were assessed at pre-treatment, immediately following treatment and six months after treatment. Results showed that the gross total costs were significantly reduced at six-month follow-up, compared to pre-treatment in both treatment conditions. As both treatments were equivalent in reducing social anxiety and gross total costs, ICBT was more cost-effective due to lower intervention costs. We conclude that ICBT can be more cost-effective than CBGT in the treatment of SAD and that both treatments reduce societal costs for SAD.
Dendritic spines are postsynaptic structures that receive excitatory synaptic signals from presynaptic terminals in neurons. Because the morphology of spines has been considered to be a crucial factor for the efficiency of synaptic transmission, understanding the mechanisms regulating their morphology is important for neuroscience. Actin filaments and their regulatory proteins are known to actively maintain spine morphology; recent studies have also shown an essential role of microtubules (MTs). Live imaging of the plus-ends of MTs in mature neurons revealed that MTs stochastically enter spines and mediate accumulation of p140Cap, which regulates reorganization of actin filaments. However, the molecular mechanism by which MT dynamics is controlled has remained largely unknown. A cell polarity-regulating serine/threonine kinase, partitioning-defective 1 (PAR-1), phosphorylates classical MAPs and inhibits their binding to MTs. Because the interaction of MAPs with MTs can decrease MT dynamic instability, PAR-1 is supposed to activate MT dynamics through its MAP/MT affinity-regulating kinase (MARK) activity, although there is not yet any direct evidence for this. Here, we review recent findings on the localization of PAR-1b in the dendrites of mouse hippocampal neurons, and its novel function in the maintenance of mature spine morphology by regulating MT dynamics.
H2S (hydrogen sulfide) has recently been recognized as a signalling molecule as well as a cytoprotectant. We recently demonstrated that 3MST (3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase) produces H2S from 3MP (3-mercaptopyruvate). Although a reducing substance is required for an intermediate persulfide at the active site of 3MST to release H2S, the substance has not been identified. In the present study we show that Trx (thioredoxin) and DHLA (dihydrolipoic acid) associate with 3MST to release H2S. Other reducing substances, such as NADPH, NADH, GSH, cysteine and CoA, did not have any effect on the reaction. We also show that 3MST produces H2S from thiosulfate. The present study provides a new insight into a mechanism for the production of H2S by 3MST.
Glypicans are cell-surface heparan sulfate proteoglycans that regulate developmental signaling pathways by binding growth factors to their heparan sulfate chains. The primary structures of glypican core proteins contain potential N-glycosylation sites, but the importance of N-glycosylation in glypicans has never been investigated in detail. Here, we studied the role of the possible N-glycosylation sites at Asn-79 and Asn-116 in recombinant anchorless glypican-1 expressed in eukaryotic cells. Mutagenesis and enzymatic cleavage indicated that the potential N-glycosylation sites are invariably occupied. Experiments using the drug tunicamycin to inhibit the N-linked glycosylation of glypican-1 showed that secretion of anchorless glypican-1 was reduced and that the protein did not accumulate inside the cells. Heparan sulfate substitution of N-glycosylation mutant N116Q was similar to wild-type glypican-1 while the N79Q mutant and also the double mutant N79Q,N116Q were mostly secreted as high-molecular-weight heparan sulfate proteoglycan. N-Glycosylation mutants and N-deglycosylated glypican-1 had far-UV circular dichroism and fluorescence emission spectra that were highly similar to those of N-glycosylated glypican-1. A single unfolding transition at high concentrations of urea was found for both N-deglycosylated glypican-1 and glypican-1 in which the N-glycosylation sites had been removed by mutagenesis when chemical denaturation was monitored by circular dichroism and fluorescence emission spectroscopy. In summary, we have found that the potential N-glycosylation sites in glypican-1 are invariably occupied and that the N-linked glycans on glypican-1 affect protein expression and heparan sulfate substitution but that correct folding can be obtained in the absence of N-linked glycans.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related progressive neurodegenerative disease affecting thousands of people in the world and effective treatment is still not available. Over two decades of intense research using AD postmortem brains, transgenic mouse and cell models of amyloid precursor protein and tau revealed that amyloid beta (A) and hyperphosphorylated tau are synergistically involved in triggering disease progression. Accumulating evidence also revealed that aging and amyloid beta-induced oxidative DNA damage and mitochondrial dysfunction initiate and contributes to the development and progression of the disease. The purpose of this article is to summarize the latest progress in aging and AD, with a special emphasis on the mitochondria, oxidative DNA damage including methods of its measurement. It also discusses the therapeutic approaches against oxidative DNA damage and treatment strategies in AD.
Macroautophagy maintains cellular homeostasis through targeting cytoplasmic contents and organelles into autophagosomes for degradation. This process begins with the assembly of protein complexes on isolation membrane to initiate the formation of autophagosome, followed by its nucleation, elongation and maturation. Fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes then leads to degradation of the cargo. In the past decade, significant advances have been made on the identification of molecular players that are implicated in various stages of macroautophagy. Post-translational modifications of macroautophagy regulators have also been demonstrated to be critical for the selective targeting of cytoplasmic contents into autophagosomes. In addition, recent demonstration of distinct macroautophagy regulators has led to the identification of different subtypes of macroautophagy. Since deregulation of macroautophagy is implicated in diseases including neurodegenerative disorders, cancers and inflammatory disorders, understanding the molecular machinery of macroautophagy is crucial for elucidating the mechanisms by which macroautophagy is deregulated in these diseases, thereby revealing new potential therapeutic targets and strategies. Here we summarize current knowledge on the regulation of mammalian macroautophagy machineries and their disease-associated deregulation.
Estradiol has both negative and positive feedback actions upon gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release; the latter actions trigger the preovulatory GnRH surge. Although neurobiological mechanisms of the transitions between feedback modes are becoming better understood, the roles of voltage-gated potassium currents, major contributors to neuronal excitability, are unknown. Estradiol alters two components of potassium currents in these cells: a transient current, I(A), and a sustained current, I(K). Kisspeptin is a potential mediator between estradiol and GnRH neurons and can act directly on GnRH neurons. We examined how estradiol, time of day, and kisspeptin interact to regulate these conductances in a mouse model exhibiting daily switches between estradiol negative (morning) and positive feedback (evening). Whole-cell voltage clamp recordings were made from GnRH neurons in brain slices from ovariectomized (OVX) mice and from OVX mice treated with estradiol (OVX+E). There were no diurnal changes in either I(A) or I(K) in GnRH neurons from OVX mice. In contrast, in GnRH neurons from OVX+E mice, I(A) and I(K) were greater during the morning when GnRH neuron activity is low and smaller in the evening when GnRH neuron activity is high. Estradiol increased I(A) in the morning and decreased it in the evening, relative to that in cells from OVX mice. Exogenously applied kisspeptin reduced I(A) regardless of time of day or estradiol status. Estradiol, interacting with time of day, and kisspeptin both depolarized I(A) activation. These findings extend our understanding of both the neurobiological mechanisms of estradiol negative vs. positive regulation of GnRH neurons and of kisspeptin action on these cells.
This article investigates the emergence of robust behaviour in agents with dynamically limited controllers (monostable agents), and compares their performance to less limited ones (bistable agents). 'Dynamically limited' here refers to a reduced quantity of steady states that an agent controller exhibits when it does not receive stimulus from the environment. Agents are evolved for categorical perception, a minimal cognitive task, and must correlate approaching or avoiding movements based on (two) different types of objects. Results indicate a significant tendency to better behavioural robustness by monostable in contrast to bistable agents in the presence of sensorimotor, mutational, and structural perturbations. Discussions here focus on a further dependence to coupled dynamics by the former agents to explain such a tendency.
Secreted reporters detected in body fluids (blood, serum or urine) have shown to be simple and useful tools for ex vivo real-time monitoring of in vivo biological processes. Here we explore the most commonly used secreted blood reporters in experimental animals: secreted alkaline phosphatase, soluble marker peptides derived from human carcinoembryonic antigen and human chorionic gonadotropin, as well as Gaussia luciferase. We also comment on other recently discovered secreted luciferases and their potential use as blood reporters for multiplexing applications.




Voices carry large amounts of socially relevant information on persons, much like 'auditory faces'. Following Bruce and Young (1986)'s seminal model of face perception, we propose that the cerebral processing of vocal information is organized in interacting but functionally dissociable pathways for processing the three main types of vocal information: speech, identity, and affect. The predictions of the 'auditory face' model of voice perception are reviewed in the light of recent clinical, psychological, and neuroimaging evidence.
There are many indications that neurogenesis is impaired in Parkinson's disease, which might be due to a lack of dopamine in the subventricular zone. An impairment in neurogenesis may have negative consequences for the development of new therapeutic approaches in Parkinson's disease, as neural stem cells are a potential source for endogenous repair. In this study, we examined the subventricular zone of 10 patients with Parkinson's disease and 10 age- and sex-matched controls for proliferation and neural stem cell numbers. We also included five cases with incidental Lewy body disease, which showed Parkinson's disease pathology but no clinical symptoms and thus did not receive dopaminergic treatment. We quantified the neural stem cell number and proliferative capacity in the subventricular zone of these three donor groups. We found subventricular neural stem cells in each donor, with a high variation in number. We did not observe significant differences in neural stem cell number or in proliferation between the groups. Additionally, we were able to culture neural stem cells from post-mortem brain of several patients with Parkinson's disease, confirming the presence of viable neural stem cells in these brains. We have also examined the subventricular zone of a chronic, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced Parkinson's disease mouse model, and again found no effect of dopaminergic denervation on precursor proliferation. Lastly, we investigated the proliferation capacity of two different human neural stem cell lines in response to dopamine. Both cell lines did not respond with a change in proliferation to treatment with dopamine agonists and an antagonist. In summary, the adult neural stem cell pool in the subventricular zone was not clearly affected in the human parkinsonian brain or a Parkinson's disease mouse model. Furthermore, we did not find evidence that dopamine has a direct effect on human neural stem cell proliferation in vitro. Thus, we conclude that the number of adult neural stem cells is probably not diminished in the parkinsonian brain and that dopamine depletion most likely has no effect on human neural stem cells.
Mutations in solute carrier family 9 isoform 6 on chromosome Xq26.3 encoding sodium-hydrogen exchanger 6, a protein mainly expressed in early and recycling endosomes are known to cause a complex and slowly progressive degenerative human neurological disease. Three resulting phenotypes have so far been reported: an X-linked Angelman syndrome-like condition, Christianson syndrome and corticobasal degeneration with tau deposition, with each characterized by severe intellectual disability, epilepsy, autistic behaviour and ataxia. Hypothesizing that a sodium-hydrogen exchanger 6 deficiency would most likely disrupt the endosomal-lysosomal system of neurons, we examined Slc9a6 knockout mice with tissue staining and related techniques commonly used to study lysosomal storage disorders. As a result, we found that sodium-hydrogen exchanger 6 depletion leads to abnormal accumulation of GM2 ganglioside and unesterified cholesterol within late endosomes and lysosomes of neurons in selective brain regions, most notably the basolateral nuclei of the amygdala, the CA3 and CA4 regions and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and some areas of cerebral cortex. In these select neuronal populations, histochemical staining for -hexosaminidase activity, a lysosomal enzyme involved in the degradation of GM2 ganglioside, was undetectable. Neuroaxonal dystrophy similar to that observed in lysosomal disease was observed in the cerebellum and was accompanied by a marked and progressive loss of Purkinje cells, particularly in those lacking the expression of Zebrin II. On behavioural testing, Slc9a6 knockout mice displayed a discrete clinical phenotype attributable to motor hyperactivity and cerebellar dysfunction. Importantly, these findings show that sodium-hydrogen exchanger 6 loss of function in the Slc9a6-targeted mouse model leads to compromise of endosomal-lysosomal function similar to lysosomal disease and to conspicuous neuronal abnormalities in specific brain regions, which in concert could provide a unified explanation for the cellular and clinical phenotypes in humans with SLC9A6 mutations.
Patients with corticobasal degeneration can present with several different clinical syndromes, making ante-mortem diagnosis a challenge. Corticobasal syndrome is the clinical phenotype originally described for corticobasal degeneration, characterized by asymmetric rigidity and apraxia, cortical sensory deficits, dystonia and myoclonus. Some patients do not develop these features, but instead have clinical features consistent with the Richardson syndrome presentation of progressive supranuclear palsy, characterized by postural instability, early unexplained falls, vertical supranuclear gaze palsy, symmetric motor disability and dysphagia. The aim of this study was to identify differences in corticobasal degeneration presenting with corticobasal syndrome (n = 11) or Richardson syndrome (n = 15) with respect to demographic, clinical and neuropathological features. Corticobasal degeneration cases were also compared with patients with pathologically proven progressive supranuclear palsy with Richardson syndrome (n = 15). Cases with corticobasal degeneration, regardless of presentation, shared histopathological and tau biochemical characteristics, but they had differing densities of tau pathology in neuroanatomical regions that correlated with their clinical presentation. In particular, those with corticobasal syndrome had greater tau pathology in the primary motor and somatosensory cortices and putamen, while those with Richardson syndrome had greater tau pathology in limbic and hindbrain structures. Compared with progressive supranuclear palsy, patients with corticobasal degeneration and Richardson syndrome had less neuronal loss in the subthalamic nucleus, but more severe neuronal loss in the medial substantia nigra and greater atrophy of the anterior corpus callosum. Clinically, they had more cognitive impairment and frontal behavioural dysfunction. The results suggest that Richardson syndrome can be a clinicopathological presentation of corticobasal degeneration. Atrophy of anterior corpus callosum may be a potential neuroimaging marker to differentiate corticobasal degeneration from progressive supranuclear palsy in patients with Richardson syndrome.
Spinal muscular atrophy is distinct among neurodegenerative conditions of the motor neuron, with onset in developing and maturing patients. Furthermore, the rate of degeneration appears to slow over time, at least in the milder forms. To investigate disease pathophysiology and potential adaptations, the present study utilized axonal excitability studies to provide insights into axonal biophysical properties and explored correlation with clinical severity. Multiple excitability indices (stimulus-response curve, strength-duration time constant, threshold electrotonus, current-threshold relationship and recovery cycle) were investigated in 25 genetically characterized adolescent and adult patients with spinal muscular atrophy, stimulating the median motor nerve at the wrist. Results were compared with 50 age-matched controls. The Medical Research Council sum score and Spinal Muscular Atrophy Functional Rating Scale were used to define the strength and motor functional status of patients with spinal muscular atrophy. In patients with spinal muscular atrophy, there were reductions in compound muscle action potential amplitude (P &lt; 0.0005) associated with reduction in stimulus response slope (P &lt; 0.0005), confirming significant axonal loss. In the patients with mild or ambulatory spinal muscular atrophy, there was reduction of peak amplitude without alteration in axonal excitability; in contrast, in the non-ambulatory or severe spinal muscular atrophy cohort prominent changes in axonal function were apparent. Specifically, there were steep changes in the early phase of hyperpolarization in threshold electrotonus (P &lt; 0.0005) that correlated with clinical severity. Additionally, there were greater changes in depolarizing threshold electrotonus (P &lt; 0.0005) and prolongation of the strength-duration time constant (P = 0.001). Mathematical modelling of the excitability changes obtained in patients with severe spinal muscular atrophy supported a mixed pathology comprising features of axonal degeneration and regeneration. The present study has provided novel insight into the pathophysiology of spinal muscular atrophy, with identification of functional abnormalities involving axonal K(+) and Na(+) conductances and alterations in passive membrane properties, the latter linked to the process of neurodegeneration.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is an increasingly prevalent neurodegenerative condition and a looming socioeconomic threat. A biomarker for the disease could make the process of diagnosis easier and more accurate, and accelerate drug discovery. The current work describes a method for scoring brain images that is inspired by fundamental principles from information retrieval (IR), a branch of computer science that includes the development of Internet search engines. For this research, a dataset of 254 baseline 18-F fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scans was obtained from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). For a given contrast, a subset of scans (nine of every 10) was used to compute a residual vector that typified the difference, at each voxel, between the two groups being contrasted. Scans that were not used for computing the residual vector (the remaining one of 10 scans) were then compared to the residual vector using a cosine similarity metric. This process was repeated sequentially, each time generating cosine similarity scores on 10% of the FDG-PET scans for each contrast. Statistical analysis revealed that the scores were significant predictors of functional decline as measured by the Functional Activities Questionnaire (FAQ). When logistic regression models that incorporated these scores were evaluated with leave-one-out cross-validation, cognitively normal controls were discerned from AD with sensitivity and specificity of 94.4% and 84.8%, respectively. Patients who converted from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD were discerned from MCI nonconverters with sensitivity and specificity of 89.7% and 62.9%, respectively, when FAQ scores were brought into the model. Residual vectors are easy to compute and provide a simple method for scoring the similarity between an FDG-PET scan and sets of examples from a given diagnostic group. The method is readily generalizable to any imaging modality. Further interdisciplinary work between IR and clinical neuroscience is warranted.
Although prominent personality theories postulate orthogonality between traits of positive emotionality (PEM) and negative emotionality (NEM), empirical evidence often demonstrates the opposite indicating a negative relationship. Therefore, it is not surprising that dopaminergic (DA) gene loci have been related to traits of positive and of NEM. The present genetic association study investigates the influence of two functional DA gene polymorphisms on Sadness as defined by the Affective Neuroscience Personality Scales (ANPS) in healthy Caucasians (n = 1041). We observed a significant interaction effect between the 10-repeat (10R) allele of the dopamine transporter (DAT1) gene and the methionine (Met) allele of the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) Val158Met polymorphism (F((1,1018)) = 11.11; P &lt; 0.001). Carriers of the 9R/9R and the Val/Val genotype showed dramatically reduced Sadness scores in comparison to the other three genotype configurations. Both the 9R/9R and the Val/Val genotypes characterized by reduced transporter density and high dopamine catabolism, respectively, have been separately related to personality traits of PEM and externalizing behavior in the past. The present findings indicate that gene variations of the DA system previously associated with PEM are at the same time protective against high NEM and can therefore constitute a resilience factor against depression.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) and the animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), are both accompanied by motor and non-motor symptoms. Pathological changes in the activities of key neurotransmitters likely underlie many of these symptoms. We have previously described disturbances in the levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT/serotonin), noradrenaline (NE) and -aminobutyric acid (GABA) in a mouse model of EAE. The potential therapeutic effect of a drug that targets these three neurotransmitters, the antidepressant and anti-panic drug phenelzine (PLZ), was assessed in mice with MOG(35-55) induced EAE. The neurotransmitter content of EAE and control tissue after PLZ administration was first evaluated by HPLC. The ability of PLZ treatment to modulate EAE disease course and clinical signs was then assessed. Daily PLZ treatment, starting seven days after disease induction, delayed EAE onset, reduced disease severity in the chronic phase and was associated with substantial improvements in exploratory behavior and a novel measure of sickness and/or depression. Upon completion of the experiment, PLZ's effects on histopathological markers of the disease were examined. No differences were observed in T cell infiltration, microglia/macrophage reactivity, demyelination or axonal injury in PLZ-treated spinal cords. However, EAE mice treated with PLZ showed a normalization of 5-HT levels in the ventral horn of the spinal cord that might account for the improvements in behavioral outcomes. These results demonstrate the therapeutic potential of MAO inhibitors such as PLZ in MS. Additionally, the behavioral changes observed in EAE mice indicate that alterations in non-motor or 'affective' measures may be valuable to consider in addition to traditional measures of gross locomotor function.
Inflammation and stress are regarded as two important atherogenic factors. Because stress can affect leukocyte distribution, we hypothesized that stress-mediated leukocyte extravasation can modify the inflammatory environment of the arterial wall possibly contributing to atherogenesis. To test this hypothesis we evaluated the inflammatory environment of the aorta in C57Bl/6 mice subjected to 3 and 12 months of chronic stress and compared it to age matched non-stressed animals. Experiments were carried out in mice fed regular chow or atherogenic diets. Both treatments increased the expression of vascular and leukocyte adhesion molecules and leukocyte accumulation. At 3 months, stress but not an atherogenic diet elevated the number of CD4 cells, CD8 cells, macrophages, dendritic cells and neutrophils. These changes were associated with elevation of transcripts for ICAM-1 and VCAM-1, E-selectin and neuropeptide Y. At 12 months, stress or high cholesterol acted similarly to elevate the number of CD8 and macrophages, and synergistically on the number of all cell types investigated. At this time-point, strong synergism was also observed on the level of E-selectin and NPY in the aorta, but not in the circulation. Despite these effects, histological and morphological alterations of the arterial wall were severe in the atherogenic diet, but not in the stress groups. Thus, although stress and an atherogenic diet may both affect leukocyte accumulation in the aorta, they may contribute differently to atherogenesis.
TGF-1 is an anti-inflammatory cytokine that is augmented in the brain of autistic patients and that can affect brain development. In this work, we studied the effects of overexpressing TGF-1 in the dentate gyrus of adult or young mice on behavior. TGF-1 overexpression during postnatal development led to a long-term decrease in social interaction and to long-term increases in self-grooming and depression-related behaviors. Our analysis shows that these behavioral changes correlate with the long-term downregulation of TGF-1 and IL-6 expression in the dentate gyrus, as well as to decreases in the mRNA levels of the synaptic protein neuroligin 3 and in the number of Reelin-positive neurons in the dentate gyrus. In contrast, chronic expression of TGF-1 during adulthood led to transient opposite effects on these behaviors. These results show a central role of hippocampal TGF-1 in the programming and modulation of social interaction, repetitive behavior and depression-related behavior. Finally, our data suggest a role of hippocampal TGF-1 and early-life neuroinflammation in the development of the behavioral alterations observed in autism spectrum disorders.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) remains a major public health concern despite a large education effort during the past 25 years. A persistent problem with HIV infection is the high comorbity rate of clinical depression. We previously established that increasing proinflammatory cytokines within the brain of mice induces sickness that can culminate in depressive-like behavior. Here we investigated the role of the HIV transactivator of transcription (Tat) protein in activation of brain cytokine signaling and subsequent induction of depressive-like behavior in a murine model. Adult Balb/c mice were administered a single intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of Tat (40 ng). Social investigation of a novel juvenile was measured at 2, 4, 8 and 24 h post-treatment. Mice treated with Tat did not display signs of sickness, as measured by either decreased social investigation or loss of body weight. At 24 h post-injection, mice were subjected to the forced swim test (FST). ICV administration of Tat to Balb/c mice increased immobility in the FST at 24 h post injection. A different strain of mice, C57BL/6J, responded similarly in the FST. Furthermore, adult C57BL/6J mice injected with Tat and tested in a two-bottle 1% sucrose preference test displayed reduced preference for sucrose during the 24 h post-injection period. Subsequently, brain tissues from Tat-treated and control C57BL/6J mice were collected at 4 and 24 h post injection. CNS tissue from Tat-treated mice had increased expression of IL-1, TNF-, IL-6, and IDO mRNAs at 4 h post injection. These data demonstrate that a single exposure to Tat in the brain is sufficient to induce brain cytokine signaling that culminates in depressive-like behavior. The results reveal a potential role for Tat in the development of comorbid depression in HIV-infected individuals.
The association between the pro-inflammatory state of schizophrenia and increased tryptophan degradation into kynurenine has been reported. However, the relationship between metabolites from subdivisions of the kynurenine pathway, kynurenic acid and 3-hydroxykynurenine, remains unknown. The present study tested the relationship between these kynurenine metabolites in the plasma of medication-nave (n=35) or medication-free (n=18) patients with schizophrenia at admission and following 6-week antipsychotic treatment compared to healthy controls (n=48). The plasma concentrations of kynurenic acid (nmol/l) were lower (difference=-8.44 (-13.22 to -3.65); p=0.001) and of 3-hydroxykynurenine (nmol/l) were higher (difference=11.24 (8.11-14.37); p&lt;0.001) in the patients compared with the healthy controls. The kynurenic acid/kynurenine (difference=-2.75 (-5.115 to -0.336); p=0.026) and kynurenic acid/3-hydroxykynurenine (difference=-1.08 (-1.431 to -0.729); p&lt;0.001) ratios were also lower in the patients. After the 6-week treatment, the patients' plasma kynurenic acid levels (difference=3.85 (-0.23 to 7.94); p=0.064) showed a trend towards an increase, whereas plasma 3-hydroxykynurenine levels (difference=22.41 (19.76-25.07); p&lt;0.001) decreased. As a consequence, the kynurenic acid/3-hydroxykynurenine ratio (difference=-4.41 (-5.51 to -3.3); p&lt;0.001) increased. Higher initial plasma kynurenic acid levels on admission or increased kynurenic acid/kynurenine ratio after treatment were associated with reduction of clinical symptoms scores upon discharge although higher kynurenic acid/kynurenine on admission may induce higher positive symptoms score. In contrast, higher 3-hydroxykynurenine is associated with lower positive symptoms score. These results indicate that there is an imbalance in the kynurenine pathway in schizophrenia. The 6-week antipsychotic treatment may partially reverse the imbalance in kynurenine metabolism and that in turn induces clinical response.
Past analyses examining the relationship between genetic variation in the 5, 10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene and psychiatric disorders have provided mixed and largely inconclusive findings. MTHFR is involved in the one-carbon metabolic pathway which is essential for DNA biosynthesis and the epigenetic process of DNA methylation. We conducted a meta-analysis of all published case-control studies investigating associations between two common MTHFR single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), MTHFR C677T (sample size 29,502) and A1298C (sample size 7934), and the major psychiatric disorders (i) schizophrenia (SZ), (ii) bipolar disorder (BPD), and (iii) unipolar depressive disorder (UDD). In order to examine possible shared genetic vulnerability, we also tested for associations between MTHFR and all of these major psychiatric disorders (SZ, BPD and UDD) combined. MTHFR C677T was significantly associated with all of the combined psychiatric disorders (SZ, BPD and UDD); random effects odds ratio (OR)=1.26 for TT versus CC genotype carriers; confidence interval (CI) 1.09-1.46); meta-regression did not suggest moderating effects of psychiatric diagnosis, sex, ethnic group or year of publication. Although MTHFR A1298C was not significantly associated with the combination of major psychiatric disorders, nor with SZ, there was evidence for diagnostic moderation indicating a significant association with BPD (random effects OR=2.03 for AA versus CC genotype carriers, CI: 1.07-3.86). Meta-analysis on UDD was not possible due to the small number of studies available. This study provides evidence for shared genetic vulnerability for SZ, BPD and UDD mediated by MTHFR 677TT genotype, which is in line with epigenetic involvement in the pathophysiology of these psychiatric disorders.
Children with genetic syndromes offer a unique opportunity to combine genetic and environmental approaches to the study of aggression. Children with genetic syndromes associated with developmental delay are at increased risk for behavior problems, but little is known about risk and resilience factors. In this study, we examined maternal sensitivity of mothers of children with Down syndrome using home observations when their children were 2, 3, and 5 years old, and relations with maternal reports and observations of overt aggression at school at age 5. Maternal sensitivity at ages 2 and 3 years did not significantly predict child aggression at age 5, but low maternal sensitivity at age 5 was significantly related to overt aggression at both home and school. By replicating and extending earlier work, this study informs developmental theory and identifies an important maternal variable related to aggression in children with Down syndrome.
Previous literature in alphabetic languages suggests that the occipital-temporal region (the ventral pathway) is specialized for automatic parallel word recognition, whereas the parietal region (the dorsal pathway) is specialized for serial letter-by-letter reading (Cohen et al., 2008; Ho et al., 2002). However, few studies have directly examined the role of the ventral and dorsal pathways in Chinese reading compared to English reading. To investigate this issue, we adopted the degraded word processing paradigm used by Cohen et al. (2008) and compared brain regions involved in the processing of degraded Chinese characters and English words during lexical decision, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The degraded characters/words were created by inserting blank spaces between radicals of Chinese characters or syllables of English polysyllabic words. Generally, the current study replicated the effects of Cohen et al. (2008), showing that in Chinese - like in alphabetic languages - character spacing modulates both ventral (bilateral cuneus, left middle occipital gyrus) and dorsal (left superior parietal lobule and middle frontal gyrus) pathways. In addition, the current study showed greater activation in bilateral cuneus and right lingual gyrus for Chinese versus English when comparing spaced to normal stimuli, suggesting that Chinese character recognition relies more on ventral visual-spatial processing than English word recognition. Interestingly, bilateral cuneus showed monotonic patterns in response to increasing spacing, while the rest of the regions of interest showed non-monotonic patterns, indicating different profiles for these regions in visual-spatial processing.
Neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies have indicated that motor knowledge is one potential dimension along which concepts are organized. Here we present further direct evidence for the effects of motor knowledge in accounting for categorical patterns across object domains (living vs. nonliving) and grammatical domains (nouns vs. verbs), as well as the integrity of other modality-specific knowledge (e.g., visual). We present a Chinese case, XRK, who suffered from semantic dementia with left temporal lobe atrophy. In naming and comprehension tasks, he performed better at nonliving items than at living items, and better at verbs than at nouns. Critically, multiple regression method revealed that these two categorical effects could be both accounted for by the charade rating, a continuous measurement of the significance of motor knowledge for a concept or a semantic feature. Furthermore, charade rating also predicted his performances on the generation frequency of semantic features of various modalities. These findings consolidate the significance of motor knowledge in conceptual organization and further highlights the interactions between different types of semantic knowledge.
Myofibrillar myopathy (MFM) describes a group of hereditary myopathies pathologically characterized as markedly disorganized myofibrils with cytoplasmic inclusions. Seven disease-related genes have been identified, including DES, CRYAB, MYOT, ZASP, FLNC, BAG3, and FHL1, all of which encode proteins closely related to Z-line. MFM often occurs via autosomal dominant inheritance, but autosomal recessive, or X-linked, forms are also seen. The majority of Japanese patients have no family history. Clinical symptoms of MFM are quite variable. The age at onset ranges from infancy to the eighth decade of life. Some patients show limb girdle muscle involvement, whereas others show distal myopathy. Patients who have cardiomyopathy with no obvious muscle weakness are also seen. Skeletal muscles from MFM patients contain cytoplasmic inclusions called cytoplasmic or spheroid bodies. Immunohistochemically, cytoplasmic accumulations of various proteins are commonly seen, including Z-line proteins such as desmin, B-crystallin, and myotilin; membrane proteins such as dystrophin and sarcoglycans; heat shock proteins; and ubiquitin. We review the clinical, pathological, and genetic characteristics of MFM patients, including those from our recent study results. Despite intensive mutation screening, about 70% of MFM patients in our series had no mutation in the known causative genes. The identification of novel disease-related genes and the development of efficient diagnostic tools are urgently needed, as is the elucidation of the pathomechanism of myofibril disorganization as a possible target for new treatments.
Cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons in the brainstem pedunculopontine (PPT) and laterodorsal tegmental (LDT) nuclei innervate diverse forebrain structures. The cholinergic neurons within these regions send heavy projections to thalamic nuclei and provide modulatory input as well to midbrain dopamine cells in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Cholinergic PPT/LDT neurons are known to send collateralized projections to thalamic and non-thalamic targets, and previous studies have shown that many of the afferents to the VTA arise from neurons that also project to midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei. However, whether cholinergic projections to the VTA and anterior thalamus (AT) are similarly collateralized is unknown. Ultrastructural work from our laboratory has demonstrated that cholinergic axon varicosities in these regions differ both morphologically and with respect to the expression and localization of the high-affinity choline transporter. We therefore hypothesized that the cholinergic innervation to these regions is provided by separate sets of PPT/LDT neurons. Dual retrograde tract-tracing from the AT and VTA indicated that only a small percentage of the total afferent population to either region showed evidence of providing collateralized input to the other target. Cholinergic and non-cholinergic cells displayed a similarly low percentage of collateralization. These results are contrasted to a control case in which retrograde labeling from the midline paratenial thalamic nucleus and the VTA resulted in higher percentages of cholinergic and non-cholinergic dual-tracer labeled cells. Our results indicate that functionally distinct limbic target regions receive primarily segregated signaling from PPT/LDT neurons.
GABAergic neurons within the internal division of the globus pallidus (GPi) are the main source of basal ganglia output reaching the thalamic ventral nuclei in monkeys. Following dopaminergic denervation, pallidothalamic-projecting neurons are known to be hyperactive, whereas a reduction in GPi activity is typically observed in lesioned animals showing levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Besides the mRNAs coding for GABAergic markers (GAD65 and GAD67), we show that all GPi neurons innervating thalamic targets also express transcripts for the isoforms 1 and 2 of the vesicular glutamate transporter (vGlut1 and vGlut2 mRNA). Indeed, dual immunofluorescent detection of GAD67 and vGlut1/2 confirmed the data gathered from in situ hybridization experiments, therefore demonstrating that the detected mRNAs are translated into the related proteins. Furthermore, the dopaminergic lesion resulted in an up-regulation of expression levels for both GAD65 and GAD67 mRNA within identified pallidothalamic-projecting neurons. This was coupled with a down-regulation of GAD65/67 mRNA expression levels in GPi neurons innervating thalamic targets in monkeys showing levodopa-induced dyskinesia. By contrast, the patterns of gene expression for both vGlut1 and vGlut2 mRNAs remained unchanged across GPi projection neurons in control, MPTP-treated and dyskinetic monkeys. In summary, both GABAergic and glutamatergic markers were co-expressed by GPi efferent neurons in primates. Although the status of the dopaminergic system directly modulates the expression levels of GAD65/67 mRNA, the observed expression of vGlut1/2 mRNA is not regulated by either dopaminergic removal or by continuous stimulation with dopaminergic agonists.
The tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) is a basal ganglia-related structure that has recently gained renewed interest as a potential surgical target for the treatment of several aspects of Parkinson's disease. However, the underlying anatomical substrates sustaining the choice of the PPN nucleus as a surgical candidate remain poorly understood. Here, we characterized the chemical phenotypes of different subtypes of PPN efferent neurons innervating the rat parafascicular (PF) nucleus. Emphasis was placed on elucidating the impact of unilateral nigrostriatal denervation on the expression patterns of the mRNA coding the vesicular glutamate transporter type 2 (vGlut2 mRNA). We found a bilateral projection from the PPN nucleus to the PF nucleus arising from cholinergic and glutamatergic efferent neurons, with a small fraction of projection neurons co-expressing both cholinergic and glutamatergic markers. Furthermore, the unilateral nigrostriatal depletion induced a bilateral twofold increase in the expression levels of vGlut2 mRNA within the PPN nucleus. Our results support the view that heterogeneous chemical profiles account for PPN efferent neurons innervating thalamic targets. Moreover, a bilateral enhancement of glutamatergic transmission arising from the PPN nucleus occurs following unilateral dopaminergic denervation, therefore sustaining the well-known hyperactivity of the PF nucleus in parkinsonian-like conditions. In conclusion, our data suggest that the ascending projections from the PPN that reach basal ganglia-related targets could play an important role in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease.
C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP), the most abundant natriuretic peptide hormone in the brain, plays an important role in neuroendocrine function. The physiological effects of CNP are mediated by the natriuretic peptide receptor-B (NPR-B). Although CNP and NPR-B have been detected in several brain regions, little is known about the neuroanatomical localization of NPR-B protein in the brainstem. In the present study, we investigated the topographical distribution of NPR-B immunoreactivity in the monkey brainstem. The data demonstrate widespread NPR-B immunoreactivity throughout the brainstem. NPR-B immunoreactivity was located in the superior colliculus, inferior colliculus, periaqueductal gray, oculomotor nucleus, red nucleus, ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra, and cerebral peduncle of the midbrain, as well as in the abducens nucleus, medial vestibular nucleus, lateral vestibular nucleus, parabrachial nucleus, locus coeruleus, trigeminal motor nucleus, pontine reticular nucleus, facial nucleus, oral part of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, cochlear nucleus, raphe magnus nucleus, raphe pallidus nucleus, pontine nucleus of the pons, the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, hypoglossal nucleus, nucleus tractus solitarius, gracile nucleus, cuneate nucleus, medial vestibular nucleus, spinal trigeminal nucleus, nucleus ambiguus, lateral paragigantocellular nucleus, lateral reticular nucleus, and the inferior olivary nucleus of the medulla oblongata. The widespread distribution of NPR-B-immunoreactive structures throughout the monkey brainstem indicates that CNP may be involved in several physiological mechanisms, acting as a neurotransmitter and/or neuromodulator.
Return to work (RTW) is one of the most important objectives to strive for in burn rehabilitation. Most individuals do return to work after burn but there is a subgroup that does not. Prospective long-time follow-up studies focusing on RTW after burn are scarce. Consecutive adult burn patients employed before injury (n=58) were included in the present study during hospitalization and subsequently followed up for 12 months. In addition, a structured interview was performed at 2-7 years after burn. At that time; mean 4.5 years (SD 2.0) after burn; 67% of the participants had returned to their work. Predictive variables for time to RTW were length of stay (LOS) at the burn center and fulfilling criteria for Any personality disorder. No RTW was predicted by LOS and having Any anxiety disorder or Any substance use disorder prior to the burn. The non-working group reported lower generic (EQ-5D) and burn-specific (BSHS-B) HRQoL than the working group at every time point. Identification of risk factors associated with difficulties in RTW is required in order to execute individualized vocational rehabilitation.

Stories abound about the medical abuses that have come to define medicine and the &quot;pseudo&quot;-neurosciences in the Third Reich. Well known are the Nazi program of euthanasia and the neuroscientific publications that arose from it. Nevertheless, during this widespread perversion of medical practice and science, true medical heroics persisted, even in the concentration camps. In December 1942, inmates of Camp Vapniarka began experiencing painful lower extremity muscle cramps, spastic paraparesis, and urinary incontinence. In order to reduce the cost of feeding the 1200, mostly Jewish, inmates of Camp Vapniarka and surreptitiously hasten their deaths, the Nazi-affiliated Romanian officers of the camp had begun feeding them a diet high in Lathyrus sativus. L. sativus is the neurotoxin implicated in neurolathyrism, a degenerative disease of the upper motor neurons. Dr. Arthur Kessler, one of the camp's prisoners, eventually identified the source of the epidemic. Armed with this knowledge, the inmates collectively organized to halt its spread.
Previously, I mentioned that not all neuroscientists collaborated with the Nazis, who from 1933 to 1945 tried to eliminate neurologic and psychiatric disease from the gene pool. Oskar and Ccile Vogt openly resisted and courageously protested against the Nazi regime and its policies, and have been discussed previously in the neurology literature. Here I discuss Alexander Mitscherlich, Haakon Saethre, Walther Spielmeyer, Jules Tinel, and Johannes Pompe. Other neuroscientists had ambivalent roles, including Hans Creutzfeldt, who has been discussed previously. Here, I discuss Max Nonne, Karl Bonhoeffer, and Oswald Bumke. The neuroscientists who resisted had different backgrounds and motivations that likely influenced their behavior, but this group undoubtedly saved lives of colleagues, friends, and patients, or at least prevented forced sterilizations. By recognizing and understanding the actions of these heroes of neuroscience, we pay homage and realize how ethics and morals do not need to be compromised even in dark times.

With recent approval of the first dendritic cell (DC) vaccine for patient use, many other DC vaccine approaches are now being tested in clinical trials. Many of these DC vaccines employ tumor cell lysates (TL) generated from cells cultured in atmospheric oxygen (20% O) that greatly exceeds levels found in tumors in situ. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that TLs generated from tumor cells cultured under physiologic oxygen (5% O) would be more effective as a source for DC antigens. Gene expression patterns in primary glioma cultures established at 5% O more closely paralleled patient tumors in situ and known immunogenic antigens were more highly expressed. DCs treated with TLs generated from primary tumor cells maintained in 5% O took up and presented antigens to CD8 T cells more efficiently. Moreover, CD8 T cells primed in this manner exhibited superior tumoricidal activity against target cells cultured in either atmospheric 20% O or physiologic 5% O. Together, these results establish a simple method to greatly improve the effectiveness of DC vaccines in stimulating the production of tumoricidal T cells, with broad implications for many of the DC-based cancer vaccines being developed for clinical application.

Recent findings suggest that Ring finger protein 146 (RNF146), also called iduna, have neuroprotective property due to its inhibition of Parthanatos via binding with Poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR). The Parthanatos is a PAR dependent cell death that has been implicated in many human diseases. RNF146/Iduna acts as a PARsylation-directed E3 ubquitin ligase to mediate tankyrase-dependent degradation of axin, thereby positively regulates Wnt signaling. RNF146/Iduna can also facilitate DNA repair and protect against cell death induced by DNA damaging agents or -irradiation. It can translocate to the nucleus after cellular injury and promote the ubiquitination and degradation of various nuclear proteins involved in DNA damage repair. The PARsylation-directed ubquitination mediated by RNF146/Iduna is analogous to the phosphorylation-directed ubquitination catalyzed by Skp1-Cul1-F-box (SCF) E3 ubiquitin complex. RNF146/Iduna has been found to be implicated in neurodegenerative disease and cancer development. Therefore modulation of the PAR-binding and PARsylation dependent E3 ligase activity of RNF146/Iduna could have therapeutic significance for diseases, in which PAR and PAR-binding proteins play key pathophysiologic roles.
The solute carrier (SLC) family of transporters play key roles in the movement of charged organic ions across the blood-urine, blood-cerebrospinal fluid, and blood-brain barriers and thus mediate the absorption, disposition, and elimination of many common pharmaceuticals (i.e., nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAIDs), antibiotics, and diuretics). They have also been proposed to participate in a remote sensing and signaling network involving small molecules. Nevertheless, other than possessing a 12-transmembrane -helical topology comprised of two six-helix hemidomains interacting through a long loop, the structural and mechanistic details for these transporters remains unclear. Recent crystallographic studies of bacterial homologs support the idea of a &quot;switching&quot; mechanism, which allows for periodic changes in the overall transporter configuration and cyclic opening of the transporter to the extracellular or cytoplasmic sides of the membrane. To investigate this, computational modeling based on our recent study of glycerol-3-phosphate transporter (GlpT) (Tsigelny et al. J Bioinform Comput Biol 6:885-904, 2008) was performed for organic anion transporter 1 (OAT1/SLC22A6, originally identified as NKT), the prototypical member of this family. OAT1 was inserted into an artificial phospholipid bilayer and the positional change of the six-helix hemidomains relative to each other was followed for 100 ns. The hemidomains were found to tilt relative to each other while their configuration is mostly inflexible. Since the modeling was performed for about 100 ns, the data suggest that this tilting mechanism might explain the early steps in the transport of organic anionic metabolites, drugs, and toxins by this clinically important transporter.
Elevated [Ca(2+)](i) in human red blood cells (RBCs) activates IK1 K(+) channels leading to cell dehydration. NS309, a powerful IK1 agonist, has been shown to activate IK1 channels even at sub-physiological [Ca(2+)](i) levels. An intriguing feature of this response is its all-or-none nature, with responsive cells dehydrating fully and refractory cells retaining normal volume. We investigated the mechanism of this response suspecting cell-age involvement. We expected the younger cells, with the more vigorous plasma membrane Ca(2+) pumps (PMCA), to be the refractory cells because of their lower [Ca(2+)](i). Osmotic fragility measurements and density separation through phthalate oil were used to monitor red cell dehydration. The fraction of glycosilated haemoglobin (Hb A1c) was used to estimate the mean age of density fractionated cells. The results showed that inhibition of the PMCA by vanadate abolished the all-or-none response, that the mean age of the responsive cells was young, contrary to expectations, and that pump inhibition subsequent to an all-or-none response caused the refractory cells to dehydrate fully, suggesting that the all-or-none response resulted from a reduced efficiency of NS309 to increase the Ca(2+) sensitivity of IK1 channels in aged RBCs.
Inosine is a purine nucleoside and is considered protective to neural cells including neurons and astrocytes against hypoxic injury. However, whether oligodendrocytes (OLs) could also be protected from hypoxia by inosine is not known. Here we investigated the effects of inosine on primarily cultured rat OLs injured by rotenone-mediated chemical hypoxia, and the mechanisms of the effects using ATP assay, MTT assay, PI-Hoechst staining, TUNEL, and immunocytochemistry. Results showed that rotenone exposure for 24 h caused cell death and impaired viability in both immature and mature OLs, while pretreatment of 10 mM inosine 30 min before rotenone administration significantly reduced cell death and improved the viability of OLs. The same concentration of inosine given 120 min after rotenone exposure also improved viability of injured mature OLs. Immunocytochemistry for nitrotyrosine and cellular ATP content examination indicated that inosine may protect OLs by providing ATP and scavenging peroxynitrite for cells. In addition, immature OLs were more susceptible to hypoxia than mature OLs; and at the similar degree of injury, inosine protected immature and mature OLs differently. Quantitative real-time PCR revealed that expression of adenosine receptors was different between these two stages of OLs. These data suggest that inosine protect OLs from hypoxic injury as an antioxidant and ATP provider, and the protective effects of inosine on OLs vary with cell differentiation, possibly due to the adenosine receptors expression profile. As OLs form myelin in the central nervous system, inosine could be used as a promising drug to treat demyelination-involved disorders.

Gender dysphoria is suggested to be a consequence of sex atypical cerebral differentiation. We tested this hypothesis in a magnetic resonance study of voxel-based morphometry and structural volumetry in 48 heterosexual men (HeM) and women (HeW) and 24 gynephillic male to female transsexuals (MtF-TR). Specific interest was paid to gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) fraction, hemispheric asymmetry, and volumes of the hippocampus, thalamus, caudate, and putamen. Like HeM, MtF-TR displayed larger GM volumes than HeW in the cerebellum and lingual gyrus and smaller GM and WM volumes in the precentral gyrus. Both male groups had smaller hippocampal volumes than HeW. As in HeM, but not HeW, the right cerebral hemisphere and thalamus volume was in MtF-TR lager than the left. None of these measures differed between HeM and MtF-TR. MtF-TR displayed also singular features and differed from both control groups by having reduced thalamus and putamen volumes and elevated GM volumes in the right insular and inferior frontal cortex and an area covering the right angular gyrus.The present data do not support the notion that brains of MtF-TR are feminized. The observed changes in MtF-TR bring attention to the networks inferred in processing of body perception.
Little is currently known about the alterations in the topological organization of the white matter (WM) structural networks in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). In the present study, we used diffusion tensor imaging and deterministic tractography to map the WM structural networks in 39 MS patients and 39 age- and gender-matched healthy controls. Graph theoretical methods were applied to investigate alterations in the network efficiency in these patients. The MS patients and the controls exhibited efficient small-world properties in their WM structural networks. However, the global and local network efficiencies were significantly decreased in the MS patients compared with the controls, with the most pronounced changes observed in the sensorimotor, visual, default-mode, and language areas. Furthermore, the decreased network efficiencies were significantly correlated with the expanded disability status scale scores, the disease durations, and the total WM lesion loads. Together, the results suggest a disrupted integrity in the large-scale brain systems in MS, thus providing new insights into the understanding of MS connectome. Our data also suggest that a topology-based brain network analysis can provide potential biomarkers for disease diagnosis and for monitoring the progression and treatment effects for patients with MS.
During natural vision, primates perform frequent saccadic eye movements, allowing only a narrow time window for processing the visual information at each location. Individual neurons may contribute only with a few spikes to the visual processing during each fixation, suggesting precise spike timing as a relevant mechanism for information processing. We recently found in V1 of monkeys freely viewing natural images, that fixation-related spike synchronization occurs at the early phase of the rate response after fixation-onset, suggesting a specific role of the first response spikes in V1. Here, we show that there are strong local field potential (LFP) modulations locked to the onset of saccades, which continue into the successive fixation periods. Visually induced spikes, in particular the first spikes after the onset of a fixation, are locked to a specific epoch of the LFP modulation. We suggest that the modulation of neural excitability, which is reflected by the saccade-related LFP changes, serves as a corollary signal enabling precise timing of spikes in V1 and thereby providing a mechanism for spike synchronization.
Memory verification is crucial for meaningful behavior. Orbitofrontal damage may impair verification and induce confabulation and inappropriate acts. The strategic retrieval account explains this state by deficient monitoring of memories' precise content, whereas the reality filter hypothesis explains it by a failure of an orbitofrontal mechanism suppressing the interference of memories that do not pertain to reality. The distinctiveness of these mechanisms has recently been questioned. Here, we juxtaposed these 2 mechanisms using high-resolution evoked potentials in healthy subjects who performed 2 runs of a continuous recognition task which contained pictures that precisely matched or only resembled previous pictures. We found behavioral and electrophysiological dissociation: Strategic content monitoring was maximally challenged by stimuli resembling previous ones, whereas reality filtering was maximally challenged by identical stimuli. Evoked potentials dissociated at 200-300 ms: Strategic monitoring induced a strong frontal negativity and a distinct cortical map configuration, which were particularly weakly expressed in reality filtering. Recognition of real repetitions was expressed at 300-400 ms, associated with ventromedial prefrontal activation. Thus, verification of a memory's concordance with the past (its content) dissociates from the verification of its concordance with the present. The role of these memory control mechanisms in the generation of confabulations and disorientation is discussed.
Guilt is a central moral emotion due to its inherent link to norm violations, thereby affecting both individuals and society. Furthermore, the nature and specificity of guilt is still debated in psychology and philosophy, particularly with regard to the differential involvement of self-referential representations in guilt relative to shame. Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in healthy volunteers, we identified specific brain regions associated with guilt by comparison with the 2 most closely related emotions, shame and sadness. To induce high emotional intensity, we used an autobiographical memory paradigm where participants relived during fMRI scanning situations from their own past that were associated with strong feelings of guilt, shame, or sadness. Compared with the control emotions, guilt episodes specifically recruited a region of right orbitofrontal cortex, which was also highly correlated with individual propensity to experience guilt (Trait Guilt). Guilt-specific activity was also observed in the paracingulate dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, a critical &quot;Theory of Mind&quot; region, which overlapped with brain areas of self-referential processing identified in an independent task. These results provide new insights on the unique nature of guilt as a &quot;self-conscious&quot; moral emotion and the neural bases of antisocial disorders characterized by impaired guilt processing.
The total numbers of neurons and glial cells in the neocortex and basal ganglia in adults with Down syndrome (DS) were estimated with design-based stereological methods, providing quantitative data on brains affected by delayed development and accelerated aging. Cell numbers, volume of regions, and densities of neurons and glial cell subtypes were estimated in brains from 4 female DS subjects (mean age 66 years) and 6 female controls (mean age 70 years). The DS subjects were estimated to have about 40% fewer neocortical neurons in total (11.1  10(9) vs. 17.8  10(9), 2p  0.001) and almost 30% fewer neocortical glial cells with no overlap to controls (12.8  10(9) vs. 18.2  10(9), 2p = 0.004). In contrast, the total number of neurons in the basal ganglia was the same in the 2 groups, whereas the number of oligodendrocytes in the basal ganglia was reduced by almost 50% in DS (405  10(6) vs. 816  10(6), 2p = 0.01). We conclude that trisomy 21 affects cortical structures more than central gray matter emphasizing the differential impairment of brain development. Despite concomitant Alzheimer-like pathology, the neurodegenerative outcome in a DS brain deviates from common Alzheimer disease.
Subclasses of -aminobutyric acid (GABA) interneurons differentially influence cortical network activity. The contribution of differences in GABA synthesis and reuptake in axon boutons to cell type-specific functions is unknown. GABA is synthesized within boutons by glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (GAD65) and GAD67, while GAT1 is responsible for GABA reuptake. Using an imaging methodology capable of determining the colocalization frequency of different immunocytochemical labels in the same bouton and the quantification of the fluorescence intensity of each label in these same structures, we assessed the bouton levels of GAD65, GAD67, and GAT1 in parvalbumin-expressing chandelier (PV(ch)) and basket (PV(b)) neurons and cannabinoid 1 receptor-expressing basket (CB1r(b)) neurons in the monkey prefrontal cortex. We show that PV(ch) boutons almost exclusively contained GAD67, relative to GAD65, whereas CB1r(b) boutons contained mostly GAD65. In contrast, both GAD65 and GAD67 were easily detected in PV(b) boutons. Furthermore, in comparison with PV(ch) boutons, CB1r(b) boutons expressed low to undetectable levels of GAT1. Our findings provide a new basis for the distinctive functional roles of these perisomatic-innervating interneurons in cortical circuits. In addition, they strongly suggest that altered levels of GAD67 or GAD65, as seen in some psychiatric diseases, would have cell type-specific consequences on the modulation of GABA neurotransmission.

Women with histories of child sexual abuse (CSA) are more likely than those without such experiences to report a variety of negative sexual outcomes. This study examines the explanatory power of a CSA summed composite versus dichotomous (presence/absence) measurement in predicting a comprehensive negative sexual behavior outcome. Study participants were obtained from a community based sample examining women's sexual decision-making. The continuous CSA measurement reflects cumulative histories of CSA through a composite score capturing abuse specific characteristics. Using a cross-validation approach, the sample (n=835) was randomly split and the explanatory power of each measure was examined through a series of multiple linear regressions comparing model fit indexes and performing a formal likelihood ratio test of one model against another. All CSA measures explained a similar percentage of variance but overall the CSA summed composite explained the data significantly better in terms predicting negative sexual experiences and revictimization than a binary measure as demonstrated with the likelihood ratio test. The results were replicated by cross-validating the predictive power of the CSA composite score between the split samples. Consistency of CSA regression estimates for the summed composite between training and validation samples were also confirmed. Given the superiority of the CSA summed composites over the binary variable, we recommend using this measure when examining associations between CSA histories and negative sexual experiences and revictimization.
The JC virus (JCV), first described in 1971, is responsible for initiation of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a disease characterized by demyelinating plaques and a classic triad of symptoms consisting of cognitive impairment, visual deficits, and motor dysfunction. To establish a diagnosis of PML, evidence of the presence of JCV DNA in pathologic tissue is necessary. The host range for productive infection of JCV is controlled by factors in the cell nucleus that bind to the viral promoter, initiating transcription of mRNA for the coordinated synthesis of viral proteins. Oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, and CD34+ and CD19+ cells of the immune system have the necessary binding proteins in sufficient concentration to allow lytic infection to occur. A strong link between JCV infection in cells of the immune system and cells of the nervous system points to the importance of the tissue origin of JCV latency, the bone marrow that harbors CD34+ cells. The emergence of PML in patients treated with natalizumab and other immune-altering agents supports this observation and provides new insights into the pathogenic mechanisms of JCV infection.

Many schizophrenic patients have comorbid obsessive-compulsive syndromes (OCS) frequently associated with antiserotonergic second-generation antipsychotics such as clozapine and olanzapine. Whereas cognitive behavioral therapy and antiobsessive antidepressants brought up inconsistent results, pharmacological add-on strategies were able to alleviate OCS. One suggestive agent for antiobsessive add-on treatment is aripiprazole, a partial agonist at dopamine and serotonin receptors. Here, we summarize the course of a patient with paranoid schizophrenia. She developed OCS during long-term treatment with olanzapine at 20 mg/d over a period of 10 years. Baseline assessment showed severe obsessions (Yale Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (YBOCS) subscale score : 13) and compulsions (YBOCS subscale score : 10), whereas the psychotic syndrome was compensated (Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale, 11/17/28). The combination with aripiprazole (15 mg/) over a period of 12 weeks resulted in a marked improvement of OCS (YBOCS, 8/3) and some further improvement of the psychotic symptoms (Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale, 9/13/27). This observation points toward an antiobsessive potency of aripiprazole in combination with olanzapine, quite similar to approaches involving clozapine. Hence, the proposed strategy should be further evaluated in prospective controlled trials.



In placebo-controlled trials, the placebo component of treatments is usually assessed by simulating a therapy through the administration of a dummy treatment (placebo) in order to eliminate the specific effects of the therapy. Recently, a radically different approach to the analysis of placebo responses has been implemented in which placebo responses are assessed without placebo groups. To do this, the placebo (psychological) component is eliminated by conducting hidden (unexpected) administrations of the active treatment. Compelling experimental evidence now shows that when the psychological component is eliminated through the administration of therapies unbeknownst to the patient, the effects of a variety of treatments are significantly reduced. Overall, the experimental data show that the action of different pharmacological agents can be modulated by cognitive and affective factors that can increase or decrease the effects of drugs. This experimental approach is thus a window into the complex interactions between psychology and pharmacodynamics.
The effect of emotional stimulus content on working memory performance has been investigated with conflicting results, as both emotion-dependent facilitation and impairments are reported in the literature. To clarify this issue, 52 adult participants performed a modified visual 2-back task with highly arousing positive stimuli (sexual scenes), highly arousing negative stimuli (violent death) and low-arousal neutral stimuli. Emotional stimulus processing was found to facilitate task performance relative to that of neutral stimuli, both in regards to response accuracy and reaction times. No emotion-dependent differences in false-alarm rates were found. These results indicate that emotional information can have a facilitating effect on working memory maintenance and processing of information.
Changes in the intracellular concentration of calcium ions in neurons are involved in neurite growth, development, and remodeling, regulation of neuronal excitability, increases and decreases in the strength of synaptic connections, and the activation of survival and programmed cell death pathways. An important aspect of the signals that trigger these processes is that they are frequently initiated in the form of glutamatergic neurotransmission within dendritic trees, while their completion involves specific changes in the patterns of genes expressed within neuronal nuclei. Accordingly, two prominent aims of research concerned with calcium signaling in neurons are determination of the mechanisms governing information conveyance between synapse and nucleus, and discovery of the rules dictating translation of specific patterns of inputs into appropriate and specific transcriptional responses. In this article, we present an overview of the avenues by which glutamatergic excitation of dendrites may be communicated to the neuronal nucleus and the primary calcium-dependent signaling pathways by which synaptic activity can invoke changes in neuronal gene expression programs.
The sorting machinery in early endosomes is crucial for intracellular homeostasis and signal transduction and its disruption leads to the development of various diseases. In spite of its significance, the molecular mechanism underlying this machinery remains largely unknown. Actin filaments are implicated in intracellular trafficking, including membrane fission at endocytosis, membrane stretching at the Golgi complex, and maturation of endosomes. We have recently found that actin is required for receptor sorting in early endosomes and identified cortactin as a candidate for actin regulation in early endosomes. Inhibition of actin dynamics leads to enlargement of early endosomes and impairment of the sorting; the latter is also observed in cortactin-depleted cells. The endosomal localization of cortactin was enhanced by dynasore, a dynamin inhibitor that effectively inhibits endosomal sorting, indicating that cortactin is involved in the sorting machinery in early endosomes. Here we discuss the role of actin filaments in early endosomes and other molecules implicated in endosomal trafficking.
Glucose metabolism in free-swimming fasted and fed seabass was studied using deuterated water ((2)H(2)O). After transfer to seawater enriched with 4.9% (2)H(2)O for 6-h or for 72-h, positional and mole percent enrichment (MPE) of plasma glucose and water were quantified by (2)H NMR and ESI-MS/MS. Plasma water (2)H-enrichment reached that of seawater within 6h. In both fasted and fed fish, plasma glucose MPE increased asymptotically attaining ~55% of plasma water enrichment by 72 h. The distribution of (2)H-enrichment between the different glucose positions was relatively uniform. The gluconeogenic contribution to glucose that was synthesized during (2)H(2)O administration was estimated from the ratio of position 5 and 2 glucose enrichments. For both fed and fasted fish, gluconeogenesis accounted for 981% of the glucose that was produced during the 72-h (2)H(2)O administration period. For fasted fish, gluconeogenic contributions measured after 6h were identical to 72-h values (943%). For fed fish, the apparent gluconeogenic contribution at 6-h was significantly lower compared to 72-h (795% versus 981%, p&lt;0.05). This may reflect a brief augmentation of gluconeogenic flux by glycogenolysis after feeding and/or selective enrichment of plasma glucose position 2 via futile glucose-glucose-6-phosphate cycling.

In this issue of Cortex, Crawford, Garthwaite and Ryan publish bayesian statistical tests that will enable researchers to take account of covariates when comparing single patients to control samples. In this article, we provide some context for this development, from an audit of the Cortex archives. We suggest that single-case research is alive and well, and more rigorous than ever, and that current practice has been shaped considerably by Crawford and colleagues' statistical refinements over the past 12 years. However, there is scope for further tightening and standardisation of statistical methods and reporting standards. The advantages offered by the new bayesian tests should promote the even wider use of appropriate statistical methods, with benefits for the validity of individual studies, and for cross-comparability in the single-case literature.
The 150th anniversary affords an opportunity to revisit the circumstances surrounding Paul Broca's case report celebrated today as the moment of discovery of aphasia. The proceedings from January to June 1861 of the Paris Society of Anthropology are examined to reconstruct the events surrounding the report of M. Leborgne on April 18th. From a close reading of the presentations and discussions which took place during this period it is apparent that Broca's case report was a minor diversion to a debate about cranial measurements and their relation to intelligence in individuals and racial groups. Moreover, it appears that little attention was granted to Broca's first case at the time. While his ideas about localization and specialization developed and change over the next decade, it represented a minor field of interest for him. Nevertheless Broca's work on aphasia inspired research throughout Europe and North America and went on to have a lasting impact on both aphasiology and neuropsychology.











Morphometric and neuropsychological retrospective studies of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have demonstrated that regional atrophies and cognitive impairments may differentiate stable from progressing MCI. No measure has proved helpful prospectively. In this study, twenty five amnestic MCI patients and 25 healthy controls underwent structural MRI and comprehensive neuropsychological assessment. The groups' grey matter volumes were compared with voxel based morphometry and were also correlated with scores obtained on paired associates learning and category fluency tasks. MCI patients had significantly reduced grey matter volume in left mediotemporal and other neocortical regions compared with controls. Atrophy in perirhinal and anterior inferior temporal cortex was associated with poor scores on both category fluency and paired associates learning tasks. After 36 months, 44% of the MCI sample converted to dementia. Converter and non-converter MCI subgroups differed in paired associates learning and in category fluency scores, and showed limited differences in grey matter loss in the hippocampal complex. Variable atrophy in the hippocampus was not a relevant element in the converter/non converter distinction, but converters had significant volumetric reductions in the perhirinal cortex and in other anterior temporal and frontal neocortical areas. A high proportion of converters (91%) could be identified from baseline data using a combination of measures of regional atrophy in left temporal association cortex and poor scores on paired associates learning and category fluency tasks. This combined approach may offer a better option than using each measure alone to prospectively identify individuals at more immediate risk of conversion to dementia in the MCI population. The clinical advantage of this combination of structural MRI and neuropsychological measures in predicting conversion to dementia will need additional prospective validation.
Metformin and glyburide are antihyperglycemic agents that are widely used in the United States. There have been several cases of overdose of these medications reported in the world literature. Glyburide overdose is associated with hypoglycemia that can be severe, while metformin overdoses have been associated with lactic acidosis. In many cases of metformin overdose, lactic acidosis has led to profound hypotension and respiratory failure. In this article we will present the case of a 49-year-old man who ingested 52 grams of metformin and 350 mg of glyburide in a suicide attempt. The patient developed hypoglycemia, lactic acidosis, hypotension, respiratory failure and a profound sudden sensorineural hearing loss. We discuss prior cases of overdose with these agents, and the connection between overdose and the development of sudden sensorineural hearing loss.
A growing list of common and rare genetic risk variants are being implicated in schizophrenia susceptibility. As with other complex genetic disorders most of the variance in genetic risk is still to be attributed. What can be learned from progress to date? The available data challenges how we conceptualize schizophrenia and suggests strong aetiological links with other psychiatric and developmental disorders. With the identification of rare copy number risk variants implicating specific genes (e.g. VIPR2 and NRXN1) it is increasingly possible to investigate molecular aetiology in patient subgroups to establish whether schizophrenia represents one or many different disease processes. This review summarizes recent research progress and suggests how the tools of modern genomics and neuroscience can be applied to best understand this devastating disorder.



Anticoagulant therapy in patients with atrial fibrillation requires careful evaluation because its benefits i.e. prevention of thromboembolism, must be greater than the risk of bleeding. Patients at higher risk of thrombosis are evaluated through specific scores, such as the CHA(2)DS(2)VASc, coupled with scoring systems for assessing bleeding risks, such as the HAS-BLED score. In addition to bleeding, other risks have been associated with the use of warfarin, including an increased susceptibility to vascular calcifications and fractures caused by a reduction in the levels of vitamin K dependent carboxylated enzymes, matrix Gla-protein (MGP) and bone Gla-protein or osteocalcin (BGP). In fact, while on one side warfarin is used to prevent embolism, on the other hand acting as a vitamin K antagonist it blocks the inhibitory effect of MGP on vascular calcification. Similarly, patients treated with warfarin carry a greater risk of developing osteoporosis and fractures, due to reduced BGP activity. Recently, a new generation of anticoagulant drugs has been developed, such as dabigatran, a direct thrombin inhibitor, and rivaroxaban, a direct factor-Xa inhibitor. They offer an interesting alternative to warfarin, because they do not require frequent blood tests for monitoring while offering similar results in terms of efficacy. Lacking the inhibitory effect on the vitamin K cycle, the consequent side effects can be avoided. If, compared to warfarin treated patients, a lower incidence of vascular calcifications and fractures will be demonstrated, the advantages over warfarin may be even greater, leading to further benefits in terms of morbidity and mortality.

Autoantibodies that bind to voltage-gated potassium-channel complex proteins (VGKC-complex antibodies) occur frequently in adults with limbic encephalitis presenting with cognitive impairment and seizures. Recently, VGKC-complex antibodies have been described in a few children with limbic encephalitis, and children with unexplained encephalitis presenting with status epilepticus. We report a case of infantile-onset epileptic spasms and developmental delay compatible with epileptic encephalopathy. Our patient was a female infant, aged 4 months at presentation. She had evidence of immune activation in the central nervous system with elevated cerebrospinal fluid neopterin and mirrored oligoclonal bands, which prompted testing for autoantibodies. VGKC-complex antibodies were elevated (201 pmol/L, normal&lt;100), but extended antibody testing, including leucine-rich glioma-inactivated 1 (LGI1) and contactin-associated protein 2 (CASPR2), was negative. The patient showed a partial response to steroid treatment, which was started late in the disease course. On review at 13 months of age, her development was consistent with an age of 5 to 6 months. These results suggest that VGKC-complex antibodies might represent a marker of immune therapy responsiveness in a subgroup of patients with infantile epileptic encephalopathy.
A perineuronal net (PNN) is a layer of lattice-like matrix which enwraps the surface of the soma and dendrites, and in some cases the axon initial segments, in sub-populations of neurons in the central nervous system (CNS). First reported by Camillo Golgi more than a century ago, the molecular structure and the potential role of this matrix have only been unraveled in the last few decades. PNNs are mainly composed of hyaluronan, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans, link proteins, and tenascin R. The interactions between these molecules allow the formation of a stable pericellular complex surrounding synapses on the neuronal surface. PNNs appear late in development co-incident with the closure of critical periods for plasticity. They play a direct role in the control of CNS plasticity, and their removal is one way in which plasticity can be re-activated in the adult CNS. In this review, we examine the molecular components and formation of PNNs, their role in maturation and synaptic plasticity after CNS injury, and the possible mechanisms of PNN action.
Basal lamina is present in many stem cell niches, but we still have a poor understanding of the role of this and other extracellular matrix (ECM) components. Here, we review current knowledge regarding ECM expression and function in the neural stem cell niche, focusing on the subependymal zone of the adult CNS. An increasing complexity of ECM molecules has been described, and a number of receptors expressed on the stem cells identified. Experiments perturbing the niche using genetics or cytotoxic ablation of the rapidly dividing precursors, or using explant culture models to examine specific growth factors, have been influential in showing how changes in these ECM receptors might regulate neural stem cell behavior. However the role of changes in the matrix itself remains to be determined. The answers will be important, as they will point to the molecules required to engineer niches ex-vivo so as to provide tools for regenerative neuroscience.
Extracellular matrix (ECM) glycoproteins are expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) in complex and developmentally regulated patterns. The ECM provides a number of critical functions in the CNS, contributing both to the overall structural organization of the CNS and to control of individual cells. At the cellular level, the ECM affects its functions by a wide range of mechanisms, including providing structural support to cells, regulating the activity of second messenger systems, and controlling the distribution and local concentration of growth and differentiation factors. Perhaps the most well known role of the ECM is as a substrate on which motile cells can migrate. Genetic, cell biological, and biochemical studies provide strong evidence that ECM glycoproteins such as laminins, tenascins, and proteoglycans control neuronal migration and positioning in several regions of the developing and adult brain. Recent findings have also shed important new insights into the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which reelin regulates migration. Here we will summarize these findings, emphasizing the emerging concept that ECM glycoproteins promote different modes of neuronal migration such as radial, tangential, and chain migration. We also discuss several studies demonstrating that mutations in ECM glycoproteins can alter neuronal positioning by cell nonautonomous mechanisms that secondarily affect migrating neurons.
Developing neurons use a combination of guidance cues to assemble a functional neural network. A variety of proteins immobilized within the extracellular matrix (ECM) provide specific binding sites for integrin receptors on neurons. Integrin receptors on growth cones associate with a number of cytosolic adaptor and signaling proteins that regulate cytoskeletal dynamics and cell adhesion. Recent evidence suggests that soluble growth factors and classic axon guidance cues may direct axon pathfinding by controlling integrin-based adhesion. Moreover, because classic axon guidance cues themselves are immobilized within the ECM and integrins modulate cellular responses to many axon guidance cues, interactions between activated receptors modulate cell signals and adhesion. Ultimately, growth cones control axon outgrowth and pathfinding behaviors by integrating distinct biochemical signals to promote the proper assembly of the nervous system. In this review, we discuss our current understanding how ECM proteins and their associated integrin receptors control neural network formation.
In the current study, based on a sample of 1,873 adolescents between 11.4 and 20.9 years of age from the first 3 waves of the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health, we investigated the longitudinal effects of future orientation on levels of and developmental changes in problem behaviors, while controlling for the effects by impulsivity; we also tested the moderating effects by future orientation on the impulsivity-problem behaviors link over time. Additionally, we examined future orientation operationalized by items measuring education, marriage, and life domains. Findings based on growth curve analyses provided evidence of longitudinal effects by education and life future orientation on both levels of and developmental changes in problem behaviors; the effect of marriage future orientation was not significant for either test. In addition, only life future orientation moderated the effect by impulsivity on levels of problem behaviors over time. More specifically, impulsivity had a weaker effect on levels of problem behaviors over time for adolescents who reported higher levels of life future orientation.
We previously used the theory of allostasis as the foundation for a model of the current stress process. This work highlighted the core emotional systems of the brain as the central mediator of the relationship between stress and health. In this paper, we extend this theoretical approach to consider the role of developmental timing. In doing so, we note that there are strong implicit models that underlie current developmental stress research in the social and life sciences. We endeavor to illustrate these models explicitly as we review the evidence behind each one and discuss their implications. We then extend these models to reflect recent findings from research in life span human neuroscience. The result is a new set of developmental allostatic models that provide fodder for future empirical research, as well as novel perspectives on intervention.
Language acquisition involves both acquiring a set of words (i.e. the lexicon) and learning the rules that combine them to form sentences (i.e. syntax). Here, we show that consonants are mainly involved in word processing, whereas vowels are favored for extracting and generalizing structural relations. We demonstrate that such a division of labor between consonants and vowels plays a role in language acquisition. In two very similar experimental paradigms, we show that 12-month-old infants rely more on the consonantal tier when identifying words (Experiment 1), but are better at extracting and generalizing repetition-based srtuctures over the vocalic tier (Experiment 2). These results indicate that infants are able to exploit the functional differences between consonants and vowels at an age when they start acquiring the lexicon, and suggest that basic speech categories are assigned to different learning mechanisms that sustain early language acquisition.
Very little is known about the neural underpinnings of language learning across the lifespan and how these might be modified by maturational and experiential factors. Building on behavioral research highlighting the importance of early word segmentation (i.e. the detection of word boundaries in continuous speech) for subsequent language learning, here we characterize developmental changes in brain activity as this process occurs online, using data collected in a mixed cross-sectional and longitudinal design. One hundred and fifty-six participants, ranging from age 5 to adulthood, underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while listening to three novel streams of continuous speech, which contained either strong statistical regularities, strong statistical regularities and speech cues, or weak statistical regularities providing minimal cues to word boundaries. All age groups displayed significant signal increases over time in temporal cortices for the streams with high statistical regularities; however, we observed a significant right-to-left shift in the laterality of these learning-related increases with age. Interestingly, only the 5- to 10-year-old children displayed significant signal increases for the stream with low statistical regularities, suggesting an age-related decrease in sensitivity to more subtle statistical cues. Further, in a sample of 78 10-year-olds, we examined the impact of proficiency in a second language and level of pubertal development on learning-related signal increases, showing that the brain regions involved in language learning are influenced by both experiential and maturational factors.
Targeted deletion of the bHLH DNA-binding protein Hand2 in the neural crest, impacts development of the enteric nervous system (ENS), possibly by regulating the transition from neural precursor cell to neuron. We tested this hypothesis by targeting Hand2 deletion in nestin-expressing neural precursor (NEP) cells. The mutant mice showed abnormal ENS development, resulting in lethal neurogenic pseudo-obstruction. Neurogenesis of neurons derived from NEP cells identified a second nestin non-expressing neural precursor (NNEP) cell in the ENS. There was substantial compensation for the loss of neurons derived from the NEP pool by the NNEP pool but this was insufficient to abrogate the negative impact of Hand2 deletion. Hand2-mediated regulation of proliferation affected both neural precursor and neuron numbers. Differentiation of glial cells derived from the NEP cells was significantly decreased with no compensation from the NNEP pool of cells. Our data indicate differential developmental potential of NEPs and NNEPs; NNEPs preferentially differentiate as neurons, whereas NEPs give rise to both neurons and glial cells. Deletion of Hand2 also resulted in complete loss of NOS and VIP and a significant decrease in expression of choline acetyltransferase and calretinin, demonstrating a role for Hand2 in neurotransmitter specification and/or expression. Loss of Hand2 resulted in a marked disruption of the developing neural network, exemplified by lack of a myenteric plexus and extensive overgrowth of fibers. Thus, Hand2 is essential for neurogenesis, neurotransmitter specification and neural network patterning in the developing ENS.
Obesity-associated insulin resistance is a core element of metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Notably, insulin resistance is also a feature of type 1 diabetes (T1D), where findings in the non-obese diabetic mouse model have implicated transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1+) sensory neurons in local islet inflammation and glucose metabolism. Here, we briefly review the role of TRPV1 in non-obese diabetic (NOD) T1D pathogenesis, highlighting commonalities that suggest TRPV1 may contribute to obesity and T2D as well. With the recently discovered importance of adipose infiltrating lymphocytes in the metabolic disturbances of obesity and T2D, sensory innervation of fat may thus play an analogous role to sensory neurons in the islet--modulating neuroendocrine homeostasis and inflammation. In such a scenario, TRPV1+ sensory nerves would provide the pathoaetiological link connecting the shared metabolic and immunologic features of type 1 diabetes and T2D.


Usher syndrome is the most prevalent cause of hereditary deaf-blindness, characterized by congenital sensorineural hearing impairment and progressive photoreceptor degeneration beginning in childhood or adolescence. Diagnosis and management of this disease are complex, and the molecular changes underlying sensory cell impairment remain poorly understood. Here we characterize two zebrafish models for a severe form of Usher syndrome, Usher syndrome type 1C (USH1C): one model is a mutant with a newly identified ush1c nonsense mutation, and the other is a morpholino knockdown of ush1c. Both have defects in hearing, balance and visual function from the first week of life. Histological analyses reveal specific defects in sensory cell structure that are consistent with these behavioral phenotypes and could implicate Mller glia in the retinal pathology of Usher syndrome. This study shows that visual defects associated with loss of ush1c function in zebrafish can be detected from the onset of vision, and thus could be applicable to early diagnosis for USH1C patients.





Besides their slow genomic actions, estrogens also induce rapid physiological responses. To be functionally relevant, these effects must be associated with rapid changes in local concentrations of estrogens. Rapid changes in aromatase activity (AA) controlled by calcium-dependent phosphorylations of the enzyme can alter in a rapid manner local estrogen concentrations, but so far this mechanism was identified only in the avian (quail) brain. We show here that AA is also rapidly down-regulated by phosphorylating conditions in quail ovary homogenates and in various cell lines transfected with human aromatase (HEK 293, Neuro2A, and C6). Enzymatic activity was also rapidly inhibited after depolarization of aromatase-expressing HEK 293 cells with 100 mM KCl, and activity was fully restored when cells returned to control conditions. Western blot analysis demonstrated that the reduction of enzymatic activity is not due to protein degradation. We next investigated by site-directed mutagenesis the potential implication in the control of AA of specific aromatase residues identified by bioinformatic analysis. Mutation of the amino acids S118, S247, S267, T462, T493, or S497 to alanine, alone or in combination, did not block the rapid inhibition of enzymatic activity induced by phosphorylating conditions, but basal AA was markedly decreased in the S118A mutant. Altogether, these results demonstrate that the rapid inhibition of AA is a widespread and fully reversible process and that phosphorylation of specific residues modulate AA. These processes provide a new general mechanism by which local estrogen concentration can be rapidly altered in the brain and other tissues.
The rapid and temporary suppression of reproductive behavior is often assumed to be an important feature of the adaptive acute stress response. However, how this suppression operates at the mechanistic level is poorly understood. The enzyme aromatase converts testosterone to estradiol in the brain to activate reproductive behavior in male Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica). The discovery of rapid and reversible modification of aromatase activity (AA) provides a potential mechanism for fast, stress-induced changes in behavior. We investigated the effects of acute stress on AA in both sexes by measuring enzyme activity in all aromatase-expressing brain nuclei before, during, and after 30 min of acute restraint stress. We show here that acute stress rapidly alters AA in the male and female brain and that these changes are specific to the brain nuclei and sex of the individual. Specifically, acute stress rapidly (5 min) increased AA in the male medial preoptic nucleus, a region controlling male reproductive behavior; in females, a similar increase was also observed, but it appeared delayed (15 min) and had smaller amplitude. In the ventromedial and tuberal hypothalamus, regions associated with female reproductive behavior, stress induced a quick and sustained decrease in AA in females, but in males, only a slight increase (ventromedial) or no change (tuberal) in AA was observed. Effects of acute stress on brain estrogen production, therefore, represent one potential way through which stress affects reproduction.
Maternal diabetes is a common complication of pregnancy, and the offspring of diabetic mothers have a higher risk of developing obesity and type 2 diabetes later in life. Despite these observations, the precise biological processes mediating this metabolic programming are not well understood. Here, we explored the consequences of maternal diabetes on the organization of hypothalamic neural circuits involved in the regulation of energy balance. To accomplish this aim, we used a mouse model of maternal insulin deficiency induced by streptozotocin injections. Maternal diabetes was found to be associated with changes in offspring growth as revealed by a significantly higher pre- and postweaning body weight in the offspring of insulin-deficient dams relative to those of control mice. Mice born to diabetic dams also showed increased fasting glucose levels, increased insulin levels, and increased food intake during their adult lives. These impairments in metabolic regulation were associated with leptin resistance during adulthood. Importantly, the ability of leptin to activate intracellular signaling in arcuate neurons was also significantly reduced in neonates born to diabetic dams. Furthermore, neural projections from the arcuate nucleus to the paraventricular nucleus were markedly reduced in the offspring of insulin-deficient dams. Together, these data show that insulin deficiency during gestation has long-term consequences for metabolic regulation. They also indicate that animals born to diabetic dams display abnormally organized hypothalamic feeding pathways that could result from the attenuated responsiveness of hypothalamic neurons to the neurotrophic actions of leptin during neonatal development.






In the past, antidepressants have been thought to possess proconvulsant properties. This assumption remains controversial, however, because anticonvulsant effects have been attributed to certain antidepressants. To date, it remains unclear which antidepressants can be used for the treatment of patients with epilepsy with depression. The present study was designed to determine the anticonvulsant and/or proconvulsant effects of three antidepressants (citalopram, reboxetine, bupropion) against pilocarpine- and pentylenetetrazole-induced acute seizures in larval zebrafish and mice. In zebrafish, all antidepressants were anticonvulsant in the pentylenetetrazole model. In addition, citalopram was anticonvulsant in the zebrafish pilocarpine model, whereas reboxetine and bupropion were without significant effect. In mice all three antidepressants increased some thresholds for pentylenetetrazole-induced convulsive-like behaviors at varying doses, whereas thresholds for pilocarpine-induced convulsive-like behaviors were generally lowered, particularly at the highest doses tested. In general we conclude that the convulsant liability of antidepressants is model and concentration dependent.
It is thought that cardiovascular changes may contribute to sudden death in patients with epilepsy. To examine cardiovascular alterations that occur during epileptogenesis, we measured the heart rate of rats submitted to the electrical amygdala kindling model. Heart rate was recorded before, during, and after the induced seizures. Resting heart rate was increased in stages 1, 3, and 5 as compared with the unstimulated control condition. In the initial one third of the seizures, we observed bradycardia, which increased in intensity with increasing stage and was blocked by injecting methyl atropine. During stage 5 seizures, a rebound tachycardia was observed that also increased in intensity with increasing number of seizures. This study demonstrated the influence of seizure frequency on cardiac autonomic modulation, providing a basis for discussion of potential mechanisms that cause patients with epilepsy to die suddenly.
The genetic bases of common, nonmendelian epilepsy have been difficult to elucidate. In this article, we argue for a new approach to genetic inquiry in epilepsy. In the latter part of the 19th century, epilepsy was universally acknowledged to be part of a wider &quot;neurological trait&quot; that included other neuropsychiatric conditions. In recent years, studies of comorbidity have shown clear links between epilepsy and various neuropsychiatric disorders including psychosis and depression, and genetic studies of copy number variants (CNVs) have shown that in some cases, the same CNV underpins neuropsychiatric illness and epilepsy. Functional annotation analysis of the sets of genes impacted by epilepsy CNVs shows enrichment for genes involved with neural development, with gene ontological (GO) categories including &quot;neurological system process&quot; (P=0.006), &quot;synaptic transmission&quot; (P=0.009), and &quot;learning or memory&quot; (P=0.01). These data support the view that epilepsy and some neuropsychiatric conditions share pathogenic neurodevelopmental pathways, and that epilepsy should be included in the spectrum of neurodevelopmental disorders. Yet, most current genetic research in epilepsy has restricted samples to specific types of epilepsy categorized according to the clinical classification schemes on the basis of seizure type, anatomical location, or epilepsy syndrome. These schemes are, to an extent, arbitrary and do not necessarily align with biological reality. We propose an alternative approach that makes no phenotypic assumptions beyond including epilepsy in the neurodevelopmental spectrum. A &quot;'value-free&quot; strategy of reverse phenotyping may be worth exploring, starting with genetic association and looking backward at the phenotype. Finally, it should be noted that there are societal implications to associating epilepsy with other neuropsychiatric disorders, and it is vital to ensure research in this area does not result in increased stigma for patients with epilepsy.

Rat hippocampal area CA3 pyramidal cells synchronously discharge in rhythmic bursts of action potentials after acute disinhibition or convulsant treatment in vitro. These burst discharges resemble epileptiform activity, and are of interest because they may shed light on mechanisms underlying limbic seizures. However, few studies have examined CA3 burst discharges in an animal model of epilepsy, because a period of prolonged, severe seizures (status epilepticus) is often used to induce the epileptic state, which can lead to extensive neuronal loss in CA3. Therefore, the severity of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus was decreased with anticonvulsant treatment to reduce damage. Rhythmic burst discharges were recorded in the majority of slices from these animals, between two weeks and nine months after status epilepticus. The incidence and amplitude of bursts progressively increased with time after status, even after spontaneous behavioral seizures had begun. The results suggest that modifying the pilocarpine models of temporal lobe epilepsy to reduce neuronal loss leads to robust network synchronization in area CA3. The finding that these bursts increase long after spontaneous behavioral seizures begin supports previous arguments that temporal lobe epilepsy exhibits progressive pathophysiology.
Actin-capping and anti-capping proteins are crucial regulators of actin dynamics. Recent studies have indicated that these proteins may be heavily involved in all stages of synaptogenesis, from the emergence of filopodia, through neuritogenesis and synaptic contact stabilization, to the structural changes occurring at the synapse during potentiation phenomena. In this review, we focus on recent evidence pointing to an active role of actin-capping and anti-capping proteins in orchestrating the processes controlling neuronal connectivity and plasticity.
The axon initial segment (AIS), with its dense clusters of voltage-gated ion channels decorating the axonal membrane, regulates action potential initiation and modulation. The AIS also functions as a barrier to maintain axodendritic polarity, and its precise axonal location contributes to the fine-tuning of neuronal excitability. Therefore, it is not surprising that mutations in AIS-related genes, disruption of the molecular organization of the AIS and altered AIS ion channel expression, function, location and/or density are emerging as key players in neurological disorders. Here, we consider the role of the AIS in nervous system disease and injury.
Rats exposed to timed restricted meals develop anticipation of food. They increase their activity levels in the hours preceding food access; this has been described as food-anticipatory activity (FAA). In the present study, we show the involvement of regions of the hypothalamus [arcuate nucleus, dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) and lateral hypothalamus] in the early development of FAA in rats exposed to the activity-based anorexia (ABA) model. We thereby used two different paradigms, rats exposed to the ABA model (ABA-normal) and rats exposed to the same restraint in food access but on a random feeding schedule (ABA-random). The latter group of rats were not able to anticipate food. We found a strong correlation between the expression of food anticipation measured by running-wheel activity and Fos expression levels in the DMH of ABA-normal rats, whereas no correlation was found in ABA-random rats. In contrast, in the randomly fed ABA rats only, a strong negative correlation was found between the neuronal activity in the hypothalamic area and the percentage body weight loss. Interestingly, these results imply that anticipation of meals during food restriction more strongly affects activation in the hypothalamus than negative energy balance alone. We conclude that during the early stages of development of FAA, the DMH plays a role in anticipation of food during periods of negative energy balance.

Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is a common impairment which may impact upon quality of life (QoL). Neuropathic pain (NeP) occurs in up to 50% of patients with PN. We hypothesized that disability and impaired quality of life resulting from PN is primarily associated with presence of NeP. Our aim was to determine using prospectively identified PN patients presenting to a tertiary care neuromuscular clinic if presence of NeP (PN+NeP) had greater impact upon QoL than with absence of NeP (PN-NeP). A second aim was to identify if QoL varied based upon etiology of PN. We analyzed neuropathy severity (Toronto Clinical Neuropathy Score (TCSS)), pain quantity and quality (Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) pain score, Brief Pain Inventory (BPI)), QoL and health status measures (EuroQol Instrument 5 Domains (EQ-5D), Medical Outcomes Sleep Study Scale (MOSSS), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36)) and Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) to determine impact of NeP. Although both cohorts were epidemiologically similar and had similar severity of PN, PN+NeP patients had considerably greater impairment for QoL, sleep efficacy, and features of anxiety and depression, leading to substantially greater health care resources utilization when compared to PN-NeP patients. The magnitude of NeP severity was the only explaining variable for increased impact upon QoL measures and diminishing overall wellbeing. Our results confirm that NeP is a primary indicator for worsening QoL and diminished overall wellbeing in PN patients. The etiology of PN did not influence levels of NeP-related compromise of QoL. Further studies are needed to determine optimal methods for management of PN+NeP patients subjected to a significant physiological, psychological and functional burden.
18-Methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), a putative anti-addictive agent, has been shown to decrease the self-administration of several drugs of abuse in rats. 18-MC is a potent antagonist at 34 nicotinic receptors. Consistent with high densities of 34 nicotinic receptors being located in the medial habenula and the interpeduncular nucleus, 18-MC has been shown to act in these regions to decrease both morphine and methamphetamine self-administration. The present study was conducted to determine if 18-MC's effect on nicotine self-administration is mediated by acting in these same brain regions. Because moderate densities of 34 receptors occur in the dorsolateral tegmentum, ventral tegmental area, and basolateral amygdala, these brain areas were also examined as potential sites of action of 18-MC. Local administration of 18-MC into either the medial habenula, the basolateral amygdala or the dorsolateral tegmentum decreased nicotine self-administration. Surprisingly, local administration of 18-MC into the interpeduncular nucleus increased nicotine self-administration while local administration of 18-MC into the ventral tegmental area had no effect on nicotine self-administration. Similar effects were produced by local administration of either mecamylamine or conotoxin AuIB. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that 18-MC decreases nicotine self-administration by indirectly modulating the dopaminergic mesolimbic pathway via blockade of 34 nicotinic receptors in the medial habenula, basolateral amygdala, and dorsolateral tegmentum. The data also suggest that an action of 18-MC in the interpeduncular nucleus may attenuate aversive and/or depressive effects of nicotine.
The Substance Abuse Mental Health Services Administration has promoted HIV testing and counseling as an evidence-based practice. Nevertheless, adoption of HIV testing in substance abuse treatment programs has been slow. This article describes the experience of a substance abuse treatment agency where, following participation in a clinical trial, the agency implemented an HIV testing and counseling program. During the trial, a post-trial pilot, and early implementation the agency identified challenges and developed strategies to overcome barriers to adoption of the intervention. Their experience may be instructive for other treatment providers seeking to implement an HIV testing program. Lessons learned encompassed the observed acceptability of testing and counseling to clients, the importance of a &quot;champion&quot; and staff buy-in, the necessity of multiple levels of community and agency support and collaboration, the ability to streamline staff training, the need for a clear chain of command, the need to develop program specific strategies, and the requirement for sufficient funding. An examination of costs indicated that some staff time may not be adequately reimbursed by funding sources for activities such as adapting the intervention, start-up training, ongoing supervision and quality assurance, and overhead costs.
Evidence from human and animal studies suggests that motor neuron pool organization is not uniform for all motor tasks. Groupings of motor units within a muscle may be recruited differentially for a given task based on principles beyond anatomical or architectural features of the muscle alone. This study aimed to determine whether: (1) there was differential activation across locations of the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle during a given task, (2) the differential activation was related to directional requirements and/or end goal of the task, and (3) there was an anatomical pattern to the differential activation. Twenty-six healthy right-handed participants carried out isometric finger/hand contractions in sitting while surface EMG was collected from 4 bipolar sites on the FDI muscle simultaneously. The tasks included: abduction, flexion, diagonal, 30% abduction + 30% flexion, 30% flexion + 30% abduction, key pinch, and power grasp. Mean peak integrated EMG for each task was normalized to site and task specific mean M waves. Differential activation was evident across FDI sites based on movement direction, order of directional components within a combination condition, and end goal of the task. There was greatest activation in the distal ulnar site for all tasks. Additionally there was a trend toward an ordering effect in the amount of activation at each site: distal ulnar &gt; distal radial &gt; proximal radial &gt; proximal ulnar.
Retinal pathologies common to human eye diseases, including abnormal retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, drusen-like accumulation, photoreceptor atrophy, and choroidal neovascularization, have been reported in the Ccl2/Cx3cr1-deficient mouse. The Ccl2 gene encodes the pro-inflammatory chemokine CCL2 (MCP-1), which is responsible for chemotactic recruitment of monocyte-derived macrophages to sites of inflammation. The Cx3cr1 gene encodes the fractalkine receptor, CX3CR1, and is required for accumulation of monocytes and microglia recruited via CCL2. Chemokine-mediated inflammation is implicated in retinal degenerative diseases such as diabetic retinopathy, age-related macular degeneration, retinitis pigmentosa, and uveoretinitis, and proper chemokine signaling from the RPE, Mller glia, and astrocytes is necessary to regulate leukocyte trafficking. Therefore, this mouse, possessing aberrant chemokine signaling coupled with retinal degenerative pathologies, presents an ideal opportunity to investigate the effect of altered signaling on retinal homeostasis and photoreceptor degeneration. Since this mouse is a recent development, more data covering the onset, location, and progression rate of pathologies is needed. In the present study we establish these parameters and show two photoreceptor cell death processes. Our observations of decreased glutamine synthetase and increased glial fibrillary acidic protein suggest that Mller cells respond very early within regions where lesions are forming. Finally, we suggest that retinal angiomatous proliferation contributes to pathological angiogenesis in this Ccl2/Cx3cr1-deficient mouse.
We previously reported that no distinct neuronal loss occurred in the aged dog spinal cord, although oxidative stress was increased in the aged dog spinal cord. Thioredoxin 2 (Trx2)/peroxiredoxin 3 (Prx3) redox system is a major route for removing H(2)O(2) in the central nervous system. In the present study, we compared the distribution and immunoreactivity of thioredoxin reductase 2 (TrxR2), Trx2 and Prx3 and their protein levels in the spinal cord and hippocampus between the adult (2-3 years) and aged (10-12 years) dogs. The number of TrxR2-immunoreactive neurons was slightly increased; however, its immunoreactivity was significantly increased in the aged spinal cord compared to that in the adult spinal cord. On the other hand, the number and immunoreactivity of both Trx2- and Prx3-immunoreactive neurons were significantly increased in the spinal cord of the aged dog. Similarly, in the hippocampus of the aged dog, TrxR2, Trx2 and Prx3 immunoreactivity and protein levels were markedly increased compared to those in the adult dog. These results indicate that the increases of TrxR2, Trx2 and Prx3 immunoreactivity and their protein levels in the aged spinal cord and hippocampus may contribute to reducing neuronal damage against oxidative stresses during normal aging.
Rodent models of absence seizures are used to investigate the network properties and regulatory mechanisms of the seizure's generalized spike and wave discharge (SWD). As rats age, SWDs occur more frequently, suggesting aging-related changes in the regulation of the corticothalamic mechanisms generating the SWD. We hypothesized that brain resetting mechanisms - how the brain &quot;resets&quot; itself to a more normal functional state following a transient period of abnormal function, e.g., a SWD - are impaired in aged animals and that brain infarction would further affect these resetting mechanisms. The main objective of this study was to determine the effects of aging, infarction, and their potential interaction on the resetting of EEG dynamics assessed by quantitative EEG (qEEG) measures of linear (signal energy measured by amplitude variation; signal frequency measured by mean zero-crossings) and nonlinear (signal complexity measured by the pattern match regularity statistic and the short-term maximum Lyapunov exponent) brain EEG dynamics in 4- and 20-month-old F344 rats with and without brain infarction. The main findings of the study were: 1) dynamic resetting of both linear and nonlinear EEG characteristics occurred following SWDs; 2) animal age significantly affected the degree of dynamic resetting in all four qEEG measures: SWDs in older rats exhibited a lower degree of dynamic resetting; 3) infarction significantly affected the degree of dynamic resetting only in terms of EEG signal complexity: SWDs in infarcted rats exhibited a lower degree of dynamic resetting; and 4) in all four qEEG measures, there was no significant interaction effect between age and infarction on dynamic resetting. We conclude that recovery of the brain to its interictal state following SWDs was better in young adult animals compared with aged animals, and to a lesser degree, in age-matched controls compared with infarction-injured animal groups, suggesting possible effects of brain resetting mechanisms and/or the disruption of the epileptogenic network that triggers SWDs.
Nurr1 (NR4A2) is an orphan nuclear receptor highly essential for the development and maintenance of dopaminergic neurons. Reduced expression of Nurr1 has been linked to the etiopathogenesis of Parkinson's disease and other dopamine-related disorders such as schizophrenia. Recent experimental work in mice with a heterozygous constitutive deletion of Nurr1 has revealed that this genetic manipulation leads to the presence of sensorimotor gating dysfunctions in the form of reduced prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex. However, the neuronal substances for this behavioral manifestation remain essentially unknown. Since converging evidence supports a key role of the central dopamine system in the regulation of prepulse inhibition, we hypothesized that the emergence of prepulse inhibition deficits in adult Nurr1-deficient mice may be linked to dopaminergic neuroanatomical changes. To test this hypothesis, we followed a within-subject approach in which sensorimotor gating performance was correlated with post-mortem expression of several dopaminergic markers in relevant striatal and midbrain regions. We found that prepulse inhibition deficits in Nurr1-deficient mice were paralleled by reduced numbers of substantia nigra dopamine cells expressing tyrosine hydroxylase, and by decreased tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine transporter immunoreactivity in ventral parts of the striatum. Most interestingly, we also revealed a striking negative correlation between prepulse inhibition levels and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in Nurr1-deficient mice in dorsal striatal regions (caudate putamen) and ventral striatal regions (nucleus accumbens core and shell). Our findings thus suggest that the emergence of prepulse inhibition deficits induced by heterozygous constitutive deletion of Nurr1 is, at least in part, related to alterations in presynaptic components of the striatal dopamine system. The constellation of neuroanatomical and behavioral alterations in Nurr1-deficient mice observed here confirms previous impressions that the consequences of Nurr1 down-regulation capture neuronal and behavioral pathologies relevant especially for (but not limited to) Parkinson's disease.
Chronic stress in experimental animals, one of the most accepted models of chronic anxiety and depression, induces structural remodeling of principal neurons in the amygdala and increases its excitation by reducing inhibitory tone. These changes may be mediated by the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), a molecule related to neuronal structural plasticity and expressed by interneurons in the adult CNS, which is downregulated in the amygdala after chronic stress. We have analyzed the amygdala of adult mice after 21 days of restraint stress, studying with qRT-PCR the expression of genes related to general and inhibitory neurotransmission, and of PSA synthesizing enzymes. The expression of GAD67, synaptophysin and PSA-NCAM was also studied in specific amygdaloid nuclei using immunohistochemistry. We also analyzed dendritic arborization and spine density, and cell activity, monitoring c-Fos expression, in amygdaloid interneurons. At the mRNA level, the expression of GAD67 and of St8SiaII was significantly reduced. At the protein level there was an overall reduction in the expression of GAD67, synaptophysin and PSA-NCAM, but significant changes were only detected in specific amygdaloid regions. Chronic stress did not affect dendritic spine density, but reduced dendritic arborization in interneurons of the lateral and basolateral amygdala. These results indicate that chronic stress modulates inhibitory neurotransmission in the amygdala by regulating the expression of molecules involved in this process and by promoting the structural remodeling of interneurons. The addition of PSA to NCAM by St8SiaII may be involved in these changes.




The way we think of multiple sclerosis (MS) pathology has significantly changed over the last 10 years. Several studies clearly indicate that MS has to be considered a gray and white matter disease, where gray matter pathology probably plays a relevant role in determining physical and cognitive disability. The reviewed article presents new cross-sectional data on gray matter and white matter volumes across different MS phenotypes in a very large group of MS patients. In their study, the authors confirm an early and substantial deterioration of gray matter in MS and the evidence of a primary role of gray matter atrophy in the progression of clinical and cognitive disability. Another preliminary exciting step has therefore been taken toward the comprehension of the MS puzzle.
The 21st Meeting of the European Neurological Society (ENS) was held on 28-31 May 2011 in Lisbon, Portugal. Over 3400 participants attained the meeting. The ENS meeting is an international event, which offers an exclusive opportunity for excellent continuous education, as well as an update of cutting-edge research in all fields of neurology. Among the key themes of this year's conference, the contribution of magnetic resonance-based techniques to unravel the physiopathology of neurological diseases and improve our knowledge of the way they progress was highlighted in several sessions. This article summarizes the major neuroimaging findings of the 21st ENS Meeting.
Activation of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) is involved in HIV-1-induced disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). In the present study, we hypothesize that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)- or PPAR can protect against HIV-1-induced MMP-9 overexpression in brain endothelial cells (hCMEC cell line) by attenuating cellular oxidative stress and down-regulation of caveolae-associated redox signaling. Exposure to HIV-1-infected monocytes induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and Akt in hCMEC by 2.5- and 3.6-fold, respectively; however, these effects were attenuated by overexpression of PPAR or PPAR and by silencing of caveolin-1 (cav-1). Coculture of hCMEC with HIV-1-infected monocytes significantly induced MMP-9 promoter and enzyme activity by 3- to 3.5-fold. Promoter mutation studies indicated that SP-1 (g1940t_g1941t) is an essential transcription factor involved in induction of MMP-9 promoter by HIV-1. In addition, HIV-1-stimulated activity of MMP-9 promoter was inhibited by mutation of AP-1 site 2 (c1918t_a1919g) and both (but not individual) NF-B binding sites (g1389c and g1664c). PPAR overexpression, ERK1/2 or Akt inhibition, and silencing of cav-1 all effectively protected against HIV-1-induced MMP-9 promoter activity, indicating a close relationship among HIV-1-induced cerebrovascular toxicity, redox-regulated mechanisms, and functional caveolae. Such a link was further confirmed in MMP-9-deficient mice exposed to PPAR or PPAR agonist and injected with the HIV-1-specific protein Tat into cerebral vasculature. Overall, our results indicate that ERK1/2, Akt, and cav-1 are involved in the regulatory mechanisms of PPAR-mediated protection against HIV-1-induced MMP-9 expression in brain endothelial cells.
Abnormal tau accumulation can lead to the development of neurodegenerative diseases. P301S mice overexpress the human tau mutated gene, resulting in tau hyperphosphorylation and tangle formation. Mice also develop synaptic deficits and microglial activation prior to any neurodegeneration and tangles. Oxidative stress can also affect tauopathy. We studied the role of oxidative stress in relationship to behavioral abnormalities and disease progression in P301S mice at 2, 7, and 10 mo of age. At 7 mo of age, P301S mice had behavioral abnormalities, such as hyperactivity and disinhibition. At the same age, we observed increased carbonyls in P301S mitochondria (215 and 55% increase, males/females), and deregulation in the activity and content of mitochondrial enzymes involved in reactive oxygen species formation and energy metabolism, such as citrate synthase (19 and 5% decrease, males/females), MnSOD (16% decrease, males only), cytochrome C (19% decrease, females only), and cytochrome C oxidase (20% increase, females only). These changes in mitochondria proteome appeared before tau hyperphosphorylation and tangle formation, which were observed at 10 mo and were associated with GSK3 activation. At that age, mitochondria proteome deregulation became more apparent in male P301S mitochondria. The data strongly suggest that oxidative stress and mitochondrial abnormalities appear prior to tau pathology.
GPR39, a constitutively active 7TM receptor important for glucose-induced insulin secretion and maturation of pancreatic -cell function, is up-regulated in adipose tissue on abstinence from food and chemically induced diabetes. In the present study, we investigated the effect of GPR39 deficiency on body weight and adipocyte metabolism. GPR39-deficient mice were subjected to a high-fat diet and body composition, glucose tolerance, insulin secretion, food intake, and energy expenditure were evaluated. The cell biology of adipocyte metabolism was studied on both mRNA and protein levels. A significant increase in body weight corresponding to a 2-fold selective increase in fat mass was observed in GPR39-deficient mice fed a high-fat diet as compared with wild-type littermate controls fed the same diet. The GPR39-deficient animals had similar food intake but displayed almost eliminated diet-induced thermogenesis, measured by the oxygen consumption rate (Vo(2)) on change from normal to high-fat diet. Analysis of the adipose tissue for lipolytic enzymes demonstrated decreased level of phosphorylated hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) and a decreased level of adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) by 35 and 60%, respectively, after food withdrawal in the GPR39-deficient mice. Extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2), a signaling pathway known to be important for lipolysis, was decreased by 56% in the GPR39-deficient mice. GPR39 deficiency is associated with increased fat accumulation on a high-fat diet, conceivably due to decreased energy expenditure and adipocyte lipolytic activity.
The incorporation of radiotherapy into multimodality treatment plans has led to significant improvements in glioma patient survival. However, local recurrence from glioma resistance to ionizing radiation remains a therapeutic challenge. The tumoricidal effect of radiation therapy is largely attributed to the induction of dsDNA breaks (DSBs). In the past decade, there have been tremendous strides in understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying DSB repair. The identification of gene products required for DSB repair has provided novel therapeutic targets. Recent studies revealed that many US FDA-approved cancer agents inhibit DSB repair by interacting with repair proteins. This article will aim to provide discussion of DSB repair mechanisms to provide molecular targets for radiation sensitization of gliomas and a discussion of FDA-approved cancer therapies that modulate DSB repair to highlight opportunities for combination therapy with radiotherapy for glioma therapy.

Our previous studies have showed that Pannexin 1 (Panx1), a member of a recently discovered family of gap junction proteins, is expressed in the pituitary gland. Here we investigated the presence and expression pattern of Panx1 isoforms in pituitary cells, their roles in ATP release, and their association with purinergic P2X receptor subtypes that are native to pituitary cells. In addition to the full-size Panx1, termed Panx1a, pituitary cells also express two novel shorter isoforms, termed Panx1c and Panx1d, which formation reflects the existence of alternative splicing sites in exons 2 and 4, respectively. Panx1c is lacking the Phe108-Gln180 sequence and P2X1d is missing the Val307-Cys426 C-terminal end sequence. Confocal microscopy and biotin labeling revealed that Panx1a is expressed in the plasma membrane, whereas Panx1c and Panx1d show the cytoplasmic localization when expressed as homomeric proteins. The three Panx1 isoforms and Panx2 form homomeric and heteromeric complexes in any combination. These splice forms can also physically associate with ATP-gated P2X2, P2X3, P2X4, and P2X7 receptor channels. The Panx1a-mediated ATP release in AtT-20 immortalized pituitary cells is attenuated when co-expressed with Panx1c or Panx1d. These results suggest that Panx1c and Panx1d may serve as dominant-negative effectors to modulate the functions of Panx1a through formation of heteromeric channels. The complex patterns of Panx1 expression and association could also define the P2X-dependent roles of these channels in cell types co-expressing both proteins.
The voltage-gated potassium channel Kv1.2 belongs to the shaker-related family and has recently been implicated in the control of sleep profile on the basis of clinical and experimental evidence in rodents. To further investigate whether increasing Kv1.2 activity would promote sleep occurrence in rats, we developed an adeno-associated viral vector that induces overexpression of rat Kv1.2 protein. The viral vector was first evaluated in vitro for its ability to overexpress rat Kv1.2 protein and to produce functional currents in infected U2OS cells. Next, the adeno-associated Kv1.2 vector was injected stereotaxically into the central medial thalamic area of rats and overexpression of Kv1.2 was showed by in situ hybridization, ex vivo electrophysiology and immunohistochemistry. Finally, the functional effect of Kv1.2 overexpression on sleep facilitation was investigated using telemetry system under normal conditions and following administration of the arousing agent caffeine, during the light phase. While no differences in sleep profile were observed between the control and the treated animals under normal conditions, a decrease in the pro-arousal effect of caffeine was seen only in the animals injected with the adeno-associated virus-Kv1.2 vector. Overall, our data further support a role of the Kv1.2 channel in the control of sleep profile, particularly under conditions of sleep disturbance.
Previous work from our laboratory demonstrated that the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is active during and required for oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) differentiation. Here, we applied an iTRAQ mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach to identify novel targets of the mTOR pathway during OPC differentiation. Among the 978 proteins identified in this study, 328 (34%) exhibited a greater than 20% change (P &lt; 0.05) in control versus rapamycin-treated cultures following 4 days of differentiation in vitro. Interestingly, 197 (20%) proteins were elevated in rapamycin-treated cultures, while 131 (13%) proteins were downregulated by rapamycin. In support of our previous data, inhibiting mTOR caused a dramatic reduction in the expression of myelin proteins. mTOR also was required for the induction of proteins involved in cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis, as well as the expression of many cytoskeletal proteins, cell signaling components, and nuclear/transcriptional regulators. Of particular interest was the identification of several critical mediators of oligodendrocyte differentiation. Specifically, mTOR activity controls the developmentally programmed upregulation of the prodifferentiation factors Fyn and Quaking, whereas the expression of the differentiation repressor Gpr17 was elevated by mTOR inhibition. These data reveal a distinct signature of mTOR-regulated protein expression during OPC differentiation.
Neuron-glia communication is essential for regulating the properties of synaptic connections in the brain. Astrocytes, in particular, play a critical and complex role in synapse development, maintenance, and plasticity. Likewise, neurons reciprocally influence astrocyte physiology. However, the molecular signaling events that enable astrocytes and neurons to effectively communicate with each other are only partially defined. Recent findings have revealed that Eph receptor tyrosine kinases and ephrins play an important role in contact-dependent neuron-glia communication at synapses. Upon binding, these two families of cell surface-associated proteins trigger bidirectional signaling events that regulate the structural and physiological properties of both neurons and astrocytes. This review will focus on the emerging role of Eph receptors and ephrins in neuron-astrocyte interaction at synapses and discuss implications for synaptic plasticity, behavior, and disease.
During normal brain development, axons are myelinated by mature oligodendrocytes (OLGs). Under pathological, demyelinating conditions within the central nervous system (CNS), axonal remyelination is only partially successful because oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) largely remain in an undifferentiated state resulting in a failure to generate myelinating OLGs. Tissue Transglutaminase (TG2) is a multifunctional enzyme, which amongst other functions, is involved in cell differentiation. Therefore, we hypothesized that TG2 contributes to differentiation of OPCs into OLGs and thereby stimulates remyelination. In vivo studies, using the cuprizone model for de- and remyelination in TG2(-/-) and wild-type mice, showed that during remyelination expression of proteolipid protein mRNA, as a marker for remyelination, in the corpus callosum lags behind in TG2(-/-) mice resulting in less myelin formation and, moreover, impaired recovery of motor behavior. Subsequent in vitro studies showed that rat OPCs express TG2 protein and activity which reduces when the cells have matured into OLGs. Furthermore, when TG2 activity is pharmacologically inhibited, the differentiation of OPCs into myelin-forming OLGs is dramatically reduced. We conclude that TG2 plays a prominent role in remyelination of the CNS, probably through stimulating OPC differentiation into myelin-forming OLGs. Therefore, manipulating TG2 activity may represent an interesting new target for remyelination in demyelinating diseases.
Expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), especially MMP9 correlates with blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption during many neuroinflammatory diseases. During neurotropic coronavirus virus (JHMV) induced encephalomyelitis, MMP9 activity is restricted to neutrophils. Furthermore, myeloid cell depletion implicated MMP9 in facilitating leukocyte central nervous system (CNS) infiltration via loss of BBB integrity. The requirement of MMP9 in BBB disruption was thus assessed in JHMV infected MMP9 deficient (MMP9(-/-)) mice. Depletion of neutrophils reduced CNS accumulation of monocytes and T cells, albeit without affecting overall pathogenesis. By contrast, infected MMP9(-/-) mice revealed no differences in CNS leukocyte infiltration, composition or localization, consistent with BBB disruption similar to wild-type (WT) mice. Unimpaired T cell mediated virus control supported an unexpectedly redundant role of MMP9 in promoting leukocyte access to the brain parenchyma. Although MMP9 deficiency did not expand the overall limited pattern of MMP expression during JHMV infection, it coincided with MMP3 upregulation. MMP3 expression remained largely confined to astrocytes, similar to WT mice. These data demonstrate that neutrophil-derived MMP9 is not the sole mediator facilitating parenchymal leukocyte entry via BBB disruption during viral encephalomyelitis. Moreover, significantly enhanced MMP3 expression by astrocytes in infected MMP9(-/-) mice suggests an active role of resident cells in participating and potentially collaborating with infiltrating cells in regulating BBB permeability. Overall, these results highlight the complexity of targeting individual MMPs as a strategy to regulate inflammation.
Dysregulation of glutamate handling ensuing downregulation of expression and activity levels of the astroglial glutamate transporter EAAT2 is implicated in excitotoxic degeneration of motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We previously reported that EAAT2 (a.k.a. GLT-1) is cleaved by caspase-3 at its cytosolic carboxy-terminus domain. This cleavage results in impaired glutamate transport activity and generates a proteolytic fragment (CTE) that we found to be post-translationally conjugated by SUMO1. We show here that this sumoylated CTE fragment accumulates in the nucleus of spinal cord astrocytes of the SOD1-G93A mouse model of ALS at symptomatic stages of disease. Astrocytic expression of CTE, artificially tagged with SUMO1 (CTE-SUMO1) to mimic the native sumoylated fragment, recapitulates the nuclear accumulation pattern of the endogenous EAAT2-derived proteolytic fragment. Moreover, in a co-culture binary system, expression of CTE-SUMO1 in spinal cord astrocytes initiates extrinsic toxicity by inducing caspase-3 activation in motor neuron-derived NSC-34 cells or axonal growth impairment in primary motor neurons. Interestingly, prolonged nuclear accumulation of CTE-SUMO1 is intrinsically toxic to spinal cord astrocytes, although this gliotoxic effect of CTE-SUMO1 occurs later than the indirect, noncell autonomous toxic effect on motor neurons. As more evidence on the implication of SUMO substrates in neurodegenerative diseases emerges, our observations strongly suggest that the nuclear accumulation in spinal cord astrocytes of a sumoylated proteolytic fragment of the astroglial glutamate transporter EAAT2 could participate to the pathogenesis of ALS and suggest a novel, unconventional role for EAAT2 in motor neuron degeneration.
Mutations in the human Kir4.1 potassium channel gene (KCNJ10) are associated with epilepsy. Using a mouse model with glia-specific deletion of Kcnj10, we have explored the mechanistic underpinning of the epilepsy phenotype. The gene deletion was shown to delay K(+) clearance after synaptic activation in stratum radiatum of hippocampal slices. The activity-dependent changes in extracellular space volume did not differ between Kcnj10 mutant and wild-type mice, indicating that the Kcnj10 gene product Kir4.1 mediates osmotically neutral K(+) clearance. Combined, our K(+) and extracellular volume recordings indicate that compromised K(+) spatial buffering in brain underlies the epilepsy phenotype associated with human KCNJ10 mutations.
Deferiprone was shown to reverse iron deposition in Friedreich's ataxia. This multi-center, unblinded, single-arm pilot study evaluated safety and efficacy of deferiprone for reducing cerebral iron accumulation in neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation. Four patients with genetically-confirmed pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration, and 2 with parkinsonism and focal dystonia, but inconclusive genetic tests, received 15 mg/kg deferiprone bid. Magnetic resonance imaging and neurological examinations were conducted at baseline, six and 12 months. Chelation treatment caused no apparent hematologic or neurological side effects. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed decreased iron accumulation in the globus pallidus of 2 patients (one with pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration). Clinical rating scales and blinded video rating evaluations documented mild-to-moderate motor improvement in 3 patients (2 with pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration). These results underline the safety and tolerability of deferiprone, and suggest that chelating treatment might be effective in improving neurological manifestations associated with iron accumulation. (Clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NTC00907283).
Theta and gamma oscillations are thought to provide signal sets that promote neural coding of cognitive processes. Over 40 yrs ago, Jeffrey Gray reported event-related changes in a narrow band of hippocampal theta (7.5-8.5 Hz) which appeared to involve norepinephrine (NE) release from, the noradrenergic nucleus, the locus coeruleus (LC). These event-related alterations in EEG were elicited by novelty, attentional changes, the use of preparatory signals, and signal-mismatch events. Gray et al. have since provided indirect evidence that supports the role of NE in the modulation of 7.5- to 8.5-Hz oscillations in the hippocampus, but studies investigating the effects of direct LC activation in awake rats have been lacking. In the present study, dentate gyrus EEG was examined during glutamatergic activation of the LC in awake male rats in relation to plasticity effects on simultaneously recorded perforant path-evoked field potentials. Glutamate-injected animals were divided into three groups based on histological and plasticity outcomes; perforant path stimulated controls were also included. The three injected groups were: (1) rats with positive LC placements, demonstrating NE-LTP of the dentate gyrus evoked potential, (2) rats with positive LC placements, without NE-LTP, and (3) Non-LC injected controls. Activation of the LC in awake rats demonstrating NE-LTP increased the relative power of 7- to 9-Hz theta, a result masked in broader 4- to 12-Hz analysis. Comparatively, urethane-anesthetized rats showed an increase in 5-7 Hz, but not 7- to 9-Hz theta with LC activation. Discriminative analysis in the approximate theta band predicted by Gray (7.4-8.5 Hz) revealed that awake rats demonstrating NE-LTP had increased relative power in this narrow frequency compared to rats receiving perforant path only (noninjected) and Non-LC injected rats. Transiently reduced gamma (20-40 Hz) relative power was most commonly observed in rats with verified LC placements failing to express NE-LTP. Given current theories of LC function, these results suggest oscillatory tuning within the theta and gamma range may facilitate shifts in cognitive set.
Kv4.2-mediated A-type K(+) channels in dendrites act to dampen back-propagating action potentials, constrain coincidence detection, and modify synaptic properties. Because of naturally high concentrations in the hippocampus, genetic deletion of this protein results in enhanced CA1 dendritic excitability and a broader signal integration time window with potential implications for spatial learning. In this investigation, we tested Kv4.2 knockout mice in the Morris water maze to assess their spatial reference acquisition and recall abilities. These mice demonstrated prolonged latencies and pathlength to reach a hidden platform during learning trials that was correlated to a decreased use of spatial search strategies in favor of repetitive looping. Knockout mice also showed no preference for target areas in recall-based probe trials but were less impaired by a switch in the platform location at the start of reversal learning. We discuss the possibility that these behavior discrepancies may be attributable to an enhancement in synaptic plasticity and loss of selectivity among synaptic pathways bearing different information into the CA1 region.  2010 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Although the importance of cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation in long-term memory formation is well documented for hippocampus-dependent tasks, little is known about the changes in phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) that occur during the process of extinction. The purpose of this study was to characterize the temporal patterns of pCREB in the CA1 and the amygdala after the extinction of previously acquired spatial information in the water maze. Mice were trained to find a hidden platform located at a fixed position and then were given extinction sessions in which the platform was either absent (NoPF) or relocated every day (RandomPF). We show that water maze spatial training evoked a biphasic response of pCREB in the CA1, with two different peaks occurring 15 min and 8 h postacquisition. The extinction of the original spatial preference significantly reduced the two peaks of CA1 pCREB in both RandomPF and NoPF groups whereas CA1 pCREB at 60 min post-training remained unaffected. Moreover, the early and late phases of extinction training produced regionally dissociable effects on pCREB in the CA1 and the lateral nucleus of the amygdala. These findings provide new insights on the molecular dynamics and anatomical dissociations underlying spatial memory and extinction learning.
We have shown quantitative expression levels of genes coding for the &quot;ligand-receptor system&quot; for classical neurotransmitters and neuropeptides in hippocampal subregions CA1, CA3, and dentate gyrus (DG). Using a combination of DNA microarray and quantitative PCR methods, we found that the three subregions have relatively similar expression patterns of ionotropic receptors for classical neurotransmitters. Expression of ionotropic receptors for glutamate and GABA represents more than 90% of all ionotropic receptors for classical neurotransmitters, and the expression ratio between ionotropic receptors for glutamate and GABA is constant (1.2:1-1.6:1) in each subregion. Meanwhile, the three subregions have different expression patterns of neuropeptide receptors. Furthermore, there are asymmetric expression patterns between neuropeptides and their receptors. Expression of Cck, Npy, Sst, and Penk1 represents 90% of neuropeptides derived locally in the hippocampus, whereas expression of these four neuropeptide receptors accounts for 50% of G protein-coupled receptors for neuropeptides. We propose that CA1, CA3, and DG have different modalities based on the ligand-receptor system, particularly the &quot;neuropeptidergic system.&quot; Our quantitative gene-expression analysis provides fundamental data to support functional differences between the three hippocampal subregions regarding ligand-receptor interactions.
Successful reproduction in vertebrates depends critically upon a suite of precopulatory behaviors that occur prior to mating. In Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus), these behaviors include vaginal scent marking and preferential investigation of male odors. The neural regulation of vaginal marking and opposite-sex odor preference likely involves an interconnected set of steroid-sensitive nuclei that includes the medial amygdala (MA), the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), and the medial preoptic area (MPOA). For example, lesions of MA eliminate opposite-sex odor preference and reduce overall levels of vaginal marking, whereas lesions of MPOA decrease vaginal marking in response to male odors. Although BNST is densely interconnected with both MA and MPOA, little is known about the role of BNST in female precopulatory behaviors. To address this question, females received either bilateral, excitotoxic lesions of BNST (BNST-X) or sham lesions (SHAM), and were tested for scent marking and for investigatory responses to male and female odors. Whereas SHAM females vaginal marked more to male odors than female odors on two days of the estrous cycle, BNST-X females marked at equivalent levels to both odors. This deficit is not due to alterations in social odor investigation, as both BNST-X and SHAM females investigated male odors more than female odors. Finally, BNST lesions did not generally disrupt the cyclic changes in reproductive behaviors that occur across the estrous cycle. Taken together, these results demonstrate that BNST is critical for the normal expression of solicitational behaviors by females in response to male odor stimuli.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by dopamine neuron loss in the nigrostriatal pathway that shows greater incidence in men than women. The mechanisms underlying this gender bias remain elusive, although one possibility is that androgens may increase dopamine neuronal vulnerability to oxidative stress. Motor impairment can be modeled in rats receiving a unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), a neurotoxin producing nigrostriatal degeneration. To investigate the role of androgens in PD, we compared young (2 months) and aged (24 months) male rats receiving gonadectomy (GDX) and their corresponding intact controls. One month after GDX, rats were unilaterally injected with 6-OHDA, and their motor impairment and asymmetry were assessed 2 weeks later using the cylinder test and the amphetamine-induced rotation test. Plasma samples were also collected to assess the concentration of testosterone and advanced oxidation protein products, a product of oxidative stress. GDX decreased lesion-induced asymmetry along with oxidative stress and increased amphetamine-induced rotations. These results show that GDX improves motor behaviors by decreasing motor asymmetry in 6-OHDA-treated rats, an effect that may be ascribed to increased release of striatal dopamine and decreased oxidative stress. Collectively, the data support the hypothesis that androgens may underlie the gender bias observed in PD.
Ghrelin is an orexigenic peptide that acts within the central nervous system to stimulate appetite and food intake via the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R). It has been hypothesized that ghrelin modulates food intake in part by stimulating reward pathways in the brain and potentially stimulating the intake of palatable foods. Here we examined the effects of chronic ghrelin administration in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) via osmotic minipumps on 1) ad libitum food intake and bodyweight; 2) macronutrient preference; and 3) motivation to obtain chocolate pellets. In the first study rats receiving ghrelin into the VTA showed a dose-dependent increase in the intake of regular chow, also resulting in increased body weight gain. A second study revealed that intra-VTA delivery of the ghrelin receptor antagonist [Lys-3]-GHRP-6 selectively reduced caloric intake of high-fat chow and reduced body weight gain relative to control and ghrelin treated rats. The third study demonstrated that food restricted rats worked harder for food pellets when infused with ghrelin than when infused with vehicle or ghrelin receptor antagonist treated rats. Finally, rats trained on an FR1 schedule but returned to ad libitum during ghrelin infusion, responded at 86% of baseline levels when they were not hungry, whereas saline infused rats responded at 36% of baseline. Together, these results suggest that ghrelin acts directly on the VTA to increase preference for and motivation to obtain highly-palatable food.
Oxytocin receptors (OXTR) in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) promote alloparental behavior and partner preference formation in female prairie voles. Within the NAcc there is significant individual variation in OXTR binding and virgin juvenile and adult females with a high density of OXTR in the NAcc display an elevated propensity to engage in alloparental behavior toward novel pups. Over-expression of OXTR in the NAcc of adult female prairie voles using viral vector gene transfer facilitates partner preference formation, but has no effect on alloparental behavior, even though OXTR antagonists infused into the NAcc blocks both behaviors. We therefore hypothesized that long-term increases in OXTR signaling during development may underlie the relationship between adult OXTR density in the NAcc and alloparental behavior. To test this hypothesis, we used viral vector gene transfer to increase OXTR density in the NAcc of prepubertal, 21day old female prairie voles and tested for both alloparental behavior and partner preference formation as adults. Consistent with a developmental impact of OXTR signaling, adults over-expressing OXTR from weaning display both increased alloparental behavior and partner preference formation. Thus, the relatively acute impact of elevated OXTR signaling in the NAcc on partner preference formation previously reported appears to be dissociable from the effects of longer term, developmentally relevant OXTR signaling necessary for modulating alloparental behavior. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that oxytocin can have both long-term &quot;organizational&quot; effects as well as acute &quot;activational&quot; effects on affiliative behaviors.
Many of the deleterious effects of chronic stress in vertebrates are caused by the long-term elevation of stress hormones. These negative effects are thought to be unavoidable by-products of sustained activation of the stress response, but the details remain unclear. A comparative perspective may help in understanding chronic stress. We exposed crickets (Gryllus texensis) to a mock predator. A single exposure to a mock predator induced a transient increase in the hemolymph (blood) concentration of the insect stress neurohormone, octopamine. Repeated exposure to the mock predator increased basal levels of octopamine, similar to the effects of chronic stress on the basal levels of vertebrate stress hormones. This study is the first to report an increase in the basal levels of an invertebrate stress hormone in response to repeated flight-or-fight stress. Chronic stress reduced weight gain, and decreased feeding and enhanced weight loss after food deprivation in adult female crickets. However, chronic stress also increased the tendency of crickets to produce sustained flight. Therefore, this study supports the hypothesis that increasing basal levels of stress hormones may be a phylogenetically common response to chronically stressful conditions. It also demonstrates that chronic stress has both positive and negative effects in insects.
Estradiol treatment administered systemically or directly to the dorsolateral striatum across two days impairs performance on a response task in which rats learn to make a specific body turn to locate food on a maze. Estradiol can act through both slow and rapid signaling pathways to regulate learning impairments, however it is impossible to dissociate the slow from the rapid contributions of estradiol following long exposures. To assess the rapid effects of estradiol on striatum-sensitive learning, we trained rats on a response learning task after either relatively short or long treatments of estradiol infused directly into the striatum. Three-month-old female rats were ovariectomized 21 days before training and received guide cannulae implanted bilaterally into the dorsolateral striatum. For short duration treatments, rats were given bilateral infusions (0.5 l) of 17-estradiol-sulfate (0, 5, 50, or 500 nM in aCSF-vehicle) either 2h or 15 min prior to training. For long duration treatments, rats received a series of estradiol infusions (500 nM) at 48, 24, and 2h prior to training. Replicating previous findings (Zurkovsky et al., 2007), intra-striatal estradiol treatments given for two days prior to training impaired response learning. Estradiol-induced impairments in performance were also demonstrated 2h, but not 15 min, after single infusions. Thus, estradiol acts within hours of exposure in the striatum, a structure lacking classical estrogen receptors, to impair response learning.
Tourette's syndrome (TS) is a developmental neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by motor and vocal tics as well as psychiatric comorbidities. Disturbances of the fronto-striatal-thalamic pathways responsible for motor control and impulse inhibition have been previously described in other studies. Although differences in motor performance are well recognized, imaging data elucidating the neuronal correlates are scarce. Here, we examined 19 adult TS patients (13 men, aged 22-52 years, mean = 34.3 years) and 18 age- and sex-matched controls (13 men, aged 24-57 years, mean = 37.6 years) in a functional magnetic resonance imaging study at 1.5 T. We corrected for possible confounds introduced by tics, motion, and brain-structural differences as well as age, sex, comorbidities, and medication. Patients and controls were asked to perform a sequential finger-tapping task using their right, left, and both hands, respectively. Task performance was monitored by simultaneous MR-compatible video recording. Although behavioral data obtained during scanning did not show significant differences across groups, we observed differential neuronal activation patterns depending on both handedness (dominant vs. nondominant) and tapping frequency in frontal, parietal, and subcortical areas. When controlling for open motor performance, a failure of deactivation in easier task conditions was found in the subgenual cingulate cortex in the TS patients. In addition, performance-related functional connectivity of lower- and higher-order motor networks differed between patients and controls. In summary, although open performance was comparable, patients showed different neuronal networks and connectivity patterns when performing increasingly demanding tasks, further illustrating the impact of the disease on the motor system.
We examined the correlation between brain perfusion and age using pulsed arterial spin-labeling (ASL) magnetic resonance images (MRI) in a large number of healthy children. We collected data on brain structural and ASL perfusion MRI in 202 healthy children aged 5-18 years. Structural MRI data were segmented and normalized, applying a voxel-based morphometric analysis. Perfusion MRI was normalized using the normalization parameter of the corresponding structural MRI. We calculated brain perfusion with an adjustment for gray matter density (BP-GMD) by dividing normalized ASL MRI by normalized gray matter segments in 22 regions. Next, we analyzed the correlation between BP-GMD and age in each region by estimating linear, quadratic, and cubic polynomial functions, using the Akaike information criterion. The correlation between BP-GMD and age showed an inverted U shape followed by a U-shaped trajectory in most regions. In addition, age at which BP-GMD was highest was different among the lobes and gray matter regions, and the BP-GMD association with age increased from the occipital to the frontal lobe via the temporal and parietal lobes. Our results indicate that higher order association cortices mature after the lower order cortices, and may help clarify the mechanisms of normal brain maturation from the viewpoint of brain perfusion.
Predictability in the visual environment provides a powerful cue for efficient processing of scenes and objects. Recently, studies have suggested that the directionality and magnitude of saccade curvature can be informative as to how the visual system processes predictive information. The present study investigated the role of the right posterior parietal cortex (rPPC) in shaping saccade curvatures in the context of predictive and non-predictive visual cues. We used an orienting paradigm that incorporated manipulation of target location predictability and delivered transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over rPPC. Participants were presented with either an informative or uninformative cue to upcoming target locations. Our results showed that rPPC TMS generally increased saccade latency and saccade error rates. Intriguingly, rPPC TMS increased curvatures away from the distractor only when the target location was unpredictable and decreased saccadic errors towards the distractor. These effects on curvature and accuracy were not present when the target location was predictable. These results dissociate the strong contingency between saccade latency and saccade curvature and also indicate that rPPC plays an important role in allocating and suppressing attention to distractors when the target demands visual disambiguation. Furthermore, the present study suggests that, like the frontal eye fields, rPPC is critically involved in determining saccade curvature and the generation of saccadic behaviors under conditions of differing target predictability.
Because tool naming activates motor-related areas in the posterior parietal cortex, it has been suggested that conceptual knowledge of tools relies on their unique manipulation patterns. However, this view is questioned by the finding that some patients impaired in retrieving manipulation knowledge of man-made objects are still able to perform conceptual judgments on them. To address this issue, we used repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to interfere with the functioning of the anterior part of the right or left supramarginalis gyrus (SMG), a region critically involved in object-directed actions. rTMS was delivered in healthy participants performing four judgment tasks designed to explore different aspects of manipulation and conceptual knowledge of man-made objects. The two manipulation judgment tasks consisted in determining whether (1) two objects displayed on a computer screen are normally used by adopting a comparable hand posture, or (2) a given hand posture is appropriate to use an object. In the two conceptual judgment tasks, subjects had to decide whether (1) two objects displayed on the computer screen are normally used in the same context or (2) they are functionally related. We found that virtual lesions of left SMG interfere only with the performance of the manipulation judgment task in which subjects had to decide whether two different objects are used by adopting the same hand posture, all the other tasks being unaltered. rTMS applied over the right SMG had no effect. These results challenge the assumption that conceptual knowledge of tools is grounded upon motor representations.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) cause late-onset Parkinson's disease (PD), but the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms and the normal function of this large multidomain protein remain speculative. To address the role of this protein in vivo, we generated three different LRRK2 mutant mouse lines. Mice completely lacking the LRRK2 protein (knock-out, KO) showed an early-onset (age 6 weeks) marked increase in number and size of secondary lysosomes in kidney proximal tubule cells and lamellar bodies in lung type II cells. Mice expressing a LRRK2 kinase-dead (KD) mutant from the endogenous locus displayed similar early-onset pathophysiological changes in kidney but not lung. KD mutants had dramatically reduced full-length LRRK2 protein levels in the kidney and this genetic effect was mimicked pharmacologically in wild-type mice treated with a LRRK2-selective kinase inhibitor. Knock-in (KI) mice expressing the G2019S PD-associated mutation that increases LRRK2 kinase activity showed none of the LRRK2 protein level and histopathological changes observed in KD and KO mice. The autophagy marker LC3 remained unchanged but kidney mTOR and TCS2 protein levels decreased in KD and increased in KO and KI mice. Unexpectedly, KO and KI mice suffered from diastolic hypertension opposed to normal blood pressure in KD mice. Our findings demonstrate a role for LRRK2 in kidney and lung physiology and further show that LRRK2 kinase function affects LRRK2 protein steady-state levels thereby altering putative scaffold/GTPase activity. These novel aspects of peripheral LRRK2 biology critically impact ongoing attempts to develop LRRK2 selective kinase inhibitors as therapeutics for PD.
In this study, the effect of insertion speed on long-term tissue response and insertion mechanics was investigated. A dummy silicon parylene-coated probe was used in this context and implanted in the rat brain at 10m/s (n = 6) or 100m/s (n = 6) to a depth of 9mm. The insertion mechanics were assessed by the dimpling distance, and the force at the point of penetration, at the end of the insertion phase, and after a 3-min rest period in the brain. After 6 weeks, the tissue response was evaluated by estimating the amount of gliosis, inflammation, and neuronal cell loss with immunohistochemistry. No difference in dimpling, penetration force, or the force after a 3-min rest period in the brain was observed. However, the force at the end of the insertion phase was significantly higher when inserting the probes at 100m/s compared to 10m/s. Furthermore, an expected tissue response was seen with an increase of glial and microglial reactivity around the probe. This reaction was similar along the entire length of the probe. However, evidence for a neuronal kill zone was observed only in the most superficial part of the implant. In this region, the lesion size was also greatest. Comparison of the tissue response between insertion speeds showed no differences.


Antidepressant drugs have often been used as an augmentation strategy for those patients who have demonstrated a suboptimal response to clozapine. The present 16-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial study aimed to explore the efficacy and tolerability of duloxetine add-on pharmacotherapy on clinical symptomatology and executive cognitive functioning in a sample of patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia receiving clozapine. After clinical and neurocognitive assessments, the patients were randomly allocated to receive, in a double-blind design, at a dose of 60 mg per day of duloxetine or a placebo. A final sample of 33 patients completed the study. The results obtained indicate that duloxetine added to stable clozapine treatment showed a beneficial effect on the negative and general psychopathological symptomatology in a sample of treatment-resistant schizophrenic patients. With regard to executive cognitive functions, duloxetine augmentation of clozapine had no significant effects. The findings provide evidence that duloxetine augmentation of clozapine treatment is safe and well tolerated and may be of benefit for patients who are partially responsive to clozapine monotherapy.
Migraine is a severe episodic headache disorder affecting one in five people. Genetic studies have identified mutations in the CACNA1, ATP1A2 and SCN1A genes in the rare familial hemiplegic migraine. Recently, a mutation in the KCNK18 gene, encoding the TRESK two-pore domain potassium channel, was described in a large family with migraine with aura. This review will elaborate on the possible role of the TRESK channel in regulating neuronal excitability, its role in migraine pathogenesis, and on promising therapeutic opportunities targeting this channel.
2A protease of the pathogenic coxsackievirus B3 is key to the pathogenesis of inflammatory myocarditis and, therefore, an attractive drug target. However lack of a crystal structure impedes design of inhibitors. Here we predict 3D structure of CVB3 2A(pro) based on sequence comparison and homology modeling with human rhinovirus 2A(pro). The two enzymes are remarkably similar in their core regions. However they have different conformations at the N-terminal. A large number of N-terminal hydrophobic residues reduce the thermal stability of CVB3 2A(pro), as we confirmed by fluorescence, western blot and turbidity measurement. Molecular dynamic simulation revealed that elevated temperature induces protein motion that results in frequent movement of the N-terminal coil. This may therefore induce successive active site changes and thus play an important role in destabilization of CVB3 2A(pro) structure.



The main reason for recreational use of cannabis is the 'high', the primary psychotropic effect of 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). This psychoactive compound of cannabis induces a range of subjective, physical and mental reactions. The effect on heart rate is pronounced and complicates bloodflow-based neuroimaging of psychotropic effects of THC. In this study we investigated the effects of THC on baseline brain perfusion and activity in association with the induction of 'feeling high'. Twenty-three subjects participated in a pharmacological MRI study, where we applied arterial spin labelling (ASL) to measure perfusion, and resting-state functional MRI to assess blood oxygen level-dependent signal fluctuation as a measure of baseline brain activity. Feeling high was assessed with a visual analogue scale and was compared to the imaging measures. THC increased perfusion in the anterior cingulate cortex, superior frontal cortex, and insula, and reduced perfusion in the post-central and occipital gyrus. Baseline brain activity was altered, indicated by increased amplitude of fluctuations in resting-state functional MRI signal after THC administration in the insula, substantia nigra and cerebellum. Perfusion changes in frontal cortex were negatively correlated with ratings of feeling high, suggesting an interaction between cognitive control and subjective effects of THC. In conclusion, an acute THC challenge altered baseline brain perfusion and activity, especially in frontal brain areas involved in cognitive and emotional processes, and the insula, associated with interoceptive awareness. These changes may represent the THC-induced neurophysiological correlates of feeling high. The alterations in baseline brain perfusion and activity also have relevance for studies on task-related effects of THC on brain function.
Quetiapine is an established drug for treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder. While initially manufactured as an immediate-release (IR) formulation, an extended-release (XR) formulation has recently been introduced. Pharmacokinetic studies show that quetiapine XR provides a lower peak and more stable plasma concentration than the IR formulation. This study investigated if the pharmacokinetic differences translate into different time curves for central D dopamine receptor occupancy. Eleven control subjects were examined with positron emission tomography (PET) and the radioligand [11C]raclopride. Eight subjects underwent all of the scheduled PET measurements. After baseline examination, quetiapine XR was administered once-daily for 8 d titrated to 300 mg/d on days 5-8, followed by 300 mg/d quetiapine IR on days 9-12. PET measurements were repeated after the last doses of quetiapine XR and IR at predicted times of peak and trough plasma concentrations. Striatal D receptor occupancy was calculated using the simplified reference tissue model. Peak D receptor occupancy was significantly higher with quetiapine IR than XR in all subjects (50  4% and 32  11%, respectively), consistent with lower peak plasma concentrations for the XR formulation. Trough D receptor occupancy was similarly low for both formulations (IR 7  7%, XR 8  6%). The lower peak receptor occupancy associated with quetiapine XR may explain observed pharmacodynamic differences between the formulations. Assuming that our findings in control subjects are valid for patients with schizophrenia, the study supports the view that quetiapine, like the prototype atypical antipsychotic clozapine, may show antipsychotic effect at lower D receptor occupancy than typical antipsychotics.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) receives converging input from a number of structures proposed to play a role in affective disorders. In particular, the basolateral amygdala (BLA) provides an affective input that overlaps with context-related information derived from the ventral subiculum of the hippocampus (vSub). We examined how stimulation of the BLA is modulated by, and in turn affects, vSub inputs to this region. In-vivo extracellular recordings were performed in the NAc of anaesthetized rats. The effect of high-frequency (theta-burst) stimulation (HFS) of the BLA on both BLA and vSub-evoked responses was tested. In addition, the involvement of dopamine D2 receptors in BLA-induced plasticity in the NAc was examined by pre-treatment with sulpiride (5 mg/kg i.v.). Finally, tetrodotoxin (TTX) was used to inactivate the vSub and the effect on BLA-evoked responses was assessed. We found that HFS of the BLA causes hetereogeneous patterns of plasticity, depression and potentiation, respectively, in the rostral and caudal subregions of the NAc that are disrupted following D2 receptor antagonist treatment. In addition, inactivating the vSub with TTX attenuates the ability of the BLA to drive spike firing in the NAc. Thus, the vSub is required for activation of the NAc by the BLA. These data support a model whereby the amygdala can coordinate reward-seeking and fear-related behaviours via its differential regulation of NAc output. In addition, the hippocampus inappropriately dominates information processing within this circuit, potentially contributing to the overwhelming focus on internal emotional states in disorders such as depression.




Neuroecology combines physiological and ecological principles toward understanding behavioral mechanisms and their roles in establishing patterns of organismal abundances and species distributions. This amalgamation of research approaches incorporates the strengths of neuroethology to determine the cellular basis of behavior. It, however, treads where neuroethology does not by establishing critical linkages between neural processes and the population- and community-level consequences of individual behavior. Neuroecology also promotes understanding of nervous systems within a strong environmental context by encouraging use of keystone and foundation species as critical &quot;ecological models&quot; for studies of electrically excitable cells. Previous investigations of environmental stress, metabolism, and energy relations have proven the value of a combined cellular biochemical and biophysical approach toward predicting natural patterns of organismal abundances and species distributions. Borrowing from this approach, neuroecology would coalesce neuroscience with population and community ecology to establish how individual behavior functions, and how such behavior acts to determine higher-order biological processes.
Chemicals are a frequent means whereby organisms defend themselves against predators, competitors, parasites, microbes, and other potentially harmful organisms. Much progress has been made in understanding how a phylogenetic diversity of organisms living in a variety of environments uses chemical defenses. Chief among these advances is determining the molecular identity of defensive chemicals and the roles they play in shaping interactions between individuals. Some progress has been made in deciphering the molecular, cellular, and systems level mechanisms underlying these interactions, as well as how these interactions can lead to structuring of communities and even ecosystems. The neuroecological approach unifies practices and principles from these diverse disciplines and at all scales as it attempts to explain in a single conceptual framework the abundances of organisms and the distributions of species within natural habitats. This article explores the neuroecology of chemical defenses with a focus on aquatic organisms and environments. We review the concept of molecules of keystone significance, including examples of how saxitoxin and tetrodotoxin can shape the organization and dynamics of marine and riparian communities, respectively. We also describe the current status and future directions of a topic of interest to our research group-the use of ink by marine molluscs, especially sea hares, in their defense. We describe a diversity of molecules and mechanisms mediating the protective effects of sea hares' ink, including use as chemical defenses against predators and as alarm cues toward conspecifics, and postulate that some defensive molecules may function as molecules of keystone significance. Finally, we propose future directions for studying the neuroecology of the chemical defenses of sea hares and their molluscan relatives, the cephalopods.


Tinnitus often develops following inner ear pathologies, like acoustic trauma. Therefore, an acoustic trauma model of tinnitus in gerbils was established using a modulated acoustic startle response. Cochlear trauma evoked by exposure to narrow-band noise at 10 kHz was assessed by auditory brainstem responses (ABR) and distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE). Threshold shift amounted to about 25 dB at frequencies &gt;10 kHz. Induction of a phantom-noise perception was documented by an acoustic startle response paradigm. A reduction of the gap-prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle (GPIAS) was taken as evidence for tinnitus at the behavioral level. Three to five weeks after trauma the ABR and DPOAE thresholds were back to normal. At that time, a reduction of GPIAS in the frequency range 16-20 kHz indicated a phantom noise perception. Seven weeks post trauma the tinnitus-affected frequency range became narrow and shifted to the center-trauma frequency at 10 kHz. Taken together, by investigating frequency-dependent effects in detail, this study in gerbils found trauma-evoked tinnitus developing in the frequency range bordering the low frequency slope of the induced noise trauma. This supports the theory of lateral inhibition as the physiological basis of tinnitus.
Users of a cochlear implant together with a contralateral hearing aid-so-called bimodal listeners-have difficulties with localizing sound sources. This is mainly due to the distortion of interaural time and level difference cues (ITD and ILD), and limited ITD sensitivity. An algorithm is presented that enhances ILD cues. Horizontal plane sound-source localization performance of six bimodal listeners was evaluated in (1) a real sound field with their clinical devices, (2) in a virtual sound field, under direct computer control, and (3) in a virtual sound field with ILD enhancement. The results in the real sound field did not differ significantly from the results in the virtual field, and ILD enhancement improved localization performance by 4-10 absolute error, relative to a mean absolute error of 28 in the condition without ILD enhancement.




The syncytiotrophoblast (STB) epithelial covering of the human placenta is a unique terminally differentiated, multi-nucleated syncytium. No mitotic bodies are observed in the STB, which is sustained by continuous fusion of underlying cytotrophoblast cells (CTB). As a result, STB nuclei are of different ages. Morphologically, they display varying degrees of chromatin compaction, suggesting progressive maturational changes. Until recently, it was thought that STB nuclei were transcriptionally inactive, with all the mRNAs required by the syncytium being incorporated upon fusion of CTB. However, recent research has shown the presence of the active form of RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) in some STB nuclei. In this study, we confirm the presence of transcriptional activity in STB nuclei by demonstrating immunoreactivity for a transcription factor and an RNA polymerase I (RNA Pol I) co-factor, phospho-cAMP response element-binding protein and phospho-upstream binding factor, respectively. We also show, through immunoco-localisation studies, that a proportion of STB nuclei are both RNA Pol I and II transcriptionally active. Finally, we quantify the numerical densities of nuclei immunopositive and immunonegative for RNA Pol II in the STB of normal placentas of 11-39 weeks gestational age using an unbiased stereological counting tool, the physical disector. These data were combined with estimates of the volume of trophoblast to calculate total numbers of both types of nuclei at each gestational age. We found no correlation between gestational age and the numerical density of RNA Pol II-positive nuclei in the villous trophoblast (r = 0.39, P &gt; 0.05). As the number of STB nuclei increases exponentially during gestation, we conclude that the number of transcriptionally active nuclei increases in proportion to trophoblast volume. The ratio of active to inactive nuclei remains constant at 3.9:1. These findings confirm that the majority of STB nuclei have intrinsic transcriptional activity, and that the STB is not dependent on CTB fusion for the provision of transcripts.
We tested the hypothesis that force variability and error during maintenance of submaximal isometric knee extension are greater in subacute stroke patients than in controls and are related to motor impairments. Contralesional (more-affected) and ipsilesional (less-affected) legs of 33 stroke patients with sufficiently high motor abilities (62  13 yr, 16  2 days postinjury) and the dominant leg of 20 controls (62  10 yr) were tested in sitting position. After peak knee extension torque [maximum voluntary contraction (MVC)] was established, subjects maintained 10, 20, 30, and 50% of MVC as steady and accurate as possible for 10 s by matching voluntary force to the target level displayed on a monitor. Coefficient of variation (CV) and root-mean-square error (RMSE) were used to quantify force variability and error, respectively. The MVC was significantly smaller in the more-affected than less-affected leg, and both were significantly lower than in controls. The CV was significantly larger in the more-affected than less-affected leg at 20 and 50% MVC, whereas both were significantly larger compared with controls across all force levels. Both more-affected and less-affected legs of patients showed significantly greater RMSE than controls at 30 and 50% MVC. The CV and RMSE were not related to the Fugl-Meyer motor score or to the Rivermead Mobility Index. The CV negatively correlated with MVC in controls but only in the less-affected leg of patients. It is concluded that isometric knee extension strength and force control are bilaterally impaired soon after stroke but more so in the more-affected leg. Future studies should examine possible mechanisms and the evolution of these changes.
This is a brief review of current evidence for the relationships between physical activity and exercise and the brain and cognition throughout the life span in non-pathological populations. We focus on the effects of both aerobic and resistance training and provide a brief overview of potential neurobiological mechanisms derived from non-human animal models. Whereas research has focused primarily on the benefits of aerobic exercise in youth and young adult populations, there is growing evidence that both aerobic and resistance training are important for maintaining cognitive and brain health in old age. Finally, in these contexts, we point out gaps in the literature and future directions that will help advance the field of exercise neuroscience, including more studies that explicitly examine the effect of exercise type and intensity on cognition, the brain, and clinically significant outcomes. There is also a need for human neuroimaging studies to adopt a more unified multi-modal framework and for greater interaction between human and animal models of exercise effects on brain and cognition across the life span.
The Embedded Figures Test assesses weak central coherence and individuals with autism are commonly assumed to perform superiorly; however, the evidence for this claim is somewhat mixed. Here, two large (N=45 and 62) samples of high-functioning children (6-16years) with autism spectrum disorder performed similarly to typically-developing children on accuracy and reaction time measures; this could not be attributed to insufficient power. Inconsistent past findings are most likely due to methodological and analysis techniques, as well as heterogeneity in central coherence within autism spectrum disorders. While this task has been useful in establishing weak central coherence as a cognitive theory in autism, inconsistent past findings and its inability to disentangle global and local processing suggest that it should be used with caution in the future.
This study describes the development and evaluation of novel polymer films that provide controlled release of two vascular-protective polyphenols for endovascular devices. Resveratrol (RESV) and quercetin (QUER) have antimigratory and antiproliferative actions on vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), inhibit both platelet and inflammatory cell activation, and promote endothelial cell function. Our aim is to develop and characterize coatings that release these drugs within a therapeutic range. The most synergistic drug combination, as determined by isobolographic analysis, was incorporated into an arborescent poly(styrene-isobutylene-styrene) tri-block polymer (arbIBS) and applied to stainless steel coupons using an electrospray process. Physical characterization of the resulting coating revealed a film featuring micro-scale architecture consisting of drug-containing domains. To determine drug-mediated effects, vascular cells were exposed to coatings incorporating several loadings of RESV and QUER. Results from this study indicate that arbIBS exhibits no cytotoxicity, and that the films release RESV and QUER at therapeutic levels, dose-dependently inhibiting macrophage activation, VSMC proliferation, and platelet stimulation. We conclude that RESV and QUER released from arbIBS interfere with key processes responsible for in-stent stenosis, suggesting that RESV and QUER may have utility as therapeutics in a novel coating for device-based interventions.


In bolus-tracking perfusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), temporal dispersion of the contrast bolus due to stenosis or collateral supply presents a significant problem for accurate perfusion quantification in stroke. One means to reduce the associated perfusion errors is to deconvolve the bolus concentration time-course data with local Arterial Input Functions (AIFs) measured close to the capillary bed and downstream of the arterial abnormalities causing dispersion. Because the MRI voxel resolution precludes direct local AIF measurements, they must be extrapolated from the surrounding data. To date, there have been no published studies directly validating these local AIFs. We assess the effectiveness of local AIFs in reducing dispersion-induced perfusion error by measuring the residual dispersion remaining in the local AIF deconvolved perfusion maps. Two approaches to locating the local AIF voxels are assessed and compared with a global AIF deconvolution across 19 bolus-tracking data sets from patients with stroke. The local AIF methods reduced dispersion in the majority of data sets, suggesting more accurate perfusion quantification. Importantly, the validation inherently identifies potential areas for perfusion underestimation. This is valuable information for the identification of at-risk tissue and management of stroke patients.
Most of our current understanding of brain function and dysfunction has its firm base in what is so elegantly called the 'anatomical substrate', i.e. the anatomical, histological, and histochemical domains within the large knowledge envelope called 'neuroscience' that further includes physiological, pharmacological, neurochemical, behavioral, genetical and clinical domains. This review focuses mainly on the anatomical domain in neuroscience. To a large degree neuroanatomical tract-tracing methods have paved the way in this domain. Over the past few decades, a great number of neuroanatomical tracers have been added to the technical arsenal to fulfill almost any experimental demand. Despite this sophisticated arsenal, the decision which tracer is best suited for a given tracing experiment still represents a difficult choice. Although this review is obviously not intended to provide the last word in the tract-tracing field, we provide a survey of the available tracing methods including some of their roots. We further summarize our experience with neuroanatomical tracers, in an attempt to provide the novice user with some advice to help this person to select the most appropriate criteria to choose a tracer that best applies to a given experimental design.

Huntington disease (HD) is a dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disorder that is caused by a mutant huntingtin (HTT) gene encoding a version of the Htt protein with an expanded polyglutamine stretch. Although the HTT gene was discovered more than 18 years ago, the functions of normal Htt and the mechanisms by which mutant Htt causes disease are not well defined. In this issue of the JCI, Keryer et al. uncovered a novel function for normal Htt in ciliogenesis and report that mutant Htt causes hypermorphic ciliogenesis and ciliary dysfunction. These observations suggest that it is now critical to understand the extent to which ciliary dysfunction contributes to the different symptoms of HD and to determine whether therapeutic strategies designed to normalize ciliary function can ameliorate the disease.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic immune-mediated disease of the central nervous system (CNS), with both inflammatory and degenerative components. The visual system is frequently involved, often in the form of visual loss from optic neuritis (ON). Retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) loss has been demonstrated in individuals with MS, not only in those with previous ON but also in absence of historical evidence of previous acute inflammation/demyelination of the optic nerve. Peripapillary RNFL measurements of all quadrants, central macular thickness, and average macular thickness were performed in 32 eyes of healthy volunteers and 60 eyes of individuals with a diagnosis of relapsing remitting MS using high definition spectral domain optical coherence tomography (HD-OCT). Both the Macular Cube 512  128 scan and RNFL measurement by the Optic Disc Cube 200  200 protocol were performed on all eyes. Eyes of individuals with MS with no previous ON had significantly decreased overall RNFL thickness (89.1 m) compared to controls (98.0 m) (p &lt; 0.05). MS mainly affected the temporal quadrant (56.6 m versus [vs.] 67.8 m) (p &lt; 0.05), and inferior quadrant (117.9 m vs. 132.1 m) (p &lt; 0.05), respectively. Also, the patients with MS demonstrated significantly decreased average macular thickness (280 m) compared to the control group (287 m) (p &lt; 0.05). A significant correlation between RNFL and average macular thickness was also found in eyes of patients with MS (r = 0.69, p &lt; 0.01). HD-OCT is a quick, inexpensive and promising tool to detect subclinical changes in RNFL and macular thickness in individuals with MS. Longitudinal studies should be encouraged to examine disease progression over time in individuals with MS.
In life, we must often learn new associations to people, places, or things we already know. The current fMRI study investigated the neural mechanisms underlying emotional memory updating. Nineteen participants first viewed negative and neutral pictures and learned associations between those pictures and other neutral stimuli, such as neutral objects and encoding tasks. This initial learning phase was followed by a memory updating phase, during which participants learned picture-location associations for old pictures (i.e., pictures previously associated with other neutral stimuli) and new pictures (i.e., pictures not seen in the first phase). There was greater frontopolar/orbito-frontal (OFC) activity when people learned picture-location associations for old negative pictures than for new negative pictures, but frontopolar OFC activity did not significantly differ during learning locations of old versus new neutral pictures. In addition, frontopolar activity was more negatively correlated with the amygdala when participants learned picture-location associations for old negative pictures than for new negative or old neutral pictures. Past studies revealed that the frontopolar OFC allows for updating the affective values of stimuli in reversal learning or extinction of conditioning [e.g., Izquierdo, A., &amp; Murray, E. A. Opposing effects of amygdala and orbital PFC lesions on the extinction of instrumental responding in macaque monkeys. European Journal of Neuroscience, 22, 2341-2346, 2005]; our findings suggest that it plays a more general role in updating associations to emotional stimuli.

We recently reported that some, but not all, axotomized propriospinal commissural interneurons (PCI) of the adult mammal can regenerate through spinal midsagittal transection injury sites (Fenrich and Rose [2009] J Neurosci 29:12145-12158). In this model, regenerating axons grow through a lesion site surrounded by a dense deposition of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPG), which are typically inhibitory to regenerating axons. However, the mechanisms that lead some regenerating axons to grow through spinal cord injury (SCI) sites while others remain trapped in the CSPG zones or retract to their soma remain unknown. As a first step toward elucidating these mechanisms, here we show that the ability of PCI axons to regenerate across a SCI site depends on the branching patterns of their distal terminals. Using 3D reconstruction techniques through multiple serial sections and immunohistochemical analyses, we found that at 7 days postinjury a majority of PCI axons terminated in CSPG zones ipsilateral of the spinal midline. Conversely, at 9 days postinjury some PCI axons had regenerated across the midline, but others terminated outside the CSPG zones near their soma. Furthermore, we show that the most successful regenerators were those with the most extensive branching patterns, whereas those that terminated outside the CSPG zones had terminal regions indistinguishable from dystrophic terminals. Our results demonstrate that the morphological characteristics of regenerating axons play an important role in their ability to regenerate across SCI sites, and that the branching patterns of some regenerating axons are more extensive and have a far greater complexity than previously reported.
Most terrestrial vertebrates possess anatomically distinct olfactory organs: the olfactory epithelium (OE) and the vomeronasal organ (VNO). In rodents, olfactory receptors coupled to G(olf) are expressed in the OE, whereas vomeronasal receptors type 1 (V1R) and vomeronasal receptors type 2 (V2R), coupled to G(i2) and G(o) , respectively, are expressed in the VNO. These receptors and G proteins are thought to play important roles in olfactory perception. However, we previously reported that only V2R and G(o) expression is detected in the Xenopus laevis VNO. As X. laevis spends its entire life in water, we considered that expression of limited types of chemosensory machinery in the VNO might be due to adaptation of the VNO to aquatic life. Thus, we analyzed the expression of G proteins in the VNO and the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) of the adult Japanese toad, Bufo japonicus, because this species is well adapted to a terrestrial life. By using immunohistochemical analysis in combination with in situ hybridization and DiI labeling, we found that B. japonicus G(olf) and G(o) were expressed in the apical and middle-to-basal layer of the vomeronasal neuroepithelium, and that the axons of these G(olf) - and G(o) -expressing vomeronasal neurons projected to the rostral and caudal accessory olfactory bulb, respectively. These results strongly suggest that both the G(olf) - and G(o) -mediated signal transduction pathways function in the B. japonicus VNO. The expression of G(olf) in the B. japonicus VNO may correlate with the detection of airborne chemical cues and with a terrestrial life.
Endogenous acetylcholine is an important modulator of sensory processing, especially at the spinal level, where nociceptive (pain-related) stimuli enter the central nervous system and are integrated before being relayed to the brain. To decipher the organization of the local cholinergic circuitry in the spinal dorsal horn, we used transgenic mice expressing enchanced green fluorescent protein specifically in cholinergic neurons (ChAT::EGFP) and characterized the morphology, neurochemistry, and firing properties of the sparse population of cholinergic interneurons in this area. Three-dimensional reconstruction of lamina III ChAT::EGFP neurons based either on their intrinsic fluorescence or on intracellular labeling in live tissue demonstrated that these neurons have long and thin processes that grow preferentially in the dorsal direction. Their dendrites and axon are highly elongated in the rostrocaudal direction, beyond the limits of a single spinal segment. These unique morphological features suggest that dorsal horn cholinergic interneurons are the main contributors to the plexus of cholinergic processes located in lamina IIi, just dorsal to their cell bodies. In addition, immunostainings demonstrated that dorsal horn cholinergic interneurons in the mouse are -aminobutyric acidergic and express nitric oxide synthase, as in rats. Finally, electrophysiological recordings from these neurons in spinal cord slices demonstrate that two-thirds of them have a repetitive spiking pattern with frequent rebound spikes following hyperpolarization. Altogether our results indicate that, although they are rare, the morphological and functional features of cholinergic neurons enable them to collect segmental information in superficial layers of the dorsal horn and to modulate it over several segments.
In Schistocerca gregaria ocellar pathways, large second-order L-neurons use graded potentials to communicate signals from the ocellar retina to third-order neurons in the protocerebrum. A third-order neuron, DNI, converts graded potentials into axonal spikes that have been shown in experiments at room temperature to be sparse and precisely timed. I investigated effects of temperature changes that a locust normally experiences on these signals. With increased temperature, response latency decreases and frequency responses of the neurons increase. Both the graded potential responses in the two types of neuron and the spikes in DNI report greater detail about a fluctuating light stimulus. Over a rise from 22 to 35C the power spectrum of the L-neuron response encompasses higher frequencies and its information capacity increases from about 600 to 1,700 bits/s. DNI generates spikes more often during a repeated stimulus but at all temperatures it reports rapid decreases in light rather than providing a continual measure of light intensity. Information rate carried by spike trains increases from about 50 to 185 bits/s. At warmer temperatures, increased performance by ocellar interneurons may contribute to improved aerobatic performance by delivering spikes earlier and in response to smaller, faster light stimuli.
Play signals are viewed as important means by which animals inform each other that bites, strikes, and throws that occur during play fighting are indeed playful rather than serious. One such signal is the open mouth play face that is common in primates and many other mammals. Unfortunately, as most play fighting involves biting, it can be ambiguous as to whether any instance of opening the mouth is performed to communicate playful intent or is simply a preparation for biting. In this study, open mouths co-occurring with the bared-teeth display (teeth-baring) in Tonkean macaques were used to assess the context in which facial gestures only relevant for signaling (i.e., teeth-baring is not necessary for biting) are used during play. Two predictions arising from the hypothesis that play signals are used to facilitate playful contact were tested: that the open mouth with teeth-baring should (1) be most frequent preceding contact, and (2) that it should be performed most often when bites are directed at orientations that is visible to the recipient. The data only partially support these predictions. The open mouth with teeth-baring is also frequently used when a monkey withdraws from playful contact. Moreover, it is associated with bites to body targets, such as the rump, that offer little prospect for detection by the recipient; this supports the possibility that play signals may sometimes be emitted not to communicate with the partner but with the performer itself. Thus, play signals serve multiple functions during play fighting.
Statistical inferences are essentially important in analyzing neural spike trains in computational neuroscience. Current approaches have followed a general inference paradigm where a parametric probability model is often used to characterize the temporal evolution of the underlying stochastic processes. To directly capture the overall variability and distribution in the space of the spike trains, we focus on a data-driven approach where statistics are defined and computed in the function space in which spike trains are viewed as individual points. To this end, we at first develop a parametrized family of metrics that takes into account different warpings in the time domain and generalizes several currently used spike train distances. These new metrics are essentially penalized L ( p ) norms, involving appropriate functions of spike trains, with penalties associated with time-warping. The notions of means and variances of spike trains are then defined based on the new metrics when p=2 (corresponding to the &quot;Euclidean distance&quot;). Using some restrictive conditions, we present an efficient recursive algorithm, termed Matching-Minimization algorithm, to compute the sample mean of a set of spike trains with arbitrary numbers of spikes. The proposed metrics as well as the mean spike trains are demonstrated using simulations as well as an experimental recording from the motor cortex. It is found that all these methods achieve desirable performance and the results support the success of this novel framework.
In the auditory system of bushcrickets, sound can reach the receptors via two different paths: (i) by acting on the outside of the tympana situated on both sides of each foreleg or (ii) through the acoustic trachea that opens at a spiracle on the thorax. While the spiracle is considered to be the main point of sound entry for higher audio and ultrasonic frequencies, the role of the tympana is still unclear. The tympana border the air-filled acoustic trachea as well as the fluid-filled haemolymph channel containing the receptor organs. To understand their role during sound transduction, the sound-induced neuronal response of the hearing organ was recorded in combination with measurement of tympanal membrane motion using laser-Doppler vibrometry. For far-field stimulation, the frequency of the most sensitive hearing (16 kHz) matched the frequency of a pronounced maximum of tympanal membrane vibration. A second maximum of tympanum motion at lower frequencies (7 kHz) was correlated with an increased nerve activity at higher intensities (&gt;70 dB sound pressure level, SPL). These correlations support the hypothesis of functional coupling between tympanum motion and nerve activity. When sound stimuli were applied locally, through either the tympanum or the spiracle, significant differences between tympanum motion and nerve activity were found. These discrepancies show that tympanum motion and neuronal response are not coupled directly and that there is no linear relationship with the applied SPL. Taken together, these data verify a functional, albeit indirect, coupling of tympanum motion and sensory cell activity for one of the pronounced vibration maxima, which appears to represent a resonance frequency of the tympanum.
Jean Piaget's theory is a central reference point in the study of logico-mathematical development in children. One of the most famous Piagetian tasks is number conservation. Failures and successes in this task reveal two fundamental stages in children's thinking and judgment, shifting at approximately 7 years of age from visuospatial intuition to number conservation. In the current study, preschool children (nonconservers, 5-6 years of age) and school-age children (conservers, 9-10 years of age) were presented with Piaget's conservation-of-number task and monitored by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The cognitive change allowing children to access conservation was shown to be related to the neural contribution of a bilateral parietofrontal network involved in numerical and executive functions. These fMRI results highlight how the behavioral and cognitive stages Piaget formulated during the 20th century manifest in the brain with age.
Adults perceive emotional facial expressions categorically. In this study, we explored categorical perception in 3.5-year-olds by creating a morphed continuum of emotional faces and tested preschoolers' discrimination and identification of them. In the discrimination task, participants indicated whether two examples from the continuum &quot;felt the same&quot; or &quot;felt different.&quot; In the identification task, images were presented individually and participants were asked to label the emotion displayed on the face (e.g., &quot;Does she look happy or sad?&quot;). Results suggest that 3.5-year-olds have the same category boundary as adults. They were more likely to report that the image pairs felt &quot;different&quot; at the image pair that crossed the category boundary. These results suggest that 3.5-year-olds perceive happy and sad emotional facial expressions categorically as adults do. Categorizing emotional expressions is advantageous for children if it allows them to use social information faster and more efficiently.
Previous investigations on the subjective scale of numerical representations assumed that the scale type can be inferred directly from stimulus-response mapping. This is not a valid assumption, as mapping from the subjective scale into behavior may be nonlinear and/or distorted by response bias. Here we present a method for differentiating between logarithmic and linear hypotheses robust to the effect of distorting processes. The method exploits the idea that a scale is defined by transformational rules and that combinatorial operations with stimulus magnitudes should be closed under admissible transformations on the subjective scale. The method was implemented with novel variants of the number line task. In the line-marking task, participants marked the position of an Arabic numeral within an interval defined by various starting numbers and lengths. In the line construction task, participants constructed an interval given its part. Two alternative approaches to the data analysis, numerical and analytical, were used to evaluate the linear and log components. Our results are consistent with the linear hypothesis about the subjective scale with responses affected by a bias to overestimate small magnitudes and underestimate large magnitudes. We also observed that in the line-marking task, participants tended to overestimate as the interval start increased, and in the line construction task, they tended to overconstruct as the interval length increased. This finding suggests that magnitudes were encoded differently in the 2 tasks: in terms of their absolute magnitudes in the line-marking task and in terms of numerical differences in the line construction task.
The recently published crystal structure of the Cx26 gap junction channel provides a unique opportunity for elucidation of the structure of the conductive connexin pore and the molecular determinants of its ion permeation properties (conductance, current-voltage [I-V] relations, and charge selectivity). However, the crystal structure was incomplete, most notably lacking the coordinates of the N-terminal methionine residue, which resides within the pore, and also lacking two cytosolic domains. To allow computational studies for comparison with the known channel properties, we completed the structure. Grand canonical Monte Carlo Brownian dynamics (GCMC/BD) simulations of the completed and the published Cx26 hemichannel crystal structure indicate that the pore is too narrow to permit significant ion flux. The GCMC/BD simulations predict marked inward current rectification and almost perfect anion selectivity, both inconsistent with known channel properties. The completed structure was refined by all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations (220 ns total) in an explicit solvent and POPC membrane system. These MD simulations produced an equilibrated structure with a larger minimal pore diameter, which decreased the height of the permeation barrier formed by the N terminus. GCMC/BD simulations of the MD-equilibrated structure yielded more appropriate single-channel conductance and less anion/cation selectivity. However, the simulations much more closely matched experimentally determined I-V relations when the charge effects of specific co- and posttranslational modifications of Cx26 previously identified by mass spectrometry were incorporated. We conclude that the average equilibrated structure obtained after MD simulations more closely represents the open Cx26 hemichannel structure than does the crystal structure, and that co- and posttranslational modifications of Cx26 hemichannels are likely to play an important physiological role by defining the conductance and ion selectivity of Cx26 channels. Furthermore, the simulations and data suggest that experimentally observed heterogeneity in Cx26 I-V relations can be accounted for by variation in co- and posttranslational modifications.
Despite major microsurgical improvements the clinical outcome of peripheral nerve surgery is still regarded as suboptimal. Over the past decade several innovative techniques have been developed to extend the armamentarium of the nerve surgeon. This review evaluates the potential of gene therapy in the context of peripheral nerve repair. First the main challenges impeding peripheral nerve regeneration are presented. This is followed by a short introduction to gene therapy and an overview of its most important advantages over the classical delivery of therapeutic proteins. Next, this review focuses on the most promising viral vectors capable of targeting the peripheral nervous system and their first application in animal models. In addition, the challenges of translating these experimental results to the clinic, the limitations of current vectors and the further developments needed, are discussed. Finally, four strategies are presented on how gene therapy could help patients that have to undergo reconstructive nerve surgery in the future.


Altered neurotrophin functions have been implicated in major depressive disorder (MDD). Previously, we reported an association between MDD and a missense polymorphism (Ser205Leu: rs2072446) of the gene encoding the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)). However, contradictive negative results have also been reported. This study tried to replicate the association in an independent sample. Subjects were 668 patients with MDD and 1130 healthy controls. The proportion of individuals carrying the Leu205 allele was significantly decreased in the patients than in the controls ((2)=5.3, d.f.=1, P=0.021, odds ratio (OR) 0.74, 95% confidential interval (CI) 0.58-0.96). When allele frequencies were compared, the Leu205 allele was significantly reduced in the patients than in the controls ((2)=4.4, d.f.=1, P=0.037, OR 0.78, 95% CI 0.61-0.99). When men and women were examined separately, there was a significant difference in genotype and allele distributions in women (genotype: (2)=8.3, d.f.=1, P=0.0039, OR 0.60, 95% CI 0.43-0.85; allele: (2)=7.3, d.f.=1, P=0.0069, OR 0.64, 95% CI 0.47-0.89), but not in men. The present study provided support for the previously reported association between the Ser205Leu polymorphism of the p75(NTR) gene and MDD, indicating that the Leu205 allele has a protective effect against the development of MDD, particularly in women.

Micro RNAs (miRNAs) constitute a unique class of small, non-coding ribonucleic acids (RNAs) that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. The presence of two inducible miRNAs, miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a, involved in respectively, astroglial cell proliferation and in the innate immune and inflammatory response, is significantly up-regulated in human neurological disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study we analyzed abundances miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a in magnesium-, iron-, gallium, and aluminum-sulfate-stressed human-astroglial (HAG) cells, a structural and immune-responsive brain cell type. The combination of iron- plus aluminum-sulfate was found to be significantly synergistic in up-regulating reactive oxygen species (ROS) abundance, NF-B-DNA binding and miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a expression. Treatment of metal-sulfate stressed HAG cells with the antioxidant phenyl butyl nitrone (PBN) or the NF-B inhibitors curcumin, the metal chelator-anti-oxidant pyrollidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), or the resveratrol analog CAY10512, abrogated both NF-B signaling and induction of these miRNAs. Our observations further illustrate the potential of physiologically relevant amounts of aluminum and iron sulfates to synergistically up-regulate specific miRNAs known to contribute to AD-relevant pathogenetic mechanisms, and suggest that antioxidants or NF-B inhibitors may be useful to quench metal-sulfate triggered genotoxicity.
Participation in cognitively stimulating leisure activities such as crossword puzzles may delay onset of the memory decline in the preclinical stages of dementia, possibly via its effect on improving cognitive reserve. We followed 488 initially cognitively intact community residing individuals with clinical and cognitive assessments every 12-18 months in the Bronx Aging Study. We assessed the influence of crossword puzzle participation on the onset of accelerated memory decline as measured by the Buschke Selective Reminding Test in 101 individuals who developed incident dementia using a change point model. Crossword puzzle participation at baseline delayed onset of accelerated memory decline by 2.54 years. Inclusion of education or participation in other cognitively stimulating activities did not significantly add to the fit of the model beyond the effect of puzzles. Our findings show that late life crossword puzzle participation, independent of education, was associated with delayed onset of memory decline in persons who developed dementia. Given the wide availability and accessibility of crossword puzzles, their role in preventing cognitive decline should be validated in future clinical trials.

The present study investigated memory for intention in individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) who were newly diagnosed and not yet treated to avoid the effect of therapy as a potential confounding variable. A comprehensive neuropsychological battery and an event-based prospective memory task were administered to 41 subjects with de novo PD and 40 control subjects. Separate scores were computed for correct execution of intended action (prospective component) and recall of intention (retrospective component). PD patients performed marginally worse (p = .053) than controls on the prospective component of the task. On the other hand, the performance of the two groups was comparable for the retrospective component. Neuropsychological findings revealed lower performance of the PD group in episodic memory and in some measures of executive functions. These results suggested a subtle prospective memory dysfunction present at the initial stage of PD, which may be related to disruption of fronto-striatal circuitry.
Bad vision due to a dirty camera lens is one of the disadvantages and one of the most prominent frustrations in performing endoscopic surgery. Different methods to prevent lens fogging have been described; however, little is published about the prevention of lens contamination due to a dirty port. The authors report three port-cleaning methods: (1) sterile gauze wrapped around an endoscopic dissecting clamp, (2) sterile gauze wrapped around a Pean clamp, and (3) a 10-mm sterile cotton swab, all being simple, adequate, cost-saving solutions.
In computational neuroscience, decision-making may be explained analyzing models based on the evolution of the average firing rates of two interacting neuron populations, e.g., in bistable visual perception problems. These models typically lead to a multi-stable scenario for the concerned dynamical systems. Nevertheless, noise is an important feature of the model taking into account both the finite-size effects and the decision's robustness. These stochastic dynamical systems can be analyzed by studying carefully their associated Fokker-Planck partial differential equation. In particular, in the Fokker-Planck setting, we analytically discuss the asymptotic behavior for large times towards a unique probability distribution, and we propose a numerical scheme capturing this convergence. These simulations are used to validate deterministic moment methods recently applied to the stochastic differential system. Further, proving the existence, positivity and uniqueness of the probability density solution for the stationary equation, as well as for the time evolving problem, we show that this stabilization does happen. Finally, we discuss the convergence of the solution for large times to the stationary state. Our approach leads to a more detailed analytical and numerical study of decision-making models applied in computational neuroscience.
Citizens today are increasingly expected to be knowledgeable about and prepared to engage with biomedical knowledge. In this article, I wish to reframe this 'public understanding of science' project, and place fresh emphasis on public understandings of research: an engagement with the everyday laboratory practices of biomedicine and its associated ethics, rather than with specific scientific facts. This is not based on an assumption that non-scientists are 'ignorant' and are thus unable to 'appropriately' use or debate science; rather, it is underpinned by an empirically-grounded observation that some individuals may be unfamiliar with certain specificities of particular modes of research and ethical frameworks, and, as a consequence, have their autonomy compromised when invited to participate in biomedical investigations. Drawing on the perspectives of participants in my own sociological research on the social and ethical dimensions of neuroscience, I argue that public understanding of biomedical research and its ethics should be developed both at the community level and within the research moment itself in order to enhance autonomy and promote more socially robust science. Public bioethics will have to play a key role in such an endeavour, and indeed will contribute in important ways to the opening up of new spaces of symmetrical engagement between bioethicists, scientists and wider publics-and hence to the democratisation of the bioethical enterprise.
Glioblastomas are cytogenetically heterogeneous tumors that frequently display alterations of chromosomes 7, 9p, and 10q. We used high-density (500K) single-nucleotide polymorphism arrays to investigate genome-wide copy number alterations and loss of heterozygosity in 35 primary glioblastomas. We focused on the identification and detailed characterization of alterations involving the most frequently altered chromosomes (chromosomes 7, 9, and 10), the identification of distinct prognostic subgroups of glioblastomas based on the cytogenetic patterns of alteration for these chromosomes, and validation of their prognostic impact in a larger series of tumors from public databases. Gains of chromosome 7 (97%), with or without epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) amplification, and losses of chromosomes 9p (83%) and 10 (91%) were the most frequent alterations. Such alterations defined five different cytogenetic groups with a significant effect on patient survival; notably, EGFR amplification (29%) was associated with a better survival among older patients, as confirmed by multivariate analysis of a larger series of glioblastomas from the literature. In addition, our results provide further evidence about the relevance of other genes (eg, EGFR, CDKN2A/B, MTAP) in the pathogenesis of glioblastomas. Altogether, our results confirm the cytogenetic heterogeneity of glioblastomas and suggest that their stratification based on combined assessment of cytogenetic alterations involving chromosomes 7, 9, and 10 may contribute to the prognostic evaluation of glioblastomas.
Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) is an autosomal recessive disorder in which calcification of connective tissue leads to pathology in skin, eye and blood vessels. PXE is caused by mutations in ABCC6. High expression of this transporter in the basolateral hepatocyte membrane suggests that it secretes an as-yet elusive factor into the circulation which prevents ectopic calcification. Utilizing our Abcc6 (-/-) mouse model for PXE, we tested the hypothesis that this factor is vitamin K (precursor) (Borst et al. 2008, Cell Cycle). For 3 months, Abcc6 (-/-) and wild-type mice were put on diets containing either the minimum dose of vitamin K required for normal blood coagulation or a dose that was 100 times higher. Vitamin K was supplied as menaquinone-7 (MK-7). Ectopic calcification was monitored in vivo by monthly micro-CT scans of the snout, as the PXE mouse model develops a characteristic connective tissue mineralization at the base of the whiskers. In addition, calcification of kidney arteries was measured by histology. Results show that supplemental MK-7 had no effect on ectopic calcification in Abcc6 ( -/- ) mice. MK-7 supplementation increased vitamin K levels (in skin, heart and brain) in wild-type and in Abcc6 (-/-) mice. Vitamin K tissue levels did not depend on Abcc6 genotype. In conclusion, dietary MK-7 supplementation increased vitamin K tissue levels in the PXE mouse model but failed to counteract ectopic calcification. Hence, we obtained no support for the hypothesis that Abcc6 transports vitamin K and that PXE can be cured by increasing tissue levels of vitamin K.
Over the last couple of decades, there has been a growing body of clinical, genetic, and histopathological evidence that similar pathological processes underlie amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and some types of frontotemporal lobe dementia (FTD). Even though there is great diversity in the genetic causes of these disorders, there is a high degree of overlap in their histopathology. Genes linked to rare cases of familial ALS and/or FTD, like FUS, TARDBP, OPTN, and UBQLN2 may converge onto a unifying pathogenic pathway and thereby provide novel therapeutic targets common to a spectrum of etiologically diverse forms of ALS and ALS-FTD. Additionally, there are major loci for ALS-FTD on chromosomes 9p and 15q. Identification of causative genetic alterations at those loci will be an important step in understanding the pathogenesis of juvenile- and adult-onset ALS and ALS-FTD. Interactions between TDP-43, FUS, optineurin, and ubiquilin 2 need to be studied to understand their common molecular pathways. Future efforts should also be directed towards generation and characterization of in vivo models to dissect the pathogenic mechanisms of these diseases. Such efforts will rapidly accelerate the discovery of new drugs that regulate accumulation of pathogenic proteins and their downstream consequences.
Frontotemporal dementia is commonly associated with parkinsonism in several sporadic (i.e., progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration) and familial neurodegenerative disorders (i.e., frontotemporal dementia associated with parkinsonism and MAPT or progranulin mutations in chromosome 17). The clinical diagnosis of these disorders may be challenging in view of overlapping clinical features, particularly in speech, language, and behavior. The motor and cognitive phenotypes can be viewed within a spectrum of clinical, pathologic, and genetic disorders with no discrete clinicopathologic correlations but rather lying within a dementia-parkinsonism continuum. Neuroimaging and cerebrospinal fluid analysis can be helpful, but the poor specificity of clinical and imaging features has enormously challenged the development of biological markers that could differentiate these disorders premortem. This gap is critical to bridge in order to allow testing of novel biological therapies that may slow the progression of these proteinopathies.
Since the identification of phosphorylated and truncated transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) as a primary component of ubiquitinated inclusions in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions, much effort has been directed towards ascertaining how TDP-43 contributes to the pathogenesis of disease. As with other protein misfolding disorders, TDP-43-mediated neuronal death is likely caused by both a toxic gain and loss of TDP-43 function. Indeed, the presence of cytoplasmic TDP-43 inclusions is associated with loss of nuclear TDP-43. Moreover, post-translational modifications of TDP-43, including phosphorylation, ubiquitination, and cleavage into C-terminal fragments, may bestow toxic properties upon TDP-43 and cause TDP-43 dysfunction. However, the exact neurotoxic TDP-43 species remain unclear, as do the mechanism(s) by which they cause neurotoxicity. Additionally, given our incomplete understanding of the roles of TDP-43, both in the nucleus and the cytoplasm, it is difficult to truly appreciate the detrimental consequences of aberrant TDP-43 function. The development of TDP-43 transgenic animal models is expected to narrow these gaps in our knowledge. The aim of this review is to highlight the key findings emerging from TDP-43 transgenic animal models and the insight they provide into the mechanisms driving TDP-43-mediated neurodegeneration.
Pathological tau protein is found in Alzheimer's disease and related tauopathies. The protein is hyperphosphorylated and/or mutated which leads to aggregation and neurotoxicity. Because cognitive functions correlate well with the degree of tau pathology, clearing these aggregates is a promising therapeutic approach. Studies pioneered by our laboratory and confirmed by others have shown that both active and passive immunizations targeting disease-related tau epitopes successfully reduce tau aggregates in vivo and slow or prevent behavioral impairments in mouse models of tauopathy. Here, we summarize recent advances in this new field.
A clinically and pathologically heterogeneous type of frontotemporal lobar degeneration has abnormal tau pathology in neurons and glia (FTLD-tau). Familial FTLD-tau is usually due to mutations in the tau gene (MAPT). Even FTLD-tau determined by MAPT mutations has clinical and pathologic heterogeneity. Tauopathies are subclassified according to the predominant species of tau that accumulates, with respect to alternative splicing of MAPT, with tau proteins containing three (3R) or four repeats (4R) of ~32 amino acids in the microtubule binding domain. In Pick's disease (PiD), 3R tau predominates, whereas 4R tau is characteristic of corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Depending upon the specific mutation in MAPT, familial FTLD-tau can have 3R, 4R or a combination of 3R and 4R tau. PiD is the least common FTLD-tau characterized by neuronal Pick bodies in a stereotypic neuroanatomical distribution. PSP and CBD are more common than PiD and have extensive clinical and pathologic overlap, with no distinctive clinical syndrome or biomarker that permits their differentiation. Diagnosis rests upon postmortem examination of the brain and demonstration of globose tangles, oligodendroglial coiled bodies and tufted astrocytes in PSP or threads, pretangles and astrocytic plaques in CBD. The anatomical distribution of tau pathology determines the clinical presentation of PSP and CBD, as well as PiD. The basis for this selective cortical vulnerability in FTLD-tau is unknown.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder that predominantly affects individuals under the age of 65. It is known that the most common pathological subtype is FTLD with TAR DNA-binding protein 43 inclusions (FTLD-TDP). FTLD has a strong genetic component with about 50% of cases having a positive family history. Mutations identified in the progranulin gene (GRN) have been shown to cause FTLD-TDP as a result of progranulin haploinsufficiency. These findings suggest a progranulin-dependent mechanism in this pathological FTLD subtype. Thus, identifying regulators of progranulin levels is essential for new therapies and treatments for FTLD and related disorders. In this review, we discuss the role of genetic studies in identifying progranulin regulators, beginning with the discovery of pathogenic GRN mutations and additional GRN risk variants. We also cover more recent genetic advances, including the detection of variants in the transmembrane protein 106 B gene that increase FTLD-TDP risk presumably by modulating progranulin levels and the identification of a potential progranulin receptor, sortilin. This review highlights the importance of genetic studies in the context of FTLD and further emphasizes the need for future genetic and cell biology research to continue the effort in finding a cure for progranulin-related diseases.
Behavioural-variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) is a progressive neurodegenerative brain disorder, clinically characterised by changes in cognition, personality and behaviour. Marked disturbances in eating behaviour, such as overeating and preference for sweet foods, are also commonly reported. This paper reviews the current literature on eating abnormalities in bvFTD, their clinical characteristics and biological correlates, and the contribution of hypothalamus to eating regulation. Existing literature shows that disturbance in an orbitofrontal-insular-striatal brain network underlies the emergence of eating disturbance in bvFTD. In addition, recent evidence indicates that degeneration and consequent dysregulation within the hypothalamus relates to significant feeding disturbance in this disease. These findings could provide a basis for the development of therapeutic models in bvFTD.

The locomotor effects of (-)- and (+)-OSU6162 were evaluated in 'low activity' animals (reserpinized mice and habituated rats) and 'high activity' animals (drug-naive mice and non-habituated rats). Both enantiomers of OSU6162 had dual effects on behavior, stimulating locomotor activity in 'low activity' animals and inhibiting locomotor activity in 'high activity' animals. There were also certain differences between the two enantiomers in their behavioral profiles. The stimulatory effects of both enantiomers in reserpinized mice were blocked by the 5-HT2A selective antagonist M100907, but not by the D2-selective antagonists haloperidol or raclopride, or by the D1-selective antagonists SCH23390 or SCH39166. The stimulatory effect in mice was more pronounced for (+)- than for (-)-OSU6162. In drug-naive mice, both enantiomers of OSU6162 produced head twitches, albeit to a much lesser extent than DOI, and both enantiomers inhibited DOI-induced head twitches, the (-)-form more effectively so than the (+)-form. These results suggest that (-)- and (+)-OSU6162 are partial agonists on 5-HT2A receptors and that the (+)-form has a higher intrinsic activity than the (-)-form. At high doses, both enantiomers inhibited locomotor activity in drug-naive mice, with (-)-OSU6162 being more potent than (+)-OSU6162. Similarly, in high-active rats, both enantiomers inhibited locomotor activity, with the (-)-enantiomer being more potent than the (+)-enantiomer. Conversely, in habituated rats, both enantiomers stimulated locomotor activity, and here, as opposed to the case in low-active mice, (-)-OSU6162 was more effective than (+)-OSU6162. The stimulatory effects in habituated rats of both enantiomers could be antagonized with either haloperidol or M100907. Overall, these results indicate that the dual effects on behavior of (-)- and (+)-OSU6162 are mediated through D2 and 5-HT2A receptors, consistent with their in vitro functional selectivity profiles (see Burstein et al., accompanying paper). Thus, both enantiomers of OSU6162 seem to act as stabilizers not only on dopaminergic, but also on serotonergic brain signaling. These discoveries have important implications for the potential clinical utility of both compounds, as well as for several of their congeners.
The functional implications of transient receptor potential melastatin 3 (TRPM3) activation, the most recently described member of the melastatin subfamily of cation permeable TRP channels, have begun to be elucidated in recent years. The discovery of TRPM3 activation by the steroid pregnenolone sulfate (PregS) has shed new light on the physiological role of this channel. For example, TRPM3 activation enhances insulin secretion from  pancreatic cells, induces contraction of vascular smooth muscle, and is also involved in the detection of noxious heat. Although TRPM3 expression has been detected in several regions of the developing and mature brain, little is known about the roles of TRPM3 in brain physiology. In this study, we demonstrate the abundant expression of TRPM3 steroid-sensitive channels in the developing cerebellar cortex. We also show that TRPM3-like channels are expressed at glutamatergic synapses in neonatal Purkinje cells. We recently showed that PregS potentiates spontaneous glutamate release onto neonatal Purkinje cells during a period of active glutamatergic synapse formation; we now show that this effect of PregS is mediated by TRPM3-like channels. Mefenamic acid, a recently discovered TRPM3 antagonist, blocked the effect of PregS on glutamate release. The PregS effect on glutamate release was mimicked by other TRPM3 agonists (nifedipine and epipregnanolone sulfate) but not by a TRMP3-inactive steroid (progesterone). Our findings identify TRPM3 channels as novel modulators of glutamatergic transmission in the developing brain.
Sulfoglucuronosyl paragloboside (SGPG), a minor glycosphingolipid of endothelial cells, is a ligand for L-selectin and has been implicated in neuro-inflammatory diseases, such as Guillian-Barr syndrome. Inflammatory cytokines, such as TNF and IL-1, up-regulate SGPG expression by stimulating gene expression for glucuronosyltransferases, both P and S forms (GlcATp and GlcATs), and the human natural killer antigen (HNK-1) sulfotransferase (HNK-1 ST). Transfection of a human cerebromicrovascular endothelial cell (SV-HCEC) line with HNK-1 ST siRNA down-regulated SGPG expression, inhibited cytokine-stimulated T-cell adhesion, and offered protection against apoptosis. However, the precise mechanisms of SGPG elevation in endothelial cell apoptosis and the maintenance of blood-brain or blood-nerve barrier integrity in inflammation have not been elucidated. Blocking SGPG expression inhibited cytokine-mediated stimulation of NF-B activity but stimulated MAP kinase activity. Furthermore, elevation of SGPG by over-expression of GlcATp and GlcATs triggered endothelial cell apoptosis, with GlcATs being more potent than GlcATp. Although SGPG-mediated endothelial cell apoptosis was preceded by inhibiting the intracellular NF-B activity, interfering with Akt and ERK activation and stimulating caspase 3 in SV-HCECs, HNK-1ST siRNA transfection also interfered with IB phosphorylation but stimulated ERK activation. Our data indicate that SGPG is a critical regulatory molecule for maintaining endothelial cell survival and blood-brain or blood-nerve barrier function.
Microglia are important innate immune effectors against invading CNS pathogens, such as Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), a common etiological agent of brain abscesses typified by widespread inflammation and necrosis. The NLRP3 inflammasome is a protein complex involved in IL-1 and IL-18 processing following exposure to both pathogen- and danger-associated molecular patterns. Although previous studies from our laboratory have established that IL-1 is a major cytokine product of S. aureus-activated microglia and is pivotal for eliciting protective anti-bacterial immunity during brain abscess development, the molecular machinery responsible for cytokine release remains to be determined. Therefore, the functional role of the NLRP3 inflammasome and its adaptor protein apoptosis-associated speck-like protein (ASC) in eliciting IL-1 and IL-18 release was examined in primary microglia. Interestingly, we found that IL-1, but not IL-18 production, was significantly attenuated in both NLRP3 and ASC knockout microglia following exposure to live S. aureus. NLRP3 inflammasome activation was partially dependent on autocrine/paracrine ATP release and - and -hemolysins produced by live bacteria. A cathepsin B inhibitor attenuated IL- release from NLRP3 and ASC knockout microglia, demonstrating the existence of alternative inflammasome-independent mechanisms for IL-1 processing. In contrast, microglial IL-18 secretion occurred independently of cathepsin B and inflammasome action. Collectively, these results demonstrate that microglial IL-1 processing is regulated by multiple pathways and diverges from mechanisms utilized for IL-18 cleavage. Understanding the molecular events that regulate IL-1 production is important for modulating this potent proinflammatory cytokine during CNS disease.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, neurodegenerative disorder and the most prevalent senile dementia. The early symptom of memory dysfunction involves synaptic loss, thought to be mediated by soluble amyloid-beta (A) oligomers. These aggregate species target excitatory synapses and their levels correlate with disease severity. Studies in cell culture and rodents have shown that oligomers increase intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)), impairing synaptic plasticity. Yet, the molecular mechanism mediating A oligomers' toxicity in the aged brain remains unclear. Here, we apply quantitative immunofluorescence in human brain tissue from clinically diagnosed mild cognitive impaired (MCI) and AD patients to investigate the distribution of phosphorylated (active) Ca(2+) /calmodulin-dependent protein kinase- (p(Thr286)CaMKII), a critical enzyme for activity-dependent synaptic remodeling associated with cognitive function. We show that p(Thr286)CaMKII immunoreactivity is redistributed from dendritic arborizations to neural perikarya of both MCI and AD hippocampi. This finding correlates with cognitive assessment scores, suggesting that it may be a molecular read-out of the functional deficits in early AD. Treatment with oligomeric A replicated the observed phenotype in mice and resulted in a loss of p(Thr286)CaMKII from synaptic spines of primary hippocampal neurons. Both outcomes were prevented by inhibiting the phosphatase calcineurin (CaN). Collectively, our results support a model in which the synaptotoxicity of A oligomers in human brain involves the CaN-dependent subcellular redistribution of p(Thr286)CaMKII. Therapies designed to normalize the homeostatic imbalance of neuronal phosphatases and downstream dephosphorylation of synaptic p(Thr286)CaMKII should be considered to prevent and treat early AD.
Proteasome-mediated proteolysis is a major protein degradation mechanism in cells and its dysfunction has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases, each with the common features of neuronal death and formation of ubiquitinated inclusions found within neurites, the cell body, or nucleus. Previous models of proteasome dysfunction have employed pharmacological inhibition of the catalytic subunits of the 20S proteasome core, or the genetic manipulation of specific subunits resulting in altered proteasome assembly. In this study, we report the use of dominant negative subunits of the 19S regulatory proteasome complex that mediate the recognition of ubiquitinated substrates as well as the removal of the poly-ubiquitin chain. Interestingly, while each mutant subunit-induced inclusion formation, like that seen with pharmacological inhibition of the 20S proteasome, none was able to induce apoptotic death, or trigger activation of macroautophagy, in either dopaminergic cell lines or primary cortical neurons. This finding highlights the dissociation between the mechanisms of neuronal inclusion formation and the induction of cell death, and represents a novel cellular model for Lewy body-like inclusion formation in neurons.
Steroid receptor coactivators are necessary for efficient transcriptional regulation by ligand-bound nuclear receptors, including estrogen and androgen receptors. Steroid receptor coactivator-2 (SRC-2) modulates estrogen- and progesterone-dependent sexual behavior in female rats but its implication in the control of male sexual behavior has not been studied to our knowledge. We cloned and sequenced the complete quail SRC-2 transcript and showed by semi-quantitative PCR that SRC-2 expression is nearly ubiquitous, with high levels of expression in the kidney, cerebellum and diencephalon. Real-time quantitative PCR did not reveal any differences between intact males and females the medial preoptic nucleus (POM), optic lobes and cerebellum. We next investigated the physiological and behavioral role of this coactivator using in vivo antisense oligonucleotide techniques. Daily injections in the third ventricle at the level of the POM of locked nucleic acid antisense targeting SRC-2 significantly reduced the expression of testosterone-dependent male-typical copulatory behavior but no inhibition of one aspect of the appetitive sexual behavior was observed. The volume of POM, defined by aromatase-immunoreactive cells, was markedly decreased in animals treated with antisense as compared with controls. These results demonstrate that SRC-2 plays a prominent role in the control of steroid-dependent male sexual behavior and its associated neuroplasticity in Japanese quail.
This overview attempts to synthesise current understandings of the neuroendocrine basis of parenting. The parent-infant bond is central to the human condition, contributes to risks for mood and anxiety disorders, and provides the potential for resiliency and protection against the development of psychopathology. Animal models of parenting provide compelling evidence that biological mechanisms may be studied in humans. This has led to brain imaging and endocrine system studies of human parents using baby stimuli and concerted psychological and behavioural measures. Certain brain circuits and related hormonal systems, including subcortical regions for motivation (striatum, amygdala, hypothalamus and hippocampus) and cortical regions for social cognition (anterior cingulate, insula, medial frontal and orbitofrontal cortices), appear to be involved. These brain circuits work with a range of endocrine systems to manage stress and motivate appropriate parental caring behaviour with a flexibility appropriate to the environment. Work in this field promises to link evolving models of parental brain performance with resilience, risk and treatment toward mother-infant mental health.
The present review focuses on recent studies from our laboratory examining the neural circuitry subserving rat maternal motivation across postpartum. We employed a site-specific neural inactivation method by infusion of bupivacaine to map the maternal motivation circuitry using two complementary behavioural approaches: unconditioned maternal responsiveness and choice of pup- over cocaine-conditioned incentives in a concurrent pup/cocaine choice conditioned place preference task. Our findings revealed that, during the early postpartum period, distinct brain structures, including the medial preoptic area, ventral tegmental area and medial prefrontal cortex infralimbic and anterior cingulate subregions, contribute a pup-specific bias to the motivational circuitry. As the postpartum period progresses and the pups grow older, it is further revealed that maternal responsiveness becomes progressively less dependent on the medial preoptic area and medial prefrontal cortex infralimbic activity, and more distributed in the maternal circuitry, such that additional network components, including the medial prefrontal cortex prelimbic subregion, are recruited with maternal experience, and contribute to the expression of late postpartum maternal behaviour. Collectively, our findings provide strong evidence that the remarkable ability of postpartum females to successfully care for their developing infants is subserved by a distributed neural network that carries out efficient and dynamic processing of complex, constantly changing incoming environmental and pup-related stimuli, ultimately allowing the progression of appropriate expression and waning of maternal responsiveness across the postpartum period.
In the rat, the change from a virgin/nulliparous female to the maternal animal takes place at many levels. A subtle developmental wave washes over the female nervous system and transforms her from largely self-centred to offspring-directed, from personal care and protection to care of genetically-related offspring, from indifference to ardour. Such change is preceded by substantial and apparently permanent neural alterations, the depth of which results in the maternal brain, and is the basis of the present review. The neuroplasticity of pregnancy, inherent to the female brain and, we believe, representative of the full expression of the female nervous system's capacity, is a result of significant hormonal and other neurochemical actions. It results in the striking brain changes that are associated with, and necessary for, successful reproduction. We discuss some of these changes and their ramifications. Collectively, they represent the culmination of mammalian evolution and have led to the development of the social brain characteristic of higher orders of mammal, including the human. We also examine different facets of the maternal brain, beginning with a review of the genes involved in maternal behaviour, and in the subsequent 'expression' of the maternal brain. We next discuss olfaction and the manner in which this major sense draws from the rich sensory milieu of the mother to regulate and support maternal behaviour. Last, we discuss the 'whys' of maternal behaviour, a theoretical foray into the reasons for such substantial maternal brain alterations. We focus on the male's potential role as the raison d'etre for the manifest alterations in his mate's brain. In the end, it is clear that the female brain undergoes a significant reorganisation en route to motherhood, the results of which are deep and enduring.
Low levels of the adipocyte hormone leptin are considered to be the key signal contributing to inhibited gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release and reproductive acyclicity during negative energy balance. Hypoleptinaemia-induced inhibition of GnRH may be initiated with upstream inhibition of the secretagogue kisspeptin (Kiss1) because GnRH neurones do not express leptin receptors. The present study aimed to determine whether eliminating the hypoleptinaemia associated with caloric restriction (CR), by restoring leptin to normal basal levels, could reverse the suppression of the reproductive neuroendocrine axis. Fifty percent CR resulted in significant suppression of anteroventral periventricular Kiss1 mRNA, arcuate nucleus (ARH) Kiss1 and neurokinin B (NKB) mRNA levels and serum luteinising hormone (LH). Restoring leptin to normal basal levels did not restore Kiss1 or NKB mRNA or LH levels. Surprisingly, leptin did not activate expression of phosphorylated signal-transducer and activator of transcription-3 in ARC Kiss1 neurones, indicating that these neurones may not relay leptin signalling to GnRH neurones. Previous work in fasting models showing restoration of LH used a pharmacological dose of leptin. Therefore, in a 48-h fast study, replacement of leptin to pharmacological levels was compared with replacement of leptin to normal basal levels. Maintaining leptin at normal basal levels during the fast did not prevent inhibition of LH. By contrast, pharmacological levels of leptin did maintain LH at control values. These results suggest that, although leptin may be a permissive signal for reproductive function, hypoleptinaemia is unlikely to be the critical signal responsible for ARC Kiss1 and LH inhibition during negative energy balance.
