The present study was undertaken to elucidate the action of excitatory amino acids in the dorsal diencephalic pathway. Single neurons in the lateral habenula of halothane-anesthetized cats were recorded extracellularly, and excitatory amino acid receptor agonists and antagonists were applied by iontophoresis. Most neurons in the lateral habenula were spontaneously active. This spontaneous firing could be inhibited by kynurenic acid, a broad spectrum antagonist of excitatory amino acid receptors, but not by the selective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-7-phosphono-heptanoic acid. Iontophoretic application of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-5-isoxazolepropionate, quisqualate and kainate mostly elicited a non-burst, regular firing pattern which was sensitive to kynurenic acid. Surprisingly, 116 (96%) out of 121 neurons in the lateral habenula responded to iontophoretic application of N-methyl-D-aspartate with a regular non-burst firing pattern, in contrast to previously published observations from other brain regions where N-methyl-D-aspartate predominantly elicited phasic firing patterns. When cells were recorded with electrode assemblies where one iontophoretic barrel contained MgCl2 or MgSO4, only 10 (43%) out of 23 cells responded with regular firing upon application of N-methyl-D-aspartate, while 13 (57%) now displayed a phasic firing pattern. In these cells iontophoretically applied alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-5-isoxazolepropionate or quisqualate still evoked only regular firing. In a few cases, an initially regular N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced firing pattern could be changed to a phasic pattern following active ejection of Mg2+ ions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The subcortical innervation of a recently described subpopulation of non-pyramidal neurons, containing the calcium binding protein, calretinin, was investigated in the rat hippocampus using the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin and double immunocytochemistry for calretinin and serotonin at the light and electron microscopic levels. Our results show that the GABAergic component of the septohippocampal pathway and the serotonergic raphe afferents establish multiple synaptic contacts with the calretinin-immunoreactive interneurons. The majority of the targets of both pathways were spine-free calretinin neurons known to innervate the dendritic region of the principal cells, but the GABAergic septal pathway was found to terminate also on the spiny neurons of stratum lucidum of the CA3 region and in the dentate hilus. The present results demonstrate that the serotonergic raphe-hippocampal and the GABAergic septohippocampal pathways are able to modulate dendritic inhibition of principal cells via calretinin-containing GABAergic interneurons.
We have demonstrated the formation of entorhinodentate projections by axons arising from explants of embryonic mouse entorhinal cortex or slices of postnatal rat entorhinal area co-cultured in contact with slices of postnatal rat hippocampus in roller tube and static culture. Species-specific markers (Thy-1 alleles and M6) showed that the most dense part of the projection was to the outer part of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (i.e. excluding the commissural-association zone). Retrograde axonal transport of fluorescent tracers placed in the dentate gyrus labelled a densely packed superficial layer of stellate cells in the entorhinal cortex. Anterograde axonal transport of biocytin placed in the entorhinal cortex showed that the entorhinodentate fibres formed typical parallel bundles oriented at right angles to the dentate granule cell dendrites and had short-stalked boutons. The formation of entorhinodentate synapses was confirmed in the electron microscope by electron-dense degeneration after cutting the previously formed connection between the co-cultures. Synaptic transmission was demonstrated by extracellular recording of postsynaptic field potentials after entorhinal stimulation. The entorhinal fibres also projected to the hippocampal stratum lacunosum-moleculare of fields CA1 and CA3, and were present in the outer part of the stratum oriens of the subiculum; in some cases they perforated the pyramidal cell layer of the subiculum. We conclude that the necessary molecular and tissue organizational signals for the formation of an entorhinodentate projection are present in tissues maintained in organotypic slice co-culture, and remain effective in the cross-species mouse-to-rat situation.
The effects of subcutaneous administration of the non-peptide NK-1 (substance P) receptor antagonist, CP-96,345, and its stereoisomer, CP-96,344, were tested in three nociceptive paradigms in the rat. In the first paradigm, tail flick responses were monitored before and after intrathecal administration of substance P (6.5 nmol) in rats pretreated subcutaneously with saline, CP-96,344 (5 mg/kg) or CP-96,345 (5 mg/kg). In the control groups, pretreated with saline (n = 6) or with CP-96,344 (n = 5), substance P reduced the tail flick reaction time at 1 min after administration to 38.3 +/- 5.1 (mean +/- S.E.M.) and 32.1 +/- 7.7% of the mean baseline value, respectively. In contrast, in the group pretreated with CP-96,345 (n = 6) the reaction time following administration of substance P was 98.8 +/- 3.3% of the baseline reaction time; this value was not significantly different from the baseline value of this group, indicating a block (P &lt; 0.01) of the substance P-induced facilitation of the tail flick response. In the second paradigm, rats were anesthetized with a mixture of chloral hydrate (120 mg/kg, i.p.) and sodium pentobarbital (20 mg/kg, i.p.), and the effects were determined on tail flick reaction time of a sustained noxious cutaneous stimulation, immersing the tip of the tail in hot water at 55 degrees C. In the groups of rats pretreated with saline (n = 4) or with CP-96,344 (n = 7), this noxious stimulus produced a transient decrease in reaction time to 62-74% of the baseline value.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The rat spinal cord with connected dorsal root ganglia was used to study neurokinin and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors involved in the sensory synaptic transmission of dorsal horn cells. Selective C-fibre excitation was produced by capsaicin (200-500 nM) administered to the dorsal root ganglions. Sixty-nine per cent of dorsal horn cells responded with a postsynaptic depolarization and enhanced synaptic activity, recorded via intracellular electrodes, to capsaicin-activated primary afferent input. Dorsal horn neurons activated by the capsaicin-evoked input were also excited by a 1-min perfusion of the neurokinin-1 receptor agonists substance P methyl ester or GR73 632 and by the neurokinin-2 agonist neurokinin-A. These cells were also depolarized by N-methyl-D-aspartate. Responses to substance P methyl ester and GR73 632 were selectively reduced by the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist CP96,345, and responses to neurokinin-A were completely blocked by the neurokinin-2 receptor antagonist MEN10 376. The depolarization evoked by N-methyl-D-aspartate was not altered by either of the antagonists, but was completely blocked by the selective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. Capsaicin-evoked responses in the dorsal horn were inhibited by MEN10,376 (63 +/- 13% inhibition) but no significant change was observed with CP96,345. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid consistently inhibited the capsaicin-induced response by 76 +/- 14%. Combination of (-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and MEN10,376 produced an almost complete abolition of the capsaicin-evoked depolarization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The presence and location of CNS neurokinin B peptide-2-like immunoreactive neurons that project to the spinal cord were studied by a combination of retrograde transport of fluorescent dye (FluoroGold) and fluorescence immunocytochemistry. After injections of FluoroGold into the thoracic or lumbar segments of the rat spinal cord, serial sections of brain were stained with antisera directed against neurokinin B peptide-2. The results of the study showed that neurokinin B peptide-2-like immunoreactive neurons were located in the nucleus arcuate, median eminence, ventral and external bed nuclei of the stria terminalis, dorsal hypothalamic area, and medial habenula. Neurokinin B peptide-2 neurons that give rise to the long descending projections from the hypothalamus to thoracolumbar spinal cord were found only in the dorsal hypothalamic area. Approximately 36% of the neurokinin B peptide-2 neurons in the dorsal hypothalamic area projected to the spinal cord, whereas about 28% of the spinal projecting neurons in the dorsal hypothalamic area contained neurokinin B peptide-2-like immunoreactivity. Most of the spinal projecting neurokinin B peptide-2 neurons in the dorsal hypothalamic area had a cell size of 15 x 25 microns. In the spinal cord, immunoreactive neurokinin B peptide-2 fibers and terminals were distributed mainly in the superficial dorsal horn and the central autonomic area, with the highest density in laminae II and X, with less density in laminae IV and V. A few neurokinin peptide-2 fibers and terminals were also found in the ventral horn of the spinal cord. The results of the present study show that hypothalamic neurokinin B peptide-2 neurons are the main source of the spinal neurokinin B peptide-2.
Several membrane fractions were prepared from rat brain by differential and sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Most fractions took up 36Cl- rapidly at a rate linear with time during the first 30-60 s, then the rate progressively slowed down. The lowest rate of uptake was found in the mitochondrial fraction. Oxythiamin partially inhibited 36Cl- uptake in all fractions. In P2 (crude synaptosomal fraction), oxythiamin decreased the initial rate of uptake by 32%, the apparent Ki being 1.5 mM. Thiamin and amprolium were less effective as inhibitors. 4,4'-Diisothiocyanostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (0.1-1 mM) inhibited 36Cl- uptake by 40-50%. In the presence of this compound at a concentration &gt; or = 5 x 10(-4) M, oxythiamin became ineffective. 36Cl- uptake was increased by GABA (0.1 mM) and this effect was antagonized by picrotoxin as expected, but not by oxythiamin. The rate of 36Cl- uptake did not appreciably depend on the external chloride concentration and was unaffected by bumetanide or by replacement of external Na+ by choline. Taken together, these data suggest that the oxythiamin-sensitive 36Cl- influx is essentially diffusional and is not related to the GABA receptor or the Na:K:2Cl co-transport. Partial replacement of external Na+ by K+ or treatment with 0.1 mM veratridine (which should both result in membrane depolarization) increased 36Cl- uptake by 50 and 30% respectively; the inhibitory effect of oxythiamin was enhanced to the same proportion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution, origin and plasticity of galanin immunoreactivity in the rat carotid body was examined using an indirect immunofluorescence method. Galanin-immunoreactive nerve fibers were observed around the blood vessels as well as around the clusters of glomus and sustentacular cells. A double-immunofluorescence method revealed the coexistence of galanin- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactivities in these nerve fibers. In the jugular, petrosal and nodose ganglia which supply the sensory nerve fibers to the carotid body, subpopulations of neurons showed both galanin- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactivities. In the superior cervical ganglion, a few neurons were immunoreactive for galanin but not calcitonin gene-related peptide. While the nerve fibers showing both galanin- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactivities disappeared after transection of the carotid sinus nerve, many galanin-immunoreactive nerve fibers without calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactivity appeared throughout the operated carotid body. In addition, galanin-immunoreactive glomus cells which were not observed in the normal carotid body, were apparent at one and three days after transection of the carotid sinus nerve. At seven days after the carotid sinus nerve transection, the galanin-immunoreactive glomus cells disappeared. In the superior cervical ganglion, the number of galanin-immunoreactive neurons increased from one day after transection of the carotid sinus nerve. Within three days after the carotid sinus nerve transection in combination with superior cervical ganglion-ectomy, all galanin-immunoreactive nerve fibers disappeared, while many galanin-immunoreactive glomus cells appeared in the operated carotid body. At seven days after this operation, the number of galanin-immunoreactive glomus cells decreased and a few galanin-immunoreactive nerve fibers with or without calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactivities appeared. Transection of the vagus nerve had no effect on the number or distribution of galanin-immunoreactivity in the carotid body. Disappearance of galanin- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive nerve fibers after transection of the carotid sinus nerve suggests that the majority of those nerve fibers originate from petrosal neurons which colocalize galanin- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactivity. In addition, the carotid sinus nerve transection may cause the acquisition of galanin-immunoreactivity in originally immunonegative glomus cells, and in nerve fibers which probably originate from the superior cervical ganglion.
High-voltage-activated calcium currents can be pharmacologically separated into two components: omega-conotoxin-sensitive, dihydropyridine resistant (N-type) and dihydropyridine sensitive, omega-conotoxin-resistant (L-type). In the present study, omega-conotoxin completely blocked spinal monosynaptic responses and long-latency electrically evoked polysynaptic reflexes were 93% blocked. Short-latency electrically evoked and capsaicin-evoked polysynaptic reflexes were partially blocked (39 and 37% block, respectively). Nifedipine, a dihydropyridine type antagonist, had no effect on any evoked responses and Bay K 8644, a dihydropyridine agonist, only increased spontaneous firing. Dynorphin A blocks N currents, but its depressant effects were not altered by irreversible blockade of omega-conotoxin-sensitive N channels. These results demonstrate that omega-conotoxin-sensitive N channels play a major role in the synaptic transmission that mediates monosynaptic and electrically evoked slow polysynaptic reflexes, and a lesser but significant role in fast and capsaicin-evoked polysynaptic spinal reflexes. L-type channels play a minor role. Furthermore, dynorphin A depresses synaptic transmission by blockade of high threshold calcium channels that are distinct from the omega-conotoxin-sensitive N channel, or by a mechanism that does not directly involve calcium channels.
The effects of neonatal treatment (one day after birth) with the neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine (75 micrograms/10 microliters intracisternal), were studied in the striatum of normal adult and treated Sprague-Dawley rats. Measurements of monoamine levels in the dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens, by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection, showed that neonatal 6-hydroxydopamine treatment produced a permanent and massive destruction of striatal dopamine. The effects were more pronounced in the dorsal striatum than in the nucleus accumbens. In addition, serotonin levels were elevated in the rat striatum as a consequence of the neonatal treatment. Rapid chronoamperometric recordings of K(+)-evoked monoamine overflow using Nafion-coated recording electrodes were investigated in both the dorsal and ventral striatum of control and neonatally lesioned rats. The potassium-evoked responses recorded from the dorsal striatum of the 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats were significantly reduced in amplitude as compared to controls. In addition, the reduction/oxidation current ratios of the responses were more serotonin-like, in contrast to the dopamine-like current ratios measured in the striatum of untreated animals. In ventral striatum, the amplitudes of the K(+)-evoked responses were not significantly reduced versus control. However, the K(+)-evoked signals were more serotonin-like in their electrochemical characteristics as compared to controls. In addition to the release studies, extracellular single-unit electrophysiological recordings were performed in normal and neonatally 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats. The spontaneous discharge rate of striatal neurons in the neonatally 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats was similar to that of control rats. This is in contrast to dopamine lesions in adult animals, where a marked elevation of the discharge rate is observed. Local applications of dopamine and serotonin into the striatum of neonatally 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats elicited excitations of striatal cells rather than the normal inhibitory effects seen in control animals. Taken together, these data suggest that loss of striatal dopamine terminals at birth leads to both pre- and postsynaptic alterations in monoamine pathways.
Neurochemical studies performed in vivo have suggested that serotonin-containing and -synthesizing nerves, originating in the raphe nuclei, directly innervate pial blood vessels. Nerve fibres of these vessels have been shown by immunocytochemistry to contain tryptophan hydroxylase (the rate-limiting enzyme of serotonin synthesis) but no serotonin. The present study examines this contradiction by measuring in vitro the tryptophan hydroxylase activity of rat cerebral vessels and femoral arteries (which also contain tryptophan hydroxylase-immunopositive nerves), and comparing them to the tryptophan hydroxylase activity of the rat pineal body, raphe nuclei and brain cortex under identical conditions. Oxygenated incubation solutions contained either [14C]- or &quot;cold&quot; L-tryptophan (2 x 10(-5) to 5 x 10(-4) M) and NSD-1015 (3-hydroxybenzylhydrazine) which inhibits the decarboxylation of 5-hydroxytryptophan, the second step of serotonin synthesis. Tissue fragments were incubated for 35-60 min. High-performance liquid chromatography (on tissue extracts and incubation solutions) as well as determination of 14C activity in the 5-hydroxytryptophan fraction of elution from tissue extracts showed that the pineal body, the raphe nuclei and cortical slices synthesize various amounts of 5-hydroxytryptophan under our experimental conditions. All these tissues contained serotonin. Femoral arteries, but not cerebral vessels, also contained small amounts of serotonin stored before incubation, probably in mast cells. In contrast to brain tissues, no measurable amounts of &quot;cold&quot; or [14C]5-hydroxytryptophan were found in cerebral blood vessel and femoral artery extracts or incubation solutions. Under identical experimental conditions, sympathetic nerves of both types of vessels were able to synthesize large amounts of L-DOPA when incubation solutions contained L-tyrosine instead of L-tryptophan.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Anterograde tracing from dorsal raphe neurons by Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin and serotonin immunocytochemistry revealed no serotonergic projections from raphe nuclei to cerebral pial vessels in the rat. However, cerebrovascular nerve fibres, mainly located in major pial arteries, were immunoreactive to tryptophan-5-hydroxylase antibodies as previously shown by others. It thus seems that the rate-limiting enzyme catalysing the biosynthesis of serotonin, tryptophan-5-hydroxylase, is present in cerebrovascular nerve fibres which do not originate in the dorsal raphe nucleus and which do not contain enough serotonin to be labelled by serotonin immunocytochemistry. We also observed tryptophan hydroxylase-immunoreactive but no serotonin-immunoreactive nerve fibres in the femoral artery and, occasionally, in the dura mater. The femoral artery, like the dura mater, contained numerous mast cells reacting positively to both tryptophan hydroxylase and to serotonin immunocytochemistry. The colocalization of the enzyme and its final product thus appears to be a general feature, since it has already been demonstrated within the central nervous system. The only exception appears to be the tryptophan hydroxylase-immunoreactive nerves present in cerebral and peripheral vessels. These results suggest that there is not a true serotonergic (i.e. serotonin-containing) innervation in cerebral blood vessels. They also strongly suggest that the cerebrovascular nerve fibres which appear to contain tryptophan hydroxylase do not originate in the raphe nuclei.
The possible roles of G-protein coupled metabotropic glutamate receptors in central nervous function are currently the focus of intensive investigation. The complexity of effects produced by agonists at these receptors probably reflects the activity of a range of sub-types. The metabotropic glutamate receptors first described are linked to phospholipase C, mediating phosphoinositide hydrolysis and release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. A substance generally considered to be a selective agonist for these receptors is (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD). This substance not only stimulates phosphoinositide hydrolysis, but also inhibits cyclic AMP formation. A family of metabotropic glutamate receptors, incorporating both phospholipase C- and adenylcyclase-linked sub-types has been cloned. Various effects of metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists on membrane ion fluxes and synaptic events have been reported, including neuronal depolarization and/or excitation, hyperpolarization, inhibition of Ca(2+)-dependent and voltage-gated K+ currents, potentiation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced responses, depression of synaptic excitation and either induction or augmentation of long-term potentiation. To clarify the role of metabotropic glutamate receptors in central nervous activity and to aid the characterization of the various receptor types that may be involved, a range of highly selective agonists and antagonists is required. To date, currently available antagonists such as L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate and L-aspartic acid-beta-hydroxamate appear to be unselective and insufficiently potent. We report here the actions of three phenylglycine derivatives, the particular agonist and/or antagonist properties of which may help to elucidate the roles of metabotropic glutamate receptors in central nervous activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recently it has been shown that placement of 4 loose chromic gut sutures around the rat sciatic nerve produces hyperalgesia. A possible mechanism underlying this hyperalgesia is a preferential loss of large myelinated fibers. A difficulty, however, is that neuropathic symptoms are not static and the time course of the axon loss has not been determined. To remedy this deficit, the present study relates axonal changes to the behavior of the animal at various times after induction of the neuropathy. The findings are that a loss of all axon types, with a preferential loss of large myelinated axons, is associated with the development of heat hyperalgesia. As the axon loss progresses, however, the hyperalgesia lessens. In addition, at 28 days post surgery there are essentially no large myelinated axons in the distal segment, but the signs of hyperalgesia have almost resolved. These findings indicate that the onset of the hyperalgesia is accompanied by a preferential loss of large fibers and by a lesser but still substantial loss of small myelinated and unmyelinated axons. The subsequent course of the hyperalgesia, however, is not in any obvious way related to the proportions of large myelinated fibers in the affected nerve.
The Personal Philosophy Inventories of 221 university students who had learned to meditate (about 65% to 70% Transcendental Meditation) were compared to 860 nonmeditators. Meditators displayed a significantly wider range of complex partial epileptic-like signs. Experiences of vibrations, hearing one's name called, paranormal phenomena, profound meaning from reading poetry/prose, and religious phenomenology were particularly frequent among mediators. Numbers of years of TM practice were significantly correlated with the incidence of complex partial signs and sensed presence but not with control, olfactory, or perseverative experiences. The results support the hypothesis that procedures which promote cognitive kindling enhance complex partial epileptic-like signs.
A novel water maze was used to assess the potential performance-disrupting effects of psychoactive drugs and stressors (4 mg/kg amphetamine sulfate; 1, 2, or 4 mg/kg diazepam; 30 mg/kg caffeine; 5 or 30 mg/kg atropine sulfate; 15 min of either intermittent foot-shock, forced running, or immobilization). The task utilized a traditional type of maze with walls and doorways set inside a pool. The apparatus could easily be reconfigured to present different mazes of approximately equal difficulty by opening or closing multiple doorways. Performance was measured by number of errors and time required to swim from the &quot;start&quot; to &quot;finish&quot; (a raised platform not in the rat's line of sight). After initial maze training, rats were divided into two groups. One group ran three daily trails through the same maze each day; this group was used to assess memory. The second group was challenged to swim three consecutive trials in a new maze configuration each day as a measure of learning. On any given day, rats from both groups received the same treatment. Drug or stress treatments were interspersed with vehicle or no-treatment trials days. The new maze task was more sensitive than the well-learned maze to the performance disrupting effects of amphetamine, caffeine, and diazepam, while atropine had no significant effect on performance on either maze. Foot-shock stress impaired performance on both mazes, while the other stressors had no significant effect.
Learning and memory were assessed in 24 monozygotic (MZ) pairs of individuals discordant for schizophrenia or delusional disorder and seven normal pairs of MZ twins. On declarative memory tasks, the affected group displayed a pattern that might best be characterized as dysmnesic in that they performed significantly worse than the discordant unaffected group on story recall, paired associated learning, and visual recall of designs, but they learned over time, had relatively preserved recognition memory, and did not show profoundly accelerated rates of forgetting. Effortful, volitional retrieval from the lexicon, measured by verbal fluency, was also compromised in the affected group. On the other hand, procedural learning of the motor skill in a pursuit rotor task was relatively intact in the affected group. Comparisons of the normal group and unaffected group indicated that the latter group had very mild impairments in some aspects of episodic memory, namely, immediate and delayed recall of stories and delayed recall of designs. It is highly unlikely that the impairments observed in the affected group can be attributed to differences in genome, family environment, socioeconomic circumstance, or educational opportunity, as all of these were controlled by the twin paradigm. Rather, the impairments appear to be related to the intercession of disease. The neuropsychological profile is consistent with frontal lobe and medial temporal lobe dysfunction, as noted in this sample as well as other samples of schizophrenic singletons. Significant correlations between many measures of memory and global level of social and vocational functioning within the discordant group were also found. Thus difficulties in rapidly acquiring new information and propitiously retrieving old information may burden patients with schizophrenia in many of the transactions of everyday life.
Recent data have demonstrated the efficacy of carotid endarterectomy in patients with severe, symptomatic carotid stenosis. In this context, our study analyzes the role of carotid testing with magnetic resonance angiography and carotid duplex scanning, as compared to arterial digital subtraction angiography.
The morphology and electrophysiological properties of neurons in the nucleus accumbens were studied using intracellular recording techniques in rat brain slices maintained in vitro. Neurons were subdivided according to their location in the shell or core region of the nucleus accumbens. Most of the cells in both regions had small to medium-sized (15.8 +/- 2.8 microns) somata with densely spinous dendrites, somewhat similar to the striatal medium spiny neuron. However, minor morphological differences between neurons from accumbens core and shell regions were found, such as fewer primary dendrites in shell neurons than in the core (3.8 +/- 0.8 vs. 4.4 +/- 1.0) and the spatial organization of their dendritic trees. In general, the passive membrane properties of neurons in each region were similar. However, shell neurons appeared to be less excitable in nature, as suggested by (1) a faster time constant, (2) the absence of TTX-insensitive events resembling low-threshold spikes, and (3) the lower probability of evoking spikes in shell neurons by stimulation of amygdaloid or cortical afferents in comparison to the responses of core neurons to cortical afferent stimulation. In most nucleus accumbens neurons the action potentials evoked by membrane depolarization were preceded by a slow Ca(2+)-dependent depolarization and showed firing-frequency adaptation. Following TTX administration, all-or-none spike-like events resembling high-threshold calcium spikes were observed in both regions. In summary, except for minor differences, most of the properties of core and shell neurons are similar, supporting their characterization as subdivisions of a single structure. Therefore, differences in the functional properties of these neuronal populations are likely to be due to their distinct connectivity patterns.
The phosphorylation of synaptophysin, a major integral membrane protein of small synaptic vesicles, was found to be regulated in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner in rat cerebrocortical slices, synaptosome preparations, and highly purified synaptic vesicles isolated from rat forebrain. K(+)-induced depolarization of slices and synaptosomes prelabeled with 32P-orthophosphate produced a rapid, transient increase in serine phosphorylation of synaptophysin. In synaptosomes, the depolarization-dependent increase in synaptophysin phosphorylation required the presence of external Ca2+ in the incubation medium. The addition of Ca2+ plus calmodulin to purified synaptic vesicles resulted in a 4-fold increase in serine phosphorylation of synaptophysin, and this phosphorylation was antagonized by a peptide inhibitor of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II(. Purified rat forebrain CaM kinase II phosphorylated both purified synaptophysin and endogenous, vesicle-associated synaptophysin, and the resulting 2-dimensional chymotryptic phosphopeptide maps were similar to those derived from synaptophysin phosphorylated in cerebrocortical slices. These data demonstrate that Ca(2+)-dependent phosphorylation of synaptophysin, mediated by CaM kinase II, occurs under physiological conditions.
Evoked potentials recorded from slices of pigeon hippocampus were reversibly attenuated by 2 mM kynurenic acid. High frequency stimulation (3 x 200 Hz for 1 sec, with 1 sec intervals) evoked a persistent increase in the evoked potential, lasting in a nondecremental form for at least 2 hr. This increase in the magnitude of the potential was not blocked by antagonists of the NMDA receptor (APV and MK-801). These data suggest that the synaptic facilitation observed in the pigeon hippocampus, which appears to be a form of long-term potentiation, does not depend on the activation of NMDA receptors.
Seven potential geometric cues for contour-curvature discrimination were tested: curvature, turning-angle, arc-length, arc-length-divided-by-chord-length, maximum-deviation (sag), mean-deviation and area. Three experiments were performed, each requiring the discrimination of two simultaneously presented, 1-sec-duration, curved-line stimuli, whose chord-lengths ranged from 12 to 48 arcmin visual angle and whose curvatures ranged from 0 to 0.13 arcmin-1. Experiments 1 and 2 determined for each cue the smallest detectable increment (the increment threshold) as a function of cue value, for a set of spatial transformations of the stimulus (one- and two-dimensional scalings) equivalent to changes in viewing distance and direction. In accordance with statistical estimation theory, the &quot;best&quot; cue was defined as the most efficient one, that is, the one which best accounted for the variance in the data. As a control, Expt 3 compared increment-threshold functions for circular and elliptical arcs of constant chord-length and circular arcs of constant arc-length. Over all three experiments, only sag and its linear approximation, mean-deviation, accounted well for the variance in the data; sag provided the best predictor, and its increment-threshold function satisfied Weber's law over almost all of the stimulus range. Additionally, sag has a special theoretical property (shared only with mean-deviation and area): the relationship it defines (in proportional terms) between curved contours in an image of an object or a scene is constant and independent of viewing distance and direction.
The effect of muscarinic receptor activation on phosphoinositide hydrolysis in the rat olfactory bulb was investigated by determining either the inositol (1,4,5) trisphosphate (Ins(1,4,5)P3) mass or the accumulation of [3H]inositol phosphates ([3H]InsPs). In miniprisms of rat olfactory bulb, carbachol produced an atropine-sensitive increase in Ins(1,4,5)P3 concentration. In a membrane preparation, the formation of Ins(1,4,5)P3 was stimulated by guanosine-5'-(3-O-thio) triphosphate (GTP gamma S), but not by carbachol. However, carbachol potentiated the GTP gamma S stimulation when the two agents were combined. In miniprisms prelabelled with [3H]myo-inositol, carbachol increased the accumulation of [3H]InsPs and this effect was significantly reduced by tissue treatment with either 1 microM phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate or 1 mM dibutyryl cyclic AMP. Analysis of concentration-response curves indicated that carbachol (EC50 = 96 microM) and oxotremorine-M (EC50 = 8.2 microM) behaved like full agonists, whereas oxotremorine, BM5, arecoline and bethanechol were partial agonists. The carbachol stimulation of [3H]InsPs accumulation was counteracted with high affinity by the M1 antagonist pirenzepine (pA2 = 8.26), and less potently by the M3 antagonist para-fluorohexahydro-sila-difenidol (pA2 = 6.7) and the M2 antagonist AF-DX 116 (pA2 = 6.12). The biochemical and pharmacological properties of the muscarinic stimulation of phosphoinositide hydrolysis were compared with those displayed by the muscarinic stimulation of adenylate cyclase in the rat olfactory bulb.
The predominant component of amyloid plaques of Alzheimer's disease is the amyloid beta protein (A beta), a 39-42-amino-acid peptide derived by proteolysis of a family of precursors known as amyloid precursor proteins (APP). In mammalian brain and in cultured mammalian cells, the release of APP amino-terminal fragments into the extracellular medium occurs by a proteolytic cleavage within the A beta domain, thereby precluding amyloidogenesis. Infection of Sf9 insect cells with baculovirus vectors containing APP cDNAs results in high levels of APP expression. The concomitant release of amino-terminal fragments of APP and the production of carboxyl-terminal, cell-associated cleavage products are observed. Here we demonstrate by direct protein microsequencing that the proteolytic processing of APP in the Sf9 cells generates a prominent carboxyl-terminal species that is identical to that produced in human cells, suggesting that the major pathway for proteolytic processing of APP is conserved among metazoans.
To learn more about the mechanism of regulation of cAMP during fertilization in Chlamydomonas, we have begun to study the flagellar adenylylcyclase. Recently (Zhang, Y., Ross, E. M., and Snell, W. J. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 22954-22959) we reported that the adenylylcyclase in gametic flagella is inhibited by ATP and activated by pretreatment at 45 degrees C or by incubation with the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine. Here we present evidence that this novel regulatory mechanism is unique to gametes and may be required for sexual signaling between mt+ and mt- gametes during fertilization. The vegetative form of the enzyme, which has a specific activity 3-5-fold less than the gametic form, was neither inhibited by ATP nor activated at 45 degrees C. 5'-Adenylylimidodiphosphate, staurosporine, and Mn2+, which activated the gametic enzyme, had no effect on the vegetative adenylylcyclase. In addition the gametic enzyme was inhibited by low (0.1-1 microM) Ca2+ concentrations, whereas the vegetative form was unaffected by 10 microM Ca2+. During gametogenesis acquisition of the ability to undergo sexual signaling was coincident with the appearance of the gametic flagellar adenylylcyclase. Our results suggest that gametogenesis is accompanied by appearance of a new adenylylcyclase that may play a central role in signal transduction during fertilization in Chlamydomonas.
Four cDNA sequences encoding Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) were isolated from a Drosophila adult head cDNA library using rat CaM kinase II alpha and beta cDNA sequences under low stringency hybridization conditions. These cDNA clones encoded polypeptides of 490, 509, 516, and 530 amino acids, which are identical to one another except for amino acid insertions or deletions near the carboxyl-terminal of the putative &quot;link&quot; segment. These polypeptides showed considerable similarity to rat brain CaM kinase II with more than 70% of the amino acids being identical. The Drosophila adult head contains three major species of CaM kinase II with molecular masses of 55, 58, and 60 kDa. These cross-react with anti-rat CaM kinase II antibody. An expression study of the four cDNA sequences in mammalian cells revealed that the polypeptides of 490, 509, and 530 amino acids that had been predicted from the cDNA sequences correspond to the 55-, 58-, and 60-kDa polypeptides found in the head, respectively, and all exhibited enzymatic properties similar to those of rat brain CaM kinase II, including self-regulation. The Drosophila CaM kinase II gene was located in segment 102E-F on the fourth chromosome and consisted of at least 16 exons spanning approximately 20 kilobase pairs. Four forms of the enzyme are generated from a single gene by alternative splicing. Transcripts of CaM kinase II are expressed in great quantities in the central nervous system in the late embryonic stage of development and are more abundant in the head than in the body of the adult fly.
Two subtilisin-like endoproteases called PC1 and PC2 are distributed in a tissue-specific manner in the pituitary and in the brain. AtT-20 cells and corticotropes of the anterior pituitary express primarily PC1 and perform a limited number of cleavages of the proopiomelanocortin (POMC) precursor during biosynthesis. Melanotropes of the intermediate pituitary express both PC1 and PC2 and perform a more extensive set of cleavages during the biosynthetic processing of POMC. To investigate the role of PC2 in the biosynthetic processing of POMC, AtT-20 mouse corticotropes were stably transfected with a full length PC2 cDNA. The AtT-20 cells expressing PC2 acquired the ability to perform all the additional cleavages seen in the intermediate pituitary, but did not acquire the ability to alpha-N-acetylate the product peptides. The kinetics of the earliest steps in biosynthetic processing were unaltered by the expression of PC2, and the changes due to PC2 expression were seen only in the middle and late steps in biosynthetic processing. Thus, both the identity of the final product peptides and the kinetics of the processing steps in the AtT-20 cells expressing PC2 fit the patterns expected for melanotropes of the intermediate pituitary.
Epidemiological surveillance of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) in the UK identified 21 patients who had received a blood transfusion and 29 who had donated blood, out of a total of 202 definite and probable cases. This frequency of blood transfusion or donation did not differ from that in age and sex matched controls, and the clinical features in patients with a history of blood transfusion were similar to those of classical CJD and clearly distinct from CJD in recipients of human growth hormone. This evidence does not suggest that blood transfusion is a major risk factor for CJD.
Polyclonal antibodies against the carboxy-terminal portion of dystrophin-related protein (DRP), the putative autosomal gene product which shares sequence homology with dystrophin, show the clear expression of DRP in mouse fetal muscle and in cultured human muscle cells, but not in mature mouse or human muscle. DRP has the same molecular mass as X-linked dystrophin and is recovered from the membrane fraction, but is associated with membranes more loosely than dystrophin.
The increase in mesolimbic dopamine (DA) release observed during the first 40 min of 120 min restraint in naive rats is not evident in repeatedly stressed animals (daily 60 min restraint, for 5 days). However, repeatedly stressed rats show a significant decrease in DA release from 80 min of restraint onwards which is not observable in naive rats. These results indicate that repeated stressful experiences do not produce habituation but alter the response of mesolimbic DA system to the stressor. Moreover, they point to a possible neuronal mechanism underlying stress-induced depression.
Lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) increased the number of neurons in the frontal neocortex staining for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). Intracerebroventricular treatment with nerve growth factor (NGF; 10 micrograms per day for 6 weeks) did not further increase this number. NGF increased the size of NBM neurons [Brain Res., 584 (1992) 55-63], but not those in the neocortex. However, NGF increased the area of ChAT-positive fiber staining in the neocortex. These data suggest that NGF enhances cholinergic innervation to the neocortex by affecting residual NBM neurons, rather than cortical cholinergic neurons.

The function of neuropeptide Y, one of the most abundant peptide transmitters of the mammalian brain, remains unclear because of a lack of specific receptor antagonists. An antisense oligodeoxynucleotide corresponding to the NH2-terminus of the rat Y1 receptor was constructed and added to cultures of rat cortical neurons. This treatment resulted in a reduced density of Y1 (but not Y2) receptors and diminished the decrease in adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) usually seen after Y1 receptor activation. Repeated injection of the same oligodeoxynucleotide into the lateral cerebral ventricle of rats was followed by a similar reduction of cortical Y1 (but not Y2) receptors. Such antisense-treated animals displayed behavioral signs of anxiety. Thus, specific inhibition of neurotransmitter receptor expression can be accomplished in the living brain and demonstrates that altered central neuropeptide Y transmission produces an anxiety-like state.
The accumulation in brain of senile plaques containing beta-amyloid protein (A beta) is a defining feature of Alzheimer's disease. The amyloid precursor protein (APP)4 from which A beta is derived is subject to several genetic mutations which segregate with rare familial forms of the disease, resulting in early onset of dementia and plaque formation, suggesting that APP metabolism plays a causal role in the disease. Various cell types have been shown to release a soluble form of A beta, thus allowing for the in vitro study of A beta generation. We report here evidence that a substantial portion of the APP secreted by human mixed brain cell cultures, as well as that present in cerebrospinal fluid, is of a novel form cleaved precisely at the amino terminus of A beta, suggesting that a secretory pathway is involved in A beta genesis.
The effect of intravenous administration of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) (50-400 mg/kg) on the firing rate of substantia nigra pars reticulata (SN-PR) neurons was studied by making single cell extracellular recordings in unanesthetized rats. For comparison, the effect of intravenous muscimol (0.5-2 mg/kg) and ethanol (0.5-2 g/kg) was also studied. GHB produced variable effects: dose-related inhibition in 7 out of 18 (38.8%) neurons and no significant change in 11 out of 18 (61.2%) neurons tested. In contrast, muscimol and ethanol produced a dose-related inhibition of the SN-PR firing rate. The results indicate that GHB, unlike muscimol and ethanol, has no profound effect on the activity of SN-PR neurons, and thus disinhibition of dopaminergic units, through inhibition of SN-PR neurons, is probably not the mechanism by which GHB stimulates the firing rate of dopaminergic neurons.
Stimulation of angiotensin receptors in bovine adrenal medullary cells with Sar1-angiotensin II increased diacylglycerol levels in a biphasic fashion. An initial peak occurred at 3 min and an increase was observed again at 60 min and even at 18 hrs. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate produced a similar pattern of increase in diacylglycerol levels. Both the angiotensin analog and the phorbol ester also increased the release of (3H)choline into the culture medium from prelabelled cells. The long-term diacylglycerol production could be derived from phosphatidylcholine rather than from the phosphoinositides. The latter may be the source of the angiotensin stimulated initial production of diacylglycerol and activation of PKC. Activated PKC then turns on the continuous production of DAG which maintains PKC in an active state for long periods of time in the presence of the peptide.
Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we examined changes in the cytoskeletal protein alpha-tubulin and beta-actin mRNAs in the gerbil brain 14 days after transient ischemia. In an attempt to identify the changes induced in the synthesis of cytoskeletal protein by ischemia, we also evaluated the effects of post-ischemia administration of bifemelane on these cytoskeletal proteins. alpha-Tubulin and beta-actin mRNAs were decreased in the CA1 region 14 days after transient ischemia. These decreases coincided with the loss of CA1 pyramidal cells, suggesting that they may have been related to delayed neuronal death. The beta-actin mRNA level in ischemic controls was significantly increased in the dentate gyrus, habenular nucleus, and medial and lateral thalamic nuclei, where some afferent nerves project into the hippocampal pyramidal cells. The increased beta-actin mRNA suggests that there may be a compensatory enhancement of actin synthesis in the afferent neurons that restores loosened synaptic connections with the ischemic cells in the CA1-4 fields. Administration of bifemelane just after recirculation prevented most of the ischemia-induced mRNA reductions in the CA1 field. Bifemelane's effect may be related to inhibition of Ca2+ influx and its radical scavenging activity. When bifemelane was administered to the ischemic group, alpha-tubulin mRNA levels significantly increased in the dentate gyrus and amygdaloid nucleus, and beta-actin mRNAs showed a tendency to increase in the CA3 and CA4 fields, dentate gyrus, and medial and lateral thalamic nuclei. These findings suggest that bifemelane may enhance synthesis of cytoskeletal protein, especially in the ischemic brain, inducing axon outgrowth or synapse formation.
The dopaminergic (DA) innervation of the caudal telencephalon of the pigeon was investigated with an antiserum against glutaraldehyde-conjugated dopamine. It was found that the DA-like fibers were distributed within the Paleostriatum augmentatum and the dorsal Archistriatum in a dense meshwork of fibers, while most of the remaining part of the caudal forebrain was innervated by dopaminergic axons which were coiled up like baskets around unlabelled neurons. Within the basket-type innervated structures, the Neostriatum caudolaterale (Ncl) could be distinguished by the high density of its dopaminergic fibers. Retrograde tracer injections into Ncl revealed afferents from the Area ventralis tegmentalis (AVT) and the n. tegmenti pedunculo-pontinus pars compacta (TPc). Since large numbers of DA-like perikarya could be detected in AVT and TPc, it is supposed that these two structures constitute the main source of the dopaminergic innervation of the Ncl. Previous studies had suggested that the Ncl represents an avian equivalent to the mammalian prefrontal cortex. The present results reveal an organization similar to that of the mesocortico-prefrontal system and would thus strengthen this hypothesis.
Developmental changes in rat adrenal [Met5]enkephalin (ME) immunoreactivity and [Met5]enkephalinargininephenylalanine (MERF) immunoreactivity (which presumably reflects proenkephalin) were examined. The concentration of MERF appeared highest at the end of the first week postnatally and decreased fourfold to near adult values by day 21, while ME levels decreased only about twofold. This indicates a fall in the adrenal proenkephalin:ME ratio during the transition from the suckling to the weanling period in the rat. The elevated MERF levels during the suckling period may result from deficient processing of proenkephalin to free ME. An increase in the activity of the processing enzyme carboxypeptidase E was observed at day 15, which may contribute to the developmental fall in the adrenal proenkephalin to free ME ratio. Mimicking sympathetic activity by nicotine treatment (3 mg/kg i.p. twice daily from birth) produced a precocious decrease in the MERF:ME ratio at day 8, and also increased the activity of the processing enzyme. Denervation at day 10 markedly decreased adrenal ME and produced a three-fold increase in MERF:ME ratio when measured at day 30. Adrenal carboxypeptidase E activity was also decreased after denervation. In summary, these results suggest that increasing preganglionic sympathetic nerve activity during the third week postnatally stimulates proenkephalin processing and leads to the developmental decrease in MERF:ME ratio in the rat adrenal.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) treatment of rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells induces the synthesis of the transcription factor c-Fos, which becomes highly phosphorylated relative to that produced as a result of depolarization of the cell. A peptide derived from the carboxyl terminus of c-Fos (residues 359-370, RKGSSSNEPSSD) containing putative phosphorylation sites was used to detect a NGF-stimulated Fos kinase. NGF treatment of PC12 cells resulted in a rapid activation of a protein kinase which phosphorylated both the c-Fos peptide and authentic c-Fos at its carboxyl terminus. The kinase was selectively activated by NGF and epidermal growth factor but was not induced by depolarization or other agents. The c-Fos peptide was phosphorylated at a serine corresponding to Ser362, a site critically implicated in the capacity of c-Fos to exhibit transrepressive activity [Ofir, R., Dwarki, V. J., Rashid, D. &amp; Verma, I. M. (1990) Nature (London) 348, 80-82)]. The NGF-stimulated Fos kinase may play an important role in regulating the expression and transforming potential of c-Fos.
Brief perfusion of adult rat hippocampal slices with high concentrations of glycine results in a slowly developing, long-lasting increase in synaptic responses in field CA1. Two observations indicated that the effect requires the activation of NMDA receptors by glycine. First, the glycine-induced potentiation is reduced by ketamine, an NMDA receptor channel blocker. Second, glycine potentiates the NMDA receptor-mediated epileptiform activity recorded in the presence of low magnesium concentration and picrotoxin. In slices prepared from rat pups (5-8 postnatal day), perfusion with glycine results in a slowly developing, long-lasting depression of EPSP amplitude. These results provide a new way of producing potentiation of synaptic efficacy and suggest new properties of NMDA receptors.
We have characterized a second member (delta-2) of a new class of subunits for the ligand-gated excitatory amino acid receptor superfamily. The sequence of delta-2 exhibits an average identity of 25% and 18.5% to the non-NMDA and NMDA receptor subunits, respectively. The rat delta-2 gene is expressed predominantly in Purkinje cells of the cerebellum whereas only low levels of delta-1 transcripts are found in the adult brain. However, delta-1 gene expression undergoes a pronounced developmental peak, with particularly high mRNA levels in the caudate putamen of late embryonic/early postnatal stages.
In order to determine whether somatostatin coexists with GABA or glycine in neurones in rat spinal dorsal horn, a combined pre- and post-embedding immunocytochemical study was carried out. One hundred six somatostatin-immunoreactive neurones located in lamina II and the dorsal half of lamina III were tested with antiserum or monoclonal antibody to GABA and none of these cells showed GABA-like immunoreactivity. However, 8 out of 13 somatostatin-immunoreactive neurones located deeper in the dorsal horn (ventral lamina III and lamina IV) showed glycine-like immunoreactivity, and 6 of these were also GABA-immunoreactive. We have previously shown that neurotensin-immunoreactive neurones in laminae II and III are also not immunoreactive when tested with GABA antiserum (Todd et al.: Neuroscience 47:685-691, 1992), and a double-labelling fluorescence method was therefore used to compare the distribution of somatostatin and neurotensin within the superficial dorsal horn. The two types of peptide-immunoreactivity were never found in the same profile. These results suggest that somatostatin and neurotensin are present in different populations of non-GABAergic neurones in rat superficial dorsal horn, but that some somatostatin-containing neurones in the deeper part of the dorsal horn contain glycine, with or without GABA.
The Alzheimer beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein (APP) can be proteolytically processed by at least two separate pathways in PC12 cells: chloroquine-insensitive secretory cleavage and chloroquine-sensitive intracellular degradation, presumably in the endosomal/lysosomal system. To further investigate the possibility of APP processing in the endosomal/lysosomal system, we have examined whether APP is present in clathrin-coated vesicles (CCVs), which mediate the transport of many proteins to the endosomal compartment. Using a procedure derived from established protocols for the purification of CCVs from mammalian organs, we obtained from PC12 cells highly purified CCVs that displayed the same morphological features as described for CCVs purified from other sources. The CCVs were enriched in full-length mature (fully post-translationally modified) forms of APP, as well as in the carboxyl-terminal APP fragment produced by the secretory cleavage pathway. As CCVs are known to be involved in only two intracellular pathways (trafficking from the plasma membrane to early endosomes, and from the trans-Golgi network to late endosomes/prelysosomes), these findings provide direct evidence that APP is transported to the endosomal/lysosomal system. Furthermore, the presence in CCVs of the carboxyl-terminal fragment resulting from APP secretory cleavage suggests that APP secretory processing occurs in a pre-CCV compartment.
Rat glutamate receptors have been shown to be expressed as two developmentally regulated, alternatively spliced isoforms. We have investigated the expression of these isoforms of GluRA and GluRB in the human hippocampus. The expression pattern of the mRNAs coding for these subunits does not correspond to that in the rat hippocampus, both isoforms being preferentially expressed in the dentate gyrus and CA1 regions, with lower expression in CA3, with the exception of GluRB flop, where hybridization in CA3 is only lower than in dentate gyrus. Cloning of cDNA from human frontal cortex has also revealed that the two isoforms of human GluRB have virtual nucleotide sequence identity with the alternative exons in the rat, confirming the usefulness of oligonucleotides complementary to the rat cDNAs as probes for these receptor subunits in human neuropsychiatric disorders.
Benzodiazepine-induced modifications of GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) activated Cl- currents were studied in native GABAA receptors expressed in neonatal rat brain cortical neurons in primary cultures and in recombinant GABAA receptors expressed in transformed human embryonic kidney cells (293) after a transient transfection with cDNAs encoding for different molecular forms of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits of GABAA receptors. The efficacy of triazolam in cortical neurons was higher than that of diazepam. In transfected cells, triazolam showed a greater efficacy as a positive modulator of GABA-elicited Cl- currents in alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 1, alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 2, alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 3, alpha 6 beta 1 gamma 2 and alpha 1 beta 3 gamma 2 receptors than diazepam, except in alpha 3 beta 1 gamma 2 receptors where diazepam was more efficacious. When triazolam and diazepam were applied together to GABAA receptors assembled by transfecting cDNAs encoding for alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 1 subunits, the action of triazolam was curtailed in a manner related to the dose of diazepam. In recombinant receptors assembled with alpha 1 beta 1 gamma 1 receptors, maximally active doses of triazolam were more efficacious than those of clonazepam, alpidem, zolpidem, diazepam or bretazenil.
The mechanisms that underly the specificity of synaptic connections are poorly understood. In this study we used two homologous interneurons, the giant dopamine cell (GDC), in two species of pond snails, Lymnaea and Helisoma. We examined the ability of the Lymnaea GDC to form specific synapses with known follower or non-follower cells in vitro. Similar tests were performed for the Helisoma GDC. Both of these interneurons form appropriate connections not only with homologous follower neurons, but also with follower neurons from the alternative species. These results suggest that common mechanisms of cell recognition and synapse formation exist in the nervous systems of these two different families of molluscs.
Previous work has shown that neurons of the fresh water pond snails, Lymnaea and Helisoma, require soluble factors produced by neural tissues for neurite outgrowth to occur in vitro. In the present study, we show that mammalian nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulates neurite outgrowth of specific Lymnaea neurons. In contrast to motoneurons and interneurons, which show a robust dose response to NGF, no response was observed in neurosecretory cells. In an attempt to localize neuritogenic activity to specific ganglia or organs, we show that the dorsal bodies, endocrine structures of the cerebral ganglia, promote neurite outgrowth of specific neurons. In general, however, the spectrum of neurons that respond to dorsal body cell conditioned medium differs from that which respond to NGF. We conclude that Lymnaea neurons respond both to NGF and also to a separate factor derived from the dorsal body cells.
The need for a generalized system for mapping neurons in the central ring ganglia of the freshwater pulmonate snail, Helisoma trivolvis, has recently become apparent. In the present study we have used retrograde staining of nerves to identify neurons projecting to the periphery. This map was combined with histochemical information to produce a map of neuronal clusters and landmark cells. Our mapping strategy was formulated to make direct comparison with maps already established for closely related species, i.e., Lymnaea stagnalis.
The author depicts the roots and the development of modern Croatian neurology. On the ground of cultural and civilizational predispositions it achieved an exceptional development during the last three decades in the period after the World War II. Although clinical neurology may be traced only after the foundation of the first Croatian medical faculty in Zagreb in 1917, until 1971 within the common discipline of neuropsychiatry, a vast medical literature: reports on neurological problems both from literature and from everyday medical praxis were published in Croatian after the foundation of the Croatian medical journal &quot;Lijecnicki vjesnik&quot; in 1877, written by internists or general practitioners interested in neurology. First Croatian textbook in neurology was published by Ivo Glavan already in 1935 and new editions of this book have made it a popular handbook for many generations of medical students and physicians, not only in Croatia but also in other parts of the former Yugoslavia. In the sixties the concept of development of subspecialized disciplines prevailed: clinical neurophysiology, epileptology, neuromuscular diseases, cerebrovascular diseases and intensive neurology, child neurology. At that time a fast growing of man-power and institutions started, what made possible a modern concept of early neurologic diagnostics and treatment. The period was marked by intensive collaboration with teams of electrical engineers interested in bio-electronics, development of basic neurosciences, of neuroimaging technologies and neuroscintigraphy. Many initiatives came from Croatia for collaboration with neighbouring countries within the former Yugoslavia, but also with other neighbouring European countries, especially Austria, Italy and Germany, as well as with the American neurology.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The 2S,3S,4S-isomer (L-CCG-I) of 2-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (CCG) is a potent metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist. L-CCG-I depressed monosynaptic excitation in the newborn rat spinal motoneurone at low concentrations well below those causing postsynaptic depolarization. 2S,3R,4S-CCG (L-CCG-IV) is a potent N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type agonist. In cultured rat hippocampal neurones, L-CCG-IV caused marked increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentrations. 6-Carboxylated L-CCG-IV (DCG-IV), which is a tricarboxylated CCG derivative containing both chemical moieties of L-CCG-I and L-CCG-IV, depressed preferentially monosynaptic excitation of spinal reflexes in lower concentrations than L-CCG-I. 4-(2-Methoxyphenyl)-2-carboxy-3-pyrrolidineacetic acid (MFPA), which is the most potent kainoid yet described, is superior to acromelic acid A in causing depolarization of the newborn rat spinal motoneurone. In addition to MFPA, some non-kainoids demonstrated considerably high depolarizing activities. These new compounds would provide useful probes for neuroscience research.

The mechanism of state transitions has been applied as a base to investigate energetical structure of conformational states of ionic channels. The kinetics of transitions between conformational states, governing the dynamics of the action potential, was represented in the form of a matrix equation. Transition coefficients have been expanded as a function of the external potential to provide a set of parameters. Resulting theoretical equations have been incorporated into the Hodgkin-Huxley model of the action potential. Model parameters, related to energy levels and barriers between conformational states, can be evaluated by fitting a theoretical curve to the experimental one.
The feline infusion model of brain edema was used to evaluate the pathophysiological effects of 0.6 ml infusions of autologous serum protein (66%), human serum protein (66%), human glioma cyst fluid and a tissue culture medium (TCM) on the structure and function of the forebrain white matter. These infusions increased local white matter water content by between 10.8 and 12.5 ml/100 g brain and were associated with moderate increases in ICP and CSF outflow resistance and a significant decrease in lumped craniospinal compliance. Cortical somatosensory potentials, motor evoked potentials, EEG and local cerebral blood flow (rCBF) at normocapnia were generally unchanged by the various infusions. All infusates except the 66% autologous serum protein infusion impaired rCBF CO2 reactivity. Histologically all infusates caused marked extracellular edema. The autologous serum protein infusion caused no additional histological changes whereas the glioma cyst infusates caused profound endothelial and astrocytic swelling, focal endothelial necrosis, basement membrane disruption, perivascular microglial reaction and pavementation and perivascular migration of polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Similar but less marked changes were seen after infusion of human serum protein whilst the TCM produced only minimal changes. The intensity and extent of Evans Blue extravasation into the forebrain white matter was greatest with glioma cyst infusates and with all infusions reflected the extent to microvascular changes. These studies show that products derived from gliomas cause additional damage to the blood-brain-barrier than that caused by non-autologous serum proteins. These results add further support for the existence of glioma derived permeability factors (GDPF), but suggest neither serum proteins nor glioma derived compounds in the white matter interstitium significantly influence local electrophysiological function. Some limitations of the infusion edema model when using non-autologous infusions and difficulties quantitating brain dysfunction are emphasised.
This retrospective study focuses on 14 patients with ganglioglioma of the cerebral hemispheres who received surgical treatment in the Neurosciences Department/Neurosurgery of &quot;La Sapienza&quot; University of Rome between 1953 and 1990. The data are analyzed together with those on 98 published cases of ganglioglioma confined to the cerebral hemispheres. These tumours have no sex preference but a decided preference for the young (mean age 18 years). They are characterized by a history of epilepsy often of long standing and sometimes refractory to drugs. The most frequent site is the temporal lobe (61%). At operation the tumour proved to be solid in 52% of cases and the satellite cyst at the tumour wall in 48%. Removal was total in 65% of cases. Even after subtotal removal, the prognosis is good in terms both of survival and of seizure control. Radiotherapy seems to have no role in the treatment of these tumours.
A modified microsurgical bifrontal interhemispheric approach (small trephine craniotomy) for clipping of aneurysms of the anterior communicating artery (ACoA) is described. This approach has been used in a series of 23 patients with ACoA and 2 patients with distal anterior cerebral artery aneurysms. Feasibility, indications and problems related to this approach to ACoA aneurysms are assessed. Twenty-one patients (84%) made an excellent or good recovery. The result was poor in an 80-year-old patient who was in grade 3 pre-operatively. Three patients of this series died: one of them was pre-operatively in grade 4 and died from pneumonia; the other two died as consequence of unrelated ailments. Incidence and extent of vasospasm was within the normal range, corresponding to the amount and distribution of subarachnoid blood clots. From our experience it can be concluded that this approach is safe and feasible for patients with ACoA aneurysms graded 1-2 (Hunt-Kosnik's grading system) and evaluated as group 1-2 of Fisher's CT classification. But it is not recommended for patients with larger amounts of subarachnoid blood clots. Advantages of this microapproach to ACoA aneurysms are: a) minimal brain damage, b) adequate visualization and anatomical orientation, c) preservation of the olfactory nerves and the gyrus rectus, d) reduced operative time, e) easy clip application to aneurysms pointing in any direction.
Excessive activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor has been implicated in the sequence of neurochemical events in cerebral ischaemia that results in irreversible neuronal damage. The effects of the NMDA antagonist MK-801 upon the amount of ischaemic brain damage has been assessed quantitatively in a cat and in a rat model of focal cerebral ischaemia. In chloralose-anaesthetised cats, focal cerebral ischaemia was produced by permanent occlusion of one middle cerebral artery (MCA) and the animal sacrificed 6 hours later. Pretreatment with the non-competitive NMDA antagonist, MK-801 (5 mg/kg, i.v.) reduced significantly the volume of ischaemic damage in the cerebral cortex by 57% compared to vehicle-treated cats. A similar degree of neuroprotection could be demonstrated in the cat MCA occlusion model if treatment with MK-801 was initiated 2 hours after the induction of ischaemia. In halothane-anaesthetised rats, focal cerebral ischaemia was produced by permanent MCA occlusion and the animals sacrificed 3 hours later. Pretreatment with MK-801 (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.) reduced the volume of ischaemic damage in the cerebral cortex by 38%; treatment with MK-801 initiated 30 minutes after MCA occlusion was equally effective in reducing cortical damage. In contrast to calcium entry blockers such as nimodipine in the rat MCA occlusion model, the improved histopathological outcome with MK-801 is not associated with improvement in cerebral tissue perfusion to the ischaemic tissue. The increasing evidence that NMDA receptor antagonists are beneficial in experimental focal cerebral ischaemia is reviewed.
Raised intracranial pressure (ICP) is common after head injury and strongly associated with mortality and morbidity. Empirical and prophylactic therapy with steroids and barbiturates has proved unsuccessful. Ideally, therapy should be targeted at the predominant cause of the increase in ICP. In head injury these may be (1) an increase in cerebral blood volume best treated by hyperventilation and hypnotic drugs. (2) an increase in brain water content best treated by osmotherapy and (3) increased CSF outflow resistance best treated by CSF drainage. This last cause seldom predominates in head injury. To determine whether it is possible to identify the best therapy in individual head injured patients, we are comparing osmotherapy (mannitol) and hypnotic drugs (thiopentone and gamma-hydroxybutyrate) in selected patients with severe head injury where it is possible to maintain standard conditions of ventilation and stable blood pressure and to measure ICP, CPP, brain electrical activity, PR ratio of the ICP wave form and cerebral AvDO2 before and during each of the two forms of therapy. Effective therapy means that ICP has been reduced to 20 mm Hg with preservation or improvement in CPP. 17 patients have been studied so far and 4 groups identified. Osmotherapy was superior to hypnotic in 5 cases, hypnotic superior to mannitol in 3 cases, both were effective in 5 cases and neither effective in 4 cases. Patients in whom hypnotics were superior tended to be younger, with diffuse rather than focal brain injury, had the highest levels of brain electrical activity prior to treatment and a higher PR ratio.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Fibreoptic reflection oximetry allows continuous in-vivo estimation of jugular venous oxygen saturation. In combination with pulse oximetry the oxygen extraction ratio SaO2-SjO2/SaO2 can be derived enabling identification of states of global luxury perfusion, normal coupling of global cerebral blood flow with global cerebral metabolism, global cerebral hypoperfusion and global cerebral ischemia. Several technical difficulties may arise affecting the accuracy of SjO2 recordings which must be recognised by the clinician before medical intervention is contemplated.
The accuracy with which the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus could be targetted using the BRW stereotactic system and unreformatted axial CT imaging was evaluated in cadaver brains mounted in a skull. Ball bearings (1.82 mm diameter) were placed in the nuclei ventro intermedius (Vim), ventro oralis anterior (Voa) and posterior (Vop) and the brains then sectioned, the locations of the ball bearings relative to the anterior (AC) and posterior commissures (PC) measured and evaluated with reference to a Schaltenbrandt and Bailey stereotactic atlas. Targetting of the ventrolateral thalamic region was frequently accurate (77%) but because of errors in estimation of the AC-PC plane (mean forward angulation of 9 degrees) some ball bearings were placed too deeply in the Fields of and Forel, zona incerta and rostral subthalamic nucleus. Ventrolateral thalamotomy using the BRW stereotactic system and unreformatted axial CT imaging was undertaken in six patients with tremor due to a range of pathologies. The tremor was abolished or altered in four patients whilst no lesion was made in the other two patients since no site that reduced the tremor, could be located. The surgical and clinical implications of this study are discussed.
Continuous delivery of dopaminergic agents to the striatum is a major challenge to improve the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Apomorphine is one of the best candidates because of its solubility and its D1 and D2 receptor agonist properties. Seventeen Parkinsonian patients suffering from severe L-dopa-induced on-off effects were treated by continuous subcutaneous (SC) infusion with a portable minipump. Administration of intracerebroventricular (ICV) apomorphine was carried out in 7 macaca fascicularis monkeys using implanted programmable pumps. Four of the monkeys were made Parkinsonian by MPTP injections. In patients receiving apomorphine, the mean duration of daily off periods was reduced by 61%. Psychiatric side effects were rare but SC nodules occurred in all patients and the external infusion method was therefore difficult to implement. In monkeys, the implanted system was well tolerated. ICV apomorphine infusion led to CSF apomorphine concentrations higher than the same apomorphine dose infused i.m. Motor function was considerably improved in two MPTP monkeys during the time of ICV infusion and 30 min after its arrest. Long-term ICV administration could not be carried out because of catheter blockage and/or apomorphine toxicity. SC and ICV apomorphine infusions are efficient for controlling motor activity in Parkinsonism but long-term toxicity remains to be studied further.
Stereotactic thalamotomy of the VIM (ventral intermediate) nucleus is considered as the best neurosurgical treatment for Parkinsonian and essential tremors. However, this surgery, especially when bilateral, still presents a risk of recurrence and neurological complications. We observed that acute VIM stimulation at frequencies higher than 60 Hz during the mapping phase of the target suppressed the tremor of Parkinson's disease (PD) and essential tremor (ET). This effect was immediately reversible at the end of the stimulation. This was initially proposed as an additional treatment for patients already thalamotomized on the contralateral side, and then extended as a regular procedure for extra-pyramidal dyskinesias. Since January 1987, we implanted 126 thalami in 87 patients (61 PD, 13 ET, 13 dyskinesias of various origins). Deep brain stimulation electrodes were stereotactically implanted under local anaesthesia, using stimulation and micro-recording to delineate the best site of stimulation. Electrodes were subsequently connected to implantable programmable stimulators. The optimal frequency was around 130 to 185 Hz. The results (evaluated by a neurologist from 0 = no effect to 4 = perfect relief) are related to the type of tremor. Altogether, 71% of the 80 patients benefited from the procedure with grade 3 and 4 results. In 88% of the PD cases, the results were good (grade 3) or excellent (grade 4) and stable with time. Rigidity was moderately for a long improved but akinesia was not. The same level of improvement was observed in 68% of the ET patients and only in 18% of the other types of dyskinesias.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Low Frequency (1 Hz) Electrical Stimulation (LFES) has been systematically utilized, during stereo-EEG investigations, in 24 consecutive young adult patients considered for surgical treatment of severe drug-resistant partial epilepsy. Ninety seizures (1-14/patient) identical to the spontaneous ones previously recorded were thus obtained in 19 patients (79%). LFES is less effective for induction of seizures than high frequency (50 Hz) stimulation (5.9% vs 22.9%), and it also provokes less &quot;false positive&quot; responses (1% vs 17%). The main &quot;sensitive&quot; structures to LFES are the hippocampus, the amygdala, and the hippocampal gyrus. However, seizures were also induced by stimulating the temporal lobe white matter, the temporal pole, and the temporal neocortex, as well as the orbito-frontal cortex (in the only patient with fronto-temporal epilepsy). The more frequently observed electrical pattern is a gradual increase of spikes and spikes and waves frequency, with or without occurrence of low voltage fast activity. The high percentage of early &quot;subjective&quot; manifestations similar to the spontaneous ones, the lack of major electrical artifact, and the good visualization of the spatial evolution of the induced-discharge, strongly suggest that LFES is of great help for defining the &quot;epileptogenic area&quot;.
Neurosurgery has much to offer in the treatment of peripheral neuropathic pain but selection of the best procedure for a given patient remains problematic: planning of the treatment must be based on an analysis of the pathophysiological mechanism in the given case but the identification of this mechanism is often difficult. Available procedures are: 1) Nerve repair, neurolysis and nerve relocation; 2) Interventions on the sympathetic nervous system; 3) Neurostimulation; 4) Intraspinal morphine; 5) Ablative lesions. Neurosurgeons have, or should have, the necessary neuroscience background and microsurgical skills to be important partners of the team caring for patients with peripheral neuropathic pain.
Pain which followed suspected nerve injury was comprehensively evaluated with detailed examination including history, neurologic exam, electrodiagnostic studies, quantitative sensory testing, thermography, anesthetic and sympathetic nerve blocks. Forty two patients treated surgically fell into four discrete groups: 1) Distal sensory neuromas treated by excision of the neuroma and reimplantation of the proximal nerve into muscle or bone marrow, 2) Suspected distal sensory neuromas in which the involved nerve was sectioned proximal to the injury site and reimplanted, 3) Proximal neuromas-incontinuity of major sensorimotor nerves treated by external neurolysis, and 4) Proximal major sensorimotor nerve injuries at points of anatomic entrapment treated by external neurolysis and transposition, if possible. Patient follow up was possible in 40/42 patients (95%) from 2-32 months (average F/U = 11 mo.). Surgical success was defined as: &gt; or = 50% improvement in pain (VAS) or pain relief subjectively rated as good or excellent, and no postoperative narcotic usage. Overall, 40% (16/40) of patients met those criteria. Success rates varied as follows: Group 1 (n = 18) 44%, Group 2 (n = 10) 40%, Group 3 (n = 5) 0%, and Group 4 (n = 7) 57%. A total of 12 of 40 patients (30%) were employed both pre- and postoperatively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ischaemic brain damage is present in over 90% of patients suffering from fatal head injury. Early detection and treatment of ischemia may improve outcome after head trauma. Monitoring of blood flow velocity of the middle cerebral artery by noninvasive transcranial doppler ultrasound provides an alternate means of identifying cerebral ischaemia.
Safety observations during the clinical development of Mentane (velnacrine maleate) have included the occurrence of generally asymptomatic liver enzyme elevations confined to patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The clinical presentation of this reversible hepatocellular injury is analogous to that reported for tetrahydroaminoacridine (THA). Direct liver injury, possibly associated with the production of a toxic metabolite, would be consistent with reports of aberrant xenobiotic metabolism in Alzheimer's disease patients. Since a patient related aberration in drug metabolism was suspected, a biostatistical strategy was developed with the objective of predicting hepatotoxicity in individual patients prior to exposure to velnacrine maleate. The method used logistic regression techniques with variable selection restricted to those items which could be routinely and inexpensively accessed at screen evaluation for potential candidates for treatment. The model was to be predictive (a marker for eventual hepatotoxicity) rather than a causative model, and techniques employed &quot;goodness of fit&quot;, percentage correct, and positive and negative predictive values. On the basis of demographic and baseline laboratory data from 942 patients, the PROPP statistic was developed (the Physician Reference Of Predicted Probabilities). Main effect variables included age, gender, and nine hematological and serum chemistry variables. The sensitivity of the current model is approximately 49%, specificity approximately 88%. Using prior probability estimates, however, in which the patient's likelihood of liver toxicity is presumed to be at least 30%, the positive predictive value ranged between 64-77%. Although the clinical utility of this statistic will require refinements and additional prospective confirmation, its potential existence speaks to the possibility of markers for idiosyncratic drug metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
The paper reviews the results obtained with velnacrine, a cholinesterase inhibitor and potential Alzheimer's disease agents, in early clinical studies in healthy volunteers and patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). In healthy subjects, the compound was demonstrated to reverse cognitive impairment induced by scopolamine. Single doses of velnacrine improved performance of patients with AD in simple recognition tasks and enhanced regional cerebral blood flow in prefrontal-parietal areas. In a short crossover-study, velnacrine was demonstrated to be significantly (&lt; 0.05) superior to placebo in the cognitive behaviour subscale of the ADAS, a word recognition task and, in trend, also on the Clinical Global Impression of Improvement.
Thirty-four biopsied muscles of Duchenne, Becker and congenital muscular dystrophy, congenital myotonic dystrophy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis were examined by an immunocytochemical method with an anti-dystrophin-related protein (DRP) antibody. Strongly positive immunoreaction to DRP at the neuromuscular junctions in all biopsied specimens and faint reaction on the surface membrane of atrophic fibers in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis suggest that DRP is an anchor protein of the acetylcholine receptor. Additionally, the surface membrane of muscle fibers of Duchenne muscular dystrophy was positively stained. DRP is, therefore, thought to be expressed to compensate for dystrophin deficiency in these muscle fibers.
To determine how often Bunina bodies (BBs) appear in the medullary reticular formation (MRF) in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), we microscopically examined 20 serial sections of MRFs from each of nine autopsied ALS cases, which had BBs in the lower motor neurons, including those of cranial motor nuclei. In 1 of them, the pontine tegmentum was examined in the same way. In 8 cases one to several BB-containing neurons in the MRF were seen. The case in which the pontine tegmentum was also investigated exhibited several neurons with BBs in this region. Some of the BBs in the MRFs were confirmed by electron microscopy. Thus, this study demonstrates the common appearance of BBs, although the number is small, in the MRF, indicating that pathological processes that undermine the lower motor neurons in ALS in some way also affect neurons other than motor neurons in this condition.
More than half of the intramuscular blood vessels in muscle biopsies from five patients with myoclonus epilepsy with ragged-fibers (MERRF) who had a point mutation in mitochondrial DNA at the tRNALys region were darkly stained with succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) stain, showing the morphologic characteristics of strongly SDH-reactive blood vessels (SSV), but they had no cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) activity. By electron cytochemistry, the mitochondria in the smooth muscle cells of SSV had no CCO activity. On the other hand, SSV in muscle biopsies from patients with mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) had normal CCO activity as shown by light and electron microscopy. The defect in CCO activity in the arteriolar smooth muscle cells and in muscle fibers suggests that CCO deficiency is related to the pathophysiology of MERRF.
Symptomatic reporting has been used in quantifying the severity of motion sickness including Coriolis sickness. This study was designed to objectively examine if the dynamic changes of salivary protein concentration relate to the severity of Coriolis sickness. Healthy adults with normal vestibular function underwent a modified Coriolis Sickness Susceptibility Index (CSSI) test, utilizing a staircase profile. Salivary samples were obtained prior to stimulation, 15, 30, and 45 min following stimulus onset, and/or upon reaching &quot;nausea-II&quot; endpoint. Total protein concentration tended to rise over the initial 30 min of stimulation, and then level off or decline. A statistically significant difference was found between the pre-stimulation and 30 min samples. Although some variability existed among the subjects, the general pattern of changes along the time course was similar. An inverse correlation approaching statistical significance was found between control (non-stimulus) total protein levels, and minutes of Coriolis stimulation required to reach the &quot;nausea-II&quot; endpoint. Thus, baseline salivary total protein levels can be of use in predicting susceptibility of Coriolis sickness and other forms of motion sickness.
Histamine H1-receptors are involved in the development of the symptoms and signs of motion sickness, including emesis. On provocative motion stimulus, a signal for sensory conflict activates the histaminergic neuron system, and the histaminergic descending impulse stimulates H1-receptors in the emetic center of the brain stem. The histaminergic input to the emetic center through H1-receptors is independent of dopamine D2-receptors in the chemoreceptor trigger zone and serotonin 5HT3-receptors in the visceral afferent, which are also involved in the emetic reflex. Antihistamines block emetic H1-receptors to prevent motion sickness. Acetylcholine muscarinic receptors are involved in the generation of signals for sensory conflict. Anti-cholinergic drugs prevent motion sickness by modifying the neural store to facilitate the acquisition of habituation to provocative motion.

Does space flight change gravity receptor development? The present study measured vestibular form and function in birds flown as embryos for 5 days in earth orbit (STS-29). No major changes in vestibular gross morphology were found. Vestibular response mean amplitudes and latencies were unaffected by space flight. However, the results of measuring vestibular thresholds were mixed and abnormal responses in 3 of the 8 flight animals raise important questions.


In summary, the results suggest that carrier-mediated transport can be used to augment the brain delivery of a wide variety of hydrophilic therapeutic drugs. A large number of carriers are now known to be present at the brain capillary endothelium, and in many instances these carriers have been shown to mediate the brain uptake of exogenous drugs. The findings with D,L-NAM demonstrate that brain delivery can be improved through design of selective, high affinity agents. Although NAM was developed for the large neutral amino acid carrier, high affinity drugs could be produced for other systems, as shown by the work of Schein et al. with nitrogen mustard monosaccharides and by the work of Deves and Krupka on choline derivatives. Lastly, the method may allow some selectivity of delivery because of differential expression of transport carriers between tissues and in various disease states.

We have tested the fusogenic properties of cleaved and uncleaved spike (S) protein of murine coronavirus (MCV) JHMV variant cl-2 by expressing the S protein by recombinant vaccinia viruses (RVVs). The amino acid sequence of the putative cleavage site of cl-2 S protein, Arg-Arg-Ala-Arg-Arg, was replaced by Arg-Thr-Ala-Leu-Glu by in vitro mutagenesis of cl-2 S gene. The RVVs having cl-2 S gene [RVV t(+)] or mutated cl-2 S gene [RVV t(-)] were tested for their ability to induce fusion as well as cleavability in DBT cells. After inoculation with RVV t(+) onto DBT cells, the fusion formation was first observed at 8 h postinoculation (p.i.) and spread throughout the whole culture by 24 h. In cells infected with RVV t(-), fusion appeared by 2 h and most of cells were fused by 30 h p.i. The S protein and its cleavage products were detected in DBT cells expressing wild type S protein. However, no cleavage products of the S protein were detected in RVV t(-) infected cells producing mutated S protein, even though fusion was clearly visible. These results suggest that the cleavage event of JHMV-S protein of MCV is not a prerequisite for fusion formation, but that it enhances fusion.

















Cellular immediate-early genes are rapidly induced by a diverse range of agents and conditions. Since many cIE genes encode known or potential transcription factors, they are believed to couple extracellular stimuli to long-lasting alterations in cellular phenotype through the regulation of gene transcription. In addition, the localization of the products of cIE genes has been used as a method for determining the cellular sites of action of particular agents in the nervous system. However, the methods of analysis are tedious, and the results may be ambiguous because of cross-reaction of reagents with related proteins. To further the utility of this approach, a bacterial gene encoding beta-galactosidase (lac Z) has been fused, in frame, into the fourth exon of c-fos, and this fos-lac Z fusion gene has been introduced into the germ line of mice. We have analyzed the expression of beta-galactosidase (under the control of the c-fos promoter) in the developing and adult nervous systems of these transgenic mice. As far as can be determined, the constitutive and stimulated expression of the transgene accurately reflects the expression of cognate c-fos in both cultured cells and the intact animal. This study has also revealed novel sites of constitutive and induced expression of c-fos that were overlooked using conventional analysis. In particular, constitutive expression of c-fos is associated with cells that are entering terminal differentiation and are destined to die. In addition, induced expression of the transgene in adult brain mirrors the pattern of neurotoxicity elicited by kainic acid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)






We studied 171 consecutive patients with an acute hemispheric stroke (69 right hemisphere, 102 left), at 2-3 days post-stroke. A standardized test battery, previously validated in patients with acute stroke, was used to detect a wide variety of neglect phenomena and related disorders. Visual neglect was found in 82% of assessable right hemisphere patients and 65% of left hemisphere patients. Hemi-inattention was found in 70% of right and 49% of left hemisphere strokes. Tactile extinction was found in 65% of right and 35% of left hemisphere patients; allaesthesia in 57% (right), and 11% (left); visual extinction in 23% (right) 2% (left). Anosognosia was found in 28% (right), and 5% (left); anosodiaphoria in 27% (right), and 2% (left); non-belonging in 36% (right) and 29% (left). Visual neglect occurred more commonly in left hemisphere stroke than previously reported. Although neglect phenomena and related disorders were associated with right hemisphere damage, it is possible that language difficulties obscured their presence in some patients with a left hemisphere stroke.
The chemosensitivity of nociceptive afferents has been investigated using the isolated spinal-cord-tail preparation of the neonatal rat. L-glutamate applied to exposed rat tail skin stimulated nociceptive reflexes (ED50 = 136 microM). The action of L-glutamate was selective, since other constitutive L-amino acids or D-glutamate were inactive at a concentration of 10 mM. The known algogens bradykinin, acetylcholine, serotonin and potassium ions also stimulated nociceptive reflexes. Histamine (1 mM) and substance P (0.1 mM) had no observable effect. L-glutamate, which is released from macrophages, could therefore contribute to inflammation-related nociception by stimulation of cutaneous nociceptive nerve endings.
Ethanol (EtOH) administration is considered to elicit its reinforcing properties by stimulating dopaminergic (DA) transmission in the mesolimbic system. Accordingly, (EtOH) activates dopamine neuronal firing in the Ventro-Tegmental Area (VTA) and DA output in the nucleus accumbens. Concomitantly, EtOH reduces the firing rate of Pars Reticulata (PR) neurons which are thought to exert an inhibitory control over DA neurons. Further, chronic ingestion of EtOH produces tolerance to its sedative effects as to the depressant effect on PR neurons but no tolerance to the DA stimulating action. Moreover the NMDA antagonist MK-801, but not SL-820715, stimulates DA firing, suggesting that this effect is not a general characteristic of NMDA receptor antagonists and questioning the possibility that NMDA-receptor blockade may underlie EtOh-induced activation of DA-ergic transmission. The results indicate that activation of the mesolimbic DA tract is essential in the rewarding properties of EtOH and that neither GABA-ergic inhibition nor NMDA-receptor blockade by EtOH, are causally linked to the EtOH-induced activation of DA-ergic transmission.
Alcoholic cirrhosis is frequently associated with episodes of portal-systemic encephalopathy (PSE). There is a growing body of evidence to suggest that the so called &quot;peripheral-type&quot; (non GABA-related) benzodiazepine receptors are modified in PSE. Peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors are localized on the outer mitochondrial membrane in many tissues including brain where they are highly concentrated in astrocytes. PSE is characterized neuropathologically by astrocytic rather than neuronal changes. Densities of peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors are significantly increased in autopsied brain tissue from alcoholic cirrhotic patients who died in hepatic coma and in the brains of rats following portacaval anastomosis. Endogenous peptide ligands for these receptors are increased in the CNS in clinical and experimental PSE.
This presentation offers historical and sociolinguistic perspectives regarding the origins of the language used by African-Americans. U.S. descendants of slaves of West and Niger Congo African origin should not be thought of as native speakers of English. To the extent that they have lived in de jure or de facto social isolation from Euro-American English-speaking persons, they have retained a West and Niger Congo African thought process or substratum in the phonology and morphosyntax of their speech. Their mother tongue has been described by several African-American linguists, psychologists, and ethnologists as Ebonics. In a sense, Ebonics refers to the paralinguistic verbal and non-verbal sounds, cues, and gestures that are systematically used in the process of communication by many African-Americans. As one consequence of historical social isolation, African-Americans invariably score poorly on nationally standardized scales of &quot;Standard American&quot; English competence. Therefore, worker notification intended for African-Americans, especially among the blue- and no-collar levels, that does not contain an Afro-centric perspective will likely not prove successful. The linguistic factors, which can severely impede or tremendously enhance the effectiveness of worker notification to these groups, are therefore vital and should not be ignored. Worker notification targeted for limited English-speaking or unlettered populations should include the development of materials and presentations in the language or primary medium best understood by the audience. Based upon research findings on the psycholinguistics of learning modal preference, the development of notification materials that target a learning channel that is audio oral or aural-oral is promoted.
Orbital spaceflight exposes astronauts to an environment in which gravity is reduced to negligible magnitudes of 10(-3) to 10(-6) G. Upon insertion into earth orbit, the abrupt loss of the constant linear acceleration provided by gravity removes the otolith stimulus for vestibular sensation of vertical orientation constantly present on Earth. Since the central nervous system (CNS) assesses spatial orientation by simultaneously interpreting sensory inputs from the vestibular, visual, and proprioceptive systems, loss of the otolith-mediated vertical reference input results in an incorrect estimation of spatial orientation, which, in turn, causes a degradation in movement control. Over time, however, the CNS adapts to the loss of gravitational signals. Upon return to Earth, the vertical reference provided by gravitational stimulation of the otolith organ reappears. As a result, a period of CNS readaptation must occur upon return to terrestrial environment. Among the physiological changes observed during the postflight CNS readaptation period is a disruption of postural equilibrium control. Using a dynamic posturography system (modified NeuroCom EquiTest), 16 astronauts were tested at 60, 30, and 10 days preflight and retested at 1 to 5 hours, and 8 days postflight. All astronauts tested demonstrated decreased postural stability immediately upon return to Earth. The most dramatic increases in postural sway occurred during those sensory conditions in which both the visual and proprioceptive feedback information used for postural control were altered by the dynamic posturography system, requiring reliance primarily upon vestibular function for control of upright stance. Less marked but statistically significant increases in sway were observed under those conditions in which visual and foot support surface inputs alone were altered.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have investigated the ability of the one-kidney, one-clip (1K,1C) hypertensive rat to develop a hyperthermic response to intracerebroventricular injection of prostaglandin (PG) E1. Accordingly, core temperature was monitored in response to PGE1 injections both preoperatively and on days 4, 8, 12, and 18 after either unilateral nephrectomy or the induction of hypertension due to nephrectomy plus renal artery clipping. Temperature responses to PGE1 were similar throughout each test day in normotensive, unilaterally nephrectomized control rats. In contrast, 1K,1C rats became hypertensive within 4 days of renal artery clipping, and at this time the hyperthermic response to PGE1 was virtually abolished. A reduced hyperthermic response was also seen at 8 and 12 days after clipping; by 18 days responses were again similar to controls. To determine whether central arginine vasopressin (AVP) was involved in the suppression of the hyperthermic response, we pretreated other hypertensive rats centrally with the V1-AVP antagonist [d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)]AVP before PGE1 injection. In 1K,1C animals thus treated, temperature responses 4-12 days after clipping were indistinguishable from those of similarly treated normotensive control rats. We suggest that the reduced hyperthermic responses to PGE1 seen in the 1K,1C rats during the initial development of hypertension may be due to activation of brain AVP pathways.
The loss of contractility in long-term cultures of dissociated smooth muscle is such an established observation that the lack of contractility of cultured smooth muscle cells is often not even noted. This report describes methods of dissociating and culturing smooth muscle cells from the avian amnion that maintain contractility for &gt; 1 mo in a defined medium. Because contractility was assessed by monitoring the contractions of individual cells to neurotransmitter-related substances, it is clear that these cells maintained both contractility and pharmacological responsiveness. However, when amniotic smooth muscle cells were dissociated with enzymes containing impurities or cultured in the presence of serum, they flattened and lost contractility, as reported for many other types of smooth muscle.
Interrupting neuronal activity in the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVL) abolishes baroreceptor-mediated sympathoinhibition and vasodepressor responses. In the present study we identified CVL neurons that function as interneurons in the baroreceptor reflex arc. The mean antidromic onset latency of CVL neurons (5 ms) after stimulation in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) suggests that they transmit information to the RVL via unmyelinated axons. Stimulation of baroreceptor afferents in the aortic depressor nerve (ADN) excited CVL neurons projecting to the RVL with onset latencies between 15 and 45 ms. The short-latency ADN stimulus-evoked excitation of CVL barosensory interneurons preceded the onset of the ADN stimulus-evoked inhibition of RVL-spinal sympathoexcitatory neurons. Longer-latency ADN-evoked CVL neuronal responses may arise from activation of unmyelinated ADN afferents that can prolong the inhibition of RVL sympathoexcitatory neurons. The excitation of CVL barosensory interneurons resulting from the systolic pressure rise was followed by a period of decreased excitability of RVL sympatho-excitatory neurons, which was of comparable duration to the increase in the discharge probability of CVL neurons. Our characterization of baroreceptor reflex interneurons in the CVL suggests that transmission of baroreceptor information involves a complex activation of medullary interneurons responding selectively to different aspects of the arterial pressure stimulus.
We previously showed that corpus cavernosum smooth muscle cells are connected via gap junctions in situ and in culture and that a major protein component of these gap junctions is connexin43. To characterize the physiological properties of the gap junctions between corpus cavernosum smooth muscle cells, we now demonstrate that the cells are dye and electrically coupled and describe some of the gating properties of these gap junctional channels at macroscopic and single-channel levels. Junctional conductance (gj) between corporal smooth muscle cells was moderately voltage sensitive; was reduced rapidly, reversibly, and completely by halothane; and was increased by treatment with a tumor-promoting phorbol ester [12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)] and decreased by isoproterenol. Histograms of unitary junctional currents revealed multiple conductance peaks with events of approximately 90 pS being the most abundant. TPA and phenylephrine produced large increases in relative frequencies of the smaller events, whereas isoproterenol and 8-bromoadenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-BrcAMP) slightly increased the relative frequencies of the larger events. None of the tested drugs substantially affected the steady-state voltage dependence of gj. These second messenger systems also affected expression of connexin43 by corpus cavernosum smooth muscle cells, as judged by immunoblots. At 6 h of treatment, both TPA- and 8-BrcAMP-treated cultures showed markedly elevated levels of connexin43, whereas at 24 h, the level of connexin43 in TPA-treated cultures had returned to control levels. Together, these data indicate that second messenger molecules involved in penile erection produce changes in gap junction expression and function; it is plausible that these changes could be physiologically relevant in altering and propagating changes in vasomotor tone.




A multispeciality approach of impotent patients are necessary to establish the cause of impotence. Neurological history and examination are very important and must be completed by neurophysiological investigations. Bulbo-cavernosus reflex, conduction velocity of the dorsal nerve of penis and pudendal evoked potentials seems the most interesting tests. Urodynamics, perineal EMG, penile vibratory sensibility test can help determination of some peripheral neuropathies. Single potential analysis of cavernous electric activity may be useful in diagnosis of pudendal autonomic dysfunction.


The almost incredible advances that have recently occurred in the power of computers available to scientists in all disciplines have encouraged an explosion of neural network and behavioral models. Some of these have been constrained more by the imagination of the programmer than by rude biological facts. Their relevance for the experimental neuroscientist thus varies from case to case. Some models (e.g. Grillner's model of lamprey swimming movements) are so closely based on known neuroanatomy and neurophysiology that it becomes possible to generate and test precise experimental predictions. Other models (such as MURPHY and NOMAD) use neurobiological principles in their architectures, but do not portray any particular organism. Although it is harder to relate the study of these models of the study of real animals, they fulfill an important explanatory role. They make possible insights into how behavior is controlled by neuronal activity that would be unobtainable in real animals using present methods. Thus, even the excesses of neural modeling have provided a useful impetus to what is undoubtedly a most promising approach to integrating data from the various disciplines concerned with behavior and the mind. The problems have been pointed out by many authors (see citations in our introduction), and a phase of more critical evaluation appears to have begun. We hope that our brief survey of models based on widely different theoretical approaches, but all aimed at explaining behavior, will encourage critical comparisons to be made. As in more mature fields, such as thermodynamics, we can expect that more complete models will force an evaluation of theoretical hypotheses against the entire body of available evidence, rather than just a few pertinent test cases. Such evaluation will make possible a much more rigorous exclusion of invalid or inconsistent theoretical ideas. From such studies, a much smaller, but more robust, set of basic principles can be expected to emerge. From the perspective afforded by our own modeling studies, it appears essential that modeling be informed by a general theory of brain function. In this work, the theory of neuronal group selection provides a useful basis for further work by virtue of its consistency with basic evolutionary and physiological principles and the power of the selection paradigm to shape neural networks in behaviorally adaptive directions.

DSM-III-R criteria, applied retrospectively in a research-oriented psychiatric clinic, identified patients (N = 146) with a mood disorder and a seasonal pattern of recurrence (seasonal mood disorder). The seasonal mood disorder syndrome was not rare (10% of all mood disorders); diagnostic distribution was as follows: recurrent depression, 51%, and bipolar disorder, 49%, with 30% of the latter having mania (bipolar disorder type I) and 19% having hypomania (bipolar disorder type II). Most patients were women (71%); onset age averaged 29 years, with a mean of eight cycles in 12 years of illness; mean episode duration was 5.0 months. Mood disorder was found in a high proportion (68%) of the families. All but one patient followed one of two seasonal patterns in equal frequency: type A, fall-winter depression with or without spring-summer mania or hypomania; and type B, spring-summer depression with or without fall-winter mania or hypomania. Both types showed consistent times of onset and remission. These results emphasize that DSM-III-R seasonal mood disorder includes severe cases of recurrent depression and bipolar disorder and support a distinction between two seasonal subtypes.
Classical and in vitro approaches for the analysis of the molecular components of neuroendocrine systems often disrupt their close interaction with other bodily systems, which is a crucial aspect of their function in vivo. &quot;Genetic dissection&quot; is an alternative, noninvasive approach which involves the systematic generation of mutations in individual genes, followed by in vivo analysis of the phenotypic effects of altering a single protein at a time avoiding extraneous disruptions. Among insects Drosophila melanogaster is the most suitable model for this approach. This paper explores the application of genetic and molecular techniques available in Drosophila for studying its neuroendocrine system with special emphasis on the production of ecdysone and juvenile hormone. Strategies are described for the generation and identification of endocrine mutations, especially those affecting hormone synthesis and regulation. Once identified by a specific mutation, a gene in Drosophila can be cloned either by chromosomal microdissection and &quot;chromosomal walk&quot; or by transposon tagging. Methods for molecular analysis of the structure and function of a cloned gene and of the protein it encodes are available for further study. Alternatively, a gene can be cloned using heterologous DNA probes or oligonucleotides designed according to the amino acid sequence of a protein. Genes may also be cloned via their pattern of expression (using stage- or tissue-specific cDNA libraries or through transposon-mediated &quot;enhancer detection.&quot; Anti-sense RNA, the replacement of the gene by in vitro manipulated versions, or mutagenesis of its endogenous copies can then be used for studying its function in vivo. Information about endocrine genes in Drosophila as well as material such as cloned genes and antibodies should be useful for the analysis of endocrine systems in other insects which are not amenable to genetic manipulations. Such information should be helpful in designing novel means for pest control based on the specific intervention with endocrine systems regulating insect development and reproduction.
Among all the neural cells in fetal rat brain culture developing neurons showed the highest rate of infection by Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV). JEV specifically bound to these cells as measured by immuno-staining. These results indicate that developing neurons are the major target of JEV, and that the initial specific binding of virus to these cells may be one of the reasons for the neurotropism of JEV.
An analysis of patient accidents occurring at St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney in 1990 was undertaken using data obtained from the hospital's computerized accident database. Ward, age and sex specific fall rates were calculated from a total of 800 patient-related accidents and incidents reported. Ninety per cent of all accidents were falls, the majority occurring in patients over the age of 60 years. Female patients experienced a significantly greater rate of accidents than male patients (P &lt; 0.05). No significant difference in the overall fall rates for males and females was found. However males 50 years of age and under were almost twice as likely to fall as females in this age group. More than 50% of patients who fell sustained an injury; 4% of these were serious injuries. The geriatric, neurosciences and HIV wards had the highest rates of patient falls. Nearly 40% of falls involved only 77 patients who fell on multiple occasions. Preventative strategies are discussed. Patient accident data from other Australian hospitals is required for adequate assessment of the incidence of patient accidents.
The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of scopolamine on the physiological patterns occurring prior to and during motion sickness stimulation. In addition, the use of physiological profiles in the prediction of motion sickness was evaluated. Sixty subjects ingested either 0.6 mg scopolamine, 2.5 mg methscopolamine, or a placebo. Heart rate (HR), respiratory sinus arrhythmia (an index of vagal tone), and electrogastrograms were measured prior to and during the exposure to a rotating optokinetic drum. Compared to the other groups, the scopolamine group reported fewer motion sickness symptoms, and displayed lower HR, higher vagal tone, enhanced normal gastric myoelectric activity, and depressed gastric dysrhythmias before and during motion sickness induction. Distinct physiological profiles prior to drum rotation could reliably differentiate individuals who would develop gastric discomfort from those who would not. Symptom-free subjects were characterized by high levels of vagal tone and low HR across conditions, and by maintaining normal (3 cpm) electrogastrographic activity during drum rotation. It was concluded that scopolamine offered motion sickness protection by initiating a pattern of increased vagal tone and gastric myoelectric stability.
We report a case of a blind woman, M.N., who experienced the Capgras delusion. She thought that her pet cat had been replaced by a replica which was &quot;ill-intentioned&quot; towards her. M.N.'s case shows that the basis of the Capgras delusion cannot lie exclusively in damage to the visual system. However, testing of M.N.'s auditory recognition abilities revealed a deficit in the recognition of familiar voices. This impairment is consistent with the view that the Capgras delusion may arise in connection with damage to recognition mechanisms, and parallels findings of face processing impairments in sighted Capgras patients.
MK-801, a non-competitive antagonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of central glutamate receptor, stimulates locomotor activity in rats. Administration of MK-801 (0.25mg/kg, i.p.) on four consecutive days results in progressive sensitization of its locomotor stimulatory effects. Because of the importance of dopamine (DA) systems in locomotor sensitization to other stimulants (e.g. amphetamine and cocaine), we examined the possible role of DA transmission in MK-801 sensitization. The D1 antagonist SCH 23390 was used for these experiments because of the well-established ability of D1 antagonists to block both D1- and D2-mediated unconditioned behaviors. Acute behavioral effects of MK-801 were reduced by SCH 23390 only at doses that decreased basal activity, while the expression of MK-801 sensitization was attenuated by SCH 23390 in some experiments but never completely prevented. Co-administration of SCH 23390 with MK-801 on pretreatment days did not prevent the development of sensitization. In vivo microdialysis experiments compared the effect of MK-801 on extracellular DA levels in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) on Days 1 and 4 of repeated administration. On Day 1, MK-801 produced a modest elevation of DA levels. On Day 4, only 6/17 rats in microdialysis experiments expressed sensitization; these rats, however, exhibited a more rapid rise in DA levels than Day 1 rats or non-sensitized Day 4 rats. Electrophysiological studies revealed that repeated MK-801 administration resulted in supersensitivity of D1 receptors on NAc neurons. Thus, behavioral studies support the importance of non-dopaminergic mechanisms in MK-801 sensitization, while neurochemical and electrophysiological studies suggest that MK-801 sensitization is accompanied by changes in DA transmission in the NAc similar to those observed in amphetamine- or cocaine-sensitized rats.

Amyloid beta protein (beta/A4) is deposited in senile plaques of patients with Alzheimer's disease. This protein is derived from a larger membrane-associated protein, termed amyloid precursor protein (APP). The constitutive processing of APP occurs at the central portion of beta/A4, resulting in the release of large N-terminal peptides. We have purified these peptides from the culture medium of cDNA-transfected COS-1 cells. Some of the isoforms contain the Kunitz-type protease inhibitor (KPI) domain and strongly inhibit trypsin, chymotrypsin and plasmin, but do not inhibit kallikrein, prolyl endopeptidase or granzyme A. The peptides also do not inhibit cysteine proteases such as cathepsin B or calpain. Soluble APPs lacking the KPI domain fail to inhibit any of these proteases. The results indicate that the KPI domain in soluble APPs has protease inhibitory activity against certain serine proteases.
To elucidate the biochemical mechanism by which the growth hormone porcine somatotrophin (PST) promotes skeletal muscle growth, we have determined the activity of a comprehensive range of protein catabolizing proteolytic enzymes and structural proteins (determined by analytical electrophoresis, SDS-PAGE) in longissimus dorsi muscle from control and PST treated pigs. There was no significant difference in the levels of muscle structural proteins, or in the activity of muscle proteolytic enzymes at point of slaughter in control or PST treated animals. Similarly, in post-mortem muscle proteolysis time course experiments at pH 5.5 or pH 7.5, there was no significant difference in the rate of structural protein degradation by endogenous muscle proteases (determined via SDS-PAGE) using muscle from control or PST treated animals. In addition, investigation of a range of beta-agonist related drugs (clenbuterol, salbutamol, pirbuterol, fenoterol) showed no effect (10(-4)-10(-8) M) in vitro on the activity of individual protease types in control muscle, or on the degradation rate of muscle structural proteins by endogenous proteases in time course experiments at pH 5.5 or pH 7.5.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A model of texture discrimination in visual cortex was built using a feedforward network with lateral interactions among relatively realistic spiking neural elements. The elements have various membrane currents, equilibrium potentials and time constants, with action potentials and synapses. The model is derived from the modified programs of MacGregor (1987). Gabor-like filters are applied to overlapping regions in the original image; the neural network with lateral excitatory and inhibitory interactions then compares and adjusts the Gabor amplitudes in order to produce the actual texture discrimination. Finally, a combination layer selects and groups various representations in the output of the network to form the final transformed image material. We show that both texture segmentation and detection of texture boundaries can be represented in the firing activity of such a network for a wide variety of synthetic to natural images. Performance details depend most strongly on the global balance of strengths of the excitatory and inhibitory lateral interconnections. The spatial distribution of lateral connective strengths has relatively little effect. Detailed temporal firing activities of single elements in the lateral connected network were examined under various stimulus conditions. Results show (as in area 17 of cortex) that a single element's response to image features local to its receptive field can be altered by changes in the global context.

Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-r) activity in patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM: n = 27) and meningioma (n = 18) was compared with clinical outcome. All patients with GBM were followed up to time of death. In patients with GBM there was no significant relationship between EGF-r activity and either patient survival time or age. EGF-r activity in patients with meningioma was neither related to age nor, at a median of 40 months after surgery, to clinical outcome. These results suggest that routine estimation of EGF-r activity in these intracranial tumours is not indicated.
Ninety-nine consecutive patients with brachial plexus injuries were operated upon over a period of 8 1/2 years. Among them, 70% sustained traction injuries. The surgical procedures included neurolysis in 35, excision of a lateral neuroma in six and interfascicular sural nerve grafting in 27 patients. In 25 patients, after an exploration, no further surgical procedure was carried out. In four patients, an intercosto-musculocutaneous anastomosis, and in two a trapezius muscle transplant were carried out. Just over two-thirds (68%) of the patients were operated upon 6 months after the injury. Water soluble contrast myelography was performed in 60 patients. These included patients where a root injury had been diagnosed clinically or electrophysiologically. MRI was performed in 14 patients to visualize root avulsions and distal lesions. Operative confirmation of MRI findings were obtained in more than 85% of patients. While an early improvement was seen in patients where only a neurolysis was required, at longer follow-up, gratifying results were recorded even in patients with interfascicular grafts of 6-8 cm length. All 49 patients who came for follow-up and in whom a definitive surgical procedure had been carried out improved. Of these patients, 61% showed near normal or satisfactory functional recovery. The other patients were followed for periods of less than 1.5 years and may show further improvement with time.
Dural arteriovenous malformations of the ethmoidal region are extremely rare. They are usually supplied by the ipsilateral anterior ethmoidal artery with contralateral contribution in about half of the cases. They are characterized by a fistulous nidus within the dura, and their progression seems to involve a retrograde leptomeningeal vascular stasis with formation of varices and venous aneurysms. They have more propensity to rupture than dural malformations in other locations. Two patients who presented with an acute frontal hemorrhage are reported.
Cortical thermal clearance was used during surgery for clipping of a giant middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysm. During prolonged continuous proximal MCA occlusion thermal clearance remained normal, indicating sufficient collateral blood supply. Postoperatively the patient had no neurological deficit. This monitoring technique is a useful guide to the safety of temporary clipping during aneurysm surgery.
Psychiatric symptoms and cognition were assessed in 13 patients with schizophrenia, one patient with schizoaffective disorder, and one patient with psychosis not otherwise specified while they received a conventional neuroleptic and again after an average of 15 months on clozapine. Despite improvements in psychiatric symptoms, attention, memory, and higher-level problem-solving were essentially unchanged. This suggests that certain cognitive deficits are relatively independent of psychotic symptoms in schizophrenia, and are probably central and enduring features of the disorder. Cognitive disability appeared to have been rate-limiting in the sample's rehabilitation, as patients' social and vocational adjustment remained marginal during the study. We also observed that treatment with clozapine was associated with a decline in some memory functions; the potent anticholinergic properties of the drug may have been responsible for this.

Complex sets of nervous system functions are dependent on proper working of the synaptic apparatus, and these functions are regulated by diverse synaptic proteins that are distributed in various subcellular compartments of the synapse. The most extensively studied synaptic proteins are synaptophysin, the synapsins, growth associated protein 43 (GAP-43), SV-2, and p65. Moreover, synaptic terminals contain a great number of other proteins involved in calcium transport, neurotransmission, signaling, growth and plasticity. Probes against various synaptic proteins have recently been used to study synaptic alterations in human disease, as well as in experimental models of neurological disorders. Such probes are useful markers of synaptic function and synaptic population density in the nervous system. For the present, we will review the role of synaptic proteins in the following conditions: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other disorders including ischemia, disorders where synapse-associated proteins are abnormally accumulated in the nerve terminals, synaptic proteins altered after denervation, and synaptic proteins as markers in neoplastic disorders. The study of the molecular alterations of the synapses and of plasticity might yield important clues as to the mechanisms of neurodegeneration in AD, and of the patterns of presynaptic and dendritic damage under diverse pathological conditions.
Neurofilament proteins are continuously modified during their lifetime by a succession of protein kinases and phosphatases. Site-specific phosphorylation or dephosphorylation within different polypeptide domains of each neurofilament subunit is now believed to regulate such behaviors of neurofilaments as subunit polymerization and exchange, axonal transport, interactions with other cytoskeletal proteins and degradation. Local regulation of phosphorylation events could account for variations in the size, morphology and dynamics of the neurofilament network in different regions of the neuron. The apparent greater plasticity of the neurofilament network in regions like the perikaryon, initial segment and nodes along the axon may provide some insight into the vulnerability of these regions in neurofibrillary disease.
We have proposed a testable model of the physiological and biochemical events underlying LTP that offers the following novel features. (1) The focus is not on a single mechanism or synaptic site, but rather on the integration and interaction of mechanisms occurring on both sides of the synapse, (2) beta PKC plays a critical presynaptic role in LTP, while gamma PKC functions postsynaptically. (3) These stages can be ordered in a time-delimited sequence of post- then presynaptic molecular events based on the period of effectiveness of inhibitor compounds. (4) The distinction is made between the time when kinase activation occurs and the time when the potentiated response requiring this kinase activation is observed.
Until now, Fluoro-gold confocal imaging has been problematic because it requires an ultraviolet laser. We describe here a practical method to visualize Fluoro-gold in a confocal laser scanning microscope without an ultraviolet laser through an immunofluorescence procedure using antibodies against Fluoro-gold.
Wet dog shaking elicited by perforant path stimulation is little affected by bilateral injection of colchicine into the dorsal hippocampal formation but virtually eliminated by bilateral injection into the ventral hippocampal formation. Injection of colchicine into either dorsal or ventral hippocampal formation lowers the threshold for eliciting forelimb clonus with rearing. This effect is more pronounced 8 weeks postinjection than 2 weeks postinjection when colchicine is injected in the ventral hippocampal formation. This suggests that inappropriate reactive synaptogenesis and/or neuronal degeneration continues for an extended period after intrahippocampal injection of colchicine, especially in the ventral hippocampal formation.
The effects of chronic lithium chloride infusions on consumption of, and subsequent preferences for, a novel diet were examined in rats with ablations of the area postrema (AP) and sham-lesioned control rats. Osmotic minipumps (Alza), filled with a saturated aqueous solution of LiCl (63 g/100 ml), were implanted in the peritoneal cavity of half of the lesioned rats (n = 9) and half of the control rats (n = 8). The remaining rats received empty pumps (n = 9 and n = 7 for lesioned and controls, respectively). The LiCl or sham drug phase was paired with free access to a highly palatable novel diet (AIN diet) during a 7-day conditioning period. Subsequent preferences for the novel diet relative to a familiar diet (ground Purina lab pellets) were determined using a two-food choice procedure. The only group to show a persistent and significant reduction in novel food consumption during the conditioning phase was the sham-lesioned group infused with LiCl (p &lt; 0.01). This group also exhibited a marked aversion for the novel diet, indicative of a conditioned food aversion (CFA), during the preference tests. No significant differences in novel diet consumption or in novel diet preference were found between the two AP-lesioned groups. This study provides evidence that anorexia and CFAs to a novel diet, induced with chronic infusions of lithium, are abolished by destruction of the chemosensitive area postrema.
Although cocaine abuse has been associated with an increased incidence of cerebrovascular accident, the underlying mechanisms are unknown. In this study we have investigated the effects of cocaine upon the autoregulation of local cortical blood flow (lCBF) during hypertension. Hypertension was induced in conscious rats by intravenous infusion of angiotensin-II (5 micrograms/ml; 0.5-2.5 ml/h), and animals were subsequently injected IV with either cocaine-HCl (5 mg/kg) or saline, prior to the measurement of lCBF of glucose utilization (lCGU) using [14C]-iodoantipyrine or [14C]-2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiography, respectively. Hypertension alone (&lt; 155 mmHg) did not significantly alter lCBF in any cortical areas examined. However, at higher mean arterial blood pressure (MABP), lCBF increased focally (+265%) in parietal cortex. Cocaine did not alter lCBF in normotensive animals, but with increasing levels of hypertension (MABP &gt; 145 mmHg), all cocaine-treated rats showed focal increases (200-400%) in lCBF in parietal cortex. Glucose use remained relatively unaffected in all treatment groups. This hyperaemia in cocaine-treated rats at MABP below the normal upper limit of autoregulation may provide a mechanism to explain haemorrhagic stroke in cocaine abusers.
It has been suggested that many, if not all crest-derived neurons develop from a limited subpopulation of neurogenic precursors. To develop cell-type specific markers that identify these precursors directly we have used differential screening of crest-derived cell populations known to have, or not to have, neurogenic ability. We have determined that the neuron-specific human auto-antibodies designated Anti-Hu bind to cytoplasmic and nuclear determinants not only in mature avian neurons and neuroendocrine cells but also in subpopulations of morphologically non-neuronal avian crest-derived cells. Significantly, these Anti-Hu+ non-neuronal crest-derived cells are present only in populations that have neurogenic ability and are absent from populations that lack neurogenic ability. Moreover, following additional development in vivo or in vitro, Anti-Hu+ non-neuronal crest-derived cells appear to express other neuronal traits. These results suggest that Anti-Hu-immunoreactivity is an early indicator of neurogenesis among crest-derived cells, and that Anti-Hu+ non-neuronal cells are either neurogenic precursors or immature neurons. Similarly, using the same differential screening paradigm, we have identified two monoclonal antibodies, designated 12E10 and 17F5, which also label both neurons and some apparently nonneuronal cells in neurogenic populations of neural crest cells. Anti-Hu-IR appears to precede expression of either of these two markers.

Aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) is involved in the biosynthesis of catecholamines and indolamines. AADC is present in the nervous system, in the chromaffin cells, and in non-neuronal tissues. We tested the capacity of a new polyclonal antibody, obtained by immunization of rabbits with a recombinant protein beta-galactosidase-AADC, to detect monoaminergic neurons in the brainstem as well as monoaminergic paraneurons in the adrenal medulla from goldfish, frog, skink, quail, and mouse. In the adrenal gland we found an immunoreactivity that was consistent with the distributions of the chromaffin cells previously reported. In the brainstem, groups of immunoreactive neurons and several labelled fibers were observed in the five species studied. The raphe region showed cell bodies and processes similar to those previously identified as monoaminergic by other authors. In addition, in medulla oblongata and isthmic tegmentum we found, in goldfish, skink, and quail, neuronal groups similar to mammalian D groups which contain AADC but are devoided of serotonin and catecholamines.
Previous studies suggest that m2 muscarinic receptors serve as presynaptic autoreceptors. Blocking these receptors by selective antagonists may, therefore, lead to increased acetylcholine (ACh) release. This study assessed changes in extracellular ACh levels, via in vivo microdialysis, following administration of the m2 antagonist methoctramine. Drug or placebo (Ringer's solution) was perfused via a microdialysis probe into the CA1 hippocampal region of unrestrained, awake male Fischer rats. HPLC-EC was used for online analysis of the dialysates. Methoctramine significantly enhanced ACh release in a dose-dependent fashion as compared to placebo for the doses employed (0.25-16 microM). The present in vivo data corroborate studies that show increased ACh levels in vitro following application of m2 antagonists.

We have shown previously that many neurons in the caudal medial nucleus tractus solitarii (nTS) are excited by angiotensin (Ang) II. The selective Ang II receptor antagonists losartan (AT1; DuP 753) and CGP 42112A or PD 123177 (AT2) were used to evaluate the receptor subtype that mediates excitation of medial nTS neurons by Ang II (1 microM) in rat medulla in vitro slices. Neither losartan nor the AT2 antagonists altered the baseline firing of either Ang II-sensitive or Ang II-unresponsive neurons. However, in six cells with low-frequency spontaneous activity that remained above baseline after excitation by Ang II, subsequent administration of losartan reversed the firing pattern to the initial low-frequency activity. Losartan (10 microM) blocked the excitation by Ang II in 29 medial nTS neurons. The Ang II-induced excitation recovered from Type I blockade in 1 h. In contrast, both CGP 42112A (10 and 100 microM, n = 12) and PD 123177 (100 microM, n = 7) failed to block excitation by Ang II in all neurons tested. Furthermore, the AT2 antagonists were ineffective in preventing Ang II-induced neuronal excitation both when they were the first antagonist tested and when they were evaluated after the neuron had recovered from AT1 receptor blockade. These studies suggest that the Ang II-induced excitation of caudal medial nTS neurons is mediated by AT1 Ang II receptors.
The effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, two inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase, on apomorphine- and oxytocin-induced penile erection and yawning, was studied in male rats after intravenous and intracerebroventricular administration. Both compounds prevented dose-dependently apomorphine and oxytocin responses, when given systemically (5-50 mg/kg) or centrally (30-500 micrograms per rat), but NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester was about 5 times more potent than NG-monomethyl-L-arginine. The D-isomer of NG-monomethyl-L-arginine, which does not inhibit nitric oxide synthase, was ineffective. The results suggest that central nitric oxide is involved in the expression of penile erection and yawning induced by apomorphine and oxytocin.
The fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor gene family now contains four members that encode homologous receptor-tyrosine kinases (RTKs) to each other. We have demonstrated that one of the members, FGFR-1 (also termed as flg), is expressed in the widespread but specific neuronal populations in the adult rat central nervous system (CNS). In the present study, we examined the expression pattern of another member, FGFR-2 (also termed as bek) and compared it with that of FGFR-1. In contrast with FGFR-1, we detected FGFR-2 expression primarily in the fiber tracts of the adult rat CNS, suggesting that the oligodendrocytes are the main sites of the FGFR-2 expression. These findings indicate that FGF may regulate neurons and glial cells through different subtypes of its cognate receptor.
PC12 cells and the morphological variant PC12S cells in culture were examined by immunochemical methods for the presence of the amyloid precursor protein (APP), before and after treatment with the nerve growth factor (NGF). In untreated PC12, untreated PC12S and in NGF-treated PC12 cells, APP was localized in the cytoplasm, whereas in NGF-treated PC12S cells, APP was localized at growth cones, processes and cytoplasm. In PC12 cells, three major forms of APP (695 and 751/770) were detected by Western blot. After NGF treatment, only the level of APP 695 was increased. Immunoprecipitation studies in PC12 cells revealed six protein species, corresponding to immature and mature forms of each of the three APP 695, 751 and 770 proteins. Addition of NGF increased the synthesis of the immature and mature forms of APP695. In PC12S cells, only the higher molecular weight forms of APP (751/770) were detected by both Western blot and immunoprecipitation. Addition of NGF had no effect on their levels. In both cell types, the level of the secreted form of APP showed a significant transient increase after NGF treatment. These results suggest that NGF can differentially regulate the molecular forms of APP and the localization of APP within the cell.
A rate limiting step in most metastatic breast cancers is the development of unlimited proliferative potential by mammary epithelial cells. We describe mechanisms by which these cells can attain this state. The two independent mortality mechanisms controlling fibroblast senescence and immortalization (M1 and M2) are also found in human mammary epithelial cells. However, although both p53 and Rb are involved in the M1 mechanism of fibroblast cellular senescence, in human mammary epithelial cells only p53 is involved. The M1/M2 mechanisms may be induced by the gradual loss of telomere ends that occur as normal cells divide. Loss of telomere ends may result in genomic instability and in altered gene expression due to heterochromatin changes in subtelomeric regions. Events which can abrogate p53 functions are described, as is the current state of knowledge about the function of p53. All these factors are included in a molecular model for the onset of breast cancer.
In cats, electrocortical rhythms at about 10 Hz displaying common characteristics with the human alpha rhythm [1] were recorded from the part of the visual cortex that includes the anterior half of areas 17 (on the cortical convexity), of area 18 and of their common limit, representing the projection of the lower contralateral visual quadrant and that of the lower vertical meridian. It is shown here that activities highly correlated with these rhythms and at the same frequency, were recorded from the anterior half of the laminar dorsal lateral geniculate body (mediodorsal part of layer A), and also from a limited area medial to this nucleus. The cat thalamocortical alpha system thus appears to concern only the projection of the lower quadrants, probably excluding the area centralis itself.
In Alzheimer's disease, Tau proteins are abnormally phosphorylated. In this paper, we describe a cellular model producing such pathological Tau proteins. After differentiation by NGF and treatment with okadaic acid (an inhibitor of phosphatases 1 and 2 A), neuroblastoma SKNSH-SY 5Y cells produced Tau proteins with an increased apparent molecular weight and a more acidic isoelectric point when compared to Tau proteins from control cells. These modified tau proteins bore Alzheimer-type epitopes detectable by antibodies specific to phosphorylated Alzheimer epitopes. This model is the first step toward a pharmacological approach of neuroprotection.
In this study of 25 central nervous system (CNS) tumor-bearing rats, the CNS biodistribution of intravenously administered, indium-labeled liposomes was investigated. In 16 animals, the blood-brain barrier and blood-tumor barrier were modified using intracarotid administration of etoposide. In control animals, analysis by autoradiography and well-counting experiments demonstrated uptake of liposomes in the tumor-bearing hemisphere (% injected dose/g tissue = 0.135) with minimal uptake in the non-tumor-bearing hemisphere (% injected dose/g tissue = 0.007), p &lt; 0.01. Unilateral intracarotid etoposide administration enhanced liposome uptake in both hemispheres-0.215 and 0.023 (tumor-bearing and nontumor-bearing), respectively. The presence of meningeal tumor involvement in nontumor-implanted hemispheres increased liposomal uptake 10-fold. These findings may have clinical applicability in designing therapeutic protocols for the treatment of CNS tumors.
The structural requirements for assembly of tropomyosin into stress fibers were investigated by microinjecting wildtype and four mutant striated chicken muscle alpha-tropomyosins expressed in E. coli as fusion and nonfusion proteins into cultured rat embryo fibroblasts, followed by localization of tropomyosin using indirect immunofluorescence. The results show that the determinants for stress fiber incorporation in living cells correlate with the in vitro actin affinity of these tropomyosins. Wildtype recombinant protein incorporated into stress fibers both when the amino terminus was unacetylated and when it was blocked with an 80-residue fusion protein [Hitchcock-DeGregori, S.E., and Heald, R.W. (1987): J. Biol. Chem. 262:9730-9735]. The pattern of incorporation was indistinguishable from that of tropomyosin isolated from chicken pectoral muscle. The striated alpha-tropomyosin incorporated into stress fibers, even though this isoform is not found in nonmuscle cells. Three recombinant mutant tropomyosins in which one-half, two-thirds, or one actin binding site was deleted were tested [Hitchcock-DeGregori, S.E., and Varnell, T.A. (1990): J. Mol. Biol. 214:885-896]. Only the fusion protein with a full actin binding site deleted incorporated into stress fibers. However, the unacetylated, nonfusion proteins with one half and one actin binding site deleted incorporated into stress fibers, consistent with the ability of troponin to promote the actin binding in vitro. A fourth mutant, in which the conserved amino-terminal nine residues were deleted, did not incorporate into stress fibers, consistent with the complete loss of function of this mutant [Cho, Y.J., Liu, J., and Hitchcock-DeGregori, S.E. (1990): J. Biol. Chem. 265:538-545].
We used a cell free system Bouch et al.: J. Cell Biol. 107:587-596, 1988] to study the incorporation of actin into myofibrils. We used alpha-skeletal muscle actin and actins with substitutions of either His73 [Solomon and Rubenstein: J. Biol.Chem. 262:11382, 1987], or Asp11 [Solomon et al.: J. Biol. Chem. 263:19662, 1988]. Actins were translated in reticulocyte lysate and incubated with myofibrils. The incorporated wild type actin could be cross-linked into dimers using N,N'-1,4-phenylenebismaleimide (PBM), indicating that the incorporated actin is actually inserted into the thin filaments of the myofibril. The His73 mutants incorporated to the same extent as wild type actin and was also cross-linked with PBM. Although some of the Asp11 mutants co-assembled with carrier actin, only 1-3% of the Asp11 mutant actins incorporated after 2 min and did not increase after 2 hr. Roughly 17% of wild type actin incorporated after 2 min and 31% after 2 hr. ATP increased the release of wild type actin from myofibrils, but did not increase the release of Asp11 mutants. We suggest that (1) the incorporation of wild type and His73 mutant actins was due to a physiological process whereas association of Asp11 mutants with myofibrils was non-specific, (2) the incorporation of wild type actin involved a rapid initial phase, followed by a slower phase, and (3) since some of the Asp11 mutants can co-assemble with wild type actin, the ability to self-assemble was not sufficient for incorporation into myofibrils. Thus, incorporation probably includes interaction between actin and a thin filament associated protein. We also showed that incorporation occurred at actin concentrations which would cause disassembly of F-actin. Since the myofibrils did not show large scale disassembly but incorporated actin, filament stability and monomer incorporation are likely to be mediated by actin associated proteins of the myofibril.
Stimulation of division of Balb/c3T3 cells by epidermal growth factor (EGF) and/or insulin is inhibited by pertussis toxin. The G-protein involvement in this response includes the growth factor receptor-induced translocation of the alpha-subunit of Gi (Gi alpha) to the nucleus, where Gi alpha binds specifically to chromatin of dividing cells. This paper reports the first data of studies on the mode of interaction of tyrosine kinase growth factor receptors with Gi alpha, and the mechanism by which Gi affects cell proliferation. When Gi alpha was immunoprecipitated from Triton X-100 extracts of Balb/c3T3 cells, several other proteins were co-precipitated. The major proteins, of 110,000, 60,000 and 36,000 M(r), were not directly recognized by the Gi alpha antibody, showing that Gi alpha was in a complex with these proteins. The 36,000 M(r) protein was recognized by G beta-common antiserum, so confirming its identity as Gi beta. The 36,000 M(r) protein was phosphorylated in cells activated for 20 h with platelet-derived growth factor, epidermal growth factor and insulin, but not after 3 min or 1 h of stimulation. Both Gi alpha and G beta-common antibodies precipitated the phosphorylated 36,000 protein. Gi beta phosphorylation was similarly observed in response to activation by EGF alone for 20 h, but to a lesser extent. Phosphotyrosine antibodies also precipitated a 36,000 M(r) phosphorylated protein from growth factor-activated cells, suggesting that Gi beta may be phosphorylated on tyrosine. Therefore, Gi beta phosphorylation appears to represent a late event after activation of cells by tyrosine kinase growth factor receptors. We are currently examining the role of this event in signal transduction, particularly in relation to control of nuclear responses.
Anatomical and biochemical changes in cerebellum after the onset of pcd gene defects have revealed in addition to Purkinje cell degeneration, the occurrence of secondary degenerative events in granule neurons, neurons of the inferior olivary complex and deep cerebellar nuclei. Transplantation in young mutant animals thereby presents a prospect that not only the missing Purkinje cells may be replaced but the subsequent transneuronal losses may be minimized. The present study has evaluated the outcome of implanting embryonic cerebellar cell suspensions into pcd mutants at the age of 45 day-old, a stage marked by the end of Purkinje cell degeneration. Immunocytochemistry (ICC) was used to monitor the extent of gliosis in host cerebellum and to trace the development of embryonic Purkinje cells grafted. The results suggest that the donor cells have no apparent difficulty in survival during reactive gliosis. Migration of these neuroblasts from the grafted zone into adjacent host molecular layer and significant expression of calcium binding protein (CaBP) by grafted Purkinje cells were noted within 9 days after transplantation. Dendritic patterns of grafted Purkinje cells are well-developed by day 17 post transplantation up to 3 months. In addition, synaptic contacts between host fiber endings and the CaBP-positive dendritic spines are present in the molecular layer of folia containing the graft, suggesting synaptic integration between graft and host.
The human brain enables a variety of unique mental capacities. Our special capacities for inference, personal insight into the reasons for our actions, deception, high level problem solving, for literally dozens of activities represent specialized systems that most likely reflect specialized neuronal circuits that have accumulated in our brain by selection processes over thousands of years of evolution. I believe many of these enriching capacities are not so much the advantageous computational products of a large neuropil as they are the product of a brain that has accumulated specific algorithms for adaptation. Our awareness, our consciousness of these capacities, is nothing more or less than a feeling about them. A correlate of this view is that there are many processes supporting human cognition of which we are neither aware nor conscious. When conscious appreciation or feeling is involved for a modality of sensation or action, neural pathways communicating this information must be intact, normally to the left hemisphere. This paper reviews evidence that supports this view of consciousness that distinguishes special human capacities and feelings about those capacities from the neural substrates that underlie these distinctions.
The highly organized pattern of gene expression leading to the determination of cellular phenotype derives from the interplay between genetic and epigenetic factors. This is mediated in part by distinctive DNA sequence motifs present in the regulatory regions of various genes and the transcription factors with which they interact. The phenotype of olfactory neurons is determined in part by the selective expression of novel isoforms of several genes involved in chemosensory transduction. To characterize the mechanisms determining olfactory neuron phenotype we have been studying the olfactory marker protein (OMP), the first olfactory-specific protein to be isolated and cloned. The temporal and spatial expression of OMP is regulated stringently and is highly restricted to mature olfactory neurons in all vertebrates from amphibians to humans. Identification of the specific elements responsible for regulating the expression of the OMP gene will elucidate the mechanisms leading to the determination of olfactory neuron phenotype. Using a combined in vivo (transgenic mice) and in vitro (electrophoretic mobility shift assays and DNase I footprinting) approach, we have identified and characterized a novel genomic motif that binds an olfactory tissue nuclear protein(s) that we designate Olf-1. We propose that Olf-1 is a novel olfactory-specific transacting factor responsible for directing the expression of genes containing the Olf-1 motif in olfactory neurons. Thus it may play a role in regulating the expression of genes associated with neuronal turnover and olfactory transduction.
Metanephrines are O-methylated metabolites of catecholamines. We report the use of liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection to determine plasma concentrations of normetanephrine (NMN) and metanephrine (MN). Plasma NMN and MN in 32 normal volunteers and inpatients were compared with concentrations in 23 patients with pheochromocytoma. Metanephrines were adsorbed from plasma onto a cation-exchange column and eluted with ammoniacal methanol. The dried residue was dissolved in mobile phase and injected onto a reversed-phase column. Recoveries of NMN and MN from 1 mL of plasma averaged 50-70%, and results varied linearly with quantity injected over a range of 0.13-55 pmol. The detection limit was 25 fmol for NMN and 50 fmol for MN. Intra-assay CVs were &lt; 5%. In normal volunteers and inpatients, plasma concentrations of NMN ranged between 0.12 and 0.73 nmol/L (mean 0.38 nmol/L), and MN between 0.06 and 0.63 nmol/L (mean 0.19 nmol/L). Plasma NMN concentrations were increased in all 23 patients with pheochromocytoma (range 1-172 nmol/L), whereas MN concentrations (range 0.10-382 nmol/L) were increased in only 9 patients. The assay method is reliable and sensitive and offers an approach to examine the extraneuronal metabolism of catecholamines. The method may also be useful in the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma.
The pathogenesis of perioperative stroke is not clear from the literature. To explore the influence of various risk factors we examined the clinical, Duplex ultrasound and computerised tomography findings of all cases suffering cerebral infarction within 24 hours of surgery in a prospective series of 358 coronary or peripheral vascular reconstructive operations. Four patients (1.1%) had cerebral infarcts within 24 hours of surgery, all associated with perioperative systolic blood pressures of less than 90 mmHg. The other significant risk factor was previous cerebral ischaemic symptoms. Haemodynamic cerebral ischaemia occurred immediately after operation in 2 of 10 cases with severe symptomatic carotid stenosis or occlusion (stroke risk 20%; 95% confidence interval 2.52%-55.61%). Two cases with mild carotid disease had cerebral infarcts in previously asymptomatic hemispheres following coronary artery bypass graft surgery. One of these had clinical and computerised tomographic evidence of cortical watershed infarction. We conclude that cerebral haemodynamics are important in perioperative stroke and that symptomatic patients with severe carotid disease may be at high risk of perioperative watershed infarction.
Motor nerve biopsy was attempted on 19 occasions in 18 patients. Nerve tissue was obtained in 16. The nerves biopsied included those to the anconeus (4 times), palmaris longus (6), flexor sublimus (1), triceps (2), extensor carpi radialis (1), quadriceps (1) and gastrocnemius (1). Attempts to biopsy the radial nerve, the nerve to plantaris and the left common peroneal nerves failed in 2 patients. The lengths of nerve obtained varied from 1 to 3 cm, and from 1-5 fasciculi were present in the specimens. Sufficient material for both electron microscopy and teasing was present in 11. No patient experienced increased weakness, but one had transient paraesthesiae in the distal forearm following biopsy of the nerve to the palmaris longus. We conclude that motor nerve biopsy as described is both feasible and safe. The nerve to the palmaris longus, where that muscle was present, provided the optimum specimen for pathological studies.
Thomas Willis (1621-1675), arguably the founding father of neurology, devised an interpretation of neurophysiology which involved motor function being mediated by explosions in nerve tissue and muscle, facilitated by the temporary development of an explosive Copula comprising short-lived aggregates of 'nitrous' and 'sulphur' particles i.e. the components of gunpowder. Seen from a modern standpoint, such a concept is manifestly absurd. However, seen from the standpoint of the Paracelsian iatrochemistry to which Willis subscribed, and understood in the spirit of analogy which he probably intended, Willis' interpretation can be regarded as the beginning of the application of bioenergetics to neural function.
Generalised ventricular dilatation with or without cerebral atrophy is common in longstanding multiple sclerosis. This has been widely assumed to be due to periventricular white matter atrophy rather than true communicating hydrocephalus although it can be difficult to distinguish between these on radiological grounds. Here we report 2 chronic MS patients who had progressive dementia, gait disturbance and urinary incontinence and in whom neuroimaging, and in one case CSF infusion studies, suggested hydrocephalus. Both significantly improved following shunting procedures. We suggest that further study is required to investigate whether a significant proportion of patients with chronic MS and dilated ventricles have shunt-responsive hydrocephalus.
A man with a balanced translocation between chromosomes 3 and 9 associated with primary hypogonadism and dorsal spine stenosis is reported. The possible significance of this chromosomal abnormality is discussed.
Neuronal plasticity is a key issue in neuroscience. It is defined as the capability of the neuron to adapt to a changing internal or external environment, to previous experience or to trauma. It appears that during all phases of the individual life span in the nervous system, changes take place that relate to development, degeneration, and regeneration. Growth cones are a focus of neuronal plasticity, and current views emphasize the importance of local intracellular [Ca2+] to the control of their function. Hence, outgrowth of neurites from neurons in culture may be manipulated by drugs that affect intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis. In the adult nervous system, much research deals with synaptic plasticity, especially with the activity-dependent changes seen after long-term potentation of hippocampal synapses. As in the growth cone, such changes involve Ca(2+)-dependent pre- and postsynaptic processes, among which is the activation of protein kinase C. During aging, Ca2+ homeostasis may be slightly disturbed over a long period of time that could result in loss of function seen after a short, toxic high level of intracellular [Ca2+]. In this respect, the beneficial effects of chronic treatment with the L-channel Ca(2+)-blocker nimodipine on sensorimotor function of aged rats is discussed.
This paper describes a novel mimetic technique of using frequency domain approach and digital filters for automatic generation of EEG reports. Digitized EEG data files, transported on a cartridge, have been used for the analysis. The signals are filtered for alpha, beta, theta, and delta bands with digital bandpass filters of fourth-order, cascaded, Butterworth, infinite impulse response (IIR) type. The maximum amplitude, mean frequency, continuity index and degree of asymmetry have been computed for a given EEG frequency band. Finally, searches for the presence of artifacts (eye movement or muscle artifacts) in the EEG records have been made.

Great developments in study of the central and peripheral nervous system took place throughout the 19th century, especially in Britain. These studies, together with other factors, gave rise to the development of a somaticism of mental illness. The followers of this school of thought, most notably Henry Maudsley, supported the idea of materialism, based on the theory of evolution. They were opposed by those who believed in the duality of body and mind whith its different variants. These two visions constituted the centre of the theoretical debate of psychiatry at that time. The author pays special attention to the first stance and reaches the conclusion that this process of knowledge made mental illness to be considered as an organic disease and contribuited to the entry of the lunatic wholly into the sphere or medical action.

Homogenate extracts were prepared from various regions of the embryonic chick brain from E6 to E19. The extracts were applied to cultured dorsal root ganglia (DRGs), sympathetic ganglion cells, PC12 cells and E5 spinal cord neurons. Potent neurotrophic activity with respect to DRGs was found in an extract from the forebrain (FBX) from the earliest stage assayed (E6). This activity was comparable to that of nerve growth factor (NGF), and it was not appreciably altered during later stages. By E8, extracts prepared from the optic lobe also induced responsiveness, although to a lesser extent than the FBX and NGF. At E12-19, extracts from the hippocampus (HCX) and cerebellum (CBX) were also tested. Activity found in the HCX resembled that in the FBX, but responsiveness to the CBX was similar to that in control (unsupplemented) cultures. The responsiveness of sympathetic neurons in the FBX was comparable to that with NGF. The FBX induced only moderate differentiation of PC12 cells, and spinal cord neurons were not responsive. Antibodies to NGF and basic fibroblast growth factor did not diminish the influence of the FBX, and the FBX and NGF when combined had synergistic effects. The results demonstrate potent neurotrophin-like activity in the embryonic brain at much earlier stages than had previously been seen, with differential regional and temporal distributions.
Portal-systemic encephalopathy (PSE) is a major neuropsychiatric complication of chronic liver disease. Neuropathologic evaluation of brain tissue from cirrhotic patients who died in hepatic coma reveals astrocytic (rather than neuronal) changes referred to as Alzheimer type II astrocytosis. Evidence to date suggests that Alzheimer type II astrocytosis is the result of ammonia neurotoxicity. Exposure of cultured astrocytes to concentrations of ammonia equivalent to those encountered in brain in experimental PSE results in Alzheimer type II astrocytosis as well as changes in other astrocytic parameters such as glial fibrillary acidic protein and glycogen metabolism. A second characteristic of PSE is the appearance of increased densities of 'peripheral-type' benzodiazepine receptors (PTBRs) in both brain and peripheral tissues. In brain, PTBRs are highly localized on astrocytic outer mitochondrial membranes. Experimental PSE resulting from portacaval anastomosis in the rat results in increased densities of PTBRs in brain and in increased expression of the endogenous PTBR ligand octadecaneuropeptide in nonneuronal elements. It is suggested that the PTBR and its endogenous ligands could mediate the astrocytic response to chronic exposure to ammonia in PSE. Astrocytic changes in PSE are accompanied by disruption of neuron-astrocytic metabolic trafficking. In particular, reuptake of the neurotransmitter glutamate into the perineuronal astrocyte is inhibited in PSE resulting in glutamatergic synaptic dysregulation and potentially compromised astrocytic energy metabolism. Astrocytic metabolism of monoamine neurotransmitters may also be increased as a result of increased activities of monoamine oxidase MAOB.

Neurite outgrowth is dependent on the presence in neurites of assembled microtubules which consist of polymerized tubulin to which microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) are bound. This study adds to previous evidence of the similarity between the high molecular weight MAPs, MAP1X, MAP1B and MAP5, and explains the different staining patterns observed by different laboratories on frozen sections, using monoclonal antibodies against each MAP. Previous studies have shown that monoclonal antibody (mAb) G10 binds to MAP1X and labels growing but not mature axons in the rat nervous system and, therefore, expression of this MAP or molecular changes in it may be important for axon growth. It has been shown that a phosphorylated form of MAP5 can be detected by SDS-PAGE in brain areas with growing axons. This study shows that there is phosphate dependency of mAbG10 binding to MAP1X which is, however, lost during brain homogenization.
Rodent CNS neuroblasts show parallel and perpendicular contact guidance behaviors on aligned neurite bundles in microexplant cultures (Nakatsuji, N. and Nagata, I. (1989) Development, 106, 441-447; N. I. and N. N. (1991) ibid., 112, 581-590). To test the hypothesis that the physical surface structure of the neurite bundle causes the perpendicular contact guidance, we cultured dissociated neuroblasts on quartz plates on which grating-like microstructures were fabricated by lithographic techniques. Various types of CNS neuroblasts, but not PNS neurons, oriented their processes and migrated both perpendicular and parallel to the axis of the microstructure. Perpendicular orientation was frequently observed when the microstructured grooves had depths between 0.3 micron and 0.8 micron and a width of 1 micron, which roughly mimics a tightly aligned neurite bundle. Thus, CNS neuroblasts have the ability to extend their processes and migrate perpendicular to aligned surface microstructures.
The effectiveness of electroacupuncture (EA) stimulation in suppressing the morphine abstinence syndrome was studied. Male Wistar rats were made dependent on morphine either by multiple injections or pellet implantation. EA of 2 Hz or 100 Hz was administered for 30 min followed by naloxone challenge (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) and the withdrawal syndrome was scored for a period of 45 min. In rats receiving multiple injection regime, 100-Hz EA produced a statistically significant suppression of wet shakes (-61%), teeth chattering (-59%), escape attempts (-48%), weight loss (-3.3%) and penile licking (-28%) (P &lt; 0.05). EA of 2 Hz produced only a mild but significant suppression in escape attempts (-42%) and wet shakes (-31%). Similar results were obtained in rats receiving pellet implantation. Since 100-Hz EA has been shown to accelerate the release of dynorphins in the CNS, the results seem to be compatible with the notion that dynorphin may play an important role in suppressing the opioid withdrawal syndrome.
Chronic alcoholism results in thiamine deficiency as a result of poor nutrition and impaired gastrointestinal absorption of the vitamin. Pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency in the rat reproduces a neurological syndrome and ultimately neuropathological damage of a nature and distribution that is similar to that encountered in Wernicke's encephalopathy in humans. Pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency results in selective reversible decreases in activity of the thiamine-dependent enzyme alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase and concomitant reversible changes in brain amino acids. It is proposed that these changes constitute &quot;the biochemical lesion&quot; in thiamine deficiency encephalopathy. If sufficiently severe and prolonged, decreased activities of alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase may result in compromised brain energy metabolism and in lactate accumulation in brain, both of which could be responsible for neuronal cell death in this condition. In addition, it has been suggested that cell death results from NMDA-receptor mediated excitotoxic damage. Similar pathophysiologic mechanisms could be responsible for brain cell death in Wernicke's encephalopathy in humans.


This paper reviews clinical, neuroanatomical, and neurophysiological studies that have implicated the cerebral cortex in the initiation and/or regulation of swallowing as well as related functions such as mastication. Cortical dysfunction has been reported to result in a variety of swallowing impairments. Furthermore, swallowing can be evoked and/or modulated by stimulation applied to restricted regions of the cortex. Neuroanatomical investigations and single neuron recording studies also provide some insights into the cortical structures, pathways, and mechanisms that may mediate deglutition.
As the work of Dr. Martin Donner has brought a clarity to understanding swallowing, so has the work of various neuroscientists, including that of a Nobel Laureate, in providing us with a better comprehension of this complex motor pattern. Understanding the neural control of swallowing has been a process that has occurred during this century in which several investigators, primarily from Europe, Japan, Canada, and the United States, have brought their perspectives in applying particular techniques to decipher how the central and peripheral nervous system control swallowing. Swallowing represents a complex muscular response of the oral, pharyngeal, and esophageal regions which are integrated to provide an effective functional pattern that prepares and transports food while simultaneously protecting the airway. This adaptation of the upper gastrointestinal tract in mammals has been extensively studied peripherally by two methods: recording from the peripheral nerves and muscles, and stimulating peripheral nerves and their receptive fields that can induce the pharyngeal and esophageal phases of swallowing. The study of the peripheral nervous system has provided insight into the sensory receptive fields that evoke or facilitate swallowing, and has established the first serious evidence of the all-or-none sequential contraction pattern of the oropharyngeal and esophageal muscles. It has been these electromyographic studies of the muscles that has established much of the criteria for evaluating the central swallowing pathway. Five techniques have been applied to the central nervous system to study swallowing and include lesioning or destroying discrete regions to determine how swallowing is impaired or modified, electrically stimulating the central neural tissue to determine the type of effects on swallowing, recording from the central neural tissue with macro- and microelectrodes to ascertain when neurons respond in timing to the peripheral muscle activity during swallowing, applying pharmacological agents through micropipettes which could mimic or inhibit potential transmitters, and using immunochemical techniques to tag specific chemicals that could be transmitters used by the neurons in the central swallowing pathway. These various techniques have provided insight into how the central swallowing pathway is organized but the details of the central control are still in the process of being defined and will require as much effort this next century as has been previously developed over the past 90 years.
To determine whether prostaglandins (PGs) mediate the ACTH response to tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha), indomethacin (Indo; 0.1-1.0 mg/kg, iv) was administered before TNF alpha (1 microgram, iv) in freely moving, alert rats. While Indo alone did not affect plasma ACTH levels, it dose-dependently blocked the ACTH response to TNF alpha. The highest dose of Indo abolished the ACTH response to TNF alpha [peak plasma ACTH values (mean +/- SEM): buffer/buffer, 137 +/- 34 pg/ml; Indo/buffer, 115 +/- 31; buffer/TNF alpha, 469 +/- 77; Indo/TNF alpha, 120 +/- 27] without modifying the ACTH response to CRF 1 microgram/kg, iv, demonstrating that pituitary responsiveness was unaffected. Since it has been reported that Indo elevates plasma corticosterone (B) levels, the effect of Indo could reflect rapid negative feedback by B, rather than the involvement of PGs. However, inhibition of ACTH secretion was shown to be dependent on the dose of Indo, whereas plasma B levels were elevated to the same degree, independent of the Indo dose. In addition, Indo failed to block the ACTH response to an unrelated ACTH stimulus, insulin-induced hypoglycemia (area under response curve: insulin alone, 31,131 +/- 2,794 pg/min.ml; Indo/insulin, 32,919 +/- 3,582 pg/min.ml). Finally, in adrenalectomized B-replaced rats, TNF alpha elevated ACTH to levels similar to those seen in sham animals, and Indo inhibited these ACTH responses to the same extent in both groups. Thus, Indo inhibited the ACTH response to TNF alpha by a mechanism independent of B feedback. These results indicate that acute systemic administration of TNF alpha stimulates ACTH secretion through a PG-dependent mechanism.
This study was undertaken to clarify the mechanism of orthostatic hypotension, one of the side effects frequently encountered after administration of levodopa (L-dopa). Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was measured concomitantly with blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR) and calf blood flow (calf BF). The responses of these variables to head-up tilting (HUT) were analyzed before and after intravenous administration of L-dopa (50 mg) in eight healthy subjects. L-dopa induced significant increases in MSNA, with concomitant decreases in BP and no changes in calf BF in the supine position. At each angle of HUT, both MSNA and the calf BF increased, following administration of L-dopa. The pattern of MSNA changes was dissociated from that of the calf BF under the influence of L-dopa. These results suggest that peripheral, rather than central, mechanisms are involved in L-dopa-induced orthostatic hypotension.
For determining the effect of the activation of the central cholinergic system on the sympathetic nervous system, we measured muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) together with heart rate and blood pressure before and after an intravenous injection of metoclopramide. Immediately after metoclopramide injection, short-term increases in MSNA and heart rate followed a transient decrease in blood pressure, suggesting that increased sympathetic nerve activity may result from the unloading of arterial baroreceptors. Approximately 7 min after injection, MSNA and heart rate were again notably increased, followed by an increase in blood pressure. This late increase in MSNA may result from central activation of the sympathetic nervous system, but not as a result of the unloading of arterial baroreceptors. The results of this study suggest that metoclopramide activates the sympathetic nervous system by mediating the central cholinergic system in humans.
In attempting to clarify the effects of aging on the regulatory functions of the cardiovascular system, we measured blood pressure, heart rate and stroke volume during thermoneutral head-out water immersion in seven healthy elderly and eight healthy young subjects. In the young subjects water immersion resulted in a marked increase in stroke volume, a deceleration of the heart rate and stable blood pressure values. In the elderly group the blood pressure increased significantly during shoulder-level water immersion. Compared to the young subjects, the elderly presented a less pronounced elevation of the stroke volume, and no change in the heart rate. These results indicate that the vasodepressive mechanisms regulated by baroreflexes diminish with aging, resulting in an elevation of blood pressure.
In clarifying the role of sympathetic nerve outflow to the muscles in the genesis of one-minute waves in body fluid volume, power spectral analysis of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was performed. MSNA was recorded by microneurography in an upright standing position simultaneously with the measurements of body circumference, venous pressure at the dorsum pedis veins, intrathoracic fluid volume, soleus EMG, and calf fluid volume. Subjects were seven healthy male volunteers aged 18 to 32 years. Spectral analysis revealed the one-minute oscillation in MSNA as well as in other variables. Cross spectral analysis between the soleus EMG and each variable revealed a phase order of the one-minute oscillations. It was as follows: 1) an increase in calf fluid volume; 2) a decrease in intrathoracic fluid volume; 3) an increase in venous pressure at the dorsum pedis veins; 4) an increase in the soleus EMG activation; 5) an activation of MSNA; 6) a decrease in calf fluid volume; and 7) an increase in intrathoracic fluid volume. It is concluded that sympathetic nerve activity as well as cardiovascular variables have a cyclic rhythm with a duration of one minute to maintain hemodynamic homeostasis in humans in an upright standing position.
The efficacy of an antiepileptic drug (AED) is determined at present by the drug-elicited reduction in seizure frequency. Reduction of seizure frequency as the sole measure of efficacy does not account for treatment-induced reductions in seizure severity and positive psychological effects experienced by the patient. A clinical trial was undertaken in which seizure frequency was the primary and seizure severity and psychological well-being were the secondary measures of efficacy. Psychological assessment and seizure frequency were monitored in patients whose epilepsy was treated with lamotrigine (LTG) or placebo. The results indicate that LTG is an effective AED, causing reductions in seizure frequency and severity and improvements in mood and mastery. In addition, the study demonstrated that the use of seizure severity scales, especially the ictal subscale, may enhance the sensitivity of assessment of trials of AED treatments.
A large number of psycholinguistic findings on how human beings store lexical information suggest the existence of associative memory, which may be characterized by a large capacity and a long duration. Its anatomical basis supposedly is, at least in part, the frontal lobes, and some of its functional characteristics have been tentatively linked to dopamine release. Working memory has a limited capacity, lasts only for seconds and is relevant for goal-directed behavior. Its anatomical basis in the frontal cortex is established and strong evidence suggests the involvement of dopaminergic pathways. Experimental evidence using several lexical decision tasks and a delayed response task is provided to demonstrate that some characteristic features of schizophrenic thinking--in particular the rapid shift of associations, the indirect relationship of associations, the overly abstract or overly concrete use of concepts, the lack of context-sensitivity and of general integrative function and intellectual capacity--can be explained in terms of an activation or disinhibition of associative memory, and of a dysfunctional working memory. The findings serve as an example of schizophrenia research in a cognitive neuroscience framework.
We describe the simple-spike activity of Purkinje cells (P cells) in the ventral paraflocculus (VPFL) of behaving monkeys in association with movements of the visual scene that evoke short-latency ocular following responses. One group of P cells discharged maximally for downward motion, and the other for motion toward the side of the recording. The onset of the simple-spike response was measured in relation to the onset of ocular following in 24 P cells. The majority of P cells (79%) led by 1-9 ms. At the site of each recording, electrical stimuli (single negative pulses, 1.5-45 microA; 0.2 ms in width) were applied and 60% (18/30) of the sites elicited eye movements in the preferred direction of the P cells. The latency of the single-pulse-evoked response in the ipsilateral eye ranged from 8.6 to 10.9 ms. These data suggest that the P cells in the VPFL play a role in ocular following; some discharge early enough to generate the very earliest eye movements.
Previous studies have reported abnormalities in fine hand and finger movements following interruption of the fasciculus cuneatus (FC) in primates. We report here that many of these deficits could be caused by an inability to actively regulate the position of the finger. Three macaques were trained to maintain the index finger in one position against constant or changing loads. Periodically, torque pulses were used to elicit reflexes in finger muscles. Following unilateral FC lesions, the monkeys failed to adjust finger position during the trials, and the normal M2 long-latency response was absent in the finger muscles. Performance on the task was impaired only in monkeys with complete lesions that included the deep ventral portion of the FC. These results suggest that afferent fibers in the FC regulate finger position, and do so partly through reflexive mechanisms. When the FC is interrupted, the inability to control finger position disturbs fine motor activities.
In order to establish the origin of the central coupling between locomotion and respiration which operates in freely moving mammals during galloping, we sought experimental conditions that readily lead to such a coupling in decerebrate and curarised rabbit preparations. In such preparations, stimulation of the mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR) evokes locomotor activities, recorded from hindlimb muscle nerves, that are rarely totally coordinated with phrenic inspiratory activity. However, low doses (0.2 mg/kg i.v.) of MK 801, a non-competitive NMDA antagonist which has been shown to increase the activity of the spinal locomotion generators (Fenaux et al. 1991), dramatically enhanced this coupling during MLR stimulation in most experiments: 1/1 coupling was dominant but 2/1 and 3/1 couplings (i.e. two or three locomotor cycles per respiratory cycle) were also obtained. Compared with spontaneous respiratory activity, which was apneustic under these conditions, the respiratory period was drastically decreased during coupling. However, a further transection of the spinal cord at the C6 or C7 level, which isolated the spinal locomotion generators from the supraspinal levels, totally suppressed this reduction of the inspiratory period during MLR stimulation in the presence of MK 801. In experiments where locomotor activity was simultaneously recorded at forelimb and hindlimb levels, the 1/1 evoked locomotor-respiratory coupling remained after the lumbar cord had been isolated by L1 spinal transection. The present data do show that intact spinal mechanisms are required for entrainment to occur. They suggest either tha a common supraspinal drive cannot entrain locomotion and respiration when being depressed, or that respiration is entrained at the locomotor rate by the spinal locomotion generators.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution of optic chiasm input to different types of neurons in pericruciate cortex of cats agreed with previous work using light flashes. Neuron response times served to differentiate the input pathways to pericruciate cortex, and the types of neurons they influence. Input from the optic chiasm arrived in three distinct surges: the first via the superior colliculus, the second via an unidentified pathway, and the third via the visual cortex. A fourth, diffuse surge arrived in the postcruciate cortex via some unidentified pathway. Stimulation of the contralateral side of the optic chiasm had a weaker effect than stimulation of the ipsilateral side; it evoked activity at a higher threshold, with fewer spikes per response, and at a longer latency. The difference in response latency between the two sides was largest on neurons responding to the first surge, decreasing in later surges, and being least on those neurons responding to the last surge. About 2.3% of the postcruciate and 15% of the precruciate neurons responded only to optic chiasm stimulation; they were isolated in the granular layers, and their responses could not be influenced by prior cutaneous input. It is suggested that much of the visual input to pericruciate cortex serves to modulate on-going cortical output and, thereby, the behavior of the animal.
Trapezoidal indentations of the skin by a 0.5-mm-diameter probe were presented at different rates and loads (forces) to the human fingertip, in order to compare estimates of population responses of cutaneous mechanoreceptors with the quality and magnitude of tactile sensations. The subjects were first trained to attend to and evaluate variations in the magnitude of touch sensations associated with the onset ramp, the plateau period, and the offset ramp. They examined a series of line drawings that illustrated a variety of temporal profiles for sensation magnitude. The line drawings provided a straight-forward means of describing temporal fluctuations of sensation intensity, which corresponded well to psychophysical ratios that were determined subsequently with a matching procedure. Influences of ramp rate on qualities of touch sensations were evaluated by tabulating verbal descriptions of sensory experiences. Each of three rate conditions generated a different quality of sensation during the dynamic portions of stimulation. Onsets and offsets at 100 g/s were described as &quot;taps&quot;. During ramps at 10 g/s the quality was described as &quot;rolling&quot; or &quot;moving&quot;. At 1 g/s no sense of motion was detected; instead, a &quot;pressure&quot; sensation was identified. Touch sensations during the plateau were always described as a pressure. The subjective magnitudes of touch sensations associated with the onset, plateau, and offset were equated by comparing different components of paired stimuli. At 100 g/s, when subjects matched the offset sensation from the first of a pair of stimuli with the onset sensation from the second, the force of the stimulus producing the offset sensation was 1.3 times greater than the intensity of the stimulus that produced the onset sensation. Matching of the plateau sensation (evaluated during the last 1.5 s of the 2.5-s plateau period) with the onset sensation required a plateau stimulus that was 1.7 times greater in force than the stimulus which produced the onset. Comparison of stimulus intensities producing a match of plateau and offset sensations with stimulus intensities predicted from the previous matches (onset versus offset and onset versus plateau) demonstrated a mean within-subject error of 4%. The mean ratio of plateau to offset forces that produced a match was 1.8:1.3. In a matching procedure in which subjects compared the subjective magnitudes of plateau sensations following onset ramps of different rates, onset ramp rate significantly influenced the magnitude of pressure sensations. The ratios of plateau forces which produced equal magnitudes of sensation following 1, 10, and 100 g/s ramps were 1.6:1.3:1.0.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Recordings were obtained from low-threshold mechanoreceptive afferents during stimulation with a 0.5-mm-diameter probe at the receptive field (RF) center and at different distances from the point of maximal sensitivity. At each location, force-controlled stimuli of 0.5-4.0 g were ramped on to a plateau and then off at rates of 1, 10, and 100 g/s. The properties of rapidly adapting (RA) and slowly adapting type I (SAI) mechanoreceptors, when stimulated at the RF center, were similar in many respects to those reported in previous studies. Controlled stimulation away from the RF centers revealed that RF size for RAs was primarily dependent upon ramp rate, and for SAIs the size of the RF was primarily dependent upon load (force). The action potentials from individual afferents during stimulation at each location were binned in time and assigned to spatial segments of 1 mm. These responses were multiplied by: (A) an annular area of the receptive field and (B) the innervation density for the afferent type and skin region. The calculations provided estimates of overall rates of activity among the population of cutaneous afferents that respond to indentation by a small probe. Important differences were obtained between the responses of the population of afferents activated by the trapezoidal stimulus and the responses of afferents stimulated only at the RF center. Populations of tactile afferents provide more information for rate and intensity (force) discriminations than is available from units stimulated at the RF center. For RA afferents, the exponent of the power function describing relationships between stimulus rate and the population discharge (in impulses per second) was 0.3 times greater than the exponent for responses to on-center stimulation. For SAI mechanoreceptors, the exponent of the power functions for static responses to force was 0.22 times greater for the population response than for on-center activation. Population functions for RA responses to the rate of force application and for SAI responses to static load saturated less than comparable responses to stimulation of the RF center. Thus, the coding capacity of the population extends the range of tactile discriminability. The slope and range of stimulus-response functions for populations was enhanced relative to responses to on-center stimulation. This occurs because of recruitment of afferents with RF centers adjacent to and remote from the stimulus, depending upon thresholds and receptive field sizes for different stimulus parameters. With stimulation at increasing rates and forces, there is a progressive spatial recruitment of receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Previous experiments revealed that the cholinergic deficit in rats with a partial fornix section was accompanied by an increase in turnover of noradrenaline (NE) in the hippocampus. This noradrenergic hyperactivity contributed to the cognitive deficit in lesioned rats, probably by interaction with the cholinergic system. The present experiment examines the reorganization of the noradrenergic system after the damage induced by partial fornix section and attempts to determine if the increase in NE turnover is of locus coeruleus (LC) origin, or if it is a result of local regulation at the noradrenergic terminals. Rats were submitted to knife-cut section of the fornix, resulting in a decrease in choline acetyltransferase activity in the hippocampus, correlated with a significant behavioral deficit in a spatial memory task. Lesioned rats learned a nonspatial memory task normally. Sections of brains of these rats were submitted to quantitative autoradiography. [125I]Iodopindolol binding was assessed in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus to determine availability of beta receptors. This was found to be significantly lower in lesioned rats. [125I]Iodoclonidine was used to determine alpha 2 receptors binding in dorsal and ventral hippocampus and in LC. There was no difference in alpha 2 receptors in LC, a significant decrease in dorsal regions of the hippocampus, and a significant increase in ventral regions. Muscarinic M1 receptors in the hippocampus showed no changes after the lesion.
The scalp-recorded &quot;vertex-positive peak&quot; (VPP) evoked by images of faces in humans has previously been shown to be delayed when an originally upright stimulus is inverted or rotated by 90 degrees (Jeffreys 1989a). This paper describes a study of the effects on this scalp potential of smaller face orientation changes (15 degrees increments). The results showed that, under normal viewing conditions of clearly defined facial images, the VPP latency, which was minimal for face orientations within 15 degrees of the vertical (0 degree), increased almost linearly for incremental rotations from 15 up to 90 degrees, but was relatively unchanged or decreased slightly for further rotations from 90 up to 180 degrees. Similar results were observed for clockwise and anticlockwise rotations, and for different facial representations. These stimulus orientation changes did not change the latency of simultaneously recorded, pattern-specific potentials recorded from occipital scalp locations; nor did they greatly affect the VPP amplitude. By contrast, rotations of &quot;Mooney figure&quot; stimuli away from the vertical produced concurrent reductions in both the perception of a face and the amplitude of the evoked VPP. Experiments in which the orientation of both the stimulus face and the subject's head were varied further showed that minimal latency VPP responses were evoked for parallel stimulus and viewing orientations. The speed of response is thus determined by the orientation of the subtended retinal image.
The effects of the brainstem reticular formation on the intraspinal excitability of low threshold cutaneous and muscle afferents were studied in the frog neuraxis isolated together with the right hindlimb nerves. Stimulation of low threshold fibers (less than two times threshold) in cutaneous nerves produced short latency, negative field potentials in the ipsilateral dorsal neuropil (200-400 microns depth) that reversed to positivity at deeper regions (500-700 microns). Stimulation of low threshold fibers (less than two times threshold) in muscle nerves produced, instead, negative response that acquired their maximum amplitude in the ventral neuropil (700-900 microns depth). These electrophysiological findings suggest, in agreement with observations in the cat, that low threshold cutaneous and muscle afferents end at different sites in the spinal cord. Intraspinal microstimulation applied within the dorsal neuropil produced antidromic responses in low threshold cutaneous afferents that were increased in size following stimulation of the dorsal or ventral roots, as well as of the brainstem reticular formation. This increase in excitability is interpreted as being due to primary afferent depolarization (PAD) of the intraspinal terminals of cutaneous fibers. Antidromic responses recorded in muscle nerves following intraspinal stimulation within the ventral neuropil were also increased following conditioning stimulation of adjacent dorsal or ventral roots. However, stimulation of the bulbar reticular formation produced practically no changes in the antidromic responses, but was able to inhibit the PAD of low threshold muscle afferents elicited by stimulation of the dorsal or ventral roots. It is suggested that the PAD of low threshold cutaneous and muscle afferents is mediated by independent sets of interneurons. Reticulospinal fibers would have excitatory connections with the interneurons mediating the PAD of cutaneous fibers and inhibitory connections with the interneurons mediating the PAD of muscle afferents. Although our results provide no direct information on whether the reticulospinal depression of the PAD elicited in low threshold muscle afferents is due to inhibition along the pathways producing PAD of muscle spindle or of tendon organ afferents, it seems likely-by analogy with what has been seen in the cat spinal cord-that these inhibitory actions are mostly restricted to the pathways producing PAD in the terminal arborizations of muscle spindle afferents. These results emphasize the specificity of the descending control of the synaptic efficacy of low threshold cutaneous and muscle afferents which could be of importance for motor performance.
The motoneurons (MNs) in the ventrolateral nucleus (VLN) of the upper sacral spinal cord segments in the cat supply the external sphincters and the ischiocavernosii muscles. The dendrites of the MNs in the VLN are arranged into rostro-caudally oriented bundles (ventrolateral dendritic bundle, VLB). In this study we describe the distribution and synaptic arrangement of gamma-aminobutyric acid-immunoreactive (GABA-IR) axonal bouton profiles innervating the VLB. This was accomplished using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique and a polyclonal antibody raised against glutaraldehyde-conjugated GABA. The VLN receives an extensive innervation of GABA-IR axonal bouton profiles that surround both cell bodies and dendrites. Twenty-five per cent of the total number of vesicle-containing axonal profiles in the VLN neuropil were estimated to be GABA-IR. On cell bodies in the alpha-motoneuron size-range, the membrane covering of GABA-IR bouton profiles was about 18% and they constituted about 29% of the total membrane covering of axonal bouton profiles. Quantitative analysis of GABA-IR bouton profiles on dendrites revealed membrane covering figures rather similar to those on the cell bodies. They were not randomly distributed within the dendritic arborisations. Instead, they were very infrequent (2.5% of the covering) on small calibre dendrites (&lt; 1 microns) as compared to larger dendrites (&gt; 1 microns, 14-18.5% of the covering), although the total membrane covering of axonal bouton profiles was rather similar for all dendrites (42-52%). The data on membrane covering by GABA-IR boutons presented here may be low estimates due to technical limitations, indicating that the GABAergic input to this region might be even more extensive. A frequent finding was that one and the same GABA-IR bouton made synaptic contact with two to three adjacent dendrites. This type of synaptic arrangement among the VLN MNs indicates a divergence of the GABAergic input at the terminal level. In addition, the postsynaptic dendrites involved in such arrangements often disclosed dendro-dendritic contacts. In total, 44% of the bundled dendrites in the VLN disclosed direct dendro-dendritic contact regions. These contacts were most often of the puncta adherentia type, while desmosome-type contacts were less frequent. None of the dendro-dendritic contacts studies had the characteristics of a gap junction. Taken together, the present results indicate that GABA may be a transmitter substance in a large fraction of the synaptic input to the VLN MNs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The neurotrophin gene family, including nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), and NT-4/NT-5, supports the survival of distinct peripheral neurons, however, actions upon central neurons are relatively undefined. In this study we have compared different neurotrophins in the regulation of neuronal survival and function using dissociated embryonic cell cultures from two brain regions, the basal forebrain (BF) and locus coeruleus (LC). In the BF, NGF increased choline acetyl transferase (ChAT) activity, but did not influence cholinergic cell survival. In contrast to NGF, BDNF, NT-3, and the novel neurotrophin, NT-4, all increased ChAT activity and cholinergic cell survival. We also examined embryonic LC neurons in culture. LC neurons are unresponsive to NGF. In contrast, NT-3 and NT-4 elicited significant increases in survival of noradrenergic LC neurons, the first demonstration of trophic effects in this critical brain region. Identification of factors supporting coeruleal and basal forebrain neuronal survival may provide insight into mechanisms mediating degeneration of these disparate structures in clinical disorders.
Using in situ hybridization, we previously investigated (17) the regional pattern of c-fos mRNA increases in the brain following convulsive seizures elicited from a highly circumscribed epileptogenic site located in the deep prepiriform cortex. In this paper, we focus on the hippocampus and examine mRNAs encoding other immediate early genes (IEGs), namely c-jun, jun-B, and zif/268, for changes following the focally evoked seizures. Although the anatomic distribution of increases in each IEG mRNA was qualitatively comparable, the temporal analysis indicated that increases in zif/268 mRNA appeared prior to the other genes studied. Each of the mRNAs reached a maximum increase by 30 min and declined to basal levels within 3 h following seizure initiation. The data indicate that these four IEGs respond in a coordinated fashion to propagated seizure activity with increases in mRNA and, furthermore, that increased expression of all four genes appears to occur in the same cell types in the hippocampus.
The present findings for familial Alzheimer's disease suggest a possible linkage to gene(s) on chromosome 21 for the early onset form and to chromosome 19 for the late onset. Since these results are not unequivocal, possible alternative hypotheses include the effect of genetic heterogeneity or of an oligogenic model of segregation for FAD.
The effects of the 5-HT agonist meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (MCPP) on regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) were measured in 3- and 24-month-old rats that were not pretreated or were pretreated for 2 weeks with continuous infusion of saline or MCPP. rCMRglc were measured using the quantitative autoradiographic [14C]2-deoxy-D-glucose technique in 71 brain regions at 15 min after acute administration of MCPP 2.5 mg/kg. In the absence of chronic pretreatment, intraperitoneal MCPP 2.5 mg/kg produced widespread rCMRglc reductions (41 brain areas) in 3-month-old rats and more limited rCMRglc decreases (8 brain areas) in 24-month-old rats. After chronic treatment, MCPP failed to reduce rCMRglc in any region of either group of rats. These findings indicate that mechanisms of downregulation of response to MCPP are functional in young and aged rats and suggest that the age-related reduction in rCMRglc responses to acute MCPP in non-pretreated animals may be due to compensation for age-related losses of 5-HT terminals.
We reflect here on the development of a neuroimmunological concept which has been formulated over the past 5 years through studying microglial cell responses in the facial nerve system. A simple axotomy of the adult rat facial nerve which causes regeneration of facial motor neurons and little, if any, cell death can activate microglial cells just as easily as a full-blown degeneration of the entire nucleus induced by toxic ricin. In both instances, the prompt microglial reaction is characterized by a series of structural and phenotypic changes which are in many ways similar to an immune response, e.g., there is cell proliferation and upregulation of MHC antigens. However, since white blood cells do not participate in the retrograde response of facial motor neurons, we have adopted a notion which views microglia as a CNS-wide network of immunocompetent cells whose morphological dissimilarities from leukocytes are a result of their unique adaptation to the CNS architecture. We have continued our in vivo investigations of the phagocytic and immunophenotypic properties of microglial and perivascular cells during the retrograde reaction of facial motor neurons by using intra-neural injections of fluorogold (FG) and ricin followed by lectin and immunostaining for microglia. Two new findings can be added to the microglial neuroimmune network: (1) Microglia take up FG only after motor neuron degeneration, whereas perivascular cells may take up FG under nondegenerating conditions. (2) Immunologically important molecules, such as MHC class II, CD4, and leukocyte common antigens, are expressed by different microglial subpopulations. Thus there is functional and phenotypic heterogeneity among immunocompetent cells of the CNS.
The cellular and regional distribution of the four protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms in the rat hippocampal formation and the response of PKC to lesions were determined by employing immunohistochemical and immunochemical techniques with antibodies specific to PKC(alpha), -(beta I), -(beta II), and -(gamma). PKC(alpha) intensely stained the periphery of the pyramidal cell in the stratum pyramidale. The granule cells, glial cells, and mossy fibers were anti-PKC(alpha) negative. The cytoplasm, axons, and dendrites of basket cells and interneurons in the hilus were labeled with anti-PKC(alpha). Anti-PKC(beta I) immunoreactivity was localized on the periphery of pyramidal cells and interneurons of the hilus, as well as the oriens, radiatum, and molecular layers of the CA regions. Anti-PKC(beta II) immunoreactivity was mainly cytoplasmic, extending into the dendrites in the hippocampal pyramidal cells and the dentate granule cells, and also in some glial cells. In the stratum radiatum of the CA1, anti-PKC(gamma) immunoreactivity localized to the pyramidal cell cytoplasm, extending into the dendrites. Following fimbria-fornix (FF) lesions, the anti-PKC(alpha) and -(beta I) staining of the pyramidal cell periphery was markedly reduced. The anti-PKC(gamma) staining of the pyramidal and granular cells of the dentate gyrus was reduced whereas the interneuron staining in the hilus was increased. In the FF-lesioned hippocampus, anti-PKC(alpha) and anti-PKC(beta II) labeled reactive glial cells, whereas anti-PKC(beta I) and -(gamma) did not. Quantitative Western blot analysis revealed a dramatic increase in the particulate/total PKC for all isozyme forms, although the total levels of PKC, except PKC(gamma), did not change following FF lesions. The PKC(gamma) concentration doubled after FF lesions. Perforant path lesions resulted in a marked alteration in the neuronal staining in dentate gyrus with anti-PKC(alpha) and -(beta I) and in increased numbers of anti-PKC(alpha)- and anti-PKC(beta II)-positive glial cells. Anti-PKC(gamma) staining did not change noticeably. The total PKC concentration did not change for isozymes alpha, beta I, and gamma, but PKC (beta II) concentration increased by 48% following perforant path lesions as detected by Western blot analysis. The particulate/total PKC decreased for all four isozymes although the reduction in PKC(beta I) concentration was not statistically significant. This change in PKC compartmentalization is in marked contrast to an increased level of particulate PKC following FF lesions. Thus, the effects of deafferentation and deafferentation for each PKC isoform were different.



Injections of the low diffusion retrograde tracer rhodamine latex microspheres were made in the pontine grey matter of the cat in order to study the cortical convergence to the pons. We found a different distribution of cells in the convex surface of the brain hemisphere making ventral or dorsolateral injections. In the first case, cells were grouped in the top of the gyri. In the second case, cells were more frequent in the bottom of the sulci. Our results show a possible retinotopic organization of this projection.
The characteristics and distribution pattern of retinal afferent terminals making synaptic contacts on narrow field vertical neurons in the stratum griseum superficiale of the rabbit superior colliculus were studied using the Golgi-gold substitution technique in combination with either autoradiographic or degenerative methods. At the level of light microscopy, identified gold-toned vertical neurons showed similar features to those previously described by others. Although their axons were frequently seen rising from the basal dendritic tuft, they could also emerge from an apical dendrite, but rarely from the cell body. The electron microscopic study revealed that these neurons received radiolabelled or degenerated profiles with typical features of retinal terminals, while more proximal parts seemed to receive fewer terminals but of larger size. Axo-somatic synaptic junctions were very rare and, interestingly, retinal terminals were not seen forming synapses on the basal dendritic arborization. The present results indicate that the narrow field vertical cells are targets for retinotectal projection.

The interactive visualization of animated images through a computerized three dimensional (3D) full color model of an unstained cadaveric human head is presented. Serial full color images were taken of the blockface of a cryomicrotomed frozen human head every 200 microns. From this series of images a three dimensional digital model with a resultant pixel resolution of 200 microns3 was created on a UNIX workstation. Using this database, resampled images were computed along orthogonal axes and written sequentially to a write-once-read-many times (WORM) videodisc unit. Playback of this customized videodisc dataset provides animations of the digitally reconstructed slices and 3D reconstructed surface models. An interactive interface to the animated sequences is provided through a PC based tutorial package. This tutorial program is able to access videodisc frames to display animations and labeled still images in a software window to illustrate various neuroanatomic topics. The technique of animation as applied to this high resolution 3D model provides insight into complex spatial relationships and has great potential in research and as a teaching tool in the neurosciences.
A unique solution to the electromagnetic inverse problem of neurophysiology does not exist due to the fact that scalp measurements of electric potential differences and of magnetic field components contain only partial information about the sources. Three different information functionals are introduced in this paper and are based on the following intuitive ideas, where the amount of information is: (1) Directly related to the amount of change in the measurements due to a very small change in the source; (2) Directly related to the angle between two sets of measurements corresponding to two different sources; and (3) Inversely related to the distance between the minimum norm inverse solution and the actual source. These definitions are used for comparing the source resolution of EEG and MEG in an inhomogeneous spherical head model. The main conclusion is that in many realistic situations electric measurements are more informative than magnetic measurements.
Because exposures to toxic agents typically involve more than one substance, it is necessary to know if combined exposures pose different risks than those to single agents. Many solvents have been implicated in central nervous disorders and some of them are known to produce hearing loss, probably mediated by damage to cochlear hair cells. Hearing loss was studied by recording the brainstem auditory evoked response (BAER) in male Long Evans rats exposed 8 h/day for 5 days to mixtures of styrene (STY) and trichloroethylene (TCE). Dose groups included air or solvent pairs (STY/TCE) in the following concentrations (ppm): (0:3000), (250:2250), (500:1500), (750:750) and (1000:0). Decreased BAER amplitude, indicative of hearing loss, was correlated with blood levels of total solvent. The effects were as predicted by a linear dose-addition model, indicating neither synergistic nor antagonistic interactions at the concentrations studied.

A combination of new concepts and the enormous powers of computation now available have created the beginnings of a major new scientific revolution. It does not have to do with psychoanalysis per se, but with some basic assumptions among the sciences generally. The result is already showing in new visions of nature variously called &quot;deterministic chaos,&quot; &quot;nonlinear dynamics,&quot; or &quot;sciences of complexity.&quot; For the first time it is possible to study complex systems in process, over time. This paper, especially attending to issues of separation and integration, focuses on two components of the new understandings, fractal geometry (part of the mathematics of topology) and deterministic chaos (the tendency of nonlinear systems to oscillate toward and away from absolute chaotic disorganization). In a diverse group of intellectual disciplines, it is now possible to describe systems in operation in detail, in terms of nonlinear differential equations. From these, computer models of multiple variables in interaction can be produced. In turn, this allows experimentation on the models by altering variables. At this time, psychoanalysis can only use deterministic chaos and fractals metaphorically, but in the future, especially if psychoanalysis is seen in terms of process or organismic theory, it is likely that such models can be produced.
The potential role of biological influences in human sexual orientation was considered more seriously during the early phases of psychoanalysis than in the years since World War II. Recently studies of homosexuality and heterosexuality in the neurosciences have attracted widespread attention both in the scientific and lay communities. The salience of these new data for psychoanalytic theory and practice is just beginning to be explored. In this article, we review research on sexual orientation in the following areas: genetics, crosscultural studies, studies of development in individuals with abnormal prenatal hormone exposure, childhood play patterns, and brain studies in both nonhumans and humans. Differences between male and female homosexuality are explored. We propose that psychoanalytic theory can grow and profit from a careful consideration of new findings in the psychobiology of sexuality, and that the interaction between mind and body is the appropriate purview of psychoanalysis.
This study set out to identify the neurotransmitters involved in autonomic vasodilatation of the guinea pig uterine artery. Non-noradrenergic, paracervical neurons supplying this artery contain at least four neuropeptides: vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), neuropeptide Y (NPY), dynorphin A (1-17) and somatostatin, probably in addition to acetylcholine. Transmural nerve stimulation of arterial segments precontracted with phenylephrine (3 x 10(-7) mol l-1 and treated with guanethidine (10(-6) mol l-1), produced relaxations which varied in form with the frequency of stimulation and the length of the pulse train. The relaxations were monophasic at low frequencies (&lt; 2 Hz), and were biphasic at higher frequencies (&gt; 5 Hz) and with longer pulse trains (&gt; 50 pulses). Neither phase of the relaxations was reduced by hyoscine (10(-6) mol l-1), or by removal of the endothelium. The faster phase of the relaxations was selectively reduced (by 61%) during treatment with L-nitro-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; up to 3 x 10(-5) mol l-1). This reduction was reversed by an excess of L-arginine, indicating that the fast relaxation was mediated by nitric oxide, possibly acting as a neurotransmitter. The slower phase of the neurogenic relaxation was preferentially reduced (by 43%) by the endopeptidase, trypsin (1-3 micrograms.ml-1). As VIP is the only currently identified peptide present in the paracervical neurons which causes vasodilatation, it is likely that VIP, or a closely-related peptide, is the transmitter responsible for the slow relaxation. Acetylcholine and an opioid peptide also seem to be released from the vasodilator neurons, but their effects were small, and may have been restricted to pre-synaptic sites. The slower neurogenic relaxations were inhibited by exogenous neuropeptide Y (68% reduction in amplitude), and were slightly potentiated by somatostatin (21% increase in amplitude). Therefore, endogenous stores of these peptides may also contribute to the sum effect of stimulating the paracervical vasodilator neurons. In conclusion, many different substances may act as autonomic co-transmitters from these pelvic vasodilator neurons.
We review recent studies in our laboratory that have investigated the neural mechanisms underlying photic entrainment of the mammalian circadian system. The results from studies of extracellular single-unit recordings and of photic induction of Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-lir) indicate that excitatory amino acid (EAA) transmission, and particularly activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subtype, is important for conveying photic information to suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) cells. We have also found that a subregion of the SCN still shows Fos-lir after blockade of EAA receptors, and we have evidence suggesting that these cells are innervated by a distinct subdivision of the retinal projection to the SCN. In addition, we have found that photic responses of cells in the intergeniculate leaflet (which projects to the SCN) and of SCN cells are modulated by serotonin (5-HT) via a receptor that resembles the 5-HT1A subtype.
The mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is considered to be a critical component of a neural system implicated in the temporal organization of a wide variety of biological processes. Since the environmental light-dark cycle is the main zeitgeber for many of these rhythms, photic information may have a synchronizing effect on the endogenous clock in the SCN by inducing periodic changes in the activity of certain groups of neurons. The present study was conducted to investigate whether the daily light-dark cycle as well as seasonal variations in photoperiod would affect the vasopressin cell population of the human SCN. To that end, the brains of 30 young human subjects (ranging in age from 6 to 47 years) were investigated. We found that the subdivision of the human SCN that contains vasopressin-producing neurons fluctuated significantly over the 24-hr period. The volume of the vasopressin cell population was, on average, 1.4 times as large during the daytime (1000-1800 hr) as during the nighttime (2200-0600 hr), and contained 1.8 times as many vasopressin-immunoreactive neurons. Peak values in both vasopressin volume and vasopressin cell number were observed in the early morning (0600-1000 hr). In general, the SCN contained fewer vasopressin-immunoreactive neurons during the night than during any other period of the natural light-dark cycle. In addition to the diurnal cycle of the SCN, a marked seasonal rhythm was observed. The volume of the vasopressin cell population was, on average, 2.4 times as large in the autumn as in the summer, and contained 3 times as many vasopressin-immunoreactive neurons. In general, the annual cycle of the human SCN showed a nonsinusoidal pattern with a maximum in early autumn, a lower plateau in winter, and a deep trough in late spring and early summer. In contrast with the periodic fluctuations in the number of vasopressin-immunoreactive neurons in the SCN, no significant diurnal or seasonal variations could be detected in the numerical cell density or cell nuclear diameter of vasopressin neurons. In conclusion, the findings indicate that the synthesizing activity of the vasopressin neurons of the human SCN exhibits a diurnal as well as a seasonal rhythm, and that the temporal organization of these processes becomes disturbed later in life.
We have studied the function and distribution of the alpha 1 beta 1, alpha 5 beta 1 and alpha 6 beta 1 heterodimers on type-1 astrocytes with antibodies specific for integrin subunits (alpha 1, alpha 5, alpha 6, and beta 1). The alpha 1 beta 1 heterodimer mediates adhesion to laminin and collagen, the alpha 5 beta 1 to fibronectin in an RGD-dependent manner. The alpha 5 beta 1 integrin is found in focal contacts in long-term cultures of well-spread astrocytes colocalizing with vinculin and the termini of actin stress fibers. alpha 1 beta 1 heterodimers can occasionally be found as small aggregates within focal contacts but they do not accumulate there. Instead, alpha 1 beta 1 integrins are found in punctate deposits called point contacts which are distributed over the upper and the lower cell surfaces whether laminin, collagen, fibronectin or polylysine is used as a substratum. Unlike focal contacts, point contacts contain clathrin but rarely codistribute with actin or vinculin. Two observations indicate that these point contacts are functional. First, mAb 3A3, directed against the rat alpha 1 subunit, inhibits the attachment of astrocytes to laminin and collagen. Second, during the spreading of astrocytes, a band of point contacts forms around the cell perimeter at a time when no focal contacts are visible. While alpha 1 beta 1 integrins are found only in point contacts in astrocytes, the alpha 6 beta 1 integrin, another laminin receptor, is localized within focal contacts. Moreover, alpha 1 beta 1 heterodimers accumulate in focal contacts in fibroblasts. Thus, the alpha subunit contributes, independent of its ligand, to functional integrin heterodimer accumulation in focal contacts or in point contacts. This accumulation varies among different cell types with apparently identical heterodimers as well as with the motile state (spreading vs. flattened) of the same cells.
Coated pits contain a resident membrane molecule(s) that binds clathrin AP-2 with high affinity. AP-2 binding to this site is likely to be the first step in coated pit assembly because this subunit functions as a template for the polymerization of clathrin into flat polygonal lattices. Integral membrane proteins involved in receptor mediated endocytosis cluster in the newly assembled pits as they invaginate and bud from the membrane. The AP-2 subunit is a multi-domain, molecular complex that can be separated by proteolysis into a brick-shaped core and ear-like appendage domains. We have used this property to identify the domain involved in the various stages of coated pit assembly and budding. We found that the core of AP-2 is the domain that binds both to membranes and to triskelions during assembly. Triskelions are perfectly capable of forming lattices on the membrane bound cores. Clathrin lattices bound only to core domains were also able to invaginate normally. Limited proteolysis was also useful for further characterizing the AP-2 binding site. Elastase treatment of the inside membrane surface released a peptide fraction that is able to bind AP-2 in solution and prevent it from interacting with membranes. Affinity purification of binding activity yielded a collection of peptides that was dominated by a 45-kD species. This is the candidate peptide for containing the AP-2-binding site. Therefore, the appendage domain does not directly participate in any of the assembly or invagination events required for coated pit function.
Movements of membrane-bounded organelles through cytoplasm frequently occur along microtubules, as in the neuron-specific case of fast axonal transport. To shed light on how microtubule-based organelle motility is regulated, pharmacological probes for GTP-binding proteins, or protein kinases or phosphatases were perfused into axoplasm extruded from squid (Loligo pealei) giant axons, and effects on fast axonal transport were monitored by quantitative video-enhanced light microscopy. GTP gamma S caused concentration-dependent and time-dependent declines in organelle transport velocities. GDP beta S was a less potent inhibitor. Excess GTP, but not GDP, masked the effects of coperfused GTP gamma S. The effects of GTP gamma S on transport were not mimicked by broad spectrum inhibitors of protein kinases (K-252a) or phosphatases (microcystin LR and okadaic acid), or as shown earlier, by ATP gamma S. Therefore, suppression of organelle motility by GTP gamma S was guanine nucleotide-specific and evidently did not involve irreversible transfer of thiophosphate groups to protein. Instead, the data imply that organelle transport in the axon is modulated by cycles of GTP hydrolysis and nucleotide exchange by one or more GTP-binding proteins. Fast axonal transport was not perturbed by AlF4-, indicating that the GTP gamma S-sensitive factors do not include heterotrimeric G-proteins. Potential axoplasmic targets of GTP gamma S include dynamin and multiple small GTP-binding proteins, which were shown to be present in squid axoplasm. These collective findings suggest a novel strategy for regulating microtubule-based organelle transport and a new role for GTP-binding proteins.
The distributed brain systems associated with performance of a verbal fluency task were identified in a nondirected correlational analysis of neurophysiological data obtained with positron tomography. This analysis used a recursive principal-component analysis developed specifically for large data sets. This analysis is interpreted in terms of functional connectivity, defined as the temporal correlation of a neurophysiological index measured in different brain areas. The results suggest that the variance in neurophysiological measurements, introduced experimentally, was accounted for by two independent principal components. The first, and considerably larger, highlighted an intentional brain system seen in previous studies of verbal fluency. The second identified a distributed brain system including the anterior cingulate and Wernicke's area that reflected monotonic time effects. We propose that this system has an attentional bias.

Autonomic dysfunction is a common complication of peripheral neuropathies. Frequently, it is of little clinical importance, but in some conditions there may be profound disturbance of autonomic function, including orthostatic hypotension, impairment of heart rate and bladder control, and impotence. Some autonomic neuropathies are of acute onset, but most are chronic and of gradual onset. Diseases that primarily affect small fibers in peripheral nerves or cause acute demyelination of small myelinated fibers are those most likely to cause autonomic dysfunction. Conditions that cause severe autonomic dysfunction include acute dysautonomia, familial and primary amyloidosis, Guillain-Barr syndrome, diabetes, porphyria, Chagas' disease, and some hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies. Management consists of treating the underlying cause and symptomatic therapy.

1. We describe three interneurones and their follower cells in the central ganglionic ring of Helisoma trivolvis. 2. The largest neurone on the dorsal surface of the left pedal ganglion is shown to be an interneurone that contains dopamine and makes monosynaptic connections with a large number of follower cells in the visceral and left parietal ganglia. This neurone is designated as left pedal dorsal 1 (LPeD1). 3. Another giant neurone is located on the dorsal surface of the right pedal ganglion. Although the position and morphology of this cell, designated right pedal dorsal 1 (RPeD1), are similar to those of LPeD1, it contains serotonin rather than dopamine. This neurone was found to synapse only on LPeD1, no other follower cells have so far been discovered. The connections between LPeD1 and RPeD1 are mutually inhibitory. 4. A small FMRFamide-immunoreactive neurone, identified here as visceral dorsal 4 (VD4), is located on the dorsal surface of the visceral ganglion. This neurone has a large number of follower cells throughout the central ganglionic ring. Among these follower cells are LPeD1 and RPeD1. The transmitter utilized by VD4 at these synapses is probably FMRFamide. In addition, VD4 receives excitatory inputs from LPeD1 that appear to be chemical and monosynaptic. 5. To test further the monosynaptic and specific nature of the connections within the network, the three interneurones were isolated and cultured in vitro. In these circumstances, the three neurones extended neurites and formed synapses which, with one exception (occasional electrical coupling between LPeD1 and RPeD1), were of similar type to those observed in vivo. 6. The identification and characterization of these three interneurones and their follower cells should greatly facilitate future studies of the Helisoma trivolvis nervous system. Furthermore, the possibility that this three-cell network can be reconstructed in vitro should aid our understanding of the mechanisms underlying synapse formation and neuronal plasticity.
We address inconsistencies in two areas concerning who was first to electrically stimulate a human's brain. First, Boring (1950) and others attributed priority to Eduard Hitzig based on information mentioned somewhat incidentally in Fritsch and Hitzig's (1870) classic work using dogs. Others cited Fritsch and Hitzig but attributed priority to Roberts Bartholow (1874). Second, our examination of translations of Fritsch and Hitzig, especially of footnote 16 in Hitzig's report (1870) of a human case, revealed errors, omissions, and inconsistencies. To aid our inquiry, we requested and received new translations of footnote 16 and of Hitzig's report.



The European Carotid Surgery Trial (ECST) is an ongoing randomised trial of immediate carotid endarterectomy vs non-surgery in symptomatic patients with recent and mild carotid territory ischaemic events. So far it is become clear that the risk of the operation is--in general--worth taking in patients with &quot;severe&quot; stenosis (&gt; 70% of the proximal internal carotid artery diameter) but not in patients with &quot;mild&quot; stenosis (0-29%). The balance of risk vs benefit in patients with &quot;moderate&quot; stenosis (30-69%) is still unclear und recruitment of such patients continues. All patients are still being followed up to assess the durability of any benefit of surgery and to develop prognostic models to predict the risk of ipsilateral ischemic stroke in the no-surgery patients. Also, further studies are being done to investigate the best method of measuring the amount of disease at the carotid bifurcation.
It has been suggested that dopamine release can be evoked by excitatory amino acids acting on dopaminergic terminals, as well as by the classical process of impulse-evoked exocytosis. We used in vivo microdialysis to examine whether endogenous excitatory amino acids locally evoked dopamine efflux under basal conditions. Infusion of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) or kainate into the neostriatum increased extracellular dopamine, and this effect was blocked by co-infusion of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV) or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), respectively. However, neither these antagonists nor kynurenate decreased extracellular dopamine when administered alone. In contrast, infusion of tetrodotoxin into the medial forebrain bundle reduced extracellular dopamine to below the limit of detection of our assay. These and other findings reviewed in this report suggest to us that extracellular dopamine in the neostriatum is not stimulated locally by endogenous excitatory amino acids.
A unique model of DA system regulation is presented, in which tonic steady-state DA levels in the ECF act to down-regulate the response of the system to pulsatile DA released by DA cell action potential generation. This type of regulation is similar in many respects to the phenomenon proposed to mediate the action of norepinephrine on target neurons; i.e., an increase in the &quot;signal-to-noise&quot; ratio as measured by postsynaptic cell firing (Freedman et al., 1977; Woodward et al., 1979). However, in this model the signal and the noise are neurochemical rather than electrophysiological. Furthermore, the &quot;noise&quot; (tonic DA in the ECF) actually down-regulates the &quot;signal&quot; (phasic DA release) directly, and thereby provides a &quot;signal&quot; of its own that affects the system over a longer time-course. Therefore, the difference between signal and noise may also depend on the time frame under which such determinations are made.
The levels of five neuropeptides (substance-P, somatostatin, cholecystokinin octapeptide, methionine-enkephalin and dynorphin) were examined in the brain and the spinal cord of rats 2 weeks after intracerebroventricular injection of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT). 5,7-DHT injection caused a significant reduction of the serotonin level in all regions of the brain. The level of each neuropeptide except dynorphin significantly increased in specific regions of the brain after 5,7-DHT treatment without any decrease in their levels in any region. Since, coexistence and interaction between classical neurotransmitters and neuropeptides in the same neurons have been reported, both are indispensable for evaluating pathophysiological state of the brain function associated with abnormal neural transmission. The present findings together with previous reports suggest that neuropeptides act as neurotransmitters and compensate for the impaired function of the serotonergic systems.
ATP-sensitive K+ channels were examined in sections of the hippocampus from patients with Alzheimer's disease and age-matched control subjects by means of quantitative autoradiography. ATP-sensitive K+ channels were labelled with the sulfonylurea, [3H]-glibenclamide, which is a potent blocker of these channels. The density of cells in the subiculum and the activity of choline acetyltransferase were determined in the same hippocampal tissue samples. In the hippocampal formation of control subjects, the density of high affinity [3H]-glibenclamide binding sites ranged from 17.6 +/- 0.9 pmoles/g in the presubiculum to 11.6 +/- 0.6 pmoles/g in the parvo-pyramidal layer of the presubiculum. There was no difference between Alzheimer patients and controls in the level of high affinity [3H]-glibenclamide binding in any hippocampal region although there was a marked loss of subicular cells (reduced by 29% compared to controls) and a reduction in choline acetyltransferase activity (reduced by 60% compared to controls). The results suggest that ATP-sensitive K+ channels are associated with elements in the hippocampus which are preserved in Alzheimer's disease.
The increasing demand to brain banks for specimens that are properly prepared for research in neurochemistry has stimulated interest in the drawing up of suitable protocols. The purpose of this chapter is twofold: (1) to describe the various strategies that are currently applied in different brain banks and (2) to point out the main neurochemical requirements in order to reach a consensus with the brain bank about the more suitable protocol in each case. In recent years, some brain banks have acquired the necessary equipment and now have access to neurochemical expertise. Their experience will be very helpful in defining the new procedures to be used at each stage of brain tissue banking and will permit the development of research projects in this discipline.
The Brain Bank of La Salptrire Hospital (Paris) is implanted in a neuropathology laboratory. It is multipurpose, prospective, and &quot;free of charge&quot; for the users. Protocols are prospectively established, in collaboration with the neuroscientists. One of our major difficulties in the collection of cases concerns presently the controls: the neurological status of patients coming from Neurology departments has usually been correctly assessed but those patients are bad controls. The normality of the neurological status of patients dying in other departments is difficult to assess retrospectively. A general autopsy is performed in each case. Several systematic sampling and fixation procedures are currently in use; their pros and cons are discussed. The main safety problem we are confronted with is the risk of HIV and Jakob-Creutzfeldt transmission. We try to standardize our diagnostic procedures; criteria used in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's chorea are briefly reviewed. We plan, in the future, to standardize our procedures for control cases. The Brain Bank has had a very positive impact on the way this neuropathology laboratory works: it introduced new techniques; on the other hand, the adequate processing and diagnosis of the samples was, in many aspects, simplified by the collaboration with the neuropathology department. The demand for human brain samples is steadily increasing in Neuroscience, for at least 2 reasons: 1. some diseases are specifically human and lack adequate animal models (Alzheimer's disease, multisystem atrophy), or animal models may appear irrelevant in some aspects (multiple sclerosis) or finally, results obtained in animal models may have to be confronted with human pathology (AIDS ...) 2. many aspects of human neuroanatomy can not be extrapolated from animal data There are many ways of organizing a brain bank and no golden standard (Swaab et al., 1989): the neuroscientist himself may collect the samples in a given pathology or the neuropathologists may modify their practice to provide adequate samples to the neuroscientists. When the neuroscientist himself collects his own samples, he obviously proceeds more rapidly. However, he is confronted with the difficult problem of the controls, which require both a clinical follow-up and a pathological check up of the tissues, both of which may be difficult to obtain in a research unit. In our opinion, the neuropathologists are the natural &quot;brain bankers&quot;: they are indeed naturally &quot;rich&quot;, their job being precisely to collect human samples, in connection with the clinicians.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Large laboratory animals are the usual choice for complex surgical procedures on the spine and spinal cord, such as shortening of the spine. It would, however, be advantageous to be able to use a small inexpensive mammal like the rat. We describe a procedure which allows thoracic spondylectomy (T8-T9) to be performed in the rat with a satisfactory survival rate (69%). Functional consequences of the procedure on animals with uninjured spinal cord were monitored over a period of six months, at which time histologic examination was performed. There was a good correlation between operative trauma, consisting of mechanical injury to the cord assessed from the surgical notes, and the duration of postoperative spinal shock. Animals for which the cord appeared laminated or deformed at the time of sacrifice tended to show incomplete functional recovery. Cord cavitation developed in most surviving animals (78%) but did not have a measurable adverse effect on functional outcome. In the present study, the cord was not intentionally injured; however, availability of this procedure may facilitate the future development of methods to implement recovery of function following spinal cord injury.
To investigate the short- and long-term effects of axotomy on the survival of central nervous system (CNS) neurons in adult rats, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) were labelled retrogradely with the persistent marker diI and their axons interrupted in the optic nerve (ON) by intracranial crush 8 or 10 mm from the eye or intraorbital cut 0.5 or 3 mm from the eye. Labelled RGCs were counted in flat-mounted retinas at intervals from 2 weeks to 20 months after axotomy. Two major patterns of RGC loss were observed: (1) an initial abrupt loss that was confined to the first 2 weeks after injury and was more severe when the ON was cut close to the eye; (2) a slower, persistent decline in RGC densities with one-half survival times that ranged from approximately 1 month after intraorbital ON cut to 6 months after intracranial ON crush. A small population of RGCs (approximately 5%) survived for as long as 20 months after intraorbital axotomy. The initial loss of axotomized RGCs presumably results from time-limited perturbations related to the position of the ON injury. A persistent lack of terminal connectivity between RGCs and their targets in the brain may contribute to the subsequent, more protracted RGC loss, but the differences between intraorbital cut and intracranial crush suggest that additional mechanisms are involved. It is unclear whether the various injury-related processes set in motion in both the ON and the retina exert random effects on all RGCs or act preferentially on subpopulations of these neurons.
The larval-pupal transformation of Manduca sexta is accompanied by the loss of the abdominal prolegs. The proleg muscles degenerate, the dendritic arbors of proleg motoneurons regress, and a subset of the proleg motoneurons dies. The regression and death of proleg motoneurons are triggered by the prepupal peak of ecdysteroids in the hemolymph. To investigate the possible involvement of protein synthesis in these events, we gave insects repeated injections of the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide (CHX), during the prepupal peak. Examination of insects 3-5 days following CHX treatment showed that CHX inhibited the death of proleg motoneurons and the production of pupal cuticle in a dose-dependent fashion. When insects were allowed to survive for 10 days after the final CHX injection, motoneuron death and pupal cuticle production sometimes occurred belatedly, apparently in response to the ecdysteroid rise that normally triggers adult development. CHX treatments that inhibited motoneuron death were less effective in inhibiting dendritic regression in the same neurons. In another set of experiments, abdomens were isolated from the ecdysteroid-secreting glands prior to the prepupal peak, and infused with 20-hydroxyecdysone (20-HE). Single injections of CHX delivered just prior to the start of the 20-HE infusion inhibited motoneuron death and pupal cuticle production, but in the range of doses tested, did not prevent dendritic regression. Our findings suggest that protein synthesis is a required step in the steroid-mediated death of proleg motoneurons, and that dendritic regression is less susceptible to inhibition by CHX than is motoneuron death.

Recent studies have demonstrated that administration of an electroconvulsive shock produces a rapid and transient increase in tyrosyl phosphorylation of a approximately 40-kDa protein in rat brain. Initial characterization of this protein's chromatographic properties indicated that it might be a member of a recently identified family of kinases, referred to as mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases, that are activated by tyrosyl phosphorylation. In the present study, we have used MAP kinase antisera to assess the identity of this protein. We have found that the approximately 40-kDa phosphotyrosine-containing protein comigrates with p42 MAP kinase (p42mapk) and not with two other 44-kDa MAP kinase family members detected by these antisera. Western blots of proteins immunoprecipitated with MAP kinase antibodies confirm that p42mapk displays increased tyrosyl phosphorylation after an electroconvulsive stimulus. Chromatographic separation of hippocampal extracts indicates that MAP kinase activity elutes in parallel with p42mapk. Accordingly, these studies identify p42mapk as a tyrosyl kinase substrate that is activated by this stimulus and suggest that this form of MAP kinase may be selectively regulated by neuronal stimulation.
In the rat hippocampus, jun, c-fos, and fos-related antigen immunoreactivity, AP-1 DNA binding, and opioid peptide gene expression were examined after kainate treatment to determine whether the induction and DNA binding of AP-1 transcription factors are correlated with the expression of the opioid peptide genes. One and one-half hours after kainate administration, fos-related antigen and jun immunoreactivity and AP-1 DNA binding were induced; maximal elevation was observed after 4.5 h. Transcription factor expression and DNA binding increased in a dose-dependent manner. Preprodynorphin and preproenkephalin mRNA induction was also dose dependent. The anticonvulsants, pentobarbital and diazepam, effectively blocked electroencephalographic seizure activity caused by kainate treatment, whereas valproic acid was approximately 50% effective. Opioid peptide gene expression, fos-related antigen and jun immunoreactivity, and AP-1 DNA binding all reflected similar reductions after anticonvulsant treatment. Therefore, expression and DNA binding activity of the AP-1 transcription factors are correlated with opioid peptide gene expression in the rat hippocampus.

A formal statistical overview of all truly randomised trials was undertaken to determine whether antithrombotic therapy is effective and safe in the early treatment of patients with acute stroke. There were 15 completed randomised controlled trials of the value of early antithrombotic treatment in patients with acute stroke. The regimes tested in acute presumed or confirmed ischaemic stroke were: heparin, 10 trials with 1047 patients: oral anticoagulants, one trial with 51 patients: antiplatelet therapy, three trials with 103 patients. Heparin was tested in one trial with 46 patients with acute haemorrhagic stroke. Outcome measures were deep venous thrombosis (confirmed by I125 scanning or venography), pulmonary embolism, death from all causes, haemorrhagic transformation of cerebral infarction, level of disability in survivors. In patients with acute ischaemic stroke, allocation to heparin was associated with a highly significant 81% (SD 8, 2p &lt; 0.00001) reduction in deep venous thrombosis detected by I125 fibrinogen scanning or venogram. Only three trials systematically identified pulmonary emboli, which occurred in 6/106 (5.7%) allocated control vs 3/132 (2.3%) allocated heparin, a non-significant 58% reduction (SD 45.7, 2p &gt; 0.1). There were relatively few deaths in the trials in patients with presumed ischaemic stroke: 94/485 (19.4%) among patients allocated to the control group vs 79/497 (15.9%) among patients who were allocated heparin. The observed 18% (SD 16) reduction in the odds of death was not statistically significant. The least biased estimated of the effect of treatment on haemorrhagic transformation of the cerebral infarct (HTI) comes from trials where all patients were scanned at the end of treatment, irrespective of clinical deterioration; using this analysis, haemorrhagic transformation occurred in 7/102 (6.9%) control vs 8/106 (7.5%) treated, a non-significant 12% increase (SD 56, 2p &gt; 0.1). These data cannot exclude the possibility that heparin substantially increases the risks of HTI. No data on disability in survivors could be obtained. Early heparin treatment might be associated with substantial reductions in deep venous thrombosis (and probably also pulmonary embolism) and possibly a one fifth reduction in mortality (equivalent to the avoidance of 20-40 early deaths per thousand patients treated.) However, the data were wholly inadequate on safety, particularly on the risk of haemorrhagic transformation of the infarct and on the hazards of heparin therapy in patients with known intracerebral haemorrhage. The trials of oral anticoagulants (15 deaths among 57 patients) and antiplatelet therapy (two deaths among 103 patients) were too small to be informative. Much larger randomized trials-comparing aspirin, heparin and the combination of both drugs against control-in patients with acute ischaemic stroke are justified (and several are now planned or underway).
Five patients with peripheral neuropathy and benign IgG monoclonal paraproteinemia are reported, all of whom had a sensorimotor neuropathy with a remitting and relapsing course. The serum paraprotein level did not correlate with the patient's clinical status. Electrophsyiological studies showed marked slowing of conduction velocity and conduction block in four of the patients and mild slowing in the other. Sural nerve biopsies demonstrated a demyelinating neuropathy with inflammatory cell infiltrates in each of the five patients. Three of the patients had evidence of myelin/Schwann cell reactivity on immunofluorescence studies and in all nerves dense expression of major histocompatability complex class I and II molecules was evident within the endoneurium, on invading mononuclear cells, endothelial cells and Schwann cells. All the patients responded to treatment, plasmapheresis being particularly effective. Four patients have achieved prolonged remissions after all treatment had ceased. These five cases of peripheral neuropathy and IgG paraproteinaemia were identical in their clinical, electrophysiological and pathological features to patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy.
Previous attempts to characterize the molecular events that support successful regeneration of axotomized goldfish retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) have led to the discovery of an acidic protein doublet in retina that displays an increased incorporation of 35S-methionine following axotomy, and is known to be axonally transported within the optic nerve. This protein is termed p68/70, reflecting its relative migration in 10% SDS-PAGE. In the present study, an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody to p68/70 (anti-p68/70) was developed and used to assess the species, tissue, and cellular distribution of p68/70. The antibody cross-reacted with homogenates of brain and other tissues from goldfish and closely related fish species. While each goldfish tissue tested expressed p68/70, the levels varied over a 30-fold range, with the highest amounts in brain, egg, and ovary. Immunolabeling of goldfish retina revealed prominent staining of RGC somata, dendrites, and axons. During regeneration, the immunoreactivity of the RGC somata and axons increased dramatically. Intense immunolabeling was also observed in the germinal neuroepithelial cells and rod precursors and in all retinal layers near the peripheral margin, in the region of recently differentiated neurons. In the tectum, the germinal zone was also highly labeled. The elevated expression of p68/70 in each of these areas known to mediate neuronal growth within the goldfish visual system suggests that p68/70 plays a role in axonal growth, regrowth, and possibly in neural development as well.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are coupled to effector systems through GTP-binding proteins (G-proteins) and appear to mediate slow synaptic responses in the CNS. Although mGluR-mediated increases in phosphoinositide hydrolysis have been well characterized, other mechanisms for signal transduction employed by mGluRs are poorly understood. We recently reported that the selective mGluR agonist 1-aminocyclopentane-1 S,3R-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD) increases cAMP accumulation in rat hippocampal slices. We have now investigated the mechanisms involved in this response. A number of G-protein-linked receptors that are not directly coupled to adenylate cyclase increase cAMP accumulation by potentiating cAMP responses to other agonists. Furthermore, previous studies suggest that glutamate increases cAMP accumulation by a mechanism that is dependent upon the presence of endogenous adenosine. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that 1S,3R-ACPD-stimulated increases in cAMP accumulation in rat hippocampal slices are dependent upon the presence of endogenous adenosine and are mediated by an mGluR that potentiates cAMP responses to other agonists. We found that adenosine deaminase abolished 1S,3R-ACPD-stimulated cAMP accumulation whereas the adenosine uptake blocker dipyridamole enhanced this response. Additionally, adenosine receptor antagonists blocked mGluR-mediated increases in cAMP accumulation with potencies that were highly correlated with their potencies at A2 adenosine receptors. Furthermore, we performed a series of studies that suggest that 1S,3R-ACPD activates an mGluR subtype that potentiates responses to agonists of other receptors that are coupled to adenylate cyclase and that 1S,3R-ACPD-stimulated increases in cAMP accumulation in hippocampal slices are mediated by potentiation of the cAMP response to low levels of endogenous adenosine that are continuously present extracellularly.
A peroxidase reaction product that can be easily distinguished from standard diaminobenzidine (DAB) reaction products is needed for pre-embedding electron microscopic double-antibody labelling studies. Benzidine dihydrochloride (BDHC) and gold-substituted silver peroxidase reactions are unsatisfactory for double labelling because they lack sensitivity and reliability and/or compromise ultrastructure. We show here that light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry can be done with a modification of the tungstate-stabilized tetramethylbenzidine (TMB) reaction (Weinberg and Van Eyck 1991) which yields a crystalline reaction product. With this method, we have obtained excellent immunolabelling for a variety of antigens, including tyrosine hydroxylase, enkephalin, serotonin, Fos protein and retrogradely transported cholera toxin B subunit (CTB). The TMB-tungstate reaction is useful for ultrastructural double labelling because the crystals contrast well with the amorphous product of diaminobenzidine reactions. The TMB-tungstate reaction is more sensitive and reliable for immunocytochemistry than the benzidine dihydrochloride reaction and gives better ultrastructure than the gold-substituted silver peroxidase reaction. We also show that neurons filled with biocytin by intracellular injection can be visualized with TMB-tungstate for either light (LM) or electron (EM) microscopy.
The distribution of alpha 1 (alpha 1)-adrenoceptors along the different segments of the spinal cord (cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and sacral) of normal rats has been studied by quantitative autoradiography using the specific alpha 1-antagonist [3H]Prazosin as a ligand. In addition, the influence of noradrenergic (NA) denervation [obtained either by complete transection of the spinal cord at vertebrae level T8-T9 or by selective lesion of NA spinal cord system carried out by intracisternal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)] on eventual variations of alpha 1-adrenoceptor density at spinal cord target cells was studied in parallel. In control rats, the quantitative analysis of alpha 1-adrenoceptor densities revealed a widespread distribution of these receptors along all segments of the spinal cord with a similar pattern in the various subregions of gray matter studied. This distribution of alpha 1-adrenoceptors was quite well correlated with the distribution of NA terminals, when referring to previous descriptions by immunohistochemistry. After 6-OHDA lesion, as well as caudally to the transection, a significant increase of alpha 1-adrenoceptor densities was observed in all spinal subregions thus evidencing supersensitivity. These results suggest that NA may act in the spinal cord, at least partly, via alpha 1-adrenoceptors and that the expression of these receptors could be influenced by NA dysfunction, as demonstrated here through the effects observed in lesioned animals.
This retrospective analysis describes the clinical characteristics, treatment, and outcome of 19 patients aged 80 years or older with odontoid fractures. The fractures were due to falls in 15 patients (78.9%) and were associated with motor-vehicle accidents in four. Type III fractures were seen in three patients and type II fractures in 16. No patient suffered a neurological injury associated with the fracture. Five patients (26.3%) died during hospitalization; factors contributing to their death included prolonged bed rest, associated injuries, and concomitant medical illnesses. The mean follow-up period in the remaining 14 patients was 28.8 months (range 5 to 72 months). Eight patients with a posterior displacement of 5 mm or less were treated with cervical immobilization, three of whom showed a stable non-union of the fracture site at follow-up review. One patient with 10-mm displacement refused operative treatment. Three of the patients without surgical treatment subsequently died from unrelated causes; all remaining patients resumed their routine activity. Five patients with displacement of 5 mm or greater and instability at the fracture site were treated with posterior cervical fusion of C1-2 using wire and autologous iliac bone grafts. In this group, no operative morbidity or mortality occurred and stable constructs developed in all patients; one patient died from an unrelated cause during the follow-up period and the other patients resumed their normal activity. Prolonged bed rest caused respiratory complications in two of six patients who survived initial hospitalization; two of three patients treated with rigid immobilization developed complications that required alternative treatments.
Previous work has shown that N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation inhibits muscarinic receptor-mediated phosphoinositide hydrolysis in brain slices. To further explore the potential interactions between NMDA receptors and cholinergic receptors, the effects of cholinergic agonists and NMDA on [3H]norepinephrine (NE) release from rat cortical slices were determined. Slices were labeled with [3H]NE, washed and treated with various agonists by transferring the slices through a series of vials at 1-min intervals. Radioactivity remaining in the medium was then quantitated to determine the fractional release of [3H]NE from the slices. Carbachol (30-3000 microM) slightly stimulated [3H]NE release from a basal level of 0.10 to approximately 0.35 fractional release by itself and significantly enhanced the effect of 250 microM NMDA (3.6 fractional release for NMDA and 5.3 for carbachol + NMDA) in a concentration-dependent manner. Carbachol (1 mM) increased the maximal response but had no effect on the EC50 of NMDA. Atropine (1 microM) significantly attenuated the effect of carbachol alone and the potentiation of NMDA-evoked [3H]NE release by carbachol, whereas d-tubocurarine (10 microM) inhibited the effect of carbachol alone but had no effect on the enhancement of the NMDA response by carbachol. Mecamylamine (100 microM) inhibited the effect of carbachol alone, but also inhibited the NMDA-evoked response with an IC50 of 16 microM. The nicotinic agonist, dimethylphenylpiperazinium (DMPP) stimulated [3H]NE release (approximately 0.4 fractional release at 30 microM) and also potentiated NMDA-stimulated [3H]NE release (2.0 above NMDA alone). d-Tubocurarine, but not atropine, partially inhibited DMPP-stimulated [3H]NE release, but neither antagonist altered the enhancement of NMDA-stimulated [3H]NE release by DMPP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Many receptors that inhibit adenylyl cyclase belong to a common superfamily of receptors that couple to guanine nucleotide binding proteins. These receptors are thought to span the membrane seven times and to have a highly homologous amino acid sequence (LACADL) in the second membrane spanning region. The antisense oligodeoxynucleotide seven-transmembrane spanning receptor (7TMR), a 15-mer that binds to mRNA encoding this amino acid sequence, was added to cerebellar granule neuron cultures to decrease receptors of this superfamily. Intact antisense 7TMR was found to enter neurons. This 4- to 6-day treatment with antisense oligonucleotide decreased the total number of muscarinic receptor binding sites by about 40% and completely eliminated muscarinic m2 receptors that inhibit cyclic AMP formation. Antisense 7TMR treatment at 25 microM prevented the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)B-mediated inhibition of cyclic AMP formation by about 40%. The treatment was effective in decreasing GABAA receptors only when the antisense oligonucleotide was given 1 day after plating the cells, and the receptor response assay was performed 6 days later. The half-maximal concentration of antisense 7TMR was approximately 5 microM in blocking GABAB receptors. Antisense 7TMR appeared to be specific because another antisense oligodeoxynucleotide sequence (15-mer) having four mismatches with 7TMR had no effect on either muscarinic m2 or GABAB receptor-mediated responses and did not affect the total number of muscarinic binding sites. These results are consistent with the view that antisense oligonucleotides decrease proteins in which the nucleotide sequence is known such as the muscaranic m2 receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Activation of protein kinase-C (PKC) has been reported to modify a variety of receptor-ligand interactions, including that of tumor necrosis factor alpha with immune cells. Thus, we studied the effect of phorbol esters on the binding of beta-endorphin to naloxone-resistant receptors on the promonocyte-like U937 cell line. After incubating intact U937 cells with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA, 100 nM) at 22 degrees C for 30 min, the specific binding of 125I-beta-endorphin was maximally reduced by approximately 40%. Only PMA (10-150 nM), and not the biologically inactive phorbol, 4 alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate, caused this rapid, dose-dependent down-regulation. PMA did not interfere with the radioreceptor assay nor did it induce down-regulation when incubated with cell membrane. Scatchard analysis revealed that PMA significantly reduced both the number of receptors and Kd (10,640 receptors/cell and Kd = 2.9 +/- 0.1 nM for control vs. 4,868 receptors/cell and Kd = 1.5 +/- 0.7 nM for 150 nM PMA). The effect of PMA was abolished by preincubating cells with the inhibitors of PKC, N-(2-aminoethyl)-5 isoquinolinesulfonamide or 1-(5-isoquinolinyl-sulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine. Down-regulation was reversible; removing 100 nM PMA from the media partially restored binding by 3 h and completely by 24 h. At 22 degrees C, internalization of 125I-beta-endorphin was not observed, and this was not altered by PMA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Both the hypotension and the sedation elicited by centrally acting antihypertensive agents are traditionally attributed to activation of alpha 2 adrenergic receptors. Second-generation centrally acting agents such as moxonidine are less sedating but retain antihypertensive efficacy. A novel receptor which recognizes imidazolines may contribute to their vasodepressor action in the ventrolateral medulla (VLM). We sought to determine whether moxonidine was a selective ligand for these putative I1-imidazoline receptors in different species and tissues. Moxonidine inhibited [3H]clonidine binding to bovine VLM membranes in a heterogeneous manner, showing 40-fold selectivity for one component. Masking studies using selective inhibitors to block either I1-imidazoline or alpha 2 sites established that the population of sites showing high affinity for moxonidine were I1-imidazoline sites. Moxonidine also showed 70-fold selectivity for I1-imidazoline sites labeled by [125I]p-iodoclonidine in the VLM. Moxonidine competitively inhibited [3H]clonidine binding to I1-imidazoline sites at concentrations that failed to inhibit alpha 2 binding. In the rat renal medulla, moxonidine showed almost 700-fold selectivity for I1-imidazoline sites relative to the alpha 2B receptor subtype. The high affinity of moxonidine for I1 sites was confirmed by using membranes prepared from bovine adrenomedullary cells, which lack alpha 2 adrenergic receptors. Among centrally acting antihypertensives, clinical potency correlated with binding affinity at bovine VLM I1-imidazoline sites (r = 0.996, N = 4), but not with alpha 2 adrenergic affinity (r = -0.239, N = 6). The potent action of moxonidine on I1-imidazoline receptors may account for its antihypertensive efficacy.
Two approaches for representing speech information with multichannel cochlear prostheses are being compared in tests with implant patients. Included in these studies are the compressed analog (CA) approach of a standard clinical device and research processors utilizing continuous interleaved sampling (CIS). Initial studies have been completed with nine subjects, seven of whom were selected on the basis of excellent performance with the Ineraid clinical processor, and the remaining two for their relatively poor performance with the same device. The tests include open-set recognition of words and sentences. Every subject has obtained a higher score--or repeated a score of 100% correct--on every test when using a CIS processor. These results are discussed in terms of their implications for processor design.
The adaptive response of the neuroendocrine system to stress is known to be impaired during ageing, and this impairment may be genetically determined. To elucidate further the effect of genotype, inbred male rats of the Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) strain, characterized by their hyper-reactivity to stressors and shorter life span, were compared with Brown-Norway (BN) rats. In young BN rats, resting prolactin concentrations were lower than in WKY animals and were reduced with age, while in WKY rats they remained unchanged with age. In young rats of both strains prolactin concentrations were highest after subjecting them to stressful stimuli for 15 min. After 2 h of restraint stress (during which the animals were confined to a narrow space that restricted movement) prolactin concentrations in young rats returned to pre-stress values, while remaining high in aged rats of both strains. Concentrations of corticotrophin (or adrenocorticotrophic hormone, ACTH) were lower in BN than in WKY rats and did not change with age in either strain. After 2 h of stress, ACTH concentrations were still slightly higher than normal in both young and aged BN rats, but not in WKY rats. Corticosterone concentrations were similar in young WKY and BN rats and were reduced in aged rats of both strains. After 2 h of stress, corticosterone concentrations were still high in aged, but not in young rats of both strains. However, this stress-induced increase was larger (3.7 times as much) in the BN strain than in the WKY strain (in which the increase was 1.7 times as much). The concentrations of hypothalamic monoamines were similar in young rats of both strains, although stress resulted in reduced noradrenaline concentrations, as previously documented, and in minor increases in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in both strains. During ageing, basal noradrenaline concentrations were reduced only in WKY rats, while the amount of 5-HT increased selectively in BN rats. Concentrations of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were increased after stress in aged WKY rats only. The results demonstrate that resting plasma concentrations of the stress hormones ACTH and corticosterone and of prolactin are lower in BN than in WKY rats. In ageing, however, the stress-induced increases in the concentrations of these hormones are relatively higher in the BN strain, which is characterized by a longer life span.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Extrinsic absorption changes exhibited by squid giant axons stained with the voltage-sensitive merocyanine-oxazolone dye NK 2367 were measured during brief voltage-clamp steps. Experiments that employed an optical recording system having a sub-microsecond response time constant demonstrate that this dye responds to step changes in membrane voltage in less than 2 microseconds at room temperature. The optical response is independent of ionic currents and is unlikely to depend upon cytoskeletal or cytoplasmic events.



Using an upright microscope and an interface type slice chamber for epifluorometric imaging of fura-2 injected neurons in brain slice is particularly convenient to obtain good spatial resolution. Using this approach we found that muscarinic activation uncouples K-channel activation from intradendritic Ca and that postsynaptic spines represent independent compartments for Ca-activated processes when activated synaptically.


Personality characteristics in patients with long-term patellofemoral pain were compared to those of matched controls and other groups both of non-patients and of psychiatric outpatients with character disorders. Personality was described using the self-administered dependency and alexithymia scales, the Karolinska Scales of Personality and the Rorschach inkblot method. The hypothesis was that the patellofemoral pain patients would have higher levels of anxiety, depression, helplessness, aggression and alexithymic characteristics than the matched controls. There were only a few significant differences between the knee patients and the matched controls. The Rorschach measures suggested significantly greater depression, hostility and passive attitude in the knee patients as compared to the reference data. There were no indications of the hypothesised alexithymic characteristics in the knee patients. If patellofemoral pain patients do not improve as expected, referral to a pain clinic with psychological expertise could be considered.
Administration of morphine exerts many effects on the immune system. On the other hand little attention has been paid to the fact, that endogenous morphine and codeine exists in mammals, including man. This raises the question, whether or not endogenous opiate alkaloids play some role in immunoregulation. In addition muramyl-dipeptide (MDP), product of bacterial cell wall degradation and a potent immunomodulatory agent exhibits a broad spectrum of effects including effects on CNS functions. The present study investigated whether or not the endogenous levels of morphine and codeine are affected by administration of MDP in mice. Marked variation was found in spleen, brain, small intestine and heart in morphine and codeine concentrations. The intraperitoneal administration of MDP produced a significant increase in tissue morphine levels 30 minutes after injection.
The effects of aging were studied on both early and late [subsequent to activation of protein kinase C (PKC)] events of signal transduction in mouse T cell subsets. Aged C57Bl/6 mice showed significant suppression of Con A-stimulated Ca2+ mobilization in both CD4+ and CD8+T cells compared to young mice. When early signaling was bypassed by stimulating cells with the combination of a calcium ionophore and a phorbol ester. [3H]thymidine incorporation was comparable between young and aged mice while Con A-stimulated [3H]thymidine uptake remained depressed in aged mice. These results suggest that impairment of early (but not late) events may be responsible for the suppression of T cell proliferation in aged animals. Further, aged mice exhibited a significant increase in spontaneous proliferation resulting in a robust reduction of the stimulation index of both Con A and PMA/A23187-induced proliferation. Similarly, aged mice exhibited a significant increase in spontaneous IL-2R expression in both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. No differences in IL-2 secretion were found between young and aged mice. The change in IL-2R expression was positively correlated with increased spontaneous proliferation. Overall these results suggest that: 1) impaired early (pre-PKC) rather than later (post-PKC) events of signaling may be responsible for poor proliferation of T cells, and 2) endogenous activation of cells related to increased level of IL-2R expression may play an important role in aging-associated immunosuppression.
Frequent but phasic gnawing of objects is displayed by rats in which severe damage within: 1) the substantia nigra reticulata, 2) all of the amygdaloid nuclei except the central group and 3) multiple thalamic nuclei, was induced by lithium/pilocarpine-induced seizures. Multiple lesions were produced by these rats upon their own tails as well as upon the tails of their cage mates. These behaviors were considered predictable sequela of the disinhibition of compacta dopamine upon orofacial mechanisms that are modulated by the corpus striatum. In a manner similar to tail pinch-induced eating, the usually quick onset of spontaneous gnawing upon food chunks in a test setting was delayed transiently by appropriate dosages of haloperidol.
Antagonist/agonist binding ratios (NMS/Oxo-M ratio) were used as an index of the efficacy of novel compounds acting at muscarinic receptors. These binding ratios have been used with a range of functional pharmacological assays to investigate the effects of varying the efficacy of muscarinic agonists. This strategy has been used as a means of obtaining functional receptor selectivity by exploiting differences in effective receptor reserves. The oxadiazole and pyrazine muscarinic agonists L-670,548 (NMS/Oxo-M ratio 1100) and L-680,648 (NMS/Oxo-M ratio 690) are amongst some of the most potent and efficacious agonists known. Decreasing the efficacy of compounds from these series, resulted in compounds with functional selectivity. The chloropyrazine L-689,660 (NMS/Oxo-M ratio 28) was an agonist on the rat superior cervical ganglion (M1), a partial agonist on the guinea-pig ileum (M3), but was an antagonist in the guinea-pig atria (M2). Synthesis of compounds with even lower predicted efficacy, such as the cyclopropyloxadiazole L-687,306 (NMS/Oxo-M ratio 15), maintained agonist activity in the ganglion, but showed antagonist activity in the M3 ileal, as well as the M2 atrial preparations. When tested in vivo these compounds did not produce many of the side effects associated with more efficacious agonists, particularly those associated with the cardiovascular system. However, they were active in reversing scopolamine-induced deficits in a variety of behavioural paradigms. This approach shows how functional selectivity for muscarinic receptor subtypes can be achieved in vitro, that in vivo reduces the dose-limiting side effects normally associated with muscarinic agonists.
Results of previous studies on the effects of ethanol consumption on the properties of D1 dopamine receptors appear contradictory and inconclusive. In this study we have examined the time course of the effects of dietary ethanol on the properties of striatal D1 dopamine receptors. Chronic ethanol intake led to bidirectional changes in the maximum number (Bmax) of [3H]SCH-23390 binding to striatal D1 dopamine receptors measured 10 hrs after termination of the ethanol intake. A significant decrease (80% of control), increase (159% of control), increase (122% of control), and decrease (85% of control) after 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks of ethanol intake respectively was observed. The bidirectional changes disappeared after 6 and 10 weeks of continued ethanol intake and the Bmax returned back to the control level. The receptor affinity (Kd), however, remained unaltered in all cases. These data suggest that the duration of ethanol exposure may be an important determinant in regulating D1 dopamine receptor density.
Diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) is a 10-kDa polypeptide that is enriched in steroidogenic cells such as adrenocortical, Leydig, and glial cells. In these cells, DBI and some of its processing products bind to the mitochondrial DBI receptor (MDR), located on the outer mitochondrial membrane, and stimulate pregnenolone formation by facilitating cholesterol access to the inner mitochondrial membrane where the cytochrome P-450 side chain cleavage enzyme is located. To determine whether the ACTH-induced increase in adrenal steroidogenesis occurs via changes in DBI and MDR expression the adrenal content of DBI-like immunoreactivity (DBI-LI), the MDR density, and the expression of mRNAs encoding for DBI and MDR were studied in hypophysectomized rats treated with vehicle or ACTH. After 9 days from the hypophysectomy, the levels of DBI-like immunoreactivity (DBI-LI) and DBI-mRNA declined to approximately 20% of their normal value; in contrast MDR-density and MDR-mRNA levels were reduced by 50-60% and were associated to a similar decrease in the activity of type A monoamine oxidase, a marker for mitochondrial proteins. Prolonged administration of ACTH-R (ACTH in saline containing 16% gelatin, 15 U/kg/day, from day 7 after surgery) to hypophysectomized rats, completely restored DBI and MDR adrenal expression to values similar to those of sham-operated rats. Our results indicate that ACTH, probably acting at the transcriptional level, is required for the normal expression of DBI and MDR in adrenal cortex. Changes in DBI and MDR expression after ACTH administration were not temporally related to the immediate steroidogenesis induced by ACTH, and may reflect its long-term trophic action on adrenocortical cells.
The discovery of angiotensin-(1-7) [Ang-(1-7)] as a bioactive Ang II fragment of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) alters the current understanding of the enzymatic components that comprise the RAS cascade. Two neutral endopeptidases, prolyl endopeptidase (E.C. 3.4.21.26) and neutral endopeptidase 24.11 (E.C. 3.4.24.11), are capable of forming Ang-(1-7) from Ang I and have been implicated in the in vivo processing of Ang I. This makes them putative Ang processing enzymes and part of the RAS cascade. This review summarizes the physical characteristics and distribution of angiotensin converting enzyme (E.C. 3.4.15.1), a known Ang I processing enzyme, and compares its features to what is known of prolyl endopeptidase and neutral endopeptidase 24.11.
High-affinity binding sites for the isoquinoline carboxamide PK 11195 and 4'-chlorodiazepam (4'CD) in human lymphocytes are recognized by two putative endogenous ligands: diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) and protoporphyrin IX. We have now demonstrated that several synthetic DBI peptides--analogues to naturally processed human DBI (H-DBI) fragments--differ from protoporphyrin IX in the manner in which they displace [3H]PK 11195 and [3H]4'CD from binding sites associated with intact and cell-free lymphocyte preparations. In particular, the peptide fragments DBI37-80 and DBI37-70 displaced [3H]PK 11195 and [3H]4'CD with higher affinity from their binding sites on intact lymphocytes (Ki approximately 3-5 microM) than from the sites in the cell-free preparation (Ki approximately 20 microM). In contrast, protoporphyrin IX displaced [3H]PK 11195 and [3H]4'CD with higher affinity in the cell-free preparation (Ki - 0.4 microM) than in intact lymphocytes (Ki &gt; 50 microM). Because DBI peptide fragments and protoporphyrin IX do not readily penetrate the plasma membrane of lymphocytes, our results suggest the existence of binding sites located both on the external face of the plasma membrane and intracellularly. The plasma membrane binding sites, recognized essentially only by DBI fragments, are termed here plasma membrane DBI receptors (PDRs). In contrast, the intracellular binding sites, recognized by both DBI fragments and protoporphyrin IX, are presumably located on mitochondria and are termed mitochondrial DBI receptors (MDRs). Immunohistochemical electronmicroscopic studies with antibodies to the synthetic peptide fragments 62-76 of the rat MDR support the hypothesis that PDRs are expressed on lymphocyte plasma membranes.
Changes in immunoreactive somatostatin (SOM) and cholecystokinin (CCK-8) levels in the cerebellum and cerebrum were investigated in three types of genetically-determined ataxic mutant mice: rolling mouse Nagoya (RMN), weaver, and Purkinje cell degeneration (PCD) mice. The cerebellar pathology in each of these types differs. The concentration of both SOM and CCK-8 (ng/mg weight) was significantly higher in the cerebellum and the cerebrum of the three types of ataxic mutant mice than in these regions in the respective controls. SOM and CCK-8 content (ng/organ) was significantly higher in PCD and RMN than in controls but this was not in the weaver mice. The possible involvement of both peptides in manifestations of ataxia is discussed.
Morphine administered as a subcutaneous implant was previously reported to inhibit the mitogen-induced initial increases in cytoplasmic free calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i) in mouse splenocytes. The present studies were initiated to determine whether morphine affects signal transduction subsequent to activation of protein kinase C (PKC) in immune cells. Administration of morphine significantly inhibited the phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)-stimulated increase in interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R) expression in both CD4+ and CD8+ mouse T cells. In contrast, morphine treatment had no effect on PMA/calcium ionophore (A23187)-induced increase in IL-2 secretion, suggesting a selective inhibition of IL-2R expression. Simultaneous administration of morphine and the opiate antagonist naltrexone blocked the effect of morphine on CD4+ cells. The inhibition of PMA-stimulated IL-2R expression was not reproduced by incubating splenocytes with morphine (10(-8)-10(-5) M). These results suggest that this effect of morphine was mediated through opiate-receptors, but not directly via opiate receptors located on T cells. Moreover, adrenalectomy abolished this effect of morphine in CD4+ but not CD8+ T cells, suggesting that the inhibitory effect of morphine on IL-2R expression in CD4+ T cells may be mediated through a morphine-induced increase in corticosteroid levels. Thus, opiate-induced immunosuppression may involve an inhibition of post-PKC events, especially IL-2R expression, as well as impairment of earlier events in the activation of immune cells such as the increase in [Ca2+]i.
Nauseogenic agents, such as apomorphine, were previously reported to promote peripheral release of oxytocin (OT), but not vasopressin (AVP) in rats, and AVP, but not OT in humans (7-13). In the present study, we compared the peripheral secretory responses of OT and AVP in adult male and female rhesus and male cynomolgus monkeys administered graded doses of apomorphine and the respective dopamine D1 and D2 receptor agonists, CY 208-243 and LY 163502. Apomorphine (50-400 micrograms/kg) and LY 163502 (10-100 micrograms/kg) elicited dose-dependent stimulation of OT and AVP, whereas CY 208-243 did not significantly increase secretion of either hormone. The magnitude of the OT and AVP secretory response varied among the animals. Peripheral OT and AVP responses were robust, but the magnitude of the secretory responses was greater for AVP than OT. None of the animals displayed emetic behavior during the studies. These studies indicate that dopaminergic stimulation, particularly of D2 receptors, can regulate both AVP and OT secretion in monkeys.
We feel that there is now compelling evidence that the GTP-binding proteins play more than just a coordinating role in the actions of both tyrosine kinase and nontyrosine kinase receptor signal transduction. These similarities appear to represent just a small component of the convergence in the signaling pathways for structurally dissimilar receptor subsets. Future years will see further understanding of the intricacies of these G-protein-proto-oncogene interactions, and the extension into the potential role in growth factor action played by the expanding number of known members of this G-protein family.


Axoplasm prepared as described above will maintain high levels of fast axonal transport for 1-2 hours, although moderate decrements in the average velocity may be noted over time. The organelles and structures that can be detected in isolated axoplasma are as small as the 50-nm synaptic vesicles or 25-nm microtubules, well below the limits of resolution for light microscopy; however, in the center of the axoplasm, where the density of structures is high, individual microtubules are not readily distinguished and individual vesicles can be followed only for short distances before they move out of the plane of focus or are lost in the multitude of neighboring organelles. On the periphery of perfused axoplasm, each of these structures may be readily detected and analyzed, but some information is lost about the role of specific axoplasmic organization in normal transport processes. Fortunately, the juxtaposition in one preparation of essentially structurally intact axoplasm with the extracted individual microtubules transporting organelles provides a unique preparation for molecular dissection of intracellular transport (Brady et al., 1985).

The following view of transgenic studies applied to the understanding of brain function is written as a guide for neuroscientists who may be considering transgenesis techniques in the pursuit of their research. Although most important studies are covered, the chapter is not a comprehensive review of the literature. Rather, it is intended to convey the possibilities of a particular technique, and thus provide an indication of both strategies and attainable goals. In addition to providing information relevant to experimental design, particular areas of neuroscience that have benefited from transgenic approaches will also be discussed. Developmental neurobiology is not specifically addressed; for a recent review of genomic manipulations in neuron/ glial lineage analysis. The first section of the present chapter describes the use of transgenics to localize cis-acting elements within neuronal genes, which act in the mediation of cell-specific and regulated expression. Transgenic mice have been chosen, to an extent, by default as models for neuronal gene analysis since suitable, permanent neuronal cell lines are not available for transfection studies. Analysis of enhancer/promoter regions is a daunting undertaking in transgenics and there is a strong argument for combining these studies with DNA-mediated transfection experiments in heterologous cell lines. Transgenic animals are, however, much more than model expression systems; they provide a unique opportunity to study both the regulation and role of neuronal genes in the context of integrated brain systems. The second section deals with approaches to neuronal gene function, concerning both gain-of-function and loss-of-function techniques. In the third section, the use of transgenics in the molecular analysis of neurological syndromes is discussed: Are transgenic rodents useful models for human brain diseases? Finally, the capacity to generate neuronal cell lines following targeted expression of oncogenes to specific neurons is assessed. The transgenic studies discussed here employ mice as the experimental animal, and, with one exception, use DNA microinjection techniques in the generation of transgenics. At the time of writing, no studies have been published in which neuronal transgenes are expressed in rats. However, the techniques for producing transgenic rats are now available; given the ubiquitous use of rats by neuroscience investigators it is anticipated that the rat will be increasingly used to provide transgenic models for brain research.
The authors present the results of a survey of anesthesiologists members of the &quot;SIAARTI (Societ Italiana di Anestesia, Analgesia, Rianimazione e Terapia Intensiva) Committee for anesthesia and critical care in neurosurgery and neurology&quot;. Among the aims of the survey, was to evaluate when the interest in neuroscience of the members of this group started, and the clinical work dedicated to neuroanesthesia and critical care. At present, the group has grown to 143 members. In the questionnaire 105 members indicated the topic discussed for the medical degree thesis, and 87 indicated the thesis discussed for the board in anesthesia. As emerged from the topic of the thesis discussed for the medical degree, in 47% of the responders the interest in anesthesia began during the college. Of this, 6% chose a topic in neuroanesthesia and critical care. During the residency, the interest in neuroscience increased to 33%, that is 32 out of 97 responders discussed a thesis in neuroanesthesia and critical care. Forty-eight per cent of the members performs clinical work &quot;exclusively&quot; in neuroanesthesia, while 39% does it &quot;mainly&quot;, and only 13% works in neurosurgery &quot;fiftfully&quot;.
This article reports measurements of extracellular polyamines in rat brain. Microdialysis probes were implanted in the striatum and microperfusion samples were collected before, during, and after transient (20 min) global ischemia. Polyamine levels in microperfusates were measured by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography after precolumn derivatization. No significant changes in extracellular polyamines were detected for up to 3 h following ischemia. We conclude that extracellular levels of polyamines (1) are comparable to the low levels in other extracellular compartments, and (2) do not change during the initial period of reperfusion, the period most critical for neuron survival after ischemia.
Regionally selective delayed neuronal degeneration is a characteristic sequel of cerebral ischemia. Recent evidence indicates that changes in brain polyamine metabolism may be critical for nerve cell survival after ischemia. Within hours after ischemia, intracellular putrescine levels are greatly increased and remain elevated for days, whereas only minor changes are noted in the levels of the polyamines spermine and spermidine. In contrast, the extracellular levels of all polyamines are low after ischemia. Injections of polyamines following ischemia, however, can protect neurons in the gerbil brain from delayed cell death, with spermine being the most potent of the polyamines. In the present study, therefore, we sought to determine if increased polyamine uptake occurs in the brain after ischemia. In the hippocampal slice preparation, temperature-dependent uptake was unique for spermine, but not for spermidine or putrescine. Uptake of [14C]spermine was transiently increased after ischemia, peaking at 150% of control by 12-13 h and subsiding by 24 h. Intravenous injections of [3H]spermidine resulted in a postischemic accumulation of this polyamine throughout the forebrain parenchyma. We conclude that: 1. Active cellular uptake of spermine is transiently increased early after ischemia; 2. A nonspecific accumulation of exogenous polyamines occurs early after ischemia probably owing to a compromised blood-brain barrier, and 3. The findings indicate that exogenous polyamines can exert their effect directly in the brain after ischemia.
Time-dependent changes in levels of the antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSHPOD), and catalase (CAT) after cortical focal ischemia in rat indicate that: (1) primary and peri-ischemic tissues differ in both rate and the magnitude of oxyradical-induced ischemic injury, and (2) ischemic tissue remains vulnerable to oxyradical damage as long as 72 h after ischemia since the antioxidant enzyme levels remain at or below basal levels. After 72 h, the increased levels of these enzymes are sufficient to protect tissue against oxyradical damage. GM1 ganglioside (10 mg/kg, im) further increased the already elevated levels of the enzymes after ischemia, thereby indicating the GM1 treatment increases the capacity of ischemic tissue to protect against oxyradical injury.
We describe the appearance of left hemineglect and striking cataleptic posturing, more prominent in left-sided extremities, in a patient without psychiatric illness. Neuroimaging demonstrated a large posterior right hemisphere infarct involving the parietal, occipital, and temporal lobes, the insula, and caudate. Additional movement abnormalities that comprise the full catatonia syndrome were absent, including stereotypy, mannerisms, ambitendency, automatic obedience, mutism, negativism, and echopraxia. Catatonia has been reported to be produced by lesions of diverse etiology affecting the frontal lobe, limbic system, diencephalon, or basal ganglia. In these cases, catalepsy has been manifest only rarely, and motor signs that are present are generally bilateral. This case demonstrates that asymmetric catalepsy can be produced by right hemisphere stroke, and provides partial support for earlier clinical literature relating catalepsy and the parietal lobe.

Changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) associated with a face-matching task were examined using positron emission tomography (PET) and H2(15)O in 7 patients with mild-moderate dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) and in 8 healthy age-matched controls. rCBF was normalized to whole brain flow and pixel-by-pixel difference images were computed by contrasting flow during a control task to flow during face matching. Both patients and controls showed bilateral rCBF increases in occipitotemporal extrastriate cortex during face matching. The magnitude of these increases was not significantly different between the groups. In addition, the patients showed greater rCBF activation in regions of occipital and frontal cortex. These results show that early in the course of DAT, patients utilize extrastriate cortex to perform a visuoperceptual task, as do control subjects but also show rCBF increases in additional cortical areas. Activation of these additional areas of cortex in the patients may reflect an increased attentional load during face matching due to their reduced cognitive capacity.
The anatomical connections of the rat paraventricular thalamic nucleus (PaVT) have been studied using the fluorescent dye DiI. The fact that this compound is able to dissolve and to diffuse in plasma membranes in formalin-fixed tissues (Godement et al., 1987) allowed us to depose precisely tiny quantities of DiI on the PaVT, in order to study its neuronal connections. Ventralward, the forebrain projections of the PaVT were directed to the reuniens nucleus of the thalamus, the dorso-medial hypothalamic region, the zona incerta and the lateral hypothalamic area. In the rostral direction, the PaVT appeared to innervate mainly the medial preoptic area, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (particularly the ventral and medial regions) and the medial septum. The forebrain afferent connections of the PaVT were found to originate mainly in the lateral and periventricular hypothalamic area, the medial preoptic area, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the medial septum where the fluorescent nerve cell bodies appeared particularly numerous. From these results, it is concluded that DiI is a useful tool for demonstrating the neuroanatomical connections of small brain nuclei, as well as for post-mortem neuropathological studies.
The cellular localization of the tyrosine-specific protein kinase p62c-yes, the product of the proto-oncogene c-yes, has been examined in the striatonigral neurons which interconnect the rat neostriatum and substantia nigra. Although p62c-yes was more enriched in the neostriatum than in the substantia nigra, excitotoxin-induced necrosis of nerve cells in the neostriatum led to 50-60% decreases of p62c-yes both in the lesioned neostriatum and in the ipsilateral substantia nigra. Hence, the p62c-yes tyrosine kinase is present both in the cell body region and in the axonal and nerve terminal region of the striatonigral neurons. This localization indicates that the enzyme may be involved in both presynaptic and postsynaptic functions in mammalian forebrain neurons.
Glutamate receptors are the major excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the central nervous system. A variety of data has recently suggested that protein phosphorylation of glutamate receptors regulates their function. To examine at a molecular level the role of protein phosphorylation in the modification of glutamate receptors, we have transiently expressed the non-NMDA glutamate receptor subunit GluR1 (flop) in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Using a polyclonal antipeptide antiserum directed specifically against GluR1, we have immunoprecipitated a 106 kDa phosphoprotein corresponding to the GluR1 subunit. Phosphoamino acid analysis and thermolytic peptide mapping demonstrate that this basal phosphorylation occurs exclusively on serine residues in two phosphopeptides. Application of activators of endogenous cAMP-dependent protein kinase or protein kinase C revealed no consistent changes in the phosphorylation of GluR1. However, co-expression of the GluR1 subunit with the well characterized protein tyrosine kinase v-src results in phosphorylation of GluR1 on tyrosine residues, in a single thermolytic phosphopeptide. These results suggest that GluR1 may be a substrate for protein serine/threonine kinases as well as protein tyrosine kinases in the central nervous system.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) caused a transient increase in intracellular Ca2+ in C6BU-1 glioma cells in a concentration-dependent manner; half maximally at 73 nM. The 5-HT2 agonist 1-(4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2- aminopropane also increased the levels of intracellular Ca2+, whereas the 5-HT1C agonist 1-(3-chlorophenyl)piperazine and 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2- (di-n-propylamino)tetralin were completely ineffective. Ketanserin and spiperone blocked the response to 5-HT at a nanomolar concentration, but the 5-HT3 antagonist MDL 72222 had no effect on it. Thus 5-HT2 receptors are responsible for activating Ca2+ mobilization in C6 glioma cells. Treatment of C6 glioma cells with dexamethasone potentiated the ability of 5-HT to cause intracellular Ca2+ mobilization in both a dose- and time-dependent manner. The dose-response curve for 5-HT was shifted 9-fold to the left compared to controls, and the Vmax value was also significantly enhanced. This enhanced Ca2+ mobilization was completely inhibited by ketanserin dose-dependently. In addition, the treatment with dexamethasone enhanced fluoride-activated Ca2+ mobilization, suggesting that the enhanced GTP binding protein function is one of the mechanisms responsible for the enhancement of the 5-HT response induced by dexamethasone treatment. This enhancement of agonist activity was mediated by the type II glucocorticoid receptor (GR) since RU 38486, an inhibitor of the type II GR, antagonized the dexamethasone-induced enhancement.
The membrane properties of arcuate nucleus (ARN) neurons and their connections with extranuclear regions were examined in vitro, using intracellular recordings obtained in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus. Current-clamp analysis revealed that the electroresponsive properties of a large proportion of ARN neurons are influenced by the expression of various forms of low threshold rectification. When the initial membrane potential of a neuron was maintained negative to -70 mV, depolarizing current injection could precipitate an immediate bursting response, due to the activation of a low-threshold spike, or delay firing as a result of transient outward rectification. These properties represent a means by which changes in membrane potential may modulate the responsiveness of ARN neurons to synaptic input. Indeed, electrical stimulation revealed that in addition to efferent projections to the supraoptic nucleus, medial preoptic area, or neurointermediate pituitary, subgroups of ARN neurons may receive a reciprocal, or collateral innervation from each of these areas. This functional diversity of intrinsic and synaptic mechanisms provides ARN neurons with a high capacity for the complex local processing of afferent information.
Numerous reports have demonstrated that interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) is a potent secretagogue for adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) and that IL-1 alpha appears to be considerably less efficacious. To clarify apparent differences in the potency of IL-1 alpha vs. -beta on ACTH secretion from a functional perspective, the IL-1 receptor antagonist protein, IRAP, was utilized. Following administration to rats either intravenously (i.v.) or adjacent to the median eminence (intra-ME), IL-1 beta was approximately 8-fold more potent than IL-1 alpha. IRAP, delivered i.v. or intra-ME, inhibited ACTH secretion due to the administration of IL-1 alpha or -beta by the corresponding route. Similar amounts of IRAP were required to attenuate ACTH responses to approximately equieffective i.v. doses of IL-1 alpha (200 ng) or -beta (25 ng): IC50 for IRAP inhibition of IL-1 alpha vs. -beta was approximately 2.5 or 5.5 micrograms, respectively. At these IC50 doses, the ratios of IRAP/IL-1 were 12.5 and 220 for IL-1 alpha vs. -beta, respectively. These ratios are compatible with mediation by a type I-like IL-1 receptor. To compare these properties of the central IL-1 receptor to a peripheral type I IL-1 receptor in the same species, the IL-1-enhanced rat thymocyte comitogenesis assay was utilized. Thymocyte proliferation in response to equieffective doses of IL-1 alpha or -beta was similarly inhibited by IRAP:approximate IC50 for inhibition of IL-1 alpha vs. -beta was 12.5 or 25 ng/ml, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We quantified the synaptic population density in the frontal cortex of 25 individuals without dementia 16 to 98 years old, using sections double-immunolabeled for beta/A4 amyloid and for synaptophysin, and found a significant inverse correlation between the presynaptic terminal (PT) counts and age (r = -0.7, p &lt; 0.001). Individuals older than 60 years had an average 20% decrease in PT density compared with individuals younger than 60 years. There were no significant correlations between the age and the number of beta/A4 amyloid-positive plaques or between synaptic density and the number of amyloid plaques. Further analysis of the digitized serial optical images showed focal areas of synapse loss and distended synaptophysin-containing boutons in the mature plaques of the normal aged cases. However, we found no microscopic changes in the synaptic content inside and outside the diffuse plaques. We suggest that a loss of synaptic input in the neocortex is an age-dependent factor that contributes to the overall synaptic loss in Alzheimer's disease, but that this might be largely independent of the beta/A4-amyloid deposition.
We examined the relationship of culturally adapted Chinese versions of the Mini-Mental State Examination (CMMS) and several functional measures to the effect of education on the clinical diagnosis of dementia in 554 subjects (55 to 95 years; median, 74) who had undergone intensive evaluation during the Shanghai survey of dementia. Low education was associated with increased prevalence of clinically diagnosed dementia. The standardized history and one functional scale (Pfeffer Outpatient Disability Scale [POD]) clustered closely with clinical diagnosis on factor analysis, whereas the CMMS, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living scale (IADL), and Activities of Daily Living scale (ADL) loaded additionally onto an education-weighted component. A logistic equation based on the CMMS, history, POD, and IADL was the best predictor of the clinical diagnosis of dementia, but history, POD, and IADL without a mental status score also predicted the diagnosis with a sensitivity of 88.6%, a specificity of 89.3%, a positive predictive value of 66.0%, and a negative predictive value of 97.1%. When dementia was diagnosed using an algorithm based on the three functional scales alone, low education continued to be associated with increased age-specific risk of dementia.

Two-thirds of stiff-man syndrome (SMS) patients harbor an autoantibody specific for a 64-kD species of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the rate-limiting enzyme in GABA synthesis. We assayed SMS antisera from two patients with SMS for the presence of anti-GAD antibodies using Western blot, immunohistochemical, and enzymatic analyses. Both SMS antisera recognized an 80-kD antigen present in human and rat neuronal extracts, and failed to recognize the 64-kD GAD species. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated neuronal binding identical to that reported with anti-GAD antibodies. Both sera depleted GAD activity from brain extracts. Our analysis indicates that these SMS antisera differ from previously reported SMS antisera by recognizing a novel 80-kD antigen, and suggests that they contain antibodies directed against either a species of GAD different in size from the 64-kD enzyme, or a protein that co-immunoprecipitates with GAD.
We investigated the ability of 25 patients with left unilateral spatial neglect to make a clock face by putting numbers inside a printed circle. Impairment seen in this clock-drawing test did not parallel neglect severity as judged by results of the line-cancellation and line-bisection tests, as well as the copying of a daisy. The score for clock drawing correlated highly with the verbal WAIS score. Most neglect patients with a verbal IQ of 87 or more could draw a clock face fairly well and used planning in placing the numbers 12, 3, 6, and 9 before the others. In clock drawing, verbal intelligence may compensate for left unilateral spatial neglect. We therefore recommend use of the line-cancellation and line-bisection tests, as well as the copying test, but do not recommend use of the clock-drawing test in the diagnosis of left unilateral spatial neglect.
Twenty-two patients--11 paranoid schizophrenics and 11 major depressed--were investigated by means of a hypothalamic-pituitary challenge (HPC). The latter contained insulin, TRH and metoclopramide. Response with regard to blood glucose, serum GH, PRL, TSH and cortisol were measured 30, 60, 90, 120 and 180 min after the baseline. Temporal alpha power was split into 2 groups with high and low alpha power, respectively. The aim was to see whether high cortical-limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal reactivity correlated with high temporal alpha power. Poor results were found with regard to diagnoses. Only TSH and glucose response were correlated with diagnoses. But, GH and cortisol responses reacted in relation to different alpha levels. Cell loss due to hormonal stress and consecutive miswiring of axons due to wrong sprouting are discussed as possible reasons for abnormal lateralized HPC response.
A 46-year-old woman presented complaining of resting tremor of the right arm and attacks of inappropriate crying and laughing. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of the head revealed a large left sphenoid wing meningioma. Preoperative cerebral angiography demonstrated a persistent stapedial artery, terminating as a middle meningeal artery which was the main blood supply to the tumour.
A 28-year-old female farmer, without vascular risk factors, developed a limited infarct of the pons, associated with a lymphocytic cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pleocytosis. Titres of specific antibodies against Borrelia burgdorferi were high in serum and CSF. MRI confirmed an infarct in the territory of the medial pontine arteries, but angiography showed no evidence of cerebral angiopathy. Antibiotic therapy rapidly led to a return to normal of CSF cytology and serology. We suggest that Lyme disease is a possible cause of cerebral ischaemia.
The proportion of large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs) in motor nerve terminals of the rat biceps brachialis muscle was evaluated from embryonic day 20 to 4 weeks postpartum as well as in the adult. A progressive decrease was observed up to 3 weeks postpartum when maturation of the endplates is achieved. Differences compared with the adult were no longer significant at 4 weeks postpartum. Three types of LDVCs, classified according to their size and the core density, were detected. Their relative proportion did not vary significantly during the period of life examined. The high proportion of LDCVs during early development and their persistence at a low level in the adult suggest that they might play a role in the maturation and maintenance of the endplates.
A unique tandem confocal microscope (TSCM) has been developed that permits noninvasive imaging in vivo of the eye and many other organ systems in real time in situ. The application to the study of microphysiological processes in vivo is described and illustrated for the cornea, kidney, liver, epididymis, muscle, and adipose tissue. Novel applications are shown for studying the healing of wounds in four dimensions (x, y, z, t) in single animals over time at the cellular level. Application to clinical diagnostic use in humans is also demonstrated. When combined with Laser Scanning Confocal fluorescence microscopy, the TSCM offers a unique new imaging paradigm for experimental biology and medicine with great potential for use in neuroscience and many other disciplines.


Immunohistochemical and retrograde tracing techniques were combined in order to identify chemically specific displaced ganglion cells in the pigeon retina. About 15% of the displaced ganglion cells that were retrogradely labeled following injections of different tracers into the accessory optic nucleus were shown to contain cholecystokinin8-like immunoreactivity. These cells were medium to large (15-30 microns) and located mostly in the peripheral retina. Another population of about 9% of the retrogradely labeled displaced ganglion cells was shown to contain leucine-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity. These cells were medium-sized (11-18 microns) and distributed almost evenly throughout the retina. These two types of displaced ganglion cells represent together only about 0.1% of the total number of ganglion cells in the pigeon retina. Taken together with previous results, these data indicate that the displaced ganglion cells of the avian retina may comprise several chemically specific cell types. The present results also contribute information on the chemical heterogeneity of retinal ganglion cells.
Several lines of evidence (biochemical, neuroanatomical, electrophysiological, and behavioural) have indicated a critical role for the intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale of the chick forebrain in the acquisition of a passive avoidance response. Previous lesion studies indicated that bilateral or left, but not right, pretraining intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale lesions interfere with the acquisition of this task. We have further analysed this asymmetrical involvement of the intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale by use of a monocular learning protocol and intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale lesions (sham, bilateral, or unilateral). The results indicated that there is interocular transfer of information of passive avoidance learning between the two eye systems, with a tendency to be more successful from the right eye system to the left than in the opposite direction. As in binocular conditions, bilateral pretraining intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale lesions impair learning in monocularly trained animals. Unilateral lesions to either left or right monocularly trained experimental animals resulted in amnesia when they were made to the right intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale and the chicks were trained/tested with the left eye open. These results indicate that, although right intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale lesions do not result in amnesia in binocular animals, this region is capable of participating in memory acquisition processes. They also suggest a connection between lateralization of intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale function in passive avoidance learning and the behavioural and structural visual asymmetries known to occur in chicks.
Fodrin has been shown to redistribute dynamically between cytoplasmic and plasma membrane-associated compartments upon the differentiation of T lymphocytes. We studied the changes of distribution of fodrin in PC12 cells upon neuronal differentiation induced by nerve growth factor. To visualize preferentially the elements that were tightly associated with cytoskeletal structures, we performed immunofluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy on saponin-extracted cells. In undifferentiated PC12 cells, fodrin was distributed mostly underneath the plasma membrane. However, after the administration of nerve growth factor, perinuclear spot-like aggregates of fodrin appeared. Double-labeling immunofluorescence revealed that the cytoplasmic fodrin spot was co-localized with the intermediate filament proteins, peripherin and neurofilament. Immunogold electron microscopy showed that fodrin and neurofilament were localized in close association in the perinuclear regions enriched with intermediate filaments. With prolonged exposure to nerve growth factor, fodrin and intermediate filaments spread to the cytoplasm and neurites. These results suggest that there is a dynamic reorganization of fodrin during differentiation of PC12 cells, and that fodrin is first recruited in the perinuclear region closely associated with intermediate filaments. This dynamic reorganization of fodrin may represent important, previously unrecognized aspects of the morphological differentiation of neurons.
In dissociated spinal cord neurons (12-day-old mouse embryo, monolayer culture), an electron microscopic study was carried out to examine quantitatively the rearrangement of wheat-germ agglutinin-gold-labelled molecules on the neuronal somatic surface at two developmental stages (on the fifth and 15th days in vitro), and after cytoskeletal interruptions. In tests, before labelling the cultures were incubated with colchicine or cytochalasin in order to affect microtubules or mostly actin filaments, respectively. Samples of electron micrographs that display soma membrane (profile) fragments were quantified. A set of stochastic geometry approaches was accomplished, which allowed statistical and stereological analysis of labelling. Images that illustrate the lateral (surface) patterns of label were simulated. On the fifth day in vitro, both colchicine and cytochalasin were found to cause an increase in the surface density and aggregation of wheat-germ agglutinin label relative to controls, the effect of cytochalasin being significantly more profound. By the 15th day in vitro, treatment with both drugs led to a similar tendency towards heavy aggregation of wheat-germ agglutinin labels. In contrast, neuron processes showed an opposite tendency of label rearrangement, which suggests lateral migration of labelled molecules, as a result of drug action. Possible molecular mechanisms involved in the phenomena are discussed.
We have studied allogeneic transplants of adult rat enteric ganglia in order to evaluate their use as donor tissue for eventual autografts in rodent spinal cord injury models. Female Sprague-Dawley rats of similar weights served either as transplant donors or as recipients. A glass micropipette of 0.8 mm diameter was used to create a local penetrating injury of the lower thoracic spinal cord and the transplant material was pressure injected through the pipette within the neural parenchyma. Ganglia of the myenteric plexus adhering to the stratum longitudinal muscularis were dissected from portions of the jejunum and ileum. Following partial enzymatic digestion and mechanical disruption of the myenteric plexus and muscle tissue (labeled with adherent rhodamine conjugated microbeads), reaggregates of myenteric plexus and muscle were suspended in growth medium and cultured in vitro for one to two days prior to transplantation. Transplants were examined at three, four, six, and eight weeks after surgery. Some of the donor tissue was grown in vitro, in order to determine its cellular composition. These cultured explants were fixed after 10 days, and like myenteric plexus and muscle grafts, were stained histochemically for acetylcholinesterase and observed by fluorescence and light microscopy. At the earlier post-transplantation periods, grafts contained several clusters of enteric ganglion cells that were positive for acetylcholinesterase and exhibited ultrastructural features characteristic of the enteric nervous system. They had well-defined boundaries. Reactive astrocytes and their processes remained located within the host spinal cord adjacent to the boundary region of the grafts. Likewise, macrophages were located in areas abutting the graft. Newly formed vasculature penetrated the graft interior and appeared to be continuous with the host vessels. Grafts grown for at least eight weeks were characterized by interdigitating boundaries. Finger-like protrusions of graft tissue containing fibroblasts and collagen intermixed with adjacent gray and white matter of the host cord. Such transplants also had reactive astrocytes and ED1-positive macrophages. At this later stage, several groups of ganglion cells were identified that were intensely acetylcholinesterase-positive; however, only two of four grafts were recovered, whereas two of the transplants degenerated. We postulate that degeneration of allogeneic grafts may occur as a result of ongoing immune responses of the host which could be prevented by use of autogeneic enteric ganglia. Our studies show that fully differentiated enteric ganglia can survive transplantation to acutely injured spinal cord of adult rats.
In experiments on immobilized decerebrate cats, data about reorganization of efferent activity parameters of the forelimb and hindlimb locomotor generators evoked by electrical stimulation of descending systems were obtained. The generators controlling both forelimb and hindlimb locomotor movements were found to be characterized by the existence of stable states at which total influence of different descending systems on these generators was extremely limited. These data enable us to conclude that the sense of activity reorganization in locomotor generators of both forelimb and hindlimb under the influence of descending system signals is in bringing the motor program to a dynamic relation with supraspinal inflow, where a sufficient degree of limitation and balancing of the influences of corresponding descending systems on the interneuronal nets, determining time and phase characteristics of these generators, is ensured. Possible mechanisms of realization of this interaction between descending signals and locomotor activity generators are discussed.
Neurons in the nucleus raphe magnus were recorded extracellularly from barbiturate-anesthetized rats, and were classified by their responses to noxious mechanical stimulation as either pinch-excited, pinch-inhibited or biphasic (inhibited then excited). They were then subjected to iontophoresis of serotonin, some serotonergic agonists and antagonists, acetylcholine, and gamma-amino-n-butyric acid. Serotonin reduced the spontaneous firing of most pinch-inhibited cells (79%). Significantly fewer (P &lt; 0.05) pinch-excited and biphasic cells were inhibited by serotonin (40% and 45%, respectively); in these two cell classes, the observed response was often excitation (30% and 14%), or inhibition for 10-30s followed by excitation for the next 1-2 min (25% and 36%). Acetylcholine showed a similar, statistically significant distribution of effects (P &lt; 0.05), inhibiting all pinch-inhibited neurons (n = 10) but fewer pinch-excited (53%, n = 17) and biphasic neurons (20%, n = 10). Excitation, or excitation then inhibition, was again found frequently among the remaining pinch-excited and biphasic cells. The effect of gamma-amino-n-butyric acid was only inhibitory. In all three nociceptive classes, the serotonin-1A agonist buspirone (n = 15) was inhibitory (87%) and the serotonin-1C/2 antagonist ketanserin (n = 20) was excitatory (35%). The mixed serotonin-1/2 antagonist methysergide (n = 10) was inhibitory (50%) or excitatory (40%). 8-Hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin (n = 3) was found to increase spontaneous activity (possibly because of partial serotonin-1A agonsim), and +/- propranolol (n = 4) to reduce it (possibly through beta-adrenoceptor antagonism, not serotonin-1A antagonism).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Neurons exhibiting GABA-like immunoreactivity were identified in the monkey amygdala using an avidin-biotin immunohistochemical technique. The pattern of GABA immunoreactivity was very similar in the basolateral and superficial amygdaloid nuclei. In these regions GABA-positive cells were nonpyramidal neurons that were often arranged in clusters or curvilinear rows. These GABA-positive nonpyramidal neurons constituted about 25% of the total neuronal population of the basolateral and superficial amygdaloid nuclei. Numerous GABA-positive puncta resembling axon terminals were observed both in the neuropil and encapsulating the perikarya of GABA-negative pyramidal cells. The pattern of GABA-like immunoreactivity was different in the central and medial amygdaloid nuclei. These regions contained a very dense array of GABA-positive puncta. There were numerous GABA-positive neurons in the lateral subdivision of the central nucleus and fewer cells in the medial nucleus and medial subdivision of the central nucleus. Many immunoreactive puncta were observed contacting the perikarya and dendrites of GABA-positive cells in these regions. The intercalated nuclei consisted of numerous, small, GABA-positive neurons and a few, larger, GABA-negative cells. Both cell types were contacted by GABA-positive puncta. This study indicates that neuronal subpopulations in each of the amygdaloid nuclei of the monkey are GABAergic. The pattern of immunoreactivity varies in different amygdaloid regions and is very similar to that described in the rat. Certain aspects of the functional organization of this rich GABAergic circuitry can be elucidated by correlating the findings of the present investigation with previous anatomical, physiological, and pharmacological studies of the amygdala.
Extracellular recordings were made from 160 neurons in area 17 (n = 120) and area 18 (n = 40) of the visual cortex of anesthetized cats. Cells were classified according to their receptive field properties and their intracortical positions were evaluated histologically. Cholecystokinin 26-33, antagonists, (cholecystokinin 27-32, cholecystokinin 27-33 and proglumide), amino acids, neuropeptide Y and solvent vehicle (control), were administered to cells by microiontophoresis (cholecystokinin and neuropeptide Y) or by pressure (neuropeptide Y). The results of the tests with cholecystokinin 26-33 fell into four categories: enhancement (31%), suppression (24%), mixed, i.e. either biphasic responses or dose-related alterations in the direction of effect (20%), and no effect (25%). Enhancements of the visually elicited response were more prevalent in simple (43%) and unimodal/movement-sensitive (34%) cells than in complex (7%) cells. The converse was true for suppressions: 19% of simple cells, 24% of unimodal/movement-sensitive cells, and 31% of complex cells were suppressed. Thirty per cent of the unaffected cells were complex or unimodal/movement-sensitive; only 14% were simple. Cells in layers II-IV were more likely to have firing enhanced than suppressed by cholecystokinin 26-33. The converse was true for cells in layers V and VI, where 50% of responses were suppressed and only 22% were enhanced. Unaffected cells were found predominantly in layer III of areas 17, and the lower part of layer III and layer IV of area 18. Cholecystokinin 26-33 sometimes exerted delayed, response-suppressant effects; it also occasionally elevated responsiveness preferentially within the upper ranges (10-20 degrees/s) of velocity tuning curves. Cholecystokinin 26-33 altered the response-suppressant action of GABA in 11 of 19 visually sensitive cells. The peptide potentiated the visual responsiveness in half of the cells where cholecystokinin 26-33 diminished the GABA-induced suppressions (n = 8). The presumed antagonists either exerted no effect on firing or on cholecystokinin 26-33-induced effects, or had cholecystokinin 26-33-like actions themselves. There was a reversible partial antagonism of the effects of cholecystokinin 26-33 on only two of 11 cells tested. Neuropeptide Y injected by pressure or administered iontophoretically had variable and inconsistent effects on the visually evoked responses of 29 additional neurons from those described above. These effects were indistinguishable from those of the vehicle whether spontaneous activity, magnitude of the visually elicited response, spatial integrity of the RF substructure, orientation or velocity tuning was assessed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In neocortical brain slices of the rat that were exposed to 50 microM picrotoxin, low-intensity stimuli evoked all-or-none epileptiform events that propagated across the slice with an average velocity of 0.07 m/s. Simultaneous recordings from pairs of electrodes, in which one was held in a constant position and the other was systematically advanced across the slice in small steps, revealed that propagation of the synchronous activity was saltatory rather than uniform. Analysis of the propagation pattern showed that local regions (&lt; 1000 microns) of uniform velocity were separated by distinct borders. Within these regions, local propagation velocity was determined by the threshold for synchronous activation of still-smaller (&lt; 200 microns) neuronal aggregates. Although the velocity was sensitive to physiological factors that affect the precise threshold for synchronization, the location of the borderlines between adjacent regions remained unchanged. We propose that these invariant borders reflect the details of local neuronal organization within the slice, and that the pattern of propagation of epileptiform discharge is a manifestation of the intrinsic organization of the neocortex when deprived of afferent input.
Whole-cell current responses to bath application of GABA and glycine were studied in medullary neurons cultured from embryonic rats. Two current components were seen in the responses to bath application of GABA, one component which desensitized and another which did not. These two current components have different dose-response characteristics for GABA, with the nondesensitizing component being activated more effectively and reaching its peak amplitude at lower agonist concentrations than the desensitizing one. The agonist concentrations producing half of the maximum responses are 2.8 +/- 0.3 (+/- S.E.M., n = 9) and 14.7 +/- 2.7 (n = 5) microM for the nondesensitizing and desensitizing components, respectively. The two current components for GABA are differentially affected by the antagonists, picrotoxin and bicuculline. The antagonist concentrations which block 50% of the control desensitizing and nondesensitizing responses to GABA are 33 and 320 microM for picrotoxin, and 3 and 50 microM for bicuculline, respectively. Thus, the characteristics of the GABA responses are analogous to those described previously for glycine in that there are two components which are differentially sensitive to agonist concentration [Lewis et al. (1991) J. Neurophysiol, 40, 1178-1187]. We now find there is occlusion between the responses to GABA and glycine, indicating that they share a population of receptors or channels. The occlusion was incomplete (&lt; 80%) in half of the cells, suggesting that both agonists also activate unique receptors. Furthermore, the current responses to 35 microM GABA are blocked by the glycinergic antagonist, strychnine, with half-maximal blocking concentrations equal to 2 and 30 microM for the desensitizing and nondesensitizing components, respectively. This strychnine sensitivity is less than that for the glycine receptor. At the same time, the current responses to 100 microM glycine are sensitive to the GABAergic antagonists, picrotoxin and bicuculline. The half-maximal blocking concentrations are 36 and 120 microM picrotoxin, and 120 and 500 microM bicuculline, for the desensitizing and nondesensitizing components of the glycine response, respectively. Consequently, these results suggest that these cultured cells have at least three types of inhibitory receptors: glycine receptors, GABA receptors and GABA/glycine receptors, with all three receptors sensitive to block by strychnine, bicuculline and picrotoxin. The GABA/glycine receptor may be an immature form of the inhibitory receptor. Alternatively, some GABA and glycine receptors may have common ionophores.
The non-human primate models of Parkinson's disease which have been developed using the neurotoxin MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6 tetrahydropyridine) have proven to be either unstable or variable, or to display only a limited subset of parkinsonian features. The present study examined a new two-stage lesion approach in which MPTP was administered via the carotid arteries. The first infusion through one artery produced a hemiparkinsonian state and was followed several months later by a second MPTP infusion into the contralateral carotid artery to induce bilateral parkinsonism. Animals receiving lesions were evaluated using a battery of tests which included a monkey parkinsonism rating scale, a movement time-task and continuous monitoring of home cage activity. All animals monitored showed significant decreases in activity levels of up to 95% following the second lesion. These decreased activity levels remained stable throughout the observation period of up to 12 months postlesion. In addition to the decreased home cage activity, bilaterally lesioned animals displayed bilateral parkinsonian features including akinesia, bradykinesia, rigidity, tremor and balance and gait disturbances which were stable, following an acute period of up to 45 days, for the remainder of the study. Administration of levodopa increased activity levels and reduced motor dysfunctions. Thus, a two-stage bilateral lesion approach, utilizing the neurotoxin MPTP, appears to provide a less variable and relatively stable model of bilateral Parkinson's disease in nonhuman primates. Treated animals display the cardinal features of parkinsonism and respond appropriately to the standard antiparkinsonian drug, levodopa.
Using a voltage-sensitive merocyanine-rhodamine dye (NK2761) and a 12 x 12-element photodiode matrix array, we recorded optically spontaneous membrane potential changes in a slice preparation from the embryonic chick brain stem during early development. The spontaneous optical signals, related to membrane potential changes, showed a simple monophasic shape with a relatively long duration, and they were synchronized among the different regions in the medulla oblongata. The spontaneous signals were first detected from seven-day-old embryos, and were not present in six-day-old embryos. The spontaneous signals appeared sporadically, and their frequency was very low. Three modes of optical signals termed &quot;singlet-mode&quot;, &quot;doublet-mode&quot;, and &quot;triplet-mode&quot; were observed. In the doublet- and triplet-modes, the spatial pattern of the first signal was primarily similar to that of the singlet-mode signal, whereas the signal size and spatial extent of the second and third signals appeared to decay.
The ability of MK-801, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, to protect neurons in the cerebral cortex from injury induced by prolonged electrical stimulation was assessed in cats. Platinum disc electrodes 8.0 mm in diameter and with a surface area of 0.5 cm2 were implanted in the subdural space over the parietal cortex. Ten days after implantation of the electrodes, all animals received continuous stimulation for 7 h using charge-balanced, cathodic-first, controlled current pulses with a charge density of 20 microC/cm2 and a charge/phase of 10 microC/phase. They received either no MK-801, or 0.33 or 5.0 mg/kg (i.v.) administered intravenously, just before the start of the stimulation. Immediately following the stimulation, the animals were perfused and the cerebral cortex examined by light microscopy at eight sites beneath the electrodes. Neuronal damage in the form of shrunken, hyperchromic neurons and perineuronal halos was present only beneath the stimulating electrodes; damage was moderate to severe in stimulated animals that had not received MK-801, slight in animals receiving 0.33 mg/kg, and none to slight in animals receiving 5.0 mg/kg. These results indicate that MK-801, in an apparently dose-dependent fashion, provides substantial but not complete protection against neuronal injury induced by prolonged electrical stimulation. Thus prolonged electrical stimulation can be added to the list of neuropathologic conditions which involve glutamate-induced excitotoxic damage via the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. The results also support the hypothesis of neuronal hyperactivity as a principal cause of electrically-induced injury in the central nervous system. The implications for design of protocols for functional electrical stimulation are discussed.
Crushing the nerve to the medial gastrocnemius muscle in newborn rats and administering nerve growth factor afterwards results in a reinnervated muscle containing supernumerary muscle spindles. The structure and innervation of 88 spindles in the reinnervated muscles were reconstructed from serial thick and thin transverse sections at 30-35 days after the nerve crush, and compared to those of five control spindles. The spindles consisted of one to four small-diameter encapsulated fibers with features of nuclear chain intrafusal fibers, or infrequently a nuclear bag intrafusal fiber. Some of the spindles were located within a capsule that also contained an extrafusal fiber. Each spindle was innervated by an afferent with features of the primary afferent. The density of secondary afferents was lower in reinnervated muscles than in controls. Endplates were observed on extrafusal fibers in the experimental muscles, attesting to restoration of skeletomotor (alpha) innervation after the nerve crush. However, 78% of the experimental spindles were entirely devoid of efferent innervation. The remainder received either one or two fusimotor (gamma) axons or a skeletofusimotor (beta) axon, compared to the six to eight motor axons that innervated control spindles. The presence of supernumerary spindles composed of fibers that resemble normal intrafusal fibers in the absence of motor innervation suggests that afferents alone can induce the formation and subsequent differentiation of intrafusal fibers in nerve-crushed muscles of neonatal rats. In addition, the paucity of gamma innervation in nerve-crushed muscles suggests that immature gamma neurons are more susceptible than spindle afferents or alpha efferents to cell death after axotomy at birth.
Rat muscle spindles disintegrate after total neonatal muscle denervation in which both sensory and motor axons are cut, but develop almost normally during the first three weeks after neonatal de-efferentation, attaining the usual complement of four intrafusal fibres, two bag and two chain fibres. Thereafter additional intrafusal fibres differentiate in most of the de-efferented spindles. We have examined the development of supernumerary fibres in muscle spindles of the rat hind limb muscles one to four months after neonatal de-efferentation using transmission electron microscopy. Additional intrafusal fibres originate both from activated intrafusal myosatellites and by different forms of fibre division. In a sample of 27 muscle spindles examined along the A zone five weeks after de-efferentation, the mean number of intrafusal fibre profiles increased almost two-fold to 7.9 +/- 3.3 (S.D.). Up to 20 intrafusal fibre profiles per spindle cross-section were found in muscles de-efferented for four months. The supernumerary fibres were apparently derived from all three intrafusal fibre types, but predominantly from the chain fibres. It is noteworthy that de-efferentation which causes wasting of extrafusal muscle initiates myogenesis and maintains additional intrafusal fibres within the spindle capsules.
It has been shown that orofacial dyskinesia, i.e. a syndrome of abnormal involuntary movements of the facial muscles, can be elicited from the sub-commissural part of the globus pallidus and the adjoining dorsal parts of the extended amygdala in cats. Until now it is unknown whether the peripeduncular nucleus, which receives input from these structures according to anterograde tracing studies, plays a role in the funneling of orofacial dyskinesia to lower output stations. In the present study the connection of the subcommissural part of the globus pallidus and dorsal parts of the extended amygdala with the peripeduncular nucleus was investigated anatomically, using cholera toxin subunit B as a retrograde tracer, and functionally, using intracerebral injections of GABAergic compounds. The anatomical data show that the sub-commissural part of the globus pallidus and dorsal parts of the extended amygdala were marked by cholera toxin sub-unit B-immunoreactive cells following injections of this retrograde tracer into the peripeduncular nucleus. Thus, it could be confirmed that the peripeduncular nucleus receives input from the sub-commissural part of the globus pallidus and dorsal parts of the extended amygdala. Still, the orofacial dyskinesia elicited by local injections of the GABA antagonist picrotoxin (500 ng/0.5 microliters) into the sub-commissural part of the globus pallidus and dorsal extended amygdala was only in part attenuated by local injections of the GABA agonist muscimol (100 ng/l microliters) into the peripeduncular nucleus. Only the number of tongue protrusions was significantly attenuated, but not that of the ear and cheek movements. Furthermore, tongue protrusions, but no additional oral movements, were elicited by picrotoxin injections (375-500 ng) into the peripeduncular nucleus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Excitatory amino acid receptor distribution was mapped on acutely dissociated neurons from postnatal rat spinal cord dorsal horn. N-methyl D-aspartate, quisqualate and kainate were applied to multiple locations along the somal and dendritic surfaces of voltage-clamped neurons by means of a pressure application system. To partially compensate for the decrement of response amplitude due to current loss between the site of activation on the dendrite and the recording electrode at the soma, a solution containing 0.15 M KCl was applied on the cell bodies and dendrites of some cells to estimate an empirical length constant. In the majority of the cells tested, the dendritic membrane had regions of higher sensitivity to excitatory amino acid agonists than the somatic membrane, with dendritic response amplitudes reaching more than seven times those at the cell body. A comparison of the relative changes in sensitivity between each combination of two of the three excitatory amino acid agonists along the same dendrite showed different patterns of agonist sensitivity along the dendrite in the majority of the cells. These data were obtained from dorsal horn neurons that had developed and formed synaptic connections in vivo. They demonstrate that in contrast to observations made on ventral horn neurons, receptor density for all the excitatory amino acid receptors on dorsal horn neurons, including the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, are generally higher on the dendrites than on the soma. Further, these results are similar to those obtained from dorsal horn neurons grown in culture.
Recent evidence points to a dysfunction of brain dopaminergic mechanisms in the spontaneously hypertensive rat. Using in vitro receptor autoradiography, we assessed the density of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors in the brain of spontaneously hypertensive rats and their normotensive controls the Wistar-Kyoto rat. Brain sections from five- and 15-week-old rats were incubated with 1 nM [3H]SCH 23390 (D1 receptor antagonist) or 15 nM [3H]sulpiride (D2 receptor antagonist), and exposed along with radioactive standards to 3H-Hyperfilm. The binding density of selected brain regions (anteromedial prefrontal cortex, cingulate cortex, lateral septal nucleus, nucleus accumbens, caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, amygdaloid complex) were quantified using computer-assisted densitometry. These experiments showed a significant increase in the binding density of [3H]SCH 23390 in the nucleus accumbens and caudate-putamen of five- and 15-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats. The binding density of [3H]SCH 23390 was increased in the lateral septal nucleus of five-week-old and globus pallidus of 15-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats. The binding density of [3H]sulpiride was also greater in the nucleus accumbens of five-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats. The present investigation demonstrates an up-regulation of D1 dopamine receptors in spontaneously hypertensive rats with established hypertension. More importantly, up-regulation of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors in the striatum of young prehypertensive spontaneously hypertensive rats suggests that dopamine may be involved in the pathogenesis of hypertension in this strain of genetically hypertensive rats.
Hyperoxidation phenomena are suspected to be involved in dopaminergic cell death in Parkinson's disease, which affects preferentially the neuromelanin-containing dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra. Glutathione peroxidase is the major protective enzyme against hydrogen peroxide toxicity. The distribution of glutathione peroxidase-containing cells was investigated by immunohistochemistry in the midbrain of four control subjects and four patients with Parkinson's disease. (1) Glutathione peroxidase-like immunoreactivity was detected exclusively in glial cells. (2) In control brains, the density of glutathione peroxidase-positive cells was higher in the vicinity of the dopaminergic cell groups known to be resistant to the pathological process of Parkinson's disease. (3) In Parkinson's disease, an increased density of glutathione peroxidase-immunostained cells was observed, surrounding the surviving dopaminergic neurons. The increase in glutathione peroxidase-containing cells was correlated with the severity in dopaminergic cell loss in the respective cell groups. The data suggest that in control brains, a low density of glutathione peroxidase-positive cells surround the dopaminergic neurons the most vulnerable to Parkinson's disease, and that in parkinsonian brains, the increased number of glutathione peroxidase-positive cells may contribute to protect neurons against pathological death. Thus, the amount of glutathione peroxidase protein-containing cells may be critical for a protective effect against oxidative stress, although it cannot be excluded that the level of the enzyme activity remains the crucial factor.
Melatonin binding sites were identified in the brain of the frog Rana pipiens using in vitro autoradiography. Coronal sections were incubated for 1 h in 100 pM 2-125I-iodomelatonin. Specific binding was displaced with 1 microM nonradioactive melatonin. Autoradiographic labeling of 3H-Hyperfilm was observed in areas that receive primary, secondary, and tertiary visual input: the superficial layers of the optic tectum, anterior and posterior thalamic nuclei, striatum, medial pallium, and interpeduncular nucleus. Other areas that demonstrated binding included the medial and lateral septal nuclei, medial preoptic area, suprachiasmatic region, and anterodorsal tegmental nucleus. Binding was also apparent in the distribution of the lateral olfactory tract (lateral pallium), and in tracts associated with visual pathways: optic nerve, chiasm and tract, and lateral and medial forebrain bundles. A high degree of melatonin binding was observed in the left habenular nucleus, but not in the habenulum of the right side of the brain. Radioreceptor binding assays of frog whole-brain homogenate demonstrated specific saturable melatonin binding (Kd = 70 pM, Bmax = 0.80 fmol/mg protein). Melatonin and 6-chloromelatonin were potent displacers of 2-125I-iodomelatonin, while 5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-methoxytryptamine, and N-acetylserotonin were much less potent. Melatonin inhibited the forskolin-stimulated increase in cAMP synthesis in optic tectum explants. These results suggest that high-affinity melatonin receptor binding sites are widely distributed in the telencephalon, diencephalon, and mesencephalon and are very prominent in areas of the frog brain that are associated with visual processing.
The distribution of putative melatonin receptors in the brains of two Old World primates of the superfamily Catarrhina, Cercopithecus aethiops and Papio ursinus, was characterized using 2-[125I]iodomelatonin autoradiography. The specific binding demonstrated a discrete distribution pattern. The median eminence was intensely labelled, and examination at the light microscopic level demonstrated that the binding was confined to the small layer of cells comprising the pars tuberalis of the pituitary gland. The collar of pars distalis, present in the baboon (Papio ursinus), was diffusely labelled. No binding was detected in the pars distalis proper or the neural lobe of the pituitary gland. The binding in the suprachiasmatic nuclei was weaker, but well discernible. Diffuse faint specific binding was found in the frontal cortex and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Two non-neural sites expressed strong, well-delineated binding: the walls of some brain blood vessels (the vertebral and spinal arteries, the inferior cerebellar and acoustic arteries, the basilar, pericallosal, internal carotid arteries, the arteries forming the circle of Willis) and the choroid plexuses. Binding in the arteries of the circle of Willis, the pars tuberalis and the suprachiasmatic nuclei was readily displaceable. Addition of 1 microM unlabelled 2-iodomelatonin following 45 min of preincubation with the radioactive ligand completely abrogated the binding. Co-incubation with guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) led to a significant decrease in the apparent binding density in the pars tuberalis and abolished binding in the suprachiasmatic nuclei, but was without effect on the binding in the walls of the adjacent arteries, forming the circle of Willis, in the cortex and in the hippocampus. This qualitative distribution pattern demonstrates that in the two primate species studied, melatonin high-affinity, G-protein-linked binding sites are present in the pars tuberalis and the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nuclei, and that melatonin may be acting as a synchronizer of the endogenous pacemakers' circadian activity, apart from its possible reproductive effects at the level of pars tuberalis, where the highest receptor density was observed. The strongly labelled arterial walls, and the flimsy labelled cortex and hippocampus, expressed different characteristics: though the binding was readily reversible, it was apparently not regulated by a guanine nucleotide-binding protein.
The dorsal vagal complex contains many different neurotransmitter receptors. The cyto-architectural localizations of some of these receptors remain largely unknown. In rats, vagotomy was performed to destroy vagal afferents terminating in the nucleus of the solitary tract and to produce chromatolysis of preganglionic motoneurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Quantitative receptor autoradiography was then employed to determine the effect of vagotomy upon the distribution of receptors for thyrotropin-releasing hormone, substance P, and serotonin within individual regions and subnuclei of the entire dorsal vagal complex. Vagotomy reduced the concentrations of thyrotropin-releasing hormone and substance P, but not serotonin1A, or serotonin1B, receptors in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus. Within the nucleus of the solitary tract, substance P receptors were reduced in only the medial and central subnuclei after vagotomy. In contrast, no effect was observed upon the concentrations of thyrotropin-releasing hormone, serotonin1A, or serotonin1B receptors in any subnuclei of the solitary tract following vagotomy. These results suggest that in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, thyrotropin-releasing hormone and substance P receptors are localized upon vagal preganglionic motoneurons, while serotonin1A and serotonin1B receptors are present upon interneurons or other neuronal elements. These results also suggest that thyrotropin-releasing hormone, substance P, serotonin1A, and serotonin1B receptors in the nucleus of the solitary tract are localized upon internuncial neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract.
Using [3H]MK-801, [3H]muscimol, [3H]cyclic AMP, and [3H]rolipram, we performed quantitative in vitro autoradiography to determine sequential alterations in the binding of N-methyl-D-aspartate and GABAA receptors, particulate cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, and cyclic AMP-selective phosphodiesterase, respectively, in the gerbil hippocampus following repeated brief ischemic insults. Changes from 1 h to 28 days after three 2-min ischemic insults at 1-h intervals were compared with those after 2 and 6 min of ischemia. We observed no alterations in the binding of all the four ligands throughout the observation period following 2 min of ischemia which produced no histological neuronal damage except for transient reductions in [3H]cyclic AMP binding during the early reperfusion period. [3H]Cyclic AMP binding in the CA1 subfield decreased one day after 6 min of ischemia and four days after three 2-min ischemic insults, and 62-65% of the binding was lost after 28 days. [3H]Rolipram binding in the CA1 subfield decreased one day after 6 min of ischemia and the binding was reduced by 45-50% after four and 28 days. Following three 2-min ischemic insults, [3H]rolipram binding decreased in the CA1 at one day, and decreased by 25-33% after 28 days. Both [3H]MK-801 and [3H]muscimol binding was preserved during the early reperfusion period after 6 min of ischemia and three 2-min ischemic insults. Reductions in [3H]MK-801 binding in CA1 were observed four days after ischemic insults when CA1 neuronal destruction was seen. After one month, approximately 50% of [3H]MK-801 binding was lost in CA1 in both groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Bath application of dibutyryl cyclic AMP, 8-bromo cyclic AMP or forskolin to hippocampal slices caused a short-lasting decrease, followed after washout by a long-lasting increase in the amplitude of population spikes recorded in area CA1 in response to 0.05 Hz stimulation of the Schaffer collateral/commissural pathway. Population spike depression lasted only as long as the cyclic AMP analogues were present in the bath, while the potentiation lasted for at least 2 h after they were washed out. Population excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude was depressed while dibutyryl cyclic AMP was present in the bath, but after washout it was not significantly different from baseline amplitude. The population spike depression caused by dibutyryl cyclic AMP was prevented by the adenosine antagonist 8-p-sulfophenyltheophylline, but the long-lasting potentiation was not. Thus the transient depression induced by dibutyryl cyclic AMP was probably caused by an action of the drug or its breakdown products as adenosine agonists. The long-lasting potentiation is caused by a different mechanism. Occlusion experiments were performed to examine the relationship of the long-lasting population spike potentiation caused by dibutyryl cyclic AMP to the population spike long-term potentiation caused by high-frequency stimulation. High-frequency stimulation delivered after the population spike potentiation caused by dibutyryl cyclic AMP was established did cause a further potentiation, but only up to the level caused by high-frequency stimulation alone. Dibutyryl cyclic AMP administered after high frequency stimulation-induced long-term potentiation was established had no further potentiating effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Agonist binding to GABAB receptors modulates the activity of the guanine nucleotide binding proteins, Go and Gi. These G proteins are ADP-ribosylated by pertussis toxin and this prevents them from coupling to the GABAB receptor resulting in a reduction in high-affinity GABAB binding. GTP, which binds to a different site on the G protein alpha subunit, also reduces the affinity of the receptor for the G protein, and this can be used as a &quot;marker&quot; for G protein-GABAB receptor linkage. We have examined GABAB binding site distribution in rat brain after unilateral intrahippocampal pertussis toxin injection in vivo, and after incubating brain slices in pertussis toxin in vitro, using the technique of receptor autoradiography. The effect of pertussis toxin was compared with that of GTP gamma S on GABAB binding. Intrahippocampal pertussis toxin administration reduced GABAB but not GABAA receptor binding and the effects appeared to be limited by pertussis toxin diffusion. More widespread reductions in GABAB binding were seen after incubation of brain slices in vitro but the extent varied in different brain regions. No reduction was detected in the corpus striatum. GABAB binding was also reduced in membranes prepared from cerebral cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum but there was no significant reduction in the corpus striatum after pertussis toxin treatment. GTP gamma S reduced GABAB binding to a similar extent in all areas studied irrespective of their sensitivity to pertussis toxin suggesting that while GABAB binding sites are linked to G proteins throughout the rat brain, those in the corpus striatum may be predominantly pertussis toxin insensitive.
Recent studies have suggested that innervation modulates GABAA receptor gene expression in the rodent cerebellum. To examine this question, the expression and levels of GABAA receptor subunit messenger RNAs in the deep cerebellar nuclei of Purkinje cell degeneration mice and littermate controls were examined by quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. In the Purkinje cell degeneration mutant, the selective postnatal degeneration of Purkinje neurons disrupts GABAergic input from the cerebellar cortex to the deep nuclei. Despite this loss of Purkinje cells, virtually all large neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei of Purkinje cell degeneration animals expressed the alpha 1, beta 2, and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs. These subunit messenger RNAs were observed at all experimental times from postnatal day 24 to postnatal day 90, a period ranging from the onset of behavioral abnormalities in the mutant to the completion of Purkinje cell loss. At no time were additional beta subunit messenger RNAs, normally absent from the deep cerebellar nuclei in control mice, detected in this region of the mutant. Quantitative analysis of the hybridization signals over individual neurons revealed that Purkinje cell loss differentially affected the expression of GABAA receptor subunit messenger RNAs. While the levels of the beta 2 and gamma 2 subunit messenger RNAs in individual neurons were comparable in mutants and controls at all ages, differences in alpha 1 subunit messenger RNA expression were observed. At postnatal day 24, the level of alpha 1 subunit mRNA in individual neurons of the mutant was only 60% that found in the control.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Function-dependent changes of calcium distribution were studied in the nerve-electroplaque synapses of Torpedo marmorata before and after the transmission of a nerve impulse. For the cytochemical demonstration of calcium at the ultrastructural level the oxalate-pyroantimonate technique was combined with electron spectroscopic imaging. Cholinergic synapses of the electric organ were stimulated in the presence of 4-aminopyridine, a drug which powerfully potentiates transmitter release. A single stimulus evoked a giant electrical discharge, which was followed by a long refractory period. Calcium cytochemistry was performed by fixing the tissue at four well defined functional states: (i) before and (ii) immediately after the giant discharge, and (iii) at 1 min or (iv) at 30 min of subsequent rest, corresponding to partial and complete functional recovery, respectively. In the non-stimulated synapses about 20% of synaptic vesicles contained small electron-dense precipitates. The element specific mapping by electron spectroscopic imaging clearly showed that calcium was present in the vesicular granules. The volume density of synaptic vesicles did not change among the four experimental states, but we detected a significant increase in the proportion of calcium containing vesicles at 1 min after the giant discharge. The vesicular calcium accumulation was transient: it returned to the control value at the end of the recovery period. Our data suggest that the synaptic vesicles play a role in sequestering the excess calcium which enters the nerve terminal during stimulation.
[3H](R)alpha-methylhistamine, a selective histamine H3-receptor ligand, was used to perform binding studies with membranes and generate light microscopic autoradiograms in sections of the rat brain. High densities of H3 receptors were found in membranes from the anterior part of the cerebral cortex, the accumbens nucleus, the striatum, the olfactory tubercles and the substantia nigra. Autoradiography of sagittal and frontal sections evidenced specific labelling in a number of gray matter areas over a very low background, as determined using thioperamide, a selective H3-receptor antagonist, as competing drug. Labelled areas were identified by comparison with adjacent Nissl-stained sections and their labelling was rated visually. H3 receptors are heterogeneously distributed among areas known to receive histaminergic projections. In the cerebral cortex, H3 receptors are present in all areas and layers, with a rostrocaudal gradient and a higher density in deep layers (laminae IV-VI). In the hippocampal formation, H3 receptors are the most abundant in the dentate gyrus and the subiculum. In the amygdaloid complex, the highest densities are found in the central, lateral and basolateral groups of nuclei. In the basal forebrain, the accumbens nucleus, the striatum, the olfactory tubercles and the globus pallidus are highly labelled. In the thalamus in which histaminergic fibres are scarce, H3 receptors are present in a rather high density, particularly in the midline, median and intralaminar groups of nuclei. In the hypothalamus, where the densest network of histaminergic fibres is found, H3 receptors occur in moderate density, being slightly more abundant in the anterior and medial part. They are also present at the level of the tuberomammillary nuclei where they may reside on histaminergic perikarya. In mesencephalon and lower brainstem, H3 receptors are abundant in the reticular part of the substantia nigra and central gray. They are present in low density in areas of noradrenergic and serotoninergic perikarya and in the spinal cord, where a faint specific labelling is detected in the gray matter, particularly in the external layers of the dorsal horn. In the cerebellum and pituitary gland, H3 receptors are scarce. Kainic acid infusions into the striatum were followed by marked local decreases in H3 receptors evidenced in both membrane binding and autoradiographic studies. Unilateral interruption of the ascending histaminergic pathways via electrocoagulation of the lateral hypothalamic area was followed by ipsilateral increase in striatal [3H](R)alpha-methylhistamine binding, a process consistent with denervation up regulation of postsynaptic H3 receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We investigated the synaptic incidence of the contacts established by serotonergic and noradrenergic descending fibers in the dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. Serial electron microscopic sections were performed. Synapses were scarce. The majority of serotonergic and noradrenergic varicosities (more than 60%) are characterized by nonsynaptic contacts. Numerous glial profiles, and particularly astrocytic profiles, were observed in apposition with serotonergic and noradrenergic varicosities. The proportion of astroglia was higher around serotonergic and noradrenergic varicosities devoid of synaptic specialization. The length of the contact between immunoreactive nonsynaptic varicosities and astrocytes was twice as long as that between synaptic varicosities and astrocytes. Thus, the modulation of sensitive messages by serotonin and noradrenaline through pauci-synaptic varicosities in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord could be an example of the concept of &quot;volume transmission&quot; [Fuxe and Agnati (1991) Volume Transmission in the Brain: Novel Mechanisms for Neural Transmission, Advances in Neuroscience, Vol. 1, pp. 1-9.] in the central nervous system. Analysis of the microenvironment of serotonergic and noradrenergic varicosities led us to make the hypothesis that glial cells, particularly astrocytes, could play some role in volume transmission.
We describe the contribution of various sympathetic post-ganglionic neuron mediators to bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation in the knee joint of the rat. Co-perfusion of the sympathetic post-ganglionic neuron mediators, norepinephrine or neuropeptide Y with bradykinin resulted in diminished plasma extravasation. In contrast, the putative sympathetic post-ganglionic neuron mediators of bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation, namely prostaglandin E2, ATP, the selective adenosine A2-receptor agonist, CGS21680 or the endothelium-derived relaxing factor (as its precursor L-arginine) all greatly enhanced bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation, but produced little or no increase in plasma extravasation administered alone. The data show that sympathetic post-ganglionic neuron-derived mediators may either inhibit or enhance plasma extravasation induced by bradykinin, and we hypothesize that differential release of mediators from the sympathetic post-ganglionic neuron terminal, in response to varying stimuli, regulates local plasma extravasation during inflammation.
Neurosecretory brain cells from embryonic locusts cultured in serum-free medium failed to show any visible signs of growth. In contrast, the same neurons co-cultured with CNS explants (brain-retrocerebral complexes and thoracic ganglia) show excellent axonal growth: sprouting occurs after one day of co-culture and increases within the first week. These results indicate the production of an active neurite outgrowth stimulating factor by co-cultured CNS explants. The similarity of the stimulating effects by the two explants on neurite outgrowth rule out brain neurohormones as probable candidates for the stimulating factor. In addition, neither insulin nor neuroparsin added to the culture medium to test their trophic effect improves the growth of the cells. Conditioned medium derived from cultures of brain-retrocerebral complexes produced no neurite outgrowth, suggesting that the active factor released in the medium by brain explants does not remain free in solution but binds to the substratum. Finally, neurons co-cultured with CNS explants attached to the bottom of the culture dish develop neurites only when in close proximity to the explants. This observation strongly suggests the binding of an active neurite outgrowth stimulating factor to the substratum in the vicinity of the explants. As a control for CNS explants, the action of non-nervous tissue was tested: a similar, but less extensive neurotrophic effect, was observed with esophagus segments co-cultured with neurosecretory brain cells. These results demonstrate that locust neurosecretory neurons isolated in cell culture require combined explants for elaborating processes and suggest that the neurite promoting effect is mediated by a substrate-associated molecule(s).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Whole-cell glycine-activated currents were investigated in chick spinal cord neurons cultivated for up to three weeks. Based on the morphological and electrophysiological characteristics of neurons, two different types of nerve cells were distinguished during the first few days in culture. The first type consisted of &quot;mature&quot; nerve cells which appear to be motoneurons. They died by five to seven days in vitro. Immature neurons or neuroblasts constituted another type of nerve cell. They developed in culture and became differentiated neurons. Glycine-activated currents were elicited in both types of neurons during different periods in vitro. Sensitivity to glycine of &quot;mature&quot; neurons decreased from two to five days in vitro: ED50 for agonist action increased from 0.4 to 1.3 mM. The sensitivity of neuroblasts to this transmitter increased during differentiation: ED50 decreased from 1.4 to 0.12 mM on three to 14 days in vitro, respectively. Changes in glycine-activated conductance of these developing neurons were investigated later on. The conductance in differentiated neurons was markedly sensitive to membrane potential, while neuroblasts did not show such dependence. Voltage sensitivity was due to voltage-dependent kinetics of the ion channel. Desensitization kinetics of the glycine-activated currents were double-exponential. The time constant for the slow desensitizing component was dependent on glycine concentration, which was not the case for the fast component. The increase in glycine sensitivity of the neuroblasts was accompanied by deceleration of desensitization kinetics of the agonist-activated currents. A remarkable feature of the currents elicited in neuroblasts was their extremely long time course after rapid agonist removal from the cells. The properties of these long-term currents suggest that a large fraction of the receptors are desensitized, even during quite short applications of the transmitter. The presence of glycine in the culture medium did not affect the increase of neuronal sensitivity to the agonist. The block of spontaneous bioelectric activity by adding tetrodotoxin to the culture medium abolished developmental changes in glycine-activated conductance. Possible mechanisms for the changes in transmitter sensitivity of the neurons are considered.
The effects of gestational ethanol exposure on the development of dopaminergic neurons of substantia nigra pars compacta were investigated in the rat. Pregnant rats were either fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet (6.7% v/v) or pair-fed an isocaloric diet throughout gestation. The morphology of neurons in both ethanol-exposed and pair-fed control offspring was assessed on postnatal day 15 by using tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry and Golgi impregnation methods. Alterations in the development of neurons were indicated in ethanol-exposed offspring compared with control offspring by the following: (i) tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell bodies were smaller and appeared more closely packed; (ii) the numbers of second-, third- and fourth-order dendrites and total dendritic segments per cell were reduced; (iii) the dendritic branching pattern relative to distance from the soma was altered; and (iv) some dysmorphic neurons with irregular cell body contours and spheroidal enlargements in the dendrites were encountered in both tyrosine hydroxylase-immunostained and Golgi-stained specimens. The results of the present study suggest that gestational ethanol exposure causes retardation in the development of substantia nigra pars compacta neurons, especially in their dendritic growth and branching, and also causes pathological changes in some neurons. The underdevelopment of dendrites could result in altered development of neuronal circuitry which, in turn, could result in abnormal motor function.
In microdialysis procedures high potassium ion concentrations are generally used to induce neurotransmitter release. However, the widespread effects, if any, of such a treatment have not been described. In order to establish a possible link between c-fos expression and stimulating conditions for neurotransmitter release in microdialysis procedures we administered KCl (100 mM) into the hippocampus. Proto-oncogene c-FOS-like immunoreactivity is upregulated in granule cells of the dentate gyrus, pyramidal cells of the hippocampus, cingulate, piriform and frontoparietal cortices at 2 h, but not 24 h after K+ administration. Neither implantation of the probes nor perfusion with artificial cerebrospinal fluid resulted in similar patterns of c-FOS immunoreactivity. In addition, we investigated whether the impairment of the cholinergic septohippocampal pathway would modify the K(+)-induced expression of the immediate early gene c-fos in the hippocampus. The expression of c-fos induced by KCl was not altered in the animals with fimbria-fornix lesion despite the marked decrease in acetylcholine release in the hippocampus. Glutamate concentrations measured in the same superfusates showed that a significantly greater glutamate release occurs in denervated hippocampi. Furthermore, abolishment of seizure-like activity (induced by KCl) in anesthetized animals did not alter expression of c-FOS immunoreactivity in the K(+)-stimulated hippocampi. The results from these studies confirm that most of the releasable acetylcholine of the hippocampus is linked to the fimbrial input and may suggest that c-FOS upregulation in this model does not respond to any cholinergic input from the medial septum via the fimbria-fornix.
Putative nitric oxide-containing neurons in the rat amygdala were studied using reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase histochemistry. All nuclei of the amygdala contained subpopulations of diaphorase-positive neurons, but the staining intensity of different subpopulations varied. Intensely stained neurons exhibited labeling of the cell body and the entire dendritic arborization. The lateral nucleus had the greatest concentration of intensely labeled cells. Many intensely labeled neurons were located along nuclear boundaries and fiber bundles. In addition to neuronal staining, there was a differential staining of the neuropil in different amygdaloid nuclei. In the basolateral and cortical nuclei the diaphorase-positive cells were non-pyramidal neurons that resembled those containing somatostatin and neuropeptide Y. The distribution and neuronal morphology of labeled neurons in the central nucleus and anterior amygdaloid area suggests that diaphorase-positive cells in these areas may be cholinergic. Recent studies have shown that the enzyme responsible for neuronal diaphorase activity is actually the synthetic enzyme for the newly discovered neurotransmitter nitric oxide. Since there is evidence that nitric oxide plays an important role in excitotoxic neuronal degeneration, the neurons identified in the present study may be involved in degenerative diseases of the amygdala.
Recent studies strongly suggest that functional olfactory receptor cell innervation is necessary for the maintenance of the dopamine phenotype in the adult rat olfactory bulb. To determine whether afferent innervation is required for the initial expression of the dopaminergic phenotype during development, the current studies investigated the association between afferent innervation and phenotypic expression using both in vivo and in vitro systems. Ontogeny of the dopamine phenotype in the rat main olfactory bulb was assessed by the appearance of immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase, the first enzyme in the dopamine biosynthetic pathway. Development of receptor afferent innervation of the bulb was demonstrated with olfactory marker protein immunoreactivity. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells occurred only in regions of the olfactory bulb receiving afferent innervation. However, the appearance of afferent fibers in the olfactory bulb preceded tyrosine hydroxylase expression by three to four days (gestational days 14-15 versus 18, respectively). In explant cultures, significant numbers of tyrosine hydroxylase-containing cells were observed only in en bloc co-cultures of presumptive olfactory bulb and epithelium. Explant cultures of presumptive olfactory bulb alone contained few, if any, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells. Similarly, explants produced by recombining previously separated presumptive olfactory bulb and epithelium exhibited very few tyrosine hydroxylase-immunostained cells. These data suggest that expression of the dopamine phenotype, as indicated by the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase, depends on a critical level of afferent innervation. The results also support previous studies which indicated that neuronal activity or an activity-dependent process may be required for induction of tyrosine hydroxylase expression.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether a decrease in cyclic AMP accumulation mediates the inhibition of norepinephrine release in response to alpha-2 adrenergic receptor activation in cultured rat superior cervical ganglion cells. Superior cervical ganglia from neonatal rats were dissociated and cultured on collagen-coated plastic strips. Neurotransmitter release was assessed by measuring the fractional overflow of tritium in superfused cells prelabeled with [3H]norepinephrine. Intracellular cyclic AMP accumulation was measured using radioimmunoassay. Electrical field stimulation at 1 Hz, 30 pulses, 1 ms duration at 20 min intervals produced an increase in the fractional overflow of tritium that was composed predominantly of intact [3H]norepinephrine. The alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist UK-14,304 dose-dependently attenuated the increase in fractional tritium overflow elicited by electrical field stimulation. The adenylyl cyclase activator, forskolin, increased cyclic AMP accumulation in superior cervical ganglion cells and UK-14,304 dose-dependently inhibited forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation. UK-14,304 had no effect on basal cyclic AMP accumulation or cyclic AMP accumulation during electrical field stimulation. Forskolin (1-10 microM) or the non-hydrolysable cAMP analog, 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (1-100 microM), slightly increased basal and dose-dependently potentiated the increase in fractional tritium overflow in response to electrical stimulation. Despite enhancement by forskolin and 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate of fractional tritium overflow caused by electrical field stimulation, UK-14304 (1-10 microM) reduced release to a similar degree as that observed in the absence of forskolin or 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of sympathetic nerve stimulation and topical application of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide on the blood flow of the exposed rat knee joint capsule was investigated. The responses of normal animals were compared to those of animals with acutely inflamed joints induced by intra-articular injection of 2% carrageenan. Laser Doppler perfusion imaging was used to examine the spatial distribution of blood flow in the knee joint capsule. Animals with acute joint inflammation showed markedly reduced vasoconstrictor responses to sympathetic nerve stimulation, but enhanced vasodilator responses to both substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide when compared to normal. Prior application of either substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide to the normal joint attenuated sympathetic vasoconstrictor responses. In the acutely inflamed knee, sympathetic vasoconstriction was replaced by a vasodilator response in the presence of neuropeptides. The reduced effectiveness of sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction and enhanced responsiveness to substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide could contribute to the hyperaemia characteristic of inflamed joints.
A polyclonal antiserum to chicken, growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43), raised in rabbit, was shown to recognize a molecule with similar properties to GAP-43 in frogs. Using this antiserum, GAP-43 immunoreactivity was shown to be present throughout the brain and white matter of the spinal cord of larval frogs, but became restricted to specific regions in the adult frog central nervous system. In the peripheral nervous system, GAP-43 was present in normal tadpole and adult axons. After cutting the adult sciatic nerve, GAP-43 slowly disappeared from axons in the distal stump, but appeared in Schwann cells and other (uncharacterized) cells. The constitutive expression of GAP-43 in the adult frog sciatic nerve may be related to the phenomenon of remodelling of motor end-plates, which is known to occur throughout life in frogs.
The present study investigated the effects of the presence of the serotonin uptake inhibitor citalopram in the perfusion medium on pharmacological manipulations which increased and decreased striatal serotonin release using in vivo microdialysis. A high performance liquid chromatography detection system equipped with a microbore column was used which reduced the detection limit to 0.5 fmol serotonin/5 microliters sample and enabled basal striatal serotonin release to be measured without the addition of a serotonin uptake inhibitor to the perfusion medium. Although serotonin uptake inhibitors have frequently been used to enhance the serotonin content of dialysate samples, the effects of the presence of serotonin uptake inhibitors on pharmacological manipulations which increased and decreased the release of serotonin have not yet been characterized. Serotonin release was reduced by the systemic administration of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT). Although 5-HT release was reduced by 8-OH-DPAT after the addition of citalopram, the 5-HT1A receptor agonist did not reduce absolute levels of extracellular serotonin below basal values of serotonin measured in the absence of citalopram. In addition, citalopram dramatically prevented the four-fold increase in the release of serotonin produced by the systemic administration of the serotonin-releasing agent fenfluramine. The blockade of fenfluramine's effects by citalopram supports the hypothesis that transport of fenfluramine into serotonergic neurons is necessary to increase serotonin release. This study demonstrates that the use of an HPLC detection system equipped with a microbore column can reliably measure basal serotonin release using in vivo microdialysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous experiments with wheatgerm agglutinin, an inhibitor of ionotropic quisqualate receptor desensitization, suggest that desensitization regulates quisqualate receptor-mediated synaptic transmission and excitotoxicity. Using whole-cell recordings from cultured postnatal rat hippocampal neurons, we have examined the wheatgerm agglutinin effect in further detail and compared it to other lectins. Wheatgerm agglutinin and other lectins belonging to the glucose/mannose, N-acetylglucosamine, and sialic acid classes inhibited desensitization. However, wheatgerm agglutinin was the most effective and had the most rapid onset of action. The inhibition was dose-dependent, and it was reduced and reversed by N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylneuraminic acid. Treating neurons with neuraminidase, which cleaves sialic acid residues from the surface of cells, also diminished the effect. These results suggest that wheatgerm agglutinin reversibly inhibits ionotropic quisqualate receptor desensitization by interacting with carbohydrate residues on or near the quisqualate receptor complex. Future studies using the lectins may help to clarify the functional role of carbohydrate chains on the ionotropic quisqualate receptor.
Potassium channels represent a diverse and promising target for drug development. Pharmacological subtypes of K channels have begun to emerge based on the development of both organic molecules and peptide toxins which possess subtype selectivity. In order to evaluate the neuroanatomical distribution of these subtypes we have utilized the ligands [125I]apamin, [125I]charybdotoxin and [125I]iodoglyburide in an autoradiographic study of rat brain. In the rat brain, these ligands have selectivity for the low conductance Ca(2+)-activated, voltage-gated K channels and ATP-sensitive K channels respectively. The distribution of binding sites for these three ligands were distinctly different. [125I]Apamin binding was highest in various thalamic and hippocampal structures, while only low to moderate levels of [125I]charybdotoxin binding were seen in these regions. In contrast, very high levels of [125I]charbydotoxin were seen in white matter regions such as the lateral olfactory tract and fasciculus retroflexus. High levels of [125I]charybdotoxin binding were also seen in gray matter-containing regions such as the zona incerta, medial geniculate and superior colliculus, where low to moderate [125I]apamin binding was found. [125I]Iodoglyburide presented a more uniform binding with the highest levels in the globus pallidus, islands of Calleja, anteroventral nucleus of the thalamus and zonas reticulata of the substantia nigra. These results indicate that subtypes of K channels have very different distributions in the brain. As such, the results imply differing CNS actions for potential modulators of K channel subtypes.


There is no denying that the silver methods lost their dominant role as tract-tracing methods in the past 10 to 15 years. But it seems equally clear that the silver technique is headed for a dramatic revival in many fields of neuroscience, where the scope and localization of neuronal degeneration are a central issue. Together with the immunostaining of proteins formed or altered in traumatized neurons, the modern silver techniques provide neurotoxicologists and neuropathologists with unparalleled opportunities to detect and study injured and dying neurons. Characterized by great sensitivity and distinct rendition of the morphology of degenerating neurons and their processes, the reduced silver methods constitute the ideal tool for screening irreversible neuronal damage caused by neurotoxic substances including drugs of abuse. Those interested in the rapidly expanding fields of &quot;excitotoxicity&quot; and neurodegenerative disorders (Taylor 1991) are also likely to find increasing use for the silver methods. The pattern of degeneration in so-called &quot;system degenerations&quot; may be predetermined by the neuronal connections (Saper et al. 1987), and as the disease progresses from the destruction of the originally affected neuron population, closely related systems and pathways may be recruited into the pathophysiologic cascade. Any type of trauma to the CNS has the potential to produce this type of &quot;domino effect&quot; of degeneration, through which additional systems are progressively recruited into a degenerative chain reaction of transneuronal degeneration. In other words, even longstanding disorders may exhibit signs of more recent degeneration, and the proper use of silver methods at autopsy may give some important clues regarding the etiology of disease; it may also provide new insights about the anatomy of the human brain. Little can be said at present about the chemical basis of argyrophilia in degenerating and &quot;reactive&quot; neurons, but there is every reason to pay more attention to this subject. One can expect that a continuing and concerted effort will result in a rational understanding of the molecular biological and physicochemical events that fortuitously provide the basis for the selective impregnation of degenerating neuronal elements. This knowledge can be the basis for the development of even more reliable and simple, yet sensitive, silver methods suited for neurotoxic risk assessment on a large scale.



The hypothesis that spontaneous obesity in rhesus monkeys is associated with abnormalities in energy expenditure was tested. Obese (n=7) and non-obese (n=5) monkeys were described in terms of body size and composition, food intake, and physical activity. Additionally, the relationships among fasting and stimulated insulin levels in serum, C-peptide levels in serum and urine, and urinary catecholamines were examined. Obese animals had primarily abdominal deposition of excess body fat, as indicated by markedly elevated abdominal circumferences and skin-fold thicknesses. Food intake did not differ between groups. Physical activity was much lower in the obese group. Obese monkeys had markedly higher serum insulin and C-peptide levels in the fasted state and in response to an intravenous glucose challenge. Urinary excretion of C-peptide and catecholamines was measured during successive 2-day periods of ad libitum feeding, food deprivation, and refeeding in order to examine potential differences between groups in sympathoadrenal activity and their relationship to insulin secretion. C-peptide excretion was greater for obese and decreased for both groups during food deprivation. Urinary dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), and epinephrine (E) levels were significantly greater for obese animals in all conditions. DA excretion was lowest during deprivation and E excretion was lowest during refeeding, whereas NE excretion was relatively unaffected by feeding condition. The overall patterns of C-peptide and catecholamine excretion were qualitatively similar for both groups, and there were no reliable differences between obese and non-obese in their responses to the feeding manipulation. The results suggest that hyperinsulinemia associated with obesity in rhesus monkeys is linked to increased catecholamine secretion and a resistance to catecholaminergic action.

The distribution of leukomalacia and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive glial cells in prenatal- and postnatal-onset leukomalacia were compared and diagnosed histologically in 128 autopsied infants and the different pathogeneses were examined. Prenatal-onset leukomalacia was diagnosed in 12 of 71 still-births and neonates surviving less than 3 days (16.9%). All 4 preterm infants of less than 32 gestational weeks had widespread white matter necrosis and 4 of 5 term infants had focal necrosis. GFAP-positive glial cells were more increased in the deep and intermediate white matter in both forms of leukomalacia than in the controls, although in the subcortical white matter they were less increased in prenatal- than postnatal-onset leukomalacia. These differences may indicate different pathogeneses, including vascular maturity and causal factors, in prenatal- and postnatal-onset leukomalacia.

We investigated optic and somesthetic contributions to perceived body orientation in the pitch dimension. In a within-subject factorial design, each of 12 subjects attempted to set his/her body erect or 45 degrees back from erect while restrained in a movable bed surrounded by an adjustable box. The box provided a visual environment consisting of either a grid pattern, two luminous lines, or complete darkness. Both the grid pattern and the luminous lines were effective at biasing settings of body position when the box was pitched; the pitched grid was more effective than the pitched lines. Although the pitch of the box influenced orientation to both goals, the effect was greater for the diagonal goal than for the erect goal. We present a model of postural orientation in the median plane that involves vestibular, somatosensory, and visual inputs.
Dichhaptic testing has been widely used to assess lateralization in tactile processing. The rationale of dichhaptic testing is that simultaneous exploration of two objects enhances competition between relevant cortical areas in the right and left hemispheres. The synchronization of hand movements in a dichhaptic situation was investigated to determine whether both hands explore the two shapes simultaneously. Fourteen men were tested with the aid of a dichhaptic intermodal task. Tactile stimuli were composite shapes and the activity of each hand was assessed through analysis of hand contacts on each part of the shape. Only 20% of the total exploration time was devoted to simultaneous investigation of the two shapes. In addition, it was found that (i) the recognition accuracy was greater when the target shape was explored by the left hand compared with the right, and (ii) the left hand touched a greater number of parts of the stimuli than the right. Overall, comparison of the present data with those from a previous, monohaptic, task with the same stimuli suggests an advantage of dichhaptic over monohaptic testing to demonstrate laterality differences in accuracy of recognition. However, it is suggested that this advantage is due to cognitive factors rather than to competition between homologous cortical areas.
The midline of the developing brain is a place where axon guidance decisions effect the basic wiring pattern related to laterality in both sensory and motor systems. A variety of glial structures that develop along the midline may play crucial roles in directing axons to project to the left or right side of the central nervous system. Several of these glial structures and their association with axons are described. The molecular mechanisms that underlie axons guidance at the midline, in particular, repulsive factors that provide guidance cues via turning signals, are highlighted.
The embryonic zebrafish provides a relatively simple and accessible experimental system for understanding the underlying Bauplan of a vertebrate central nervous system (CNS) and for uncovering interactions critical for patterning. We show that features of CNS organization in normal, mutant, and developmentally ventralized zebrafish embryos can be explained by a three-axis hypothesis: Specifications occur according to position relative to coordinates along the anterior-posterior, dorsal-ventral, and luminal-pial axes of the neural tube. Midline tissues may be responsible for directly establishing the dorsal-ventral coordinates, but may only be indirectly involved in patterning along the anterior-posterior axis.
The behavioral effects of 3,3-bis(4-pyridinylmethyl)-1-phenylindolin-2-one [linopirdine (DuP996)] were investigated on retention of the inhibitory avoidance test in normal mice and acquisition of spatial discrimination in the two-platform water maze task in septal-lesioned rats (a model of cholinergic dysfunction characteristic of Alzheimer's disease). Linopirdine significantly enhanced retention of the inhibitory avoidance response in mice (0.026 mumol/kg) and also reduced the number of errors made by septal-lesioned rats in the water maze to a level comparable to sham-operated animals. At this dose, no effects were observed on septal-lesion-induced hyperactivity in an open field or in unoperated rats tested in the elevated plus-maze anxiolytic test. This study extends previous findings of facilitatory effects of linopirdine on memory and demonstrates improved spatial learning in septal-lesioned rats. As the facilitatory effects on memory are not accompanied by a reduction in the hyperactive state present in septal-lesioned animals, a dissociation between cognitive and noncognitive effects of linopirdine can be differentiated in septal-lesioned rats.
Anxiolytic-like and antinociceptive activities of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine) were compared with sedative and ataxic side effects in primates. Administration of MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) caused taming in cynomolgus monkeys and increased tail withdrawal latencies in squirrel monkeys; both effects were accompanied by sedation and ataxia. These findings are discussed in relation to the possible therapeutic uses of NMDA antagonists and differences in the behavioural effects of such compounds in primate and rodent species.

Bilateral destruction of dentate granule cells in both the dorsal and ventral hippocampal formation had no effect on the threshold for hippocampal afterdischarge before or after kindling. Neither did it affect the number of stimulations required to attain kindling. However, the duration of afterdischarge was significantly longer in colchicine-lesioned animals compared to those receiving artificial cerebrospinal fluid. This was true for the threshold for afterdischarge as well as at the first and last kindling trials. These results suggest that dentate granule cells may inhibit the duration of afterdischarge induced by perforant path stimulation or that other postlesion changes occur which result in a prolongation of hippocampal afterdischarge.
The nine astronauts who flew three Skylab missions during 1973 and 1974 were on carefully planned diets. Each astronaut selected his preferences from a list of approximately 70 food items, from which dietitians developed a rotating sequence of six daily menus. In addition to strict control of the inflight diet, each crewman consumed his planned diet for 21 days preflight and for 18 days postflight. While the amount consumed at each particular meal was largely discretionary, all deviations from the planned meals (which were few) were fully documented. Diets were controlled to provide adequate calcium, phosphorus, and protein because of bone and muscle losses observed on previous flights. Each day's menu had a similar elemental composition; if any particular item was not consumed, supplements in the form of capsules or tablets were prescribed the next day to make up for the shortfall. However, the dieticians did not so carefully control the relative proportions of carbohydrate, fat, and protein (though meticulous records were kept), which were instead selected somewhat incidentally as menus were constructed around each astronaut's food preferences. There are several possible physiologic determinants for food preferences and the regulation of dietary macro-nutrients. Monozygotic twins chose more similar intakes of total energy, protein, fat, and carbohydrate than did dizygotic twins, suggesting a genetic component of dietary regulation. The biosynthesis of neurotransmitters is directly influenced by the availability of their precursor nutrients, such as tryptophan for serotonin and choline for acetylcholine. Diet affects behavior, and it has been suggested that dietary self-selection by rats is regulated by effects of the diet on brain neurotransmitters. Some preflight variables relating to fluid, electrolyte and cardiovascular status, and to environmental exposures, have previously been found to have significant relationships to space sickness. The purpose of this study was to determine if diet could be another factor contributing to space sickness, since diet determines so much of physiology and behavior.
In comparison to other special senses, we are only meagerly informed about the development of vestibular function and the mechanisms that may operate to control or influence the course of vestibular ontogeny. Perhaps one contributing factor to this disparity is the difficulty of evaluating vestibular sense organs directly and noninvasively. The present report describes a recently developed direct noninvasive vestibular function test that can be used to address many basic questions about the developing vestibular system. More particularly, the test can be used to examine the effects of the dynamic environment (e.g. gravitational field and vibration) on vestibular ontogeny.
A Standard Specification for Transferring Digital Neurophysiological Data Between Independent Computer Systems (Designation E 1467-92) has been developed. The specification defines a common representation of all of the data associated with a complete clinical study, including digitized neurophysiological waveforms, textual annotations and interpretive reports. Patterned after existing, related healthcare data interchange standards, it will facilitate data interchange between neurophysiological instruments, computer systems within the neurophysiology laboratory, other information systems in the hospital, and outside healthcare facilities or research laboratories.
We conducted a study to determine whether a computer-assisted instruction program in neuroanatomy helped first-year medical students to form biomedical concepts, and to correct their misconceptions. Using questionnaires and interviews, we elicited concepts and misconceptions held by the students, in the domain of cranial nerve anatomy. The computer program exposed the students to the information they required to answer the scenario-based questions. Our study found that the students' number and types of misconceptions did not decrease after use of the computer-assisted instruction program. Our findings suggest that designers of computer-assisted instruction programs should determine the common misconceptions that student hold, and should target the programs to correct these misconceptions.
Bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor (BPTI) binds to trypsin and anhydrotrypsin (an enzymatically inactive derivative of trypsin) with affinities of 6 x 10(-14) and 1.1 x 10(-13) M, respectively. We have taken advantage of the high affinity and specificity of this binding reaction to develop a protein tagging system in which biotinylated trypsin or biotinylated anhydrotrypsin is used as the reagent to detect recombinant fusion proteins into which BPTI has been inserted. Two proteins, opsin and growth hormone, were used as targets for insertional mutagenesis with BPTI. In each case, both domains of the fusion protein appear to be correctly folded. The fusion proteins can be specifically and efficiently detected by biotinylated trypsin or biotinylated anhydrotrypsin, as demonstrated by staining of transfected cells, protein blotting, affinity purification, and a mobility shift assay in SDS/polyacrylamide gels.
The continence-related problems which affect neuroscience patients are often overlooked. Using a simple checklist can ensure adequate assessment is undertaken to facilitate effective long-term management of this problem.
Psychophysical experiments suggest that colour contrast and colour induction by surround lights can be explained as brightness contrasts (darkness induction) in the spectral region of the surround colour. It follows from this model that a chromatic surround reduces the gain of receptor-ganglion cell channels if the surround colour is in their excitatory spectral region. Thus, a green-sensitive cell (G+/R- or WS in our nomenclature) would respond less to a blue-green stimulus flashed into its receptive field when the surround (5 degrees/20 degrees inner/outer diameter) is illuminated with blue light. Neurophysiological experiments show that this is indeed the case and that such surround-induced response changes are present already in relay cells of the parvocellular layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus (P-LGN) and their retinal afferents. These surround-induced response changes are in qualitative and quantitative agreement with psychophysical experiments. Since the neuronal signal for white consists of a balanced excitation of the M-cone excited, green-blue-sensitive WS-cells and the L-cone excited, yellow-red-sensitive WL-cells, the findings also explain colour induction on white surfaces as well as coloured shadows: during blue surround illumination, white signals from the WS-cells, and during red surround the white signals from the WL-cells are reduced. The neurophysiological surround effects on P-LGN cells are identical but weaker than those produced by light of the same colour shone into the receptive field centres. They are therefore undistinguishable from direct adaptation of those receptors which feed directly into the receptive field of the respective cells. This suggests that they are caused by scattered light reaching the receptive field from the surround.

The last 20-30 years of research has brought detailed information on the pathophysiology and the neurochemistry of anoxic/ischemic brain damage. On the basis of this information, important mediators of such damage have been identified, notably loss of calcium homeostasis, excessive acidosis and enhanced production of free radicals. At present, the tools of basic neuroscience are being employed to unravel the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved. The results suggest that the second and third messengers expressed as a result of a calcium transient may be instrumental in triggering cell damage. These encompass excessive activation of protein kinases and phosphatases, and expression of new genes. The new data emerging in this field herald the advent of new concepts which can explain the causes of ischemic/anoxic brain damage in molecular terms.






Various strategies for representing speech information with multichannel cochlear prostheses were compared in tests with implant patients. The strategies included the compressed analog (CA) approach of a standard clinical device, and alternative interleaved pulses (IP) and continuous interleaved sampling (CIS) strategies. CA and IP strategies had been compared in previous studies with a wide range of subjects. The present studies compared all three types in tests with one subject and CA and CIS strategies in tests with six additional subjects. Subjects for the present studies were selected for their excellent performance with the clinical CA processor, and the tests included closed-set identification of consonants and open-set recognition of words and sentences. For every test, every subject obtained his or her highest score, or repeated a score of 100% correct, using a CIS strategy. In the comparisons of all three approaches, IP processor scores were between those obtained with CA and CIS processors. The results are discussed in terms of their implications for processor design.
The trajectories observed for the limb during human locomotion are determined by a mixture of influences, some arising from neural circuits entirely within the central nervous system and others arising from a variety of sensory receptors. Muscle reflexes are highly modulated during locomotion in an adaptive manner within each phase of the step cycle. Furthermore, the modulation can be modified quickly for different tasks such as standing, walking and running, probably by changes in presynaptic inhibition. This modulation is often lost or severely reduced in patients with spasticity after spinal cord or head injury. In normal subjects cutaneous reflexes can be completely reversed from exciting to inhibiting a muscle during each step cycle, particularly in muscles that normally show two bursts of activity per cycle (e.g., tibialis anterior). In some patients stimulation of a mixed nerve (e.g., common peroneal) can directly produce muscle contraction, generate a reflex response (flexor reflex) and transiently reduce spasticity in antagonist (extensor) muscles. Thus, simple systems employing stimulation can enhance gait to a certain extent in patients with incomplete injuries.
The possibilities for central control of primary spindle afferents through fusimotor efferents for gain control in motor control mechanisms are briefly reviewed. While the existence of separate pathways for independent control of static and dynamic gamma-motoneurones is well established, it proved more difficult to demonstrate that gain control of spindle feedback, attributable to alterations in static and dynamic fusimotor drive, indeed took place in voluntary movements. However, earlier qualitative indications, that Ia sensitivity (and hence the balance of static over dynamic drive) was adjusted differently in different motor tasks, have recently been confirmed in experimental simulation studies, in which the fusimotor activation profiles, that were required to reproduce chronically recorded spindle Ia discharge patterns, were reconstructed. These studies indicated that Ia sensitivity and dynamic gamma-drive were low in routine movements (walking), but that they could be dramatically increased in motor tasks which were either difficult or unfamiliar (landing from falls, balancing on narrow walk beams, adjustment to imposed disturbances). This suggested that sensitization of spindle feedback could play a significant role in motor adaptation. In line with this, studies in patients with large fibre sensory (including proprioceptive) neuropathies indicated that long-term motor deficits (affecting motor adaptation and learning) could be at least as serious as short-term motor dysfunction (due to loss of reflex control). It is suggested that spindle Ia feedback may play a dual role: in addition to its contribution to short-term reflex control of posture and movement, it may also be used for optimization or maintenance of motor programs, especially if its gain is increased by significant dynamic fusimotor drive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


Seven-barrel micropipettes were used to apply drugs microiontophoretically to single units in the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) in chloralose-anaesthetised guinea-pigs. While both agonists and antagonists of putative neurotransmitters in the cochlear nucleus have been investigated in these experiments, the main thrust has been to explore the influence of specific antagonists on cells' spectral and temporal properties, thus elucidating the effects of naturally occurring inhibitory transmitters. At least five types of inhibition appear to be pharmacologically/physiologically separable: (1) Stimulus-evoked tonic &quot;lateral/sideband&quot; inhibition: glycinergic; (blocked by strychnine); responsible for the lateral inhibition of dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) type III and IV cells. Strychnine has its predominant effect on sustained (lateral) inhibition compared with the more transient forms of inhibition. Subtraction of receptive field maps enables us to visualise the extent of the inhibitory receptive field. It extends virtually throughout the unit's response field for both these classes but is generally, especially in type IV cells, maximal at the characteristic frequency (CF). This type of inhibition will primarily be responsible for enhancing spectral contrasts in the way that, in the visual system, surround inhibition enhances visual contrast. Furthermore, lateral inhibitory sidebands can &quot;bias&quot; the &quot;working point&quot; of a cell's response so that the dynamic range of effective stimuli and response can be extended. (2) &quot;Background&quot; tonic inhibition: GABAAergic; (blocked by bicuculline). Blocking this inhibition generally results in an increase in the background (i.e., spontaneous) activity. This inhibition is probably responsible for adjusting excitatory-inhibitory contrasts in both spectral and temporal domains. (3) Stimulus-related off-inhibition appears to be neither glycinergic nor GABAAergic. Blocking these receptors actually enhances off-inhibition. Nicotinic cholinergic blockers may have a small effect on off-inhibition, but so far we have not been able to block it entirely. This off-inhibition is important for enhancing temporal contrast. This inhibition must, therefore, be mediated by other transmitters, yet undetermined, or by a local feedback circuit or, less likely, be a membrane-based after-effect of stimulation. (4) Pre-synaptic inhibition, mediated by GABAB receptors presumed to act on primary afferent terminals, thus controlling afferent input to DCN principal cells. (5) Short-latency contralateral inhibition, mediated by glycine.

The essential amino acid tryptophan (TRP) is the precursor for serotonin (5-HT), which is in turn an intermediary product in the synthesis of melatonin. Acute TRP depletion has recently been shown to decrease nocturnal plasma levels of melatonin in humans. Melatonin is metabolized to 6-hydroxymelatonin sulfate (6-SM), a highly stable end-product which is excreted into urine. To determine the effects of TRP bioavailability on 6-SM, 11 healthy volunteers underwent active and sham TRP depletion in a randomized, double-blind fashion. Samples of plasma free and total TRP, plasma melatonin, and urinary 6-SM were obtained before and after the depletion. Acute TRP depletion decreased free and total plasma tryptophan levels by more than 80% from baseline levels. Nocturnal 6-SM excretion was significantly decreased and highly correlated with decreases in plasma melatonin. These results suggest that nocturnal urinary 6-SM excretion is a valid measure of melatonin secretion under conditions of decreased 5-HT function. Collection of urine for 6-SM is considerably easier than nocturnal plasma sampling for melatonin. Further studies are needed to clarify the relationship between 6-SM excretion and other measures of 5-HT function in neuropsychiatric disorders.
Although catatonic features can be seen in various psychiatric and organic disorders, some patients with catatonia cannot be fitted into existing classification systems. In the current study various sociodemographic and clinical variables were compared between patients who presented with catatonia only (idiopathic catatonia), or with catatonia as a symptom of an identifiable underlying functional disorder. Patients seen over one year (1988) were classified into idiopathic catatonia (n = 30) and according to diagnosis (n = 35; schizophrenia n = 19, depression n = 16). There was an excess of females in the idiopathic group and the illness was of a shorter duration. There were no other differences between the groups. All subjects showed good response to ECTs and required almost the same mean number of ECTs. No clusters were observed using the average method. The current study suggests that catatonic symptoms can occur in the absence of any other identifiable psychiatric syndrome, although they cannot be otherwise differentiated from other psychiatric syndromes in which catatonia can present.
The belief that passage of a 'whitish discharge' is associated with bodily complaints of weakness, tiredness, exhaustion, multiple aches, and multiple somatic complaints is known to be widely prevalent among Asian women. However, this aspect has not gained research attention. The case reported here illustrates how multiple somatic complaints, psychosomatic in nature, are attributed to the passage of white discharge and manifest as an abnormal illness behaviour.

The cholecystokininB receptor antagonist CI-988 ([R-(R*,R*)]-4-[[2-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-1-oxo-2- [[(tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]dec-2-yloxy)carbonyl]amino]- propyl]amino]-1-phenylethyl]amino]-4-oxobutanoic acid compound with 1-deoxy-1-(methylamino)-D-glucitol (1:1)) and the benzodiazepine receptor agonist diazepam were tested for potential anxiolytic effects on punished exploratory behavior in the four-plate test using mice. Diazepam (0.31-5 mg/kg PO) increased the number of shocks taken in a dose-dependent manner, an effect blocked by the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil. CI-988 (0.00001-1 mg/kg PO) tended to increase the number of delivered shocks over the chosen dose range; this effect was, however, not dose-related or as large as that produced by diazepam. A limited testing of the 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor antagonist ondansetron (0.1 and 1 mg/kg PO) suggested an effect similar to CI-988. These results indicate that distinct and contrasting dose-response profiles exist for these classical and atypical drugs in an animal model of anxiety based on electric shock.
Administration to mice of N-methyl-DL-aspartate (NMDLA; 680-3400 mumol/kg IP) produced a behavioural syndrome of scratching, running, pawing, clonus, loss of righting and tonic convulsions. Measures of latency to appearance of the behaviours and percentage of animals displaying the behaviour (frequency) indicated that the latency to appearance of running behaviour, clonus and tonic convulsions were all dose dependant. Chlormethiazole (155-622 mumol/kg IP) given 15 min before NMDLA (3400 mumol/kg) dose-dependently inhibited all the behaviours, increasing the latency to appearance of scratching, running and clonus and reducing the incidence of pawing, loss of righting and tonic convulsions. Tonic seizures induced by NMDLA (3400 mumol/kg) were inhibited by the following drugs (ED50 values in mumol/kg in brackets): chlormethiazole (210); pentobarbitone (67); dizocilpine (0.9). The diazepam value (38) was estimated as complete inhibition was not obtained. Chlormethiazole (1 mM) did not affect the binding of [3H]-dizocilpine to rat cortical membranes or the stimulation of this binding by glutamate (10 microM), glycine (10 microM) or spermidine (100 microM). It is therefore concluded that whilst chlormethiazole effectively antagonises the convulsive behavioural syndrome induced by injection of NMDLA, it does not do so by interacting with the NMDA receptor complex but more probably by its known interaction with the GABAA receptor complex.
Rats were pretreated for 2 weeks with similarly effective doses of the typical neuroleptic fluphenazine (FPZ) or the experimental weak partial D2 agonists S(+)N-n-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) and S(+)11-hydroxy-N-n-propylnoraporphine (11-OH-NPa). Spontaneous and dopamine (DA) agonist (apomorphine; APO) stimulated stereotyped behaviors or locomotion, and interactions with APO were evaluated over the following 2 weeks. While FPZ induced marked supersensitivity in APO stereotype, (+)NPA showed no significant change, and (+)11-OH-NPa produced only a small, transient increase in response; NPA also lacked a supersensitizing effect on locomotor arousal induced by APO. The time-course of stereotyped responses to APO following pretreatment with FLZ included a marked increase following FPZ that became maximal at day 5 and normalized by day 9; there was a parallel reduction of acute antisteotypy efficacy of FPZ. (+)11-OH-NPa had similar, but much lesser and shorter-lived effects. Spontaneous locomotion was markedly depressed following FPZ, recovered in 1 week, exceeded controls at day 9, and returned to baseline by day 11; (+)11-OH-NPa, again, had similar but smaller effects. Acute effects of FPZ to reduce spontaneous or APO-induced locomotion were greater after FPZ pretreatment and normalized within a week; (+)11-OH-NPa had a similar but smaller effect. Locomotor arousal by APO was altered inconsistently in the week after pretreatment with FPZ or (+)11-OH-NPa. Thus, FPZ appeared to induce tolerance and supersensitivity in central DA systems, most clearly seen following a several-day period to eliminate the drug.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The behavioral performance of inbred mouse strains was examined in animal models of anxiety to evaluate the potential contribution of genetic factors to fear-motivated behaviors. The preference that randomly bred mice and rats exhibit for the enclosed as opposed to the open arms of an elevated maze has been considered a fear-motivated behavior. Pronounced differences were observed in this measure among 16 inbred mouse strains. An estimate of the proportion of the variance attributable to between-strain differences, eta 2, revealed that 78% and 69% of the variance in time and number of entries in the open arms of an elevated maze, respectively, can be attributed to genetic factors. In contrast, only 27% and 42% of the variance could be attributed to between-strain differences in ambulatory activity in the open field and elevated maze, respectively. Furthermore, performance in the elevated maze was predictive of behavior in other animal models of anxiety. Thus, significant negative correlations were observed among inbred mouse strains between the percent time spent in the open arms of the elevated maze and amplitude of an acoustic startle response (rs = -0.88m P &lt; 0.01) or latency to initiate chow consumption in a hyponeophagia paradigm (rs = -0.71, P &lt; 0.05). These results indicate that genetic factors substantially contribute to fear motivated behaviors in these animal models of anxiety. The use of such inbred mouse strains may provide a novel approach to investigate the biochemical and genetic bases of fear.
Two experiments examined the effect of the benzodiazepine receptor agonist, zolpidem, on palatable fluid intake in water-deprived rats. In the first experiment, pretreatment with 3.0 or 10.0 mg/kg zolpidem IP was found to increase consumption of a novel glucose drink (3% d-glucose and 0.15 sodium saccharine w/v in water). The increase in fluid consumption induced with zolpidem was comparable to the increases observed with diazepam and the benzodiazepine partial agonist, FG 8205. Experiment 2 demonstrated that this zolpidem-induced increase in drinking could be observed in both naive rats and in rats that had been habituated to the glucose drink and the testing environment: pretreatment with 3.0 mg/kg PO of zolpidem was found to increase fluid consumption in rats that had received either 0 or 8 days pre-exposure to the testing conditions. Contrary to earlier reports, these results support the conclusion that zolpidem, like other benzodiazepine agonists, can directly modulate ingestive behaviour.
Administration to mice of harmaline (100 mg/kg SC) resulted in a greater than two-fold increase in cyclic GMP in the cerebellum 15 min later. This response was inhibited by pretreatment 5 min before the harmaline with pentobarbital (ED50 6.5 mg/kg), chlormethiazole (ED50 10.4 mg/kg) and dizocilpine (ED50 0.5 mg/kg). Harmaline-induced tremor was inhibited by pentobarbital (ED50 30 mg/kg) and chlormethiazole (ED50 50 mg/kg) but not dizocilpine. The data demonstrate that the harmaline-induced tremor and cerebellar cyclic GMP rise are probably not associated. They also demonstrate that chlormethiazole is able to inhibit a biochemical response (the increase in cerebellar cyclic GMP) which results from increased glutamate function.
Simultaneous abuse of cocaine and ethanol is a common occurrence. Cocaethylene, the ethyl ester of benzoylecgonine, has been detected in the urine of patients reporting concurrent use of cocaine and ethanol, and high levels have been found in the blood of victims of fatal drug overdose. This placebo-controlled, double-blind study examined the pharmacokinetic, physiologic, and behavioral effects of dual cocaine and ethanol administration in humans (n = 6). Cocaethylene was found in the plasma only after administration of both cocaine and ethanol, and appeared to be eliminated more slowly than cocaine. Plasma cocaine concentrations were significantly higher during cocaine/ethanol administration. Euphorigenic effects were both enhanced and prolonged, and heart rate was significantly increased, following cocaine/ethanol administration as compared to administration of cocaine or ethanol alone.
Psychomotor stimulant drugs such as caffeine, nicotine, amphetamine and cocaine, have been shown to improve vigilance in man under conditions of fatigue. Nicotine has also been shown to improve performance in some cognitive tests in patients with Alzheimer's disease. In rodents these drugs increase activity which may confound &quot;performance enhancing effects&quot; in rodent models. However, improvements have been found in a number of tests that do not seem to be directly dependent upon an enhancement of locomotor activation. In one example, Evenden and Robbins (1985) reported consistent improvements in a visual tracking test following amphetamine. The present study was undertaken to determine whether these performance enhancing effects of amphetamine could also be obtained with cocaine and apomorphine, which both have psychomotor stimulant effects through their actions as, respectively, indirect and direct dopamine agonists, and by caffeine and nicotine, which do not have a direct dopaminergic mechanism of action. The results of the study indicate that all five drugs improved tracking performance at one or more doses. The most consistent effects were obtained with amphetamine which, like cocaine and nicotine, improved tracking at a dose which did not produce other changes in behaviour. Taking into account previous studies (Evenden and Robbins 1983, 1985), these results were interpreted as indicating that psychomotor stimulant drugs produce a general activation of behaviour. At all but the highest doses of such drugs, the form of behaviour that is observed depends upon the environment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle reflex is reduced by systemic administration of dopamine (DA) agonists. Since PPI is impaired in patients with schizophrenia, the DA agonist-induced disruption of PPI in rats may be a useful model for studying the pathophysiology of impaired sensorimotor gating in schizophrenia. In the present study, we replicated the observation that PPI is disrupted by systemic administration of the D2 agonist quinpirole, but not by the D1 agonist SKF 38393. PPI caused by weak [1-5 dB(A)] or more intense [10 dB(A)] prepulses was also disrupted by quinpirole infusion into the nucleus accumbens (NAC). The effects of intraaccumbens quinpirole on PPI were blocked by pretreatment with the D2 antagonist haloperidol. These results support the notion that the reduction of PPI after systemic administration of DA agonists is mediated via stimulation of NAC D2 receptors.
Serotonin is a neurotransmitter that is widely distributed throughout the central nervous system. The role of serotonin in schizophrenia is still unclear. Postmortem studies of serotonin receptor subtypes in schizophrenia have been inconclusive for the most part. The most promising findings involve a reduction in 5-HT2 receptors and 5-HT reuptake sites in the prefrontal cortex of schizophrenic patients. In this paper we review the function, distribution and pharmacological characteristics of serotonin receptors. Postmortem studies are also reviewed, focusing upon the role of these receptors in schizophrenia.
In studies of event-related potentials (ERPs), short interstimulus intervals (ISIs) are often employed to investigate certain neural or psychological phenomena. At short ISIs, however, the ERP responses to successive stimuli may overlap, thereby distorting the ERP averages. This paper describes a signal processing approach for analyzing the distortion of ERP averages due to such overlap. In general, the distortion is modeled in terms of mathematical convolutions of the ERP waveform elicited by each type of adjacent stimulus with the corresponding distribution in time of those stimuli relative to the averaging epoch. Using this framework, a number of implications of ERP overlap for experimental design and interpretation are examined, with special emphasis given to selective attention paradigms. It is shown that the possibility of confound due to ERP overlap is widespread in short-ISI experiments, and even the widely used procedure of stimulus randomization does not necessarily control for differential distortion of the ERPs to attended versus unattended stimuli. Problems due to ERP overlap can be particularly serious in short-ISI studies that examine how ERPs (and associated perceptual processes) are influenced by the nature of the preceding stimulus (i.e., stimulus sequence effects). A set of algorithms is presented for estimating and removing the residual distortion due to response overlap from recorded ERP averages. The use of these algorithms, collectively termed the Adjacent Response (Adjar) Technique, can alleviate many of the overlap-related problems that arise when short ISIs are used, thereby enhancing the power of the ERP technique.
Auditory event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 71 healthy individuals between 18 and 82 years of age during performance of a disjunctive reaction time task in an auditory oddball paradigm. The effects of aging on reaction times and on the latencies, amplitudes, and distributions of each of the main ERP components were examined. No significant slowing of the reaction times of the elderly subjects was observed in relation to the younger ones. The peak latencies of both the N1 and P2 components elicited by standard tones were slightly but significantly slowed with age. In the ERPs of target tones, the later, endogenous components (N2, P3, and SW) showed linear increases in latency as a function of age; the later the component, the longer the age-related delay. In general, aging was associated with less negativity (both N2 and SW) and more positivity (P3) over the anterior scalp, together with a smaller P3 and a more pronounced N2 over posterior scalp areas. Most of the effects observed in target ERPs were also evident in the difference waves derived from subtraction of the standard from the target ERPs, although the slope of the age-related latency increase of N2 was shallower and that of the P3 was steeper in the difference ERPs. These findings are discussed in relation to previous accounts of ERP changes with aging.
The authors review current neurobiological models of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). The rationale for anatomically based models is outlined and selected brain regions of interest are discussed. The authors conclude that there is abundant evidence to implicate multiple brain regions as sites of abnormality in OCD. A review of neuropharmacological concepts related to the serotonergic (5-HT) hypothesis of OCD is also presented. The authors conclude that anti-obsessional agents may well have therapeutic effects via the 5-HT system, yet there is little unequivocal evidence to suggest an underlying abnormality in the 5-HT system. A comprehensive neurobiological model of OCD must acknowledge the interrelationship between multiple transmitter systems and integrate anatomical with neuropharmacological concepts.

The modulation of GABA activity by 3 alpha-OH-DHP (allopregnanolone, 3 alpha-hydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one) and PS (pregnenolone sulfate) has been studied in native GABAA receptors of rat cortical neurons in primary cultures and in structurally different recombinant GABAA receptors of rat cortical neurons in primary cultures and in structurally different recombinant GABAA receptors expressed in the 293 human embryonic kidney cell line (HEK 293). In cortical neurons 3 alpha-OH-DHP positively modulates GABA elicited Cl- currents while PS at 10 microM negatively modulates (50% decrease) this GABA response, but at 10 nM PS positively modulates the GABA current (40% increase). Both neurosteroids are equally active on various types of recombinant GABAA receptors, except for alpha 6 beta 1 gamma 2 receptors which are less sensitive to the positive allosteric modulation by 3 alpha-OH-DHP. In contrast the presence of the gamma 1 subunit doubles the efficacy of 3 alpha-OH-DHP. The negative modulation of PS is similar in recombinant GABAA receptors including various molecular forms of alpha or gamma units. A direct activation of Cl- current by 3 alpha-OH-DHP was observed in native and recombinant receptors but its efficacy on the various molecular forms of GABAA receptor tested was always smaller than that of identical concentrations (10 microM) of GABA.
The requirement for increased [Ca2+]i during T cell activation is well established. In the present study, we have used the cell-attached configuration of the patch-clamp technique and Ca2+ spectrofluorometry to investigate the regulation of K+ channel activity by intracellular calcium [Ca2+]i in intact human T lymphocytes. The predominant ion current in resting human T cells is a voltage-dependent K+ current, K(V), which is susceptible to second-messenger regulation. We report here that K(V) channel activity is reversibly inhibited at all relevant membrane potentials by a rise in [Ca2+]i induced by Ca2+ ionophore or the mitogens, concanavalin A or phytohemagglutinin. Consistent with this Ca2+ dependence, lowering [Ca2+]i with Ca(2+)-depleted medium can induce K(V) channel activity in otherwise quiet patches. We have also found two Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels (K(Ca)), a 9 pS channel and an inwardly rectifying 11-25 pS channel, similar to those we found in rat thymic T cells and human B cells. The sensitivity of these K(Ca) channels to [Ca2+]i suggests reciprocal regulation with that of K(V) channels. A considerable lag between mitogen treatment and induction of 9 pS K(Ca) activity, the decrease in this channel's activity in the continued presence of high [Ca2+]i or upon patch excision, and the decreased sensitivity of K(V) to Ca2+i block in disrupted cells all argue for the involvement of intracellular factors. During [Ca2+]i-mediated inhibition of K(V) channels, the recruitment of distinct K(Ca) channels is likely to play a central role in maintaining cell hyperpolarization and a sustained driving force for Ca2+ influx during T-cell activation.
Among the non-NMDA (non-N-methyl-D-aspartic acid) glutamate receptors, the AMPA (alpha-amino-2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-oxo-4-isoxazolepropanoic acid) selective receptors are characterized by a fast occurring desensitization. We and others have searched for specific modifiers of the rapid desensitization of AMPA responses in hippocampal slices using the patch-clamp technique. Aniracetam (1-(4-methoxybenzoyl)-2-pyrrolidinone) and diazoxide (7-chloro-3-methyl-2H-1,2,4-benzo-thiadiazine 1,1-dioxide) (1 mM) increased glutamate-activated currents recorded from voltage-clamped CA1 pyramidal neurons in presence of 5 microM MK-801 (dizocilpine; 10,11-dihydro-5-methyl-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine) by 2.5 fold. Cyclothiazide (3-bicyclo[2.2.1]hept-5-en-2-yl-6-chloro-3,4-dihydro-2H-1,2,4-benzoth ia diazine-7-sulfonamide 1,1-dioxide) (100 microM), a chemical congener of diazoxide, completely removed the desensitization of the AMPA response measured with fast application in excised outside-out patches. At this concentration cyclothiazide produced an 18 fold enhancement of the glutamate current. Eighteen diazoxide analogues (2H-1,2,4-benzothiadizines: IDRA 2-19) were then tested but none of them was as effective as diazoxide. Three analogues of cyclothiazide (3,4-dihydro-2H-1,2,4-benzothiadiazines: IDRA 20-22) were also tested and none of them were as potent as the parent compound. However, IDRA 21 produced a response 3 times larger than diazoxide. Moreover, while cyclothiazide and diazoxide potentiated kainate responses for all the doses that decreased AMPA receptor desensitization, IDRA 21, similarly to aniracetam, inhibited AMPA receptor desensitization preferentially. These results suggest that similarly to NMDA receptors the structure of AMPA receptors may include a center that regulates desensitization.



Five out of 160 cases of lacunar infarcts were preceded or followed by intracerebral hemorrhage. Four patients were hypertensive. This association raises the question of a common risk factor in lacunar infarct and intracranial hemorrhage. The possibility that these different stroke types may be due to the same arteriolar pathology is discussed.
Multiple cranial nerve palsies frequently occur in patients with cephalic zoster. Nevertheless, to our knowledge, involvement of the glossopharyngeal (IXth), vagus (Xth) and accessory (XIth) nerves has not yet been reported. We report a case of jugular foramen syndrome with palatolaryngeal herpetic eruption, aseptic meningitis and a high level of serum antibody to varicella-zoster virus.
In Parkinson's disease, experimental studies favour a neuronal hyperactivity of the subthalamic nucleus. We carried out a subthalamic nucleus electrical stimulation in a patient aged 51, suffering for 8 years from a severe akineto-rigid form of Parkinson's disease, complicated with an on-off effect. Stereotaxic surgery was done under local anaesthesia on one side. Within the theoretical target, a 130 Hz stimulation induced akinesia alleviation mainly on the contralateral limbs. No abnormal movement was noticed. Then a long-term quadripolar DBS Medtronic electrode was inserted in that area. The study of the effects of chronic stimulation is in progress to determine the best temporal and electrical stimulation variables.

Schizophrenia is a clinical syndrome of both extraordinary importance and extraordinary complexity. Its conceptual history contains many perspectives on the &quot;essential&quot; nature of the illness. For example, Kraepelin in 1919 emphasized primarily onset and course, although he also stressed the importance of some symptoms such as changes in affect and volition. Bleuler in 1911 took a more cross-sectional approach and attempted to identify fundamental characteristic symptoms, especially stressing fragmenting of thought processes. Schneider's (1959) approach was cross-sectional, stressing a group of &quot;first-rank symptoms.&quot; DSM-III and its successors attempted to achieve a synthesis of these concepts. Nevertheless, heterogeneity in the clinical presentation of schizophrenia is certain, and heterogeneity in pathophysiology and etiology is likely. Although we can now define a particular construct of schizophrenia with reasonable agreement, the construct must be recognized as provisional and based on a need to achieve consensus about definitions rather than on an understanding of pathophysiology and etiology. The major challenge confronting the student of schizophrenia is to identify its mechanisms and causes in order to develop improved strategies for treatment and prevention. Several different approaches have been proposed to achieve this goal. Early attempts to explore and validate the construct of schizophrenia stressed descriptive and epidemiological techniques; the &quot;validity&quot; of a given construct of schizophrenia would be determined by evaluation of familial aggregation, course and outcome, response to treatment, and laboratory tests. This earlier approach to validation is now complemented by one that draws on techniques from neuroscience and attempts to understand schizophrenia in terms of underlying neural mechanisms. While the earlier approach conceptualized schizophrenia primarily in terms of a single disease entity, the second approach is particularly useful for the exploration of subtypes or dimensions. Research strategies for the study of schizophrenia have been developed to explore its heterogeneity. Three different competing models are discussed: (1) A single etiopathological process leading to diverse manifestations, similar to multiple sclerosis; (2) multiple disease entities leading to schizophrenia by different etiopathological processes, similar to the syndrome of mental retardation; and (3) specific symptom clusters within schizophrenia reflecting different disease processes that come together in different ways in different patients. Each of these models has strengths and weaknesses for the identification of etiology and pathophysiology.
The course of cognitive function in schizophrenia has often been debated. In one view, it is thought to be akin to that of a progressive dementia with relentless cognitive decline. In another view, the deficits are thought to remain relatively stable, analogous to those of a static encephalopathy. Review of longitudinal and cross-sectional studies strongly supports the latter interpretation. In particular, we present data from a recent cross-sectional study in which cohorts of patients in their third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh decades of life were administered a battery of tests known to be sensitive to progressive dementing diseases. All patients were carefully screened to exclude those with neurologic, systemic, or psychiatric comorbid conditions, and cohorts were matched on estimated premorbid intellectual capacity. Although scores on most tests were impaired, no evidence of decline across groups was observed. These results are also consistent with neuroimaging and neuropathological studies in that no evidence for an active degenerative process has been discovered.
A study of the birth pattern of 30,467 patients with schizophrenia and 428,406 stillbirths in New York State showed a significant winter-month excess in both schizophrenia births (p = 0.0000) and stillbirths (p = 0.0000). Excess births of individuals with schizophrenia in November and December provided additional evidence to refute the age-incidence explanation for the observed seasonality. Time series spectral analysis showed coherence in the pattern of schizophrenia births and stillbirths of 0.898 (p &lt; 0.003) with schizophrenia births preceding stillbirths by 13 days. These results suggest that a common etiological seasonal factor affects a subgroup of births of individuals who later develop schizophrenia and a subgroup of stillbirths. Nutritional factors, temperature, and infectious agents known to cause both central nervous system disease and stillbirths are possible candidates.
Following the Central European tradition of the triad system of psychiatry of Kurt Schneider (I. Abnormal Reactions/Personalities, II. Acute/Chronic Organic Psychosis, III. Schizophrenia/Cyclothymia) (19) a series of 210 cases of acute organic psychoses was collected. In contrast to DSM-III and in accord with W.A. Lishman (10), this series comprises not only delirium, but the entire range of impairments of consciousness from the &quot;Durchgangssyndrom&quot; of H.H. Wieck (24) to clouding of consciousness and coma, twilight states or apallic syndromes. From this series we present some elementary quantitative data concerning the age distribution of different etiologies, that are generally considered helpful in the diagnostic process. In contrast to this opinion, a single case of bromazepam-induced delirium shows: The anamnesis may be misleading, the general and neurological examination as well as the radiological, laboratory and electrophysiological tests could be insignificant. The essential diagnostic tool is the descriptive or phenomenological psychopathological observation. Compared to it, the general data of the age distribution of different etiologies of organic psychoses are of comparably little help in making a diagnosis. Artificial intelligence and medical expert systems are set out to replace the diagnosis of the physician. Eliminative materialistic neuroscience is set out to replace old-fashioned descriptive psychopathology by quantitative electrical and chemical data. Through the method of systematically confronting general quantitative data with suitably chosen single cases it should be possible to find out essential differences between general reductionist statements and the properties of complex qualitative phenomena like the individual human mind.
By rooting behavior in ideas, and ideas in the brain, Hebb laid the groundwork for modern neuroscience. His theory prefigured computer models of neural networks.
The neural basis of pattern recognition is a central problem in visual neuroscience. Responses of single cells were recorded in area V4 of macaque monkey to three classes of periodic stimuli that are based on spatial derivative operators: polar (concentric and radial), hyperbolic, and conventional sinusoidal (Cartesian) gratings. Of 118 cells tested, 16 percent responded significantly more to polar or hyperbolic (non-Cartesian) gratings than to Cartesian gratings and only 8 percent showed a significant preference for Cartesian gratings. Among cells selective for non-Cartesian gratings, those that preferred concentric gratings were most common. Cells selective for non-Cartesian gratings may constitute an important intermediate stage in pattern recognition and the representation of surface shape.
The number of c-fos protein-like immunoreactive (Fos-LI) cells in the gracile nucleus was determined after electrical stimulation at A alpha/A beta-fiber strength of the normal and of the previously injured sciatic nerve in adult rats. No Fos-LI cells were seen after electrical stimulation of the noninjured sciatic nerve, or after sciatic nerve injury without electrical stimulation. However, stimulation 21 days after sciatic nerve transection resulted in numerous Fos-LI cells in the ipsilateral gracile nucleus. Combined Fos immunocytochemistry and retrograde labeling from the thalamus showed that the majority (76%; range = 70-80%) of the cells in the gracile nucleus that expressed Fos-LI after nerve injury projected to the thalamus. The results indicate that morphological, biochemical, and physiological alterations in primary sensory central endings and second-order neurons, which have earlier been demonstrated in the dorsal column nuclei after peripheral nerve injury, are accompanied by changes in the c-fos gene activation pattern after stimulation of the injured sciatic nerve. A substantial number of the c-fos-expressing neurons project to the thalamus.

The Leksell Gamma Knife is a useful and safe method to perform thalamotomy and pallidotomy in selected older patients with Parkinson's disease and related movement disorders. In this preliminary report, 2 of 3 patients with severe intention tremor were relieved of their symptoms by thalamotomy, as were 4 of 7 patients with Parkinson's tremor. Four of 8 patients had significant improvement of contralateral rigidity following pallidotomy.
The cost of the three dominant technologies for delivering radiosurgery to the brain are compared. Included in the analysis is the cost of the equipment and labor costs for each procedure. Once a unit is treating more than 100 patients per year the Gamma Knife becomes the most cost-effective technology by a factor of almost 100%. These findings are primarily a result of the greater labor input required for alternate technologies.

Clinical Neurophysiology is rapidly moving towards complete dependence on digital instrumentation and computer-based systems. ASTM E 1467-92 &quot;Standard Specification for Transferring Digital Neurophysiological Data Between Independent Computer Systems&quot; was developed to allow exchange of multichannel electrophysiological waveforms, embedded textual annotations, results of mathematical processing, and clinical interpretive reports between various instruments and systems. This will permit integration of the neurophysiology laboratory interaction with hospital and clinic informations systems, and sharing of data between institutions for clinical or research purposes.

The effects of differential rearing on synaptic morphology and neuronal size were examined in the medial amygdaloid nucleus (MAN) of adult rats. Forty-day-old male rats were housed in one of three ways: individually (isolated condition, IC); with four males per cage (unisexual condition, UC); or with two males and two females per cage (social condition, SC). After 2 months, the animals were prepared for electron and light microscopy. Although there was no statistically significant difference in number of synapses per unit volume in MAN, the number of perforated (P) synapses, which are characterized by discontinuities in the postsynaptic density, were significantly greater in the UC and the SC than in the IC. The length of synaptic contact zone of P synapses was also longer in both the UC and the SC compared with the IC, whereas the length of nonperforated synapses was longer only in the SC. Soma area was also larger in the SC compared with the IC. These results demonstrate that exposure to different rearing conditions, in which the pheromonal environment can be substantially different, can induce striking morphological changes in both synapses and neurons in the MAN of adult rats.
In order to clarify the sites of predilection for foamy spheroid bodies (FSBs) their regional distribution was studied in 56 persons (30-98 years) without neurodegenerative diseases. Variable amounts of FSBs were observed in approximately 30% of cases and favoured the rostro-ventral parts of the globus pallidus (GP), including the ventral pallidum, and/or the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr). The results strongly suggest that FSBs develop during aging and are a hitherto undescribed pathological hallmark for degeneration of the GP and the SNr.


Disturbed lysosomal function may be implicated at several stages of Alzheimer's pathogenesis. Lysosomes and acid hydrolases accumulate in the majority of neocortical pyramidal neurons before typical degenerative changes can be detected, indicating that altered lysosome function is among the earliest markers of metabolic dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease. These early alterations could reflect accelerated membrane and protein turnover, defective lysosome or hydrolase function, abnormal lysosomal trafficking or any combination of these possibilities. Because APP is partly metabolized in lysosomes, early disturbances in lysosomal function could promote the production of abnormal and/or neurotoxic APP fragments within intact cells. Lysosomal abnormalities progressively worsen as neurons begin to degenerate. Based on existing literature on cell death, increased perturbation and instability of the lysosomal system may be expected to contribute to the atrophy and eventual lysis of the neuron. Finally, the release of hydrolase-filled lysosomes and lipofuscin aggregates from dying neurons accounts for the abundant deposition of enzymatically active acid hydrolases of all classes in the extracellular space--a phenomenon that may be unique to Alzheimer's disease. Acting on APP present in surrounding dystrophic neurites, cellular debris and astrocyte processes, dysregulated hydrolases may cleave APP in atypical sequential patterns, thereby generating self-aggregating protease-resistant APP fragments that can be only processed to beta-amyloid. Genetic mutations or posttranslational factors of APP should further enhance the generation of amyloidogenic fragments by a dysregulated lysosomal system. Given that very little, if any, beta-amyloid is detected intracellularly, yet extracellular beta-amyloid is very abundant, our data suggest that the final steps of APP processing and the generation of most beta-amyloid in the brain parenchyma occur extracellularly and may involve one or more lysosomal proteases.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the formation of senile plaques, the main component of which is amyloid beta protein. The processing of the amyloid beta/A4 protein has been implicated in the pathogenesis of AD. We have reported cathepsin B as a candidate APP secretase. By using APP-transfected COS-1 cells, we determined that the putative APP secretase, lysosomal cathepsin B, is involved in the constitutive processing of the precursor molecule. Digestion experiments demonstrated that cathepsin B cleaves the APP molecule into two fragments with molecular masses 115 kDa and 9 kDa, representing presumptive proteolytic fragments of constitutive processing.
We previously reported evidence for a lysosomal degradative pathway for APP and C-terminal fragments thereof, based on Western and immunocytochemical analysis of drug-treated cells. Here, we verify the existence of a lysosomal degradative pathway for APP using pulse chase immunoprecipitation analysis of drug-treated cells and fibroblasts with and without a known lysosomal hydrolase targeting defect. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that part or all of the beta-protein domain of APP is normally degraded by lysosomes. A mechanism for beta-protein deposition based on this data is hypothesized.
The concept of the limbic system is highly influential in many areas of the neurosciences and in their applications to clinical medicine. The value of this concept has been questioned, denied, and defended several times in the past but a comprehensive critical evaluation has never been published. In this article we take several approaches to analyse empirical data of relevance to the limbic system. First we delineate its factual application in different areas. The limbic system has a very wide scope and divergent use. Secondly we extract criteria for its definition from research literature using the bibliographic database Medline. The limbic system has been defined variously on a number of different descriptive levels from morphology to behaviour. Thirdly we review its empirical foundations comparing evidence from different sources. The limbic system lacks an adequate empirical definition in spite of numerous efforts. Last we evaluate its construction as a scientific concept from empirical facts. The limbic system is a non-empirical explanatory concept for poorly understood brain functions. We conclude that the concept of the limbic system cannot be accepted on empirical grounds. However, it is a very attractive concept in the search for explanation of brain function. The non-empirical contents of the limbic system remains largely unexplored.
Aluminum is an environmental neurotoxin and a suspected risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. The neurotoxicity of aluminum on cultured neurons of rat cerebral cortex was investigated using an assay system for synapse formation and immunohistochemistry. The frequency of spontaneous oscillations of intracellular Ca2+, which is correlated to the number of synapses, was decreased after exposure to 100 microM of aluminum chloride for 22 days. Long-term application of aluminum (48 days) caused aggregation of cell bodies and fasciculation of processes. Processes and cell bodies were strongly stained by antibody to tau protein, which is one of the main components of Alzheimer's neurofibrillary tangles. It is suggested that the characteristics of the degeneration of cultured neurons induced by aluminum show some similarities to the pathology observed in brains with Alzheimer's disease.
A clone MA2C2 encoding the murine homologue of adrenoceptor alpha 2C2 was isolated from a mouse genomic library using a subtype specific probe. The nucleotide and the deduced amino acid sequences derived from an ApaI fragment (2 kb) of the clone reveal a single open reading frame encoding a putative receptor protein of 455 amino acids. The 5' untranslated region (0.5 kb) sequenced is characterized by high GC content and CpG island count.
At the midblastula transition in the zebrafish, three, and only three, spatially separate mitotic domains arise with distinctive cycle lengths and rhythms. As in Drosophila and at about the equivalent stage, the mitotic domains reflect the fate map, but they do so only very crudely: two are extraembryonic and the third forms the entire embryo. The domains appear not to subdivide during gastrulation, when the germ layers form and when cells probably commit to their eventual fates. The domains may signal specification of morphogenesis rather than cell fate, because, shortly after they appear, each assumes a different role during epiboly, the first morphogenetic movement of the embryo. During meroblastic cleavage, and continuing in the early blastula, zebrafish blastomeres divide rapidly and synchronously. At the time of the tenth cleavage, the beginning of the midblastula transition, the cell cycle lengthens, and, as in Xenopus and Drosophila, cycle length comes under nucleocytoplasmic control (D.A.K. and C.B.K., manuscript in preparation). This nucleocytoplasmic control seems to be maintained during cycle lengthening in the next 2 or 3 cycles, comprising a midblastula transition period. We now show that functionally distinct subsets of cells that arise during this period have reproducibly different mitotic cycle lengths.
Deposition of beta/A4 amyloid in Alzheimer disease (AD) brain parenchyma and vasculature occurs by mechanisms that are currently undefined. Similarly the potential consequences of amyloid accumulation for disrupting cellular integrity have not been addressed in detail. To investigate the possible significance of amyloid deposits for cellular viability, PC12 cells were permanently transfected with DNA coding for the beta/A4-C terminal region of the amyloid precursor protein. The DNA represented 97 amino acids of the amyloid precursor protein of which 40 amino acids were derived from the beta/A4 region. Transfected clonal cell lines and controls were examined at both the light and electron microscopic levels for morphological abnormalities. beta/A4 amyloid accumulated in the cell membrane where the peptide was located at cellular processes resembling blebs and microvilli. These specialized structures at the cell surface were over-abundant in transfected cells that overexpressed the beta/A4 peptide but not in controls. Membranous processes may be involved in the delivery of the beta/A4 peptide to the external surface of the cell of origin and release into the extracellular space. Similar surface features of cells in the AD brain, should they occur, may indicate a role for membrane-associated processes in the pathophysiology of the disorder.
A startlingly simple molecule unites neuroscience, physiology, and immunology, and revises scientists' understanding of how cells communicate and defend themselves.
Optical methods were used to locate the cell bodies of directionally selective ganglion cells in isolated rabbit retinas. These neurons detect the direction in which images move across the retinal surface and transmit that information to the brain. The receptive field of each identified cell was determined, after which the cell was injected with Lucifer yellow. An image of the receptive field border was then projected onto the fluorescent image of the dendrites, allowing precise comparison between them. The size of the receptive field matched closely the size of the dendritic arbor of that cell. This result restricts the types of convergence that can be postulated in modeling the mechanism of retinal directional selectivity.


Cocaine (10 and 20 mg/kg i.p.) enhanced the extracellular concentration of acetylcholine (ACh) in the ventral striatum of freely moving rats. The enhancement was prevented both by dopamine (DA) D1 receptor blockade with SCH 23390 (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) and by depletion of endogenous DA after coadministration of reserpine (5 mg/kg i.p.) and alpha-methyltyrosine (alpha-MT) (150 mg/kg i.p.). In contrast, blockade of DA D2 receptors with (-)-sulpiride (20 mg/kg i.p.) did not prevent the cocaine-induced increase in ACh release. These results indicate that the cocaine-induced stimulation of ACh release is mediated by an action of DA on D1 receptors, and suggest that the enhancement of ACh release might play a functional role in the central effects of cocaine. Moreover, DA depletion after reserpine + alpha-MT or D1 receptor blockade with SCH 23390 led to a comparable decrease of baseline ACh release, suggesting that striatal cholinergic interneurons are under D1 receptor-mediated facilitatory dopaminergic control.
Using immunohistochemical techniques, we have previously localized nerve growth factor (NGF)-like immunoreactivity in the normal adult rat central nervous system (CNS) exclusively in the hippocampal mossy fiber region and within basal forebrain cholinergic neurons--a cell population believed to be primary NGF consumers within the CNS. In the present investigation, we have attempted to identify potential producers of NGF by pretreating animals with colchicine. Such a treatment would be expected to block microtubule-assisted neuritic transport mechanisms, thus preventing the accumulation of antigens normally obtained by retrograde transport and forcing the accumulation of cell products normally exported anterogradely. Forty-eight hours after colchicine administration within their innervation territories, basal forebrain cholinergic neurons showed a marked loss of NGF-like immunoreactivity. Conversely, following colchicine treatment, many new populations of NGF-like immunoreactive cells were detected, several of which have been previously observed with in situ hybridization techniques for NGF mRNA. Many NGF-like immunoreactive populations, however, were not previously recognized by in situ hybridization methods, including cells of the striatum, reticular thalamic nucleus, paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, lateral and medial septum, substantia innominata, and nucleus basalis. Furthermore, evidence is provided that colchicine-blocked, NGF-like immunoreactive neurons within the basal forebrain are not cholinergic, thus reinforcing the hypothesis that trophic support for these NGF-dependent neurons may be derived from distant and local sources. The distinctive distribution of NGF-like immunoreactive cells observed in this study strongly correlates with the reported distribution of NGF mRNA in CNS neurons, thus suggesting that our antibodies are uniquely recognizing NGF and not other related neurotrophins.
Aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC, EC 4.1.1.28) catalyzes the decarboxylation of L-dopa to dopamine in catecholamine cells and 5-hydroxytryptophan to serotonin in serotonin-producing neurons. This enzyme is also expressed in relatively large quantities in nonneuronal tissues such as liver and kidney, where its function is unknown. Neuronal and nonneuronal tissues express AADC mRNAs with distinct 5' untranslated regions. To understand how this is accomplished at the genomic level, we have isolated rat genomic DNA encoding AADC. The organization of the AADC gene suggests that there are two separate promoters specific for the transcription of neuronal and nonneuronal forms of the AADC message. A small exon containing 68 bases of the neuronal-specific 5' end is located approximately 9.5 kilobases upstream of the translation start site, which is contained in the third exon. Approximately 7 kilobases upstream from the neuron-specific promoter is another small exon containing 71 bases of the 5' end of the nonneuronal AADC message. These data suggest that transcription initiating at distinct promoters, followed by alternative splicing, is responsible for the expression of the neuronal and nonneuronal forms of the AADC message.

To determine the amount of plasminogen in microglial conditioned medium, a highly sensitive and specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for rat plasminogen was established. Weak cross-reactivity with human serum plasminogen was observed, while no reactivity was detected with frog and carp plasminogen. The specificity of the immunosorbent assay was confirmed by Western blotting. The secretion of plasminogen into the microglial culture medium was quantified by using the established ELISA and was found to be increased depending on the culture time and number of microglia. The secretion was increased about 5-fold by stimulation with retinoic acid, while interleukin-1, and basic fibroblast growth factor showed no significant effect.
Intrathecal injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) induces a short duration hyperalgesia in mice. An inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), administered either systemically or intrathecally, blocked the NMDA-induced hyperalgesia. This effect was partially reversed by the NOS substrate, L-arginine. Intrathecal hemoglobin mimicked the effects of L-NAME. Intrathecal injection of the NO-donating compounds, sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and hydroxylamine, resulted in a hyperalgesia that lasted 3 h and was reduced by coadministration of hemoglobin. Thus, nitric oxide production appears to mediate NMDA-induced hypersensitivity and may contribute to other forms of centrally induced hyperalgesia.

Serotonin N-acetyltransferase is regulated in the rat pineal gland by the gland's innervation from the superior cervical ganglion. Norepinephrine has been viewed as the sole transmitter involved in this trans-synaptic regulation; however, a possible role for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) has recently emerged. VIP-like immunoreactivity was extracted from rat pineal glands and shown to co-elute on reverse-phase liquid chromatography with authentic VIP. The level of VIP-like immunoreactivity in the gland was unaffected by prior sympathetic denervation, though its level of neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity decreased by 85%. The results indicate that VIP and norepinephrine are not colocalized in sympathetic neurons in the pineal gland and raise questions as to the physiological role of VIP in regulation of pineal function in vivo.
Dye-, tracer- and electrotonic coupling were studied independently in genioglossal (GG) motoneurons using intracellular recordings in in vitro brainstem slices from rats postnatal ages 1-30 days. The subpopulation of GG motoneurons were retrogradely labeled after an injection of dextran-rhodamine into the posterior tongue. Dye-coupling was studied with Lucifer yellow injected into 55 motoneurons and tracer-coupling with neurobiotin injected into 89 presumptive GG motoneurons. Of the motoneurons injected with Lucifer yellow, only 6 of 41 cells (16.2%) exhibited dye-coupling; all occurred in animals less than 9 days old. In all but one instance, dye-coupling was restricted to only one other cell. No evidence of dye-coupling was found in the 14 cells injected in animals older than 8 days. Tracer-coupling (neurobiotin) was demonstrated in 12 of 30 cells (40%) from animals 1-2 days old and in 6 of 21 cells (28.6%) from animals 3-8 days old. Of the remaining 38 cells from animals 10 days of age and older, only one cell was found to be tracer-coupled. Cells injected with neurobiotin were coupled to an average of two other cells. Electrotonic coupling, as demonstrated with a short latency depolarization (SLD) in response to stimulation of hypoglossal axons, was found in developing GG motoneurons. These SLDs were revealed in 17 of 40 GG motoneurons (42.5%) examined in 1-8-day-old animals. There were no SLDs recorded in the 10 cells examined from animals of 10 days and older. The significance of coupling relative to patency of the newborn upper airways is discussed.
Retinoblastoma cells represent pluripotent neural-progenitor cells which, if induced to differentiate, express many features of mature human retinal neurons. Ca channel currents were recorded from isolated, undifferentiated human retinoblastoma Y79 cells in a bath solution containing 20 mM BaCl2 using whole-cell patch-clamp pipettes containing CsCl. The transient, macroscopic currents inactivated with a time constant of about 20 ms at -20 mV and had other properties similar to low-voltage-activated calcium channels described in other cell types: Activation curves fit by the Boltzmann relation had a midpoint of -32 mV and a slope factor of 6.8 mV (-80 mV holding potential) and inactivation curves had a midpoint of -40 mV and a slope factor of 3.7 mV. Non-stationary fluctuation analysis of the currents performed over a 2 kHz bandwidth indicated that each channel contributed 0.44 pA to the macroscopic transient current at -20 mV, suggesting a unitary conductance of about 7 pS.
Chronic treatment with imipramine enhanced the locomotor stimulant response to quinpirole (0.3 mg/kg s.c.), a dopamine D2/D3 receptor agonist. Chronic, but not acute, blockade of the NMDA receptor with the non-competitive antagonist MK-801 (0.3 mg/kg i.p.) prevented the imipramine-induced potentiation of the quinpirole effect. The results suggest that NMDA receptors play a role in the development of supersensitivity to dopamine receptor agonists produced by chronic antidepressant treatment.
Neurological exacerbation observed in MS patients is usually related to a demyelinating process. We report two patients where hypothermia (32.4 degrees C and 32.5 degrees C) and neurological exacerbation were probably due to a Wernicke encephalopathy (WE). The clinical features and the rapid efficiency of parenteral thiamine were suggestive of WE. Hypothermia is an exceptional symptom observed in MS and has been considered as resulting from hypothalamic demyelination; these two cases showed that WE which is another cause of reversible hypothermia, can be associated with MS.
Functional studies indicate that hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory neurons are a target for angiotensin. The present investigation used intracellular recordings to characterize the nature and type of angiotensin II receptors on rat supraoptic nucleus neurons maintained in superfused hypothalamic explants. Of 68 cells transiently exposed to either Val5- or Ile5-angiotensin II (maximum peak concentration 1-25 microM), 34 responded with a gradual membrane depolarization (1-15 mV) that peaked in 2.2 +/- 0.4 (SD) min and was accompanied by a 17.6 +/- 4.8% reduction of input resistance. Responses persisted (and were actually enhanced) in media containing tetrodotoxin (0.5-1.0 microM) and/or nominally zero calcium, indicating a direct postsynaptic action. In 19 responsive cells, the mean reversal potential for the angiotensin-induced response was -26.4 +/- 2 mV. Bath application of the nonpeptide type-1 angiotensin receptor antagonist DuP753 (5-20 microM) reversibly blocked the angiotensin-induced depolarization in all of 11 cells tested. By contrast, equimolar applications of the type-2 antagonist PD123177 were ineffective in all seven angiotensin-responsive cells tested. These observations provide novel evidence for the existence of functional type-1 receptors on rat supraoptic nucleus neurons. The reversal potential for the angiotensin-induced response suggests mediation through a nonselective cationic conductance.
We describe the development of a computer-assisted instructional tool for the neurosciences. Designed to run on readily available MS-DOS computers, the Graphic Brain utilizes computer-generated static and animated images and accompanying text to assist in instruction of neuroanatomy and neurophysiology. We have used the Graphic Brain in our medical neuroscience course and report that, as measured anecdotally and by test scores, it facilitates student comprehension of the space- and time-varying aspects of anatomy and physiology. When the Graphic Brain is used as an adjunct to lecture, we find that we can cover the same material in 75% of the time required using traditional methods.
There is increasing evidence that defective function of the mitochondrial enzyme NADH CoQ reductase (complex I) is involved not only in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) toxicity, but also in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Complex I deficiency has been identified in PD substantia nigra and appears to be disease-specific and selective for the substantia nigra within the central nervous system. We describe a method for preparation of an enriched mitochondrial fraction from 60 mL blood. Using this technique, we analyzed respiratory chain function in 25 patients with PD and 15 matched control subjects. We confirm a previous report of a specific complex I deficiency in PD platelet mitochondria. Although there was a statistically significant decrease in complex I activity in the PD group compared with the control group (p = 0.005), the defect was mild (16%); it was not possible to distinguish PD from control values on an individual basis. This deficiency is not detectable in platelet whole-cell homogenates, presumably reflecting the relative insensitivity of this preparation and the limited decrease in complex I activity in PD. The presence of a mild complex I defect in platelets together with a more severe defect in substantia nigra suggests either that the pharmacological characteristics shared by these two tissues render them susceptible to a particular toxin or toxins, or that the defect is widely distributed and other biochemical events enhance the deficiency in substantia nigra.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We addressed several questions regarding hypofunction of the prefrontal cortex (&quot;hypofrontality&quot;) in schizophrenia by measuring regional cerebral blood flow during three different cognitive conditions in monozygotic twins who were discordant or concordant for schizophrenia or who were both normal. These questions included the prevalence of hypofrontality, the importance of genetic predisposition, and the role of long-term neuroleptic treatment. Significant differences between affected and unaffected discordant twins were found only during a task linked to the prefrontal cortex, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. During this condition, all of the twins with schizophrenia were hypofrontal compared with their unaffected co-twins, suggesting that, if appropriate cognitive conditions and control groups are used, hypofrontality can be demonstrated in the majority of, if not all, patients with schizophrenia. When unaffected co-twins of patients with schizophrenia were compared with twins who were both normal, no differences were observed, suggesting that nongenetic factors are important in the cause of the prefrontal physiologic deficit that appears to characterize schizophrenia. When concordant twins with a high- vs a low-dose lifetime history of neuroleptic treatment were compared, the twin receiving the higher dose was more hyperfrontal in six of eight pairs, suggesting that long-term neuroleptic treatment does not play a major role in hypofrontality.
Neopterin is a by-product of guanosine triphosphate metabolism and is produced by macrophages in response to lymphocytic activation. We have studied serum neopterin levels in patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome to obtain further evidence of immune activation in this disease. Serum neopterin levels were significantly elevated in patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome compared with patients with other peripheral neuropathies and multiple sclerosis and with healthy control subjects. Serial analysis demonstrated that as neopterin levels fell, the clinical status of the patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome improved and soluble interleukin 2 receptor levels dropped. Thus, lymphocytic and macrophage activation may play a role in the pathogenesis of Guillain-Barr syndrome.
Patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome frequently suffer peripheral neuropathy. We investigated its prevalence and relationship to clinical stage of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection using quantitative sensory testing and nerve conduction testing. Vibratory threshold was determined in the right great toe and index finger of 179 men seropositive for HIV (28 with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome [AIDS] or AIDS-related complex [ARC], 151 asymptomatic) and 32 HIV-seronegative controls. None had clinical peripheral neuropathy. Abnormal threshold was control mean plus 2.5 SDs. In the toe, 10 (36%) of 28 subjects with AIDS or ARC had abnormal vibratory thresholds, compared with seven (5%) of 151 asymptomatic seropositive subjects and none of 32 controls. A subgroup of 168 seropositive subjects underwent nerve conduction testing. Abnormality rates were similar, but abnormalities of nerve conduction coincided with quantitative sensory testing abnormalities in only half the cases. Mean (+/-SD) vibratory threshold was significantly greater in subjects with AIDS or ARC (3.00 +/- 0.51 vibratory units) than in asymptomatic subjects (1.56 +/- 0.27 vibratory units) and controls (1.63 +/- 0.54 vibratory units). Finger abnormality rates did not differ, although subjects with AIDS or ARC had greater mean vibratory threshold. Subclinical peripheral neuropathy is thus related to stage of HIV infection and is present by quantitative sensory testing in 36% of patients with AIDS or ARC.

Tourette's Syndrome was first described by Gilles de la Tourette in 1885. Previously thought to be a rare neuropsychiatric disorder, its prevalence is now estimated at 0.05%. In Canada, this would mean approximately 12,000 people are affected. The rapid growth of knowledge in the neurosciences has led to better understanding and treatment of this disorder. Tourette's Syndrome is characterized by motor tics, usually beginning in the face and progressing to other areas, and by vocal tics, such as hissing, snorting, and barking. Fifty percent also develop copralalia. The age of onset is between 2 and 15 years of age but its complex symptomatology and its waxing and waning course delays diagnosis. This paper will describe the disease process including etiology, signs and symptoms, and treatment. The main focus will be on a case study which will depict how this syndrome affected the life of one woman. The multidisciplinary approach required to assist the severely affected individual to return to her family following successful treatment will be described.
Two procedures were used to examine the impact of reinforcement loss on the development of behavioral tolerance to the effects of d-amphetamine on control over response number in rats. Under both procedures, trials consisted of at least one left-lever press followed by a single right-lever press. Consecutive left-lever presses on each trial comprised a &quot;run&quot;. A targeted percentile schedule provided reinforcement if the current run length was closer to the target length (12) than two-thirds of the most recent 24 runs. This procedure differentially reinforced runs around 12 while holding reinforcement probability constant at 0.333. A second group acquired the differentiation under the percentile schedule, but was then shifted to a procedure which yoked reinforcement probability by subject and run length to that obtained under asymptotic percentile schedule performance. The two procedures generated roughly comparable, but not identical, control run lengths, response rates, reinforcement probabilities and reinforcement rates. Only under the yoked procedure, however, did drug-induced disruptions in run length produce decreases in reinforcement density. Acute administration of amphetamine produced dose-related decreases in run length and overall response rate under both procedures. Daily pre-session administration of 1.7mg/kg amphetamine persistently suppressed run length under the percentile procedure, but not under the yoked procedure. Run lengths under the latter gradually increased with repeated amphetamine to a level equal to or slightly below baseline levels. Response rate was suppressed initially, and tolerance developed inconsistently to this effect in both groups. Dose-effect curves obtained when doses of amphetamine were substituted for the chronic dose showed a larger shift to the right with the yoked than percentile group for run length, and a similar but smaller effect for overall response rate. These results indicate that reinforcement loss substantially contributes to the development of tolerance to the behavioral effects of amphetamine, even when the comparison behaviors are generated by reinforcement contingencies that under non-drug conditions control very similar rates and patterns of behavior and reinforcement. Future comparison of acute and chronic drug effects on behaviors maintained by the percentile and yoked procedures may prove very helpful in illuminating drug-behavior interactions and the dynamic interrelations typically engendered by more traditional reinforcement schedules.

Nine out of 4044 patients admitted to our institution between 1987 and 1990 suffered an episode of NMS. Neuroleptic rechallenge using clozapine for persisting psychiatric illness was tolerated by eight patients. Clozapine was discontinued in one older, high-risk patient because recurrence of NMS was anticipated. Clozapine should be considered a drug of choice for psychotic patients with a history of NMS.
Our earlier work demonstrated that certain populations of brain neurons which do not synthesize catecholamine (CA) neurotransmitters in vivo, will, when grown in culture with muscle-derived differentiation factor (MDF), unexpectedly express the gene for the CA biosynthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). In this paper, we sought to determine whether MDF could also regulate TH expression in those neurons which normally synthesize CA neurotransmitters. Incubation of cultured dopamine neurons from the ventral midbrain with MDF elevated the levels of TH mRNA and TH enzyme activity 5- to 40-fold higher than that measured in control cultures. Sympathetic neurons were unaffected by a similar MDF treatment. Unlike the 2-day critical period for MDF-responsivity in non-CA neurons. CA neurons remained susceptible to MDF's influence over an extended developmental interval (E14-18), suggesting that MDF may be important for TH gene regulation in brain CA neurons even differentiation is complete. Because of these unique properties, MDF may provide a unique opportunity to explore ways in which the TH gene might be directly manipulated in these cell populations in order to correct the CA imbalances that occur in certain neurological diseases and disorders.
Previous in situ hybridization experiments reported that beta4 (beta 4) neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) transcripts were found only in the medial habenula (MHB). Co-expression in Xenopus oocytes of the beta 4 subunit and any one of three ligand-binding or alpha subunits results in the formation of functional nAChRs. Comparisons between the pharmacology of nAChRs expressed in oocytes and the pharmacology of nAChRs found in the rat CNS prompted a further investigation of the localization of transcripts encoding the beta 4 nAChR subunit. Using two beta 4-specific cRNA probes, in situ hybridization was performed in rat brain. beta 4 mRNA was detected at high levels in the presubiculum, parasubiculum, subiculum and dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation, in layer IV of the isocortex, in the medial habenula, in the interpeduncular nucleus, and in the trigeminal motor nerve nucleus. Moderate hybridization signals were seen in the isocortex (layers I-III), in olfactory regions, in fields CA1 through CA4 of Ammon's horn and the entorhinal cortex of the hippocampal formation, in the supramammillary nucleus, in the pontine nucleus, in the cerebellum, and in the locus coeruleus. No hybridization above background was detected in the septum, basal ganglia, sensory portions of the brainstem, or spinal cord.
Complementary DNA (cDNA) clones containing the entire coding region of human choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) were isolated from cDNA libraries prepared from the autopsied spinal cord. In the human cDNA, the ATG codon assigned to the putative initiation codon for pig, rat and mouse ChAT cDNAs was replaced by ACG. The human cDNA contained an in-frame ATG codon 324 nucleotides upstream of the ACG codon. Therefore, human ChAT cDNA should code for a 748 amino acid polypeptide of 82.6 kDa. This deduced molecular weight was larger than that of ChAT protein purified from the human brain and placenta (64-70 kDa). The human ChAT cDNA containing the entire coding region was ligated to an expression vector and introduced into African green monkey kidney (COS) cells and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. The cells expressed high ChAT activity and produced two protein bands immunostained with an antibody to monkey ChAT. The molecular weight of the proteins was estimated to be approximately 70 and 80 kDa by polyacrylamide-SDS gel electrophoresis. When partial cDNAs that lacked the first ATG but contained the replaced ACG codon were introduced into COS cells, the cells expressed moderate ChAT activity and an immunoreactive protein band of 70 kDa. These results indicate that translation of human ChAT mRNA starts at two sites and produces two enzyme proteins with different molecular weights. It might be that the larger form of ChAT molecule is an enzyme precursor for processing or that the N-terminal extrapeptide is needed for subcellular localization of the enzyme.
The effects of peripherally administered thyroid hormone (TH; 500 micrograms/kg; i.p.; q.d.) on the relative abundances of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) RNA were determined by rtPCR in the cortex and hippocampus of young adult rats. Corresponding changes in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity were measured since NGF and BDNF have been shown to enhance the expression of this marker enzyme of central cholinergic pathways. Abundance levels of NGF and NT-3, relative to cyclophilin (cycl), were increased significantly (+50%, P &lt; 0.05) in the hippocampus following TH treatment. Despite enhanced abundance of NGF in the hippocampus, ChAT activity was unchanged, whereas ChAT activity was modestly increased by 28% in the cortex without corresponding changes in NGF, NT-3 or BDNF. These results demonstrate that TH administration is capable of inducing the accumulation of NT-3, in addition to NGF but that the induction levels of RNA cannot be directly correlated with responsivity of the cholinergic system as measured by ChAT activity.
The expression of GABAA receptor alpha 1 subunit mRNA in the postnatal rat forebrain was examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry. In most regions, including the isocortex, olfactory bulb, amygdala, septum, nucleus of the diagonal band, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, basal ganglia, thalamus, and hypothalamus, the expression of alpha 1 subunit mRNA was low at birth but showed a dramatic increase during the early postnatal period. Adult levels of expression were reached at around the second or third week of life in these regions. However, in the caudate-putamen, and the nucleus accumbens, the expression of this subunit was only transient.
Acute cellular glucopenia after 2-deoxy-D-glucose administration profoundly stimulates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical and adrenomedullary activity. Whether glucopenia stimulates sympathoneural release of noradrenaline is unclear. We studied 20 healthy subjects who received 2-deoxy-D-glucose (50 mg/kg in 100 ml isotonic saline) or isotonic saline (100 ml) i.v. for 30 min on each of 2 test days. Heart rate and blood pressure were measured with antecubital venous blood obtained via an indwelling catheter for assays of plasma catecholamines (noradrenaline; adrenaline; dihydroxyphenylalanine; dihydroxyphenylglycol; and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid), corticotrophin, cortisol, and glucose. 2-deoxy-D-glucose decreased diastolic blood pressure by 20% (from 69 +/- 2 to 55 +/- 2 mmHg) and increased adrenaline levels by 30-fold [21 +/- 6 (SEM) to 634 +/- 73 pg/ml], corticotrophin by sevenfold (5.1 +/- 1.2 to 35.8 +/- 4.9 pg/ml), glucose and cortisol by two-fold (82 +/- 5 to 163 +/- 9 mg/dl and 15 +/- 2 to 31 +/- 2 micrograms/dl), and noradrenaline by about 30% (224 +/- 15 to 295 +/- 24 pg/ml, p &lt; 0.05), whereas plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol levels decreased (765 +/- 56 to 628 +/- 42 pg/ml). Small decreases in dihydroxyphenylalanine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels after 2-deoxy-D-glucose did not differ from those after saline. Responses of adrenaline levels were positively correlated with those of noradrenaline (r = 0.47, p &lt; 0.05) and glucose (r = 0.45, p = 0.06), but not of corticotrophin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP) has been used as a model for studying the biosynthesis of the phosphatidylinositol-glycan (PI-G)-protein linkage in intact cells and in cell-free systems. However, for the study of processing in cell-free systems, a small protein devoid of glycosylation sites is preferable. A PLAP-derived cDNA was engineered that codes for a nascent protein (mini-PLAP) of 28 kDa in which the NH2- and COOH-termini are retained but most of the interior of PLAP is deleted. In vitro translation of mini-PLAP mRNA in the presence of rough microsomal membranes yields mature PI-G-tailed mini-PLAP. Processing of nascent mutant proteins occurs only when a small amino acid is located at the site of cleavage and PI-G attachment (omega site). Mutations adjacent and COOH-terminal to the omega site have revealed that the omega + 1 site is promiscuous in its requirements but that only glycine and alanine are effective at the omega + 2 site. Rough microsomal membranes from T cells deficient in PI-G biosynthesis do not support processing of mini-PLAP; addition of exogenous PI-G restores activity. Translocation of the proprotein, most likely requiring ATP and GTP, precedes COOH-terminal processing.
Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of senile dementia and is predicted to become even more prevalent as the proportion of elderly in the population increases over the next few decades. As yet, there are no effective treatments for the disorder. A major limitation to identifying new drugs and therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease has been the absence of an animal model displaying typical Alzheimer's pathology. Transgenic technology is now providing a powerful new approach for the development of animal models of Alzheimer's disease.
Subsumed under the rubric of Lewy body disease are idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), pure diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD), and, most commonly, combined brainstem and neocortical Lewy bodies with Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology in a relatively early developmental stage. Clinical correlates are dementia with psychiatric and subcortical features plus mild extrapyramidal signs (EPS).
Recent advances in mitochondrial cytopathies are reviewed. Particular emphasis is given to diseases related to mitochondrial DNA mutations, a field now encompassing myopathic and encephalopathic syndromes, some more common degenerative disorders, and certain aspects of the aging process. Diseases caused by defective oxidative energy generation now have an important place in human pathology.
Wall climbing behavior is an age-specific behavior that is elicited during postnatal Days 7 through 17 by various stimuli that include heat, odors, shock, and the catecholaminergic agonists apomorphine, amphetamine, and clonidine. In a previous study, a significant amount of wall climbing behavior was observed during ataxia and activity testing following phencyclidine (PCP) administration in Day 19 but not Day 40 rat pups. The present study describes the ontogeny of PCP-induced wall climbing behavior and locomotor activity. Frequency and duration of wall climbing bouts and locomotor activity were recorded on Days 5, 12, 19, 26, 33, or 40 following PCP treatment. On Day 12, all doses of PCP induced significant amounts of wall climbing behavior. A similar pattern of results was observed on Day 5 although these effects were not statistically significant. After Day 12, PCP-induced wall climbing behavior declined precipitously. PCP increased locomotor activity at all ages tested with maximum activities observed on Day 19. These results demonstrate that PCP-elicited wall climbing behavior follows an ontogenetic profile similar to that previously reported for other stimuli and that there are robust ontogenetic differences in the locomotor response to PCP.
We have identified three genes, expressed in zebrafish embryos, that are members of the engrailed gene family. On the basis of sequence comparisons and analyses of their expression patterns, we suggest that two of these genes, eng2 and eng3, are closely related to the En-2 gene of other vertebrates. The third gene, eng1, is probably the zebrafish homolog of En-1. Subsets of cells at the developing junction between the midbrain and hindbrain express three different combinations of these genes, revealing a previously unknown complexity of this region of the CNS. Other cells, for example, jaw and myotomal muscle precursors, express two of the three genes in combinations which, in the myotomal muscles, change during development. Cells in the developing hindbrain and fins express only a single engrailed gene. We propose that the fates and patterning of these cells may be regulated by the coordinate expression of particular combinations of these closely related homeoproteins.
A method is described for quickly and reproducibly isolating genomic DNA contiguous with known DNA sequence by means of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Flanking genomic DNA is isolated using a biotinylated sequence-specific primer in combination with a generic hybrid primer that binds to a deoxyoligonucleotide sequence artificially added to the ends of the genomic DNA. Amplified sequences that include the biotinylated primer are purified from nonbiotinylated amplification products by binding to a solid-phase streptavidin matrix. The biotinylated amplification product(s) are subjected to a further round of amplification, after which they can be subcloned and analyzed. This technique was applied to the isolation of three intron-exon junctions. Verification of the identify of these junction sequences was accomplished by designing primers based on the intron sequences isolated by Biotin-RAGE, amplifying across the exon using these intron primers, and sequencing the PCR-generated product.
Activin has been localized within cells and terminals in the brain. However, little is known about the site of action of this hormone within the brain. In the present study in vitro ligand autoradiography was used to determine the distribution of high affinity binding sites for 125I-rh activin A in rat brain. The highest density of binding sites were concentrated in the amygdala and other forebrain limbic structures. Binding was saturable in selected amygdala nuclei with an apparent Kd of approximately 0.2 nM. 125I-rh activin A binds specifically in regions known to contain terminals immunoreactive for this hormone, and also at sites distinct from the location of activin A containing neuronal terminals (e.g. the ventral limbic system).
The transcription factor Zif268 displays high basal levels of expression in cortex that appear to be dependent on physiological synaptic activity. We report that selective lesions of the noradrenergic system induced by DSP4 markedly suppress basal zif268 mRNA levels in cortex. Accordingly, the noradrenergic system which projects extensively to the cortex and is tonically active may play a key role in maintaining normal patterns of gene expression in target neurons.
This study evaluates whether CNS sprouting is initiated by signals related to the degeneration of presynaptic axons. We evaluate the time course of sprouting of cholinergic septohippocampal fibers after unilateral entorhinal cortex (EC) lesions in a substrain of mice carrying a mutation which leads to a substantial delay in the onset of Wallerian degeneration. We first verified that axonal degeneration resulting from EC lesions was delayed in mutant mice using silver-staining techniques (the Fink-Heimer method). Cholinergic sprouting was then evaluated using a histochemical technique for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in mutant mice and normal controls. In normal control mice, both axonal degeneration and cholinergic sprouting occurred with a time course that was comparable to that described in rats. Argyrophilic degeneration debris was prominent by 4 days postlesion, and increases in AChE staining in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus were well developed by 10 days. In mice carrying the &quot;Ola&quot; mutation, however, argyrophilic degeneration debris was not detectable at 4 or 6 days postlesion, began to appear in the dentate gyrus by 8 days postlesion, but did not become prominent until 12 days. Increases in AChE staining in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus were not detectable even at 12 days postlesion, but developed gradually after 14 days. These results demonstrate that the signals which initiate at least one form of CNS sprouting are related to the degeneration of presynaptic axons.


A noteworthy development that has transpired in American sociology in the past quarter century has been the increasingly sophisticated interest in the analysis of human cultural systems. Sadly, however, these analyses reveal that social scientists rarely appreciate the profoundly evolutionary aspects of human culture. The chief purpose of this essay is to address this shortcoming and to offer some tentative suggestions toward its rectification. The essay begins by briefly reviewing recent developments in the analysis of cultural systems, primarily by reference to the influential work of Wuthnow. Second, a common flaw in these approaches is addressed-namely, the absence of any recognition of the value of grounding sociocultural theory in an informed evolutionary framework-and the case is made that this shortcoming is avoidable, even within the context of the intellectual traditions of the social sciences. Third, the evolutionary foundations of human cultural behavior are explored in terms of an analysis of relevant theoretical and empirical developments in the evolutionary neurosciences. Fourth, the value of these insights is illustrated by reference to an evolutionary critique of a recent and thought-provoking contribution to the study of modern political culture-Douglas and Wildavsky's analysis ofRisk and Culture. Finally, the article concludes by emphasizing the value of and the necessity for incorporating evolutionary reasoning into the domain of sociocultural theory.
The development of joint inflammation of adoptively transferred arthritis in rats was inhibited by treatment with the simple sugar mannose-6-phosphate or the alkaloid inhibitor of alpha-glucosidase, castanospermine. Mannose-6-phosphate was effective at a dose of 25 mg/kg per day delivered via mini-osmotic pumps implanted either subcutaneously or intraperitoneally. Castanospermine was given orally in the drinking water and rats ingested on average 60-65 mg/kg per day. Histological examination of tissue from treated rats revealed greatly reduced inflammatory infiltrates into the synovium and surrounding tissue. Castanospermine not only inhibited the development of arthritis but also inhibited the progression of the disease when treatment was commenced after the onset of symptoms. Possible mechanism(s) of action of these compounds could be their ability to inhibit the passage of leucocytes through vascular subendothelial basement membranes by inhibiting the function or expression of leucocyte cell surface-bound enzymes that are essential for such migration. Castanospermine could also inhibit inflammation through its ability to prevent the expression of adhesion molecules, which may be necessary for the capture and retention of leucocytes in the inflamed tissue.

Seasonality of admissions for mania has been commonly reported. Most reports are from temperature zones. We analyzed admissions for mania covering a 9 year period and looked for any seasonal trends using existing methods. No seasonal variation was found. The hospital lies in the tropical zone with a relatively constant climate. This may influence the seasonal pattern of relapses in affective disorder.
Despite the fact that the prevalence rate for insomnia in the United States is high (35.2%), the number of patients with this condition do not represent a large percentage of patients evaluated and treated in sleep disorders clinics. On the other hand, the great majority of patients with insomnia do not seek treatment for their condition from their physicians. Several hypotheses have been created to explain this phenomenon: (1) lack of training for physicians in the area of sleep disorders, (2) pessimism in relation to treatment outcome shared by patients and physicians, and (3) time constraints and other reasons on the part of the physicians. Insomniacs, however, deserve accurate diagnosis and effective treatments for their condition. Insomnia is often the result of multiple factors converging rather than one single cause. For academic purposes, however, different disorders in difficulties with initiation and maintenance of sleep are discussed. Among them, adjustment sleep disorder, obstructive sleep apnea, periodic limb movements in sleep, circadian abnormalities, and psychiatric disturbances. Emphasis is placed on the treatment of each, along with the treatment of the other factors that are commonly found in patients with insomnia: poor sleep hygiene, use of medications that disrupt sleep, performance anxiety, deficient exposure to entrainers of circadian rhythms, diet, and exercise. A comprehensive treatment that includes a multifactorial approach is the ideal way to treat patients with insomnia. Research that will enhance our knowledge of the biological substrate of insomnia will provide clinicians with additional tools to improve the outcome of their treatments of patients with insomnia.
The vestibulo-ocular reflex undergoes adaptive changes that require inputs from the cerebellar flocculus onto brainstem vestibular neurons. As a step toward developing an in vitro preparation in chicks for studying the synaptic basis of those changes, we have elucidated the organization of the pathways through which the flocculus influences vestibulo-ocular movements. Electrical stimulation of the vestibular ampulla evoked brief, contralaterally directed movements in both eyes. Although single current pulses to the flocculus elicited no response, conjunctive stimulation of the flocculus and the vestibular apparatus significantly reduced the vestibularly-evoked movement. Trains of current pulses applied to the flocculus and ampulla evoked eye movements directed toward and away from the side of stimulation, respectively. Recordings from the brainstem revealed neurons that were activated by ipsilateral vestibular stimulation and inhibited by ipsilateral floccular stimulation. Our sample included neurons in the lateral vestibular nucleus, the ventrolateral portion of the medial vestibular nucleus, and the superior vestibular nucleus. Similarities between these findings and those of similar studies in mammals indicate that the chick will provide a good model system for cellular studies of adaptive changes in the vestibulo-ocular reflex.
The fluorescein conjugate, FITC-APEC (2-[2-[4-[2-[2-[1,3-dihydro-l,l-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)-3-oxo-5-isobenzofuranthioureidyl]ethylaminocarbonyl]ethyl]phenyl]ethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine), is a novel ligand derived from a series of functionalized congeners that act as selective A2a-adenosine receptor agonists. The binding of FITC-APEC to bovine striatal A2a,-adenosine receptors measured by fluorescence techniques was saturable and of a high affinity, with a B max, of 2.3  0.3 pmol/mg protein and K D of 57  2 nM. The K D value estimated by fluorescence was consistent with the K i (11  0.3 nM) obtained by competition studies with [(3)H]CGS 21680. Additionally, the B max, value found by FITC-APEC measurement was in agreement with B max, values obtained using radioligand binding. FITC-APEC exhibited rapid and reversible binding to bovine striatum. The potencies of chemically diverse A2a-adenosine receptor ligands estimated by inhibition of FITC-APEC binding were in good agreement with their potencies determined using radioligand binding techniques (r = 0.97, P = 0.0003). FITC-APEC binding was not altered by purine derivatives that do not recognize A2a-adenosine receptors. These findings demonstrate that the novel fluorescent ligand FITC-APEC can be used in the quantitative characterization of ligand binding to A2a-adenosine receptors.
Histochemistry was utilized to characterize Ca-ATPases associated with lingual taste buds in the golden hamster. Taste buds showed elevated staining for magnesium- or calcium-dependent ATPase (Ca-ATPase) relative to the surrounding epithelium. At low calcium concentrations (0.1-0.5 mM), intracellular staining predominated. Most of the studies were conducted at calcium concentrations of &gt; or = 10 mM, in which most of the staining was localized to the external face of plasma membranes of taste bud cells (including receptor and basal cells) located in the core of fungiform taste buds, or the entire vallate or foliate taste buds. The peripheral fungiform taste bud cells stained much less intensely, but the peripheral cells adjacent to the core showed intermediate levels. GTP and ITP were just as effective substrates as ATP. Millimolar concentrations of magnesium were as effective as calcium. Inhibitors of intracellular ATPases, including quercetin, sodium azide, and 2,4-dinitrophenol, had no effect on the staining. Therefore, the Ca-ATPase staining of plasma membranes at mM concentrations of calcium is thought to correspond to one or more ecto-Ca-ATPase activities with unknown functions. Roles related to increased energy requirements or to the possible function of ATP as a neurotransmitter or -modulator are proposed.
The formation of sarcoballs on the surface of skinned fibres from semitendinosus muscles of Xenopus laevis, and the sarcoplasmic reticulum content of the structures, have been studied using conventional electron microscopic techniques and immunoelectron microscopy. Examination of the fibres showed many membrane-bound blebs projecting from the surface in areas where vesicles of internal membranes (including sarcoplasmic reticulum, T-tubules and mitochondria) were clustered in interfilament spaces. The blebs varied in size from 1 micron to 150 microns and those with diameters &gt; 10 microns are referred to as sarcoballs. Small blebs were often seen in close association with each other and might have fused during sarcoball formation. The interior of the sarcoball was filled with foam-like material made up of vesicles with diameters of 100 nm to 1.0 microns. The sarcoplasmic reticulum membrane content of the sarcoballs was evaluated using two monoclonal antibodies, one to the Ca2+ ATPase of the sarcoplasmic reticulum and the second to ryanodine receptor calcium release channels in the junctional-face membrane. The antibodies bound to some components of the surface and interior of the sarcoball, but not to mitochondrial-like structures and tubular vesicles. The results show that a large component of the sarcoball and its surface is derived from sarcoplasmic reticulum and suggest that mitochondria and T-tubules might also contribute membranes to the structures. Our hypothesis is that (a) blebs bud out from the surface of the skinned fibre following fusion of internal vesicles that are extruded along interfilament channels during unrestrained contractures, (b) blebs grow into sarcoballs by additional fusion of internal membrane vesicles and fusion of adjacent blebs, and (c) the sarcoball is a foam-like structure composed of bathing medium and membrane lipid (containing membrane proteins).
The manner in which behavior is patterned in space and over time represents a fundamental problem in both ethology and neuroscience. Prior to the analysis of mechanism it is important to be sensitive to issues involved in the provision of descriptive taxonomies. Often alternative modes of description lead to different perspectives and research strategies. In both the development of behavioral patterns and their expression a major question is how underlying organizational systems become self-organizing through the process of mutual interactions. It is clear that simple static dichotomies in both behavioral and developmental science must be replaced by more sophisticated models that emphasize the dynamics of pattern formation and control. Some of these perspectives are illustrated from our ongoing research on rodent movement patterns.
The electric fish, Eigenmannia, will smoothly shift the frequency of its electric organ discharge away from an interfering electric signal. This shift in frequency is called the jamming avoidance response (JAR). In this article, we analyze the behavioral development of the JAR and the anatomical development of structures critical for the performance of the JAR. The JAR first appears when juvenile Eigenmannia are approximately 1 month old, at a total length of 13-18 mm. We have found that the establishment of much of the sensory periphery and of central connections precedes the onset of the JAR. We describe three aspects of the behavioral development of the JAR: (a) the onset and development of the behavior is closely correlated with size, not age; (b) the magnitude (in Hz) of the JAR increases with size until the juveniles display values within the adult range (10-20 Hz) at a total length of 25-30 mm; and (3) the JAR does not require prior experience or exposure to electrical signals. Raised in total electrical isolation from the egg stage, animals tested at a total length of 25 mm performed a correct JAR when first exposed to the stimulus. We examine the development of anatomical areas important for the performance of the JAR: the peripheral electrosensory system (mechano- and electroreceptors and peripheral nerves); and central electrosensory pathways and nuclei [the electrosensory lateral line lobe (ELL), the lateral lemniscus, the torus semicircularis, and the pace-maker nucleus]. The first recognizable structures in the developing electrosensory system are the peripheral neurites of the anterior lateral line nerve. The afferent nerves are established by day 2, which is prior to the formation of receptors in the epidermis. Thus, the neurites wait for their targets. This sequence of events suggests that receptor formation may be induced by innervation of primordial cells within the epidermis. Mechanoreceptors are first formed between day 3 and 4, while electroreceptors are first formed on day 7. Electroreceptor multiplication is observed for the first time at an age of 25 days and correlates with the onset of the JAR. The somata of the anterior lateral line nerve ganglion project afferents out to peripheral electroreceptors and also send axons centrally into the ELL. The first electroreceptive axons invade the ELL by day 6, and presumably a rough somatotopic organization and segmentation within the ELL may arise as early as day 7. Axonal projections from the ELL to the torus develop after day 18.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The historical forces that have contributed to our current views of neurobehavioral development (and thus to the fields of developmental psychobiology and neuroethology) are many and varied. Although similar statements might be made about almost any field of science, it is in particular true of this field, which represents a kind of mongrel discipline derived from at least three major sources (psychology, embryology, and neuroscience) and several more minor ones (including developmental psychology and psychiatry, psychoanalysis, education, zoology, ethology, and sociology). Although I attempt to demonstrate here how each of these sources may have influenced the emergence of a unified field of developmental psychobiology or developmental neuroethology, because the present article represents the first attempt of which I am aware to trace the history of these fields I am certain that there is considerable room for improvement, correction, and revision of the views expressed here. Accordingly, I consider this inaugural effort a kind of reconnaissance intended to trace a necessarily imperfect historic path for others to follow and improve upon. In the final analysis, I will be satisfied if this article only serves to underscore two related points: first is the value derived from historical studies of contemporary issues in development, and the second concerns the extent to which our current ideas and concepts about neurobehavioral development, ideas often considered new and contemporary, were already well known to those who came before us. The first point underscores the arguments expressed in the Introduction that the present must always be reconciled with the past, for the past is never entirely past. The second point returns full circle to an important thought expressed in the opening quotation to this article, namely, that even though our historic predecessors lacked much of the empirical facts available to us they were nonetheless able to attain a surprisingly deep understanding of neurobehavioral ontogeny.
Genetic variations in monoamine oxidase (MAO)-B activity have been proposed to have a contributory role in several neurologic and psychiatric diseases. Variations in activity could affect rates of degradation of exogenous amines, including toxins, precursors of toxins (like 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine), or false transmitters, and of endogenous amines, such as neurotransmitters. In this study a highly polymorphic (GT)n repeat element was used to mark alleles at the MAOB locus. The MAOB allele status and levels of platelet MAO-B activity were determined for 41 control males. No correlation was noted between specific alleles and levels of MAO-B activity in this sample set. This suggests that the structural gene for MAOB is not usually the primary determinant of activity levels in platelets.
Although pharmacological stimulation of a wide variety of transmitter receptors triggers phosphoinositide (PI) turnover, little is known about the type of synaptic activity required to activate this system. To investigate this question, we have used primary cultures of embryonic cortical neurons, which develop functional glutamate and GABA synapses during maturation in vitro. Mature cultures display spontaneous synaptic activity that is totally suppressed by tetrodotoxin (TTX). PI turnover, assayed by the lithium-sensitive accumulation of [3H]CDP-diacylglycerol, was readily detected under basal conditions and was abolished by TTX. Increased excitatory synaptic activity induced by picrotoxin, an antagonist of GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition, further stimulated PI turnover. Similar results were obtained when PI turnover was assayed using [3H]inositol labeling. With either assay, the magnitude of synaptically induced PI turnover was comparable to maximal responses produced by muscarinic receptor stimulation. Although a component of the spontaneous synaptic currents is sensitive to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-preferring glutamate receptor antagonists, blockade of NMDA receptors did not affect PI turnover associated with synaptic transmission. To assess the time course of synaptically mediated PI turnover, the amplitude and duration of spontaneous synaptic currents were reduced by lowering the extracellular Ca2+ concentration from 2.25 to 0.5 mM, a maneuver that suppresses basal PI turnover. Increases in PI turnover were detected as early as 5 min following restoration of the extracellular Ca2+ concentration to 2.25 mM. Taken together, these findings indicate that activation of the PI system is associated with physiological levels of glutamatergic synaptic transmission.
This study identified luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH)-producing neurons which have access to fenestrated capillaries in prepubertal male European ferrets. Fluoro-Gold was injected intraperitoneally to retrogradely label neurons with terminals outside the blood-brain barrier. LHRH neurons were identified by immunofluorescence using a secondary antibody tagged with tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate. Cell bodies which demonstrated both tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate and Fluoro-Gold fluorescence were defined as LHRH-producing neurons with axon terminals in regions containing fenestrated capillaries. The total number and neuroanatomical distribution of immunopositive (LHRH +) cells concurred with previous studies in the ferret in which cell bodies were diffusely distributed from rostral forebrain through caudal diencephalon, with approximately 70% of the LHRH + cell bodies located in retrochiasmatic hypothalamus. In the present study, an average of 59.8% of all LHRH+ neuronal perikarya also contained Fluoro-Gold. The majority of Fluoro-Gold filled LHRH+ neurons demonstrated only faint to moderate amounts of Fluoro-Gold when compared to other Fluoro-Gold filled neurosecretory neurons. This limited uptake of Fluoro-Gold may be due to a relative inactivity of LHRH neurons projecting outside the blood-brain barrier. Double-labeled LHRH + neurons were dispersed throughout the entire population of LHRH+ cell bodies and no apparent nuclear groups of double-labeled neurons were found. This observation suggests that the LHRH+ neurons responsible for neurosecretion into the median eminence coexist with the LHRH+ neurons responsible for intracerebral neurotransmission or neuromodulation. One distinguishable population of LHRH + neurons was consistently observed in all the brains. Only 26% of total LHRH+ perikarya within the caudal arcuate nucleus contained Fluoro-Gold, while at least 50% of LHRH+ neurons in other structures, including the rostral arcuate nucleus, contained Fluoro-Gold. Thus, in the prepubertal male ferret, the majority of LHRH cell bodies located in the caudal arcuate nucleus may be differentially regulated and/or involved in non-neuroendocrine functions.
Combined models of cytokine-induced inflammation in the skin and spinal cord of the rat were utilised to demonstrate in vivo that circulating lymphocytes depend upon sialylated adhesion molecules on their surface for maximal recruitment into inflammatory sites in both tissues. When radiolabelled normal spleen cells were incubated with sialidase from Vibrio cholerae or Clostridium perfringens, or with the specific sialic acid-binding lectin from Limax flavus, prior to being washed and injected intravenously into rats, they accumulated significantly less than untreated control cells into tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-activated spinal cord and skin. Pretreatment of splenocytes with sialidase plus the competitive inhibitor 2,3-dehydro-2-deoxy-N-acetylneuraminic acid (DDN) partially restored the accumulation of radiolabelled cells at both inflammatory sites, providing evidence for the specificity of sialidase treatment and the importance of sialyl residues. Pretreatment of macrophage-depleted spleen lymphocytes, or ovalbumin-specific W3/25+ (CD4) cell line T lymphocytes with sialidase produced similar decrements in accumulation at inflammatory sites, demonstrating that lymphocytes, including memory T cells, were relying on sialyl ligands for maximal recruitment. Results from this in vivo study are interpreted as providing indirect evidence that inducible sialyl-binding molecules, probably of the 'selectin' type, occur to a functionally significant extent on activated central nervous system (CNS) endothelium. We speculate that such carbohydrate-binding adhesion molecules may play an important role in the recruitment of inflammatory cells during the formation of CNS lesions in diseases such as the encephalomyelitides and multiple sclerosis.
Soleus H-reflexes were recorded in 10 normal subjects and seven patients with spasticity caused by incomplete spinal cord injury while they pedalled on a stationary bicycle which had been modified to trigger electrical stimuli to the tibial nerve at eight precise points in the pedal cycle. Stimulus strength was adjusted to yield M-waves of constant amplitude at each pedal position. During active pedalling, all normal subjects showed modulation of the H-reflex with the amplitude being increased during the downstroke portion of the pedal cycle and the reflex suppressed or absent during the upstroke. This modulation was not present during passive pedalling, with the experimenter cranking the pedals by hand, or when the pedals were locked at each of the eight positions. In five of the seven patients with spasticity, there was reduced or absent modulation of the H-reflex during active pedalling and the reflex remained large during pedal upstroke. It is concluded that descending motor commands that produce patterned voluntary activity during pedalling normally cause cyclical gating of spinal reflexes by either presynaptic or postsynaptic inhibitory mechanisms. Loss of supraspinal control over these spinal inhibitory systems could result in failure to produce appropriate suppression of reflexes during patterned voluntary movements such as pedalling or walking, and may be an important factor contributing to the functional disability in spasticity.
An analysis of mortality and morbidity rates for motor neuron disease (MND) in Scotland has confirmed earlier observations that the disease is more common in men and older age groups. The geographical distribution is non-uniform and related to discharge rates for all neurological diseases. Discharge and mortality rates are increasing but there has been no decline in populations who would have been vaccinated against polio.
This review examines the commonly held premise that, apart from the Western Pacific forms, motor neuron disease (MND), has a uniform worldwide distribution in space and time; the methodological problems in studies of MND incidence; and directions for future epidemiological research. MND is more common in men at all ages. Age-specific incidence rises steeply into the seventh decade but the incidence in the very elderly is uncertain. A rise in mortality from MND over recent decades has been demonstrated wherever this has been examined and may be real rather than due to improved case ascertainment. Comparison of incidence studies in different places is complicated by non-standardised methods of case ascertainment and diagnosis but there appear to be differences between well studied populations. In developed countries in the northern hemisphere there is a weak positive correlation between standardised, age-specific incidence and distance from the equator. There is now strong evidence for an environmental factor as the cause of the Western Pacific forms of MND. A number of clusters of sporadic MND have been reported from developed countries, but no single agent identified as responsible.
1. Recordings of extracellular spike responses were made from single mitral/tufted cells in the main olfactory bulb of urethan-anesthetized rabbits. Olfactory epithelium ipsilateral to the recorded olfactory bulb was stimulated with homologous series of aliphatic compounds using periodic artificial inhalations. 2. In the dorsomedial part of the main olfactory bulb, single mitral/tufted cells were activated by subsets of n-fatty acids with similar hydrocarbon chain lengths. Response selectivities of single mitral/tufted cells were examined in detail using a series of n-fatty acids at five different concentrations. The results indicate that although the range of effective fatty acids is broader at the higher concentrations, the best response at higher concentrations was similar to that determined at lower concentrations. 3. Analysis of single-unit responses to the panel of fatty acids, including those with branched hydrocarbon chains, suggested that the determinants for the response specificities of individual mitral/tufted cells in the dorsomedial region include the overall size of hydrocarbon chains of the odor ligand molecules. 4. Single mitral/tufted cells in the dorsomedial region tended to be activated not only by fatty acids but also by n-aliphatic aldehydes. For a panel of a homologous series of n-aldehydes at five different concentrations, individual mitral/tufted cells showed response selectivity to subsets of aldehydes with similar hydrocarbon chain lengths. 5. In most cases, normal aliphatic alcohols and alkanes were ineffective in activating mitral/tufted cells in the dorsomedial region. This suggests that carbonyl group (--C = O) in the odor molecules plays an important role in determining response specificity of these neurons. 6. Examination with an expanded panel of stimulus odor molecules that included ketones and esters indicated that single mitral/tufted cells sensitive to subsets of fatty acids and n-aliphatic aldehydes were also responsive to subsets of ketones and/or esters having hydrocarbon chain lengths similar to those of the effective fatty acids and aldehydes. 7. The present results show a clear correlation between the tuning specificity of individual mitral/tufted cells and the stereochemical structure of the odor molecules, with respect to 1) length and/or structure of hydrocarbon chain, 2) difference in functional group, and 3) position of the functional group within the molecule. 8. A hypothetical diagram suggesting functional convergence of olfactory nerve input to individual glomeruli is proposed to explain the mechanism for selective activation of individual mitral/tufted cells by a range of odor molecules with similar stereochemical structures.
1. Muscarinic agonists when applied in the hippocampus at low concentrations suppress intrinsic controls on neuronal excitability through the block of Ca(2+)-activated K conductance(s), gK (Ca), underlying the adaptation of firing and slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) in CA1 and CA3 neurons. Carbachol, for example, is effective at 0.1-0.3 microM suggesting activation of a relatively high-affinity receptor. 2. We have examined the mechanism of this action by using a new, highly specific, peptide inhibitor of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) as well as other kinase inhibitors and show that the muscarinic block of gK (Ca) relies on CaMKII activation in both CA1 and CA3 neurons. Thus phosphorylation of these channels or of an intermediary protein causes the channels to remain closed in the presence of Ca2+ and depolarization. 3. The very similar electrophysiological effects of serotonergic and glutamatergic agonists are mediated either through other kinases or by entirely different processes. 4. Block of intrinsic phosphatase activity by okadaic acid also reduced adaptation and sAHP, and muscarinic agonists had no further effect on these quantities. 5. The removal of presynaptic cholinergic inputs to the hippocampus in animals has a deleterious effect on the performance of tasks requiring spatial memory and is also implicated as a cause of cognitive disorders in humans. By increasing Ca2+ accumulation during electrical activity and promoting CaMKII activity, muscarinic input provides parallel reinforcing pathways for the induction of long-term potentiation, an important cellular memory mechanism. This suggests a possible link between behavioral and cellular approaches to the analysis of learning and memory.
1. An experimental peripheral neuropathy (EPN) was induced in three monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) by ligation of spinal nerve L7. Behavioral responses to innocuous mechanical stimuli were tested before and after the surgery. Two weeks after the nerve ligation, the activity of spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons was recorded on both sides of the spinal cord with the animal under general anesthesia. Responses of the STT neurons to the following stimuli applied to the skin were recorded: graded mechanical stimuli (brush, press, pinch and squeeze), von Frey filaments of different bending forces (0.077-19.05 g), 5-s heat stimuli ranging from 39 to 53 degrees C, and 15 s cold stimuli (32-8 degrees C). 2. Innocuous mechanical stimulation of the foot did not evoke hindlimb withdrawal in the animals before surgery. Within 24-48 h after nerve ligation, the animals showed hindlimb withdrawal to the same innocuous stimuli. This behavior was more pronounced on the side of the ligation than on the sham-operated side and more frequent during the second week after the surgery. 3. Responses of 51 STT neurons recorded on the side of the ligation (EPN all group) were compared with responses of 33 STT cells recorded on the sham-operated side (control group) and with records from STT neurons in unoperated animals obtained earlier (reference group). Neurons from the EPN all group were divided into two sets according to their rostrocaudal location (EPN R, rostral to L6/7 border, n = 40; EPN C, caudal to L6/7 border, n = 11). 4. Neurons from the EPN all and EPN R groups had significantly higher background frequencies than those from the control and reference groups. Innocuous brush stimuli evoked mean discharge frequencies of approximately 35 Hz in EPN R neurons and only approximately 15 Hz in both control and reference groups. Increased responsiveness of EPN R neurons to innocuous stimuli was also demonstrated by lower thresholds and higher discharge frequencies to von Frey filament stimulation and by discriminative analysis of the responses evoked by graded mechanical stimuli. 5. The responses of the EPN R neurons to heat stimulation of the skin showed decreased thresholds and increased responses to suprathreshold stimuli, resulting in a significant leftward shift of the stimulus-response curve compared with both reference and control groups. The neurons from the control group showed responses comparable to reference group values. 6. Neurons from the reference group tested with the cooling stimuli showed no evoked response above background.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The firing pattern displayed by neuronal aggregates is thought to play a key role in cortical development and physiology. In this study, we have employed optical recording of intracellular calcium to monitor activity of multiple neurons simultaneously in primary cortical cultures. With this approach, we have observed spontaneous synchronous calcium transients among adjacent cortical neurons. These transients appear to be mediated by prominent spontaneous synaptic excitation, as they are enhanced by picrotoxin, a blocker of inhibitory GABAergic transmission, and reduced by antagonism of glutamate receptors or addition of TTX. After picrotoxin treatment, the calcium transients exhibit regular frequency and amplitude, and occur in synchrony with bursts of excitatory synaptic potentials every 10-20 sec. Using electrical stimulation, we have identified a relative refractory period, extending up to 5 sec after a synchronous burst, that may play a role in cell synchronization. NMDA receptor antagonists or reduced extracellular calcium levels lower the amplitude of the calcium transients yet fail to alter their frequency, suggesting that intracellular calcium levels may not be a major determinant of burst frequency. In contrast, mild depolarization with kainic acid (0.5-1 microM) increased burst frequency up to fivefold, suggesting a critical dependence of rhythmic activity on membrane potential. Chronic blockade of electrical activity with TTX beginning a few days after plating of cultures dampens the amplitude and significantly increases the frequency of calcium transients in mature cultures. These studies demonstrate that aggregates of cultured cortical neurons express synchronous firing activity in vitro and that this network activity is dependent in part on neuronal firing during development.
In the mammalian neocortex, the EEG reflects the state of behavioral arousal. The EEG undergoes a transformation, known as activation, during the transition from sleep to waking. Abundant evidence indicates the involvement of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh) in EEG activation; however, the cellular basis of this involvement remains unclear. We have used electrophysiological techniques with in vivo and in vitro preparations to demonstrate actions of endogenous ACh on neurons in auditory neocortex. In vivo stimulation of the nucleus basalis (NB), a primary source of neocortical ACh, (1) elicited EEG activation via cortical muscarinic receptors, (2) depolarized cortical neurons, and (3) produced a change in subthreshold membrane potential fluctuations from large-amplitude, slow (1-5 Hz) oscillations to low-amplitude, fast (20-40 Hz) oscillations. The NB-mediated change in pattern of membrane potential fluctuations resulted in a shift of spike discharge pattern from phasic to tonic. Stimulation of afferents in the in vitro neocortex elicited cholinergic actions on putative layer 5 pyramidal neurons. Acting via muscarinic receptors, endogenous ACh (1) reduced slow, rhythmic burst discharge and facilitated higher-frequency, single-spike discharge in burst-generating neurons, and (2) facilitated the appearance and magnitude of intrinsic membrane potential oscillations. These in vivo and in vitro observations suggest that neocortical activation results from muscarinic modulation of intrinsic neural oscillations and firing modes. Rhythmic-bursting pyramidal neurons in layer 5 may act as cortical pacemakers; if so, then modifying their discharge characteristics could alter local cortical networks. Larger, intercortical networks could also be modified, due to the widespread projections of NB neurons. Thus, NB cholinergic neurons may play a critical role in producing different states of neocortical function.
Muscle length in unrestrained, chronically implanted animals is conventionally measured with gauges consisting of a compliant silicone rubber tube filled with either hypertonic saline or mercury, the measurement principle being a continuous change in the electrical resistance of the fluid column inside the tubing with stretch. These gauges have two major disadvantages: (1) changes in resistance that are not related to changes in length, such as those produced by changes in temperature or osmotic dilution of the hypertonic saline, cause the measurements to drift, and (2) there is no direct and accurate way to calibrate the measurements. In this communication two new types of muscle length gauge are described that eliminate both problems. Both types make use of the principle of sonomicrometry, i.e., the measurement of distances with pulsed ultrasound. Both types have been successfully used to measure the length of the medial gastrocnemius muscle in chronically implanted cats during treadmill locomotion.

Occupational stress in nursing has been a popular topic for investigation. In particular, comparisons between practice areas such as the intensive care unit (ICU) and medical-surgical unit have attempted to identify what factors are stressful, and whether some nursing environments are more stressful than others. Such studies have led to inconclusive findings. While many practice areas have been studied, the neurosurgical ICU and neuromedical/neurosurgical units have largely been overlooked. Using interviews, this exploratory study examined aspects of nursing perceived as stressful by staff members working in ICU and medical-surgical units in a neuroscience center. Findings suggested that patient care, communication, workload, management and supervision, organizational and personal circumstances are major sources of stress. These findings are in keeping with studies of stress conducted in national and international non-neurosurgical nursing practice areas.
This study was undertaken to determine if measurements of absolute regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) and variance of rCMRglc are independent of time between 30 and 45 min following injection of the radiotracer. Sixteen subjects received two sets of 18FDG PET scans commencing 30 and 45 min following intravenous injection of 18FDG. No statistically significant differences were detected in either absolute rCMRglc or rCMRglc variance between the two sets of scans. These data demonstrate that for most FDG PET studies, scanning can commence 30 min after injection of the radiotracer without compromising the metabolic data.
The effects of prenatal triethylene tetramine dihydrochloride (Trien-2HCl) exposure on fetal mice have been investigated on gestational day 19. Trien-2HCl was given throughout pregnancy at levels of 0 (control), 3,000, 6,000, or 12,000 ppm as drinking water, ad libitum. At the level of 12,000 ppm, the frequency of total resorption tended to be high and that of fetal viability tended to be low, as compared to controls. Decreased maternal weight was observed in body, but not in liver, at the level of 12,000 ppm. Fetal body and cerebrum weights significantly decreased at the levels of 6,000 and 12,000 ppm; however, fetal liver weight remained unchanged. Maternal serum copper concentration was not affected by the Trien-2HCl. Fetal copper concentrations of liver and cerebrum were significantly lower in the Trien-2HCl-treated groups than in the controls, with levels decreasing in a dose-related manner. When the copper and zinc concentrations in the group treated at 12,000 ppm were compared with those in controls, significant decreases in both metals were observed in placenta but not in maternal liver. Changes in fetal zinc concentration varied by tissues: i.e., an increase in liver and no change in cerebrum. Fetal abnormalities were frequently observed in brain, and the frequency was increased with increasing levels of the Trien-2HCl. These results suggest that fetal brain abnormalities caused by Trien-2HCl may be due in part to induction of copper deficiency, which is almost equivalent to that in brindled mutant mouse.
1. Intracellular recordings were obtained from 112 supraoptic nucleus magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus maintained in vitro. The effects of glutamate receptor agonists and antagonists were examined at 32-34 degrees C. 2. In control solutions, spontaneously active (&gt; 5 Hz) phasic or continuous neurones showed interspike interval distributions slightly skewed toward short intervals, but did not feature pauses in the 0.4-2 s range. Current injection to alter the rate of cell discharge shifted the histograms according to the mean firing rate, but failed to induce intermittent pauses in the 0.4-2 s range. 3. Application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) induced a mode of firing in which bimodal interspike interval distributions reflected a high incidence of clusters of short interspike intervals (0.5-1.5 s) recurring every 1-3 s. In contrast, firing evoked by application of D,L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxalone propionic acid (AMPA) was not associated with a clustering of impulse discharge. 4. The putative endogenous excitatory amino acid transmitters L-glutamate, L-aspartate and quinolinate all mimicked the effects of NMDA. Clustered spiking responses to these agents were reversibly blocked by D,L-2-amino-5-phosphono-valerate (APV), but not by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX). In contrast, the non-NMDA receptor ligands kainate and quisqualate caused CNQX-sensitive increases in firing rate, but these responses were not associated with the appearance of clustered activity. 5. When applied to cells showing negative resting potentials (&lt; -70 mV), or to neurones hyperpolarized by current injection, responses to NMDA consisted of rhythmic (approximately 1 Hz) voltage oscillations associated with bursts of spike discharge. In the presence of TTX, NMDA could induce subthreshold voltage oscillations in the absence of action potentials. 6. Application of a voltage clamp to potentials between -75 and -55 mV during rhythmic bursting responses failed to reveal any rhythmic oscillation of the membrane current. In all cases, rhythmic bursting activity resumed upon returning to the current-clamp mode. 7. Rhythmic bursting responses to NMDA application were abolished in Mg(2+)-free solutions, suggesting that the voltage dependence of NMDA channels served to promote regenerative voltage changes throughout the cycle. The NMDA-induced current itself, however, did not appear to decrease with time, suggesting that a distinct, outward current, was necessary to initiate the repolarizing phase of each cycle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Cholecystokinin is co-localized within the oxytocin- and, to a lesser extent, vasopressin-synthesizing magnocellular neurones in the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei. These nuclei are also prominent binding sites for cholecystokinin. In the present study we used intracellular current- and voltage-clamp recordings from fifty-seven supraoptic nucleus cells, maintained in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus, to assess their membrane responses to exogenous cholecystokinin and define the nature of their cholecystokinin receptors. 2. In a majority of the fifty-seven cells tested, bolus infusions into the superfusion media of cholecystokinin fragments (maximum concentrations estimated at 0.3-15 microM) were followed within 1-5 s by a transient and reversible membrane depolarization. Active peptides included sulphated cholecystokinin octapeptide (26-33) (28 of 33 cells responded), non-sulphated cholecystokinin octapeptide (26-33) (21 of 25 cells responded), cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (30-33) (20 of 24 cells responded and caerulein (4 of 4 cells responded). None of five cells responded to cholecystokinin (26-28). Depolarizing responses to cholecystokinin analogues persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin (0.2-0.4 microM), and in Ca(2+)-free solutions containing MnCl2 (2.5 mM). 3. Under voltage clamp, cholecystokinin fragments evoked an inward current accompanied by an increase in membrane conductance. The amplitude of the inward current varied linearly as a function of membrane voltage, with an extrapolated reversal potential of approximately -15 mV. Reversal potentials were not altered by chloride injection. These features suggest that cholecystokinin activates a non-selective cationic conductance. 4. Active cholecystokinin analogues were approximately equipotent in their depolarizing actions, a feature that supports the activation of cholecystokinin-B type receptors. Moreover bath application of 200 nM L-365,260, an antagonist with a high affinity for cholecystokinin-B receptors, reversibly attenuated the cholecystokinin-induced responses in four of six cells tested. 5. These observations indicate that cholecystokinin can directly influence the excitability of rat supraoptic nucleus neurones and provide evidence for an additional site where this peptide may act within the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial axis.
Rat strains were screened for evidence of unresponsive periods associated with high-voltage spike and wave paroxysms on electroencephalography--a rodent model of human absence epilepsy. Five commonly used strains were newly noted to express the spike and wave phenomenon. Only an inbred Sprague Dawley rat strain did not exhibit such episodes. The existence of the phenomenon in many and unrelated inbred rat strains suggests that both genetic and environmental factors are causal.
Familial Dysautonomia (FD) is an autosomal recessive disease of unknown etiology, occurring primarily in Ashkenazi Jews. Patients are neurologically impaired, with deficits primarily in autonomic and sensory functions. The biochemical and genetic defects have remained elusive, precluding carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis. High-performance liquid chromatography data indicated up to a threefold increase in the neutral glycosphingolipid globotriaosylceramide in Dysautonomic fibroblasts and lymphoblasts. Total ganglioside values, measured by colorimetric, fluorometric or specific sodium borohydride incorporation, were decreased. Affected fibroblasts exhibited a range of pleomorphic phenotypes, such that the usual swirl-like confluent growth pattern of normal fibroblasts was distorted to varying degrees, suggesting abnormalities in the FD plasma membrane, possibly affecting cell-cell contacts. The glycosphingolipid increase could not be accounted for on the basis of markedly decreased alpha-galactosidase activity, as in Fabry's disease, where patients also display decreased autonomic function.
Impulse trains simulating the maintained discharges of retinal ganglion cells were generated by digital realizations of the integrate-and-fire model. If the mean rate were set by a &quot;bias&quot; level added to &quot;noise,&quot; the variability of firing would be related to the mean firing rate as an inverse square root law; the maintained discharges of retinal ganglion cells deviate systematically from such a relationship. A more realistic relationship can be obtained if the integrate-and-fire mechanism is &quot;leaky&quot;; with this refinement, the integrate-and-fire model captures the essential features of the data. However, the model shows that the distribution of intervals is insensitive to that of the underlying variability. The leakage time constant, threshold, and distribution of the noise are confounded, rendering the model unspecifiable. Another aspect of variability is presented by the variance of responses to repeated discrete stimuli. The variance of response rate increases with the mean response amplitude; the nature of that relationship depends on the duration of the periods in which the response is sampled. These results have defied explanation. But if it is assumed that variability depends on mean rate in the way observed for maintained discharges, the variability of responses to abrupt changes in lighting can be predicted from the observed mean responses. The parameters that provide the best fits for the variability of responses also provide a reasonable fit to the variability of maintained discharges.
The expression of proenkephalin (PENK) mRNA in C6 rat glioma cells was stimulated by norepinephrine (a beta-adrenergic agonist) and markedly enhanced by the addition of dexamethasone (a glucocorticoid agonist) to the culture medium, although dexamethasone alone exhibited no significant increase in PENK mRNA. Furthermore, no induction of glucocorticoid-response-element (GRE)-binding proteins was detectable. In contrast, the stimulation of PENK mRNA expression was not observed with a protein kinase C activator, 12-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), which stimulated the expression of c-fos and c-jun mRNA and their proto-oncoproteins (c-Fos and c-Jun). In addition, an AP-1 activity was induced by TPA and an induction of a kappaB-like binding activity was found with TPA plus cycloheximide-treated cells. Together, they suggest that activation of PENK gene in C6 cells is probably mediated mainly through the, beta-adrenergic agonist-elicited cyclic AMP signal pathway, and induction of AP-1 and kappaB-like binding activities appear not to participate in gene activation. Interestingly, the Western blot data showed no increase in intracellular levels of proenkephalin between control and treated cells. However, a marked increase in immunoreactivities for proenkephalin and its derivative, [Met(5)]-enkephalin was detected in medium and a lesser elevation in cells from modulator-treated cell culture through the time course. These results indicated that there was an association between an increase in PENK mRNA expression and an elevation of proenkephalins, and subsequently, the synthesized proenkephalins were released into the medium.
The level of proenkephalin mRNA in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells was studied in the presence of cycloheximide, an inhibitor of translation, and two modulators of proenkephalin synthesis, nicotine and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Cycloheximide (CHX) abolished the induction of proenkephalin mRNA expression and protein synthesis by these two modulators, indicating that de novo protein synthesis was necessary for proenkephalin gene activation. The transcriptional regulatory regions of the proenkephalin gene displayed an extremely high degree of interspecies sequence conservation between humans, rats, and cows. In addition, molecular analyses of the human proenkephalin gene defined a cluster of responsive elements, designated as ENKCRE-1, ENKCRE-2, and AP-2; ENKCRE-2 acted functionally like both an AP-1 motif and a CAMP responsive element (CRE). When oligonucleotides containing ENKCRE-1, ENKCRE-2, AP-2, AP-1, and CRE motifs were used in protein-DNA gel mobility retardation experiments, the induction of ENKCRE-2/AP-1 activity correlated well with the level of proenkephalin mRNA induction. This ENKCRE-2/AP-1 complex could be inhibited by a specific c-Jun antiserum and was super-shifted by a polyclonal antibody against the Fos family of proteins. Furthermore, Western blot analysis suggested that c-Jun and Fos-related antigens rather than c-Fos per se were components of an ENKCRE-2/AP-1 complex. Thus, Fos-related proteins apparently form a complex with c-Jun that transactivates the proenkephalin gene.
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) is a bifunctional enzyme responsible for the alpha-amidation of peptides in secretory granules of neuroendocrine cells. The single gene encoding PAM undergoes tissue-specific alternative splicing and endoproteolytic processing to generate bifunctional membrane proteins with a single transmembrane domain as well as soluble proteins that are mono- or bifunctional. In order to examine the endoproteolytic processing and subcellular localization of the various forms of PAM in cells lacking regulated secretory granules, we established stably transfected hEK-293 cell lines expressing naturally occurring and mutant forms of PAM. As expected, newly synthesized soluble PAM proteins were rapidly secreted into the medium. Integral membrane protein forms of PAM were largely localized in the perinuclear region with punctate staining visible throughout the cell and 2-5% of the enzyme activity detectable on the cell surface. Bifunctional PAM proteins were slowly released into the medium after expression of integral membrane protein forms of PAM. Deletion of 77 amino acids from the COOH-terminus of the integral membrane forms of PAM resulted in a membrane-bound protein which retained both enzymatic activities but accumulated on the cell surface. Rapid internalization of full-length PAM proteins was observed by incubating live cells with antiserum to PAM; deletion of the COOH-terminal domain eliminated the ability of cells to internalize PAM. Thus the cytoplasmic domain of integral membrane PAM contains a routing determinant recognized by cells lacking the regulated secretory pathway.
Primary cultures of neonatal rat atrial and ventricular cardiomyocytes were used to investigate the expression of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), a bifunctional enzyme required for the production of alpha-amidated neuroendocrine peptides. The use of assays for the individual enzymes, peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PHM) and peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL), demonstrated that the levels of expression observed in vitro approximated those observed in vivo. Both in vivo and in vitro, atrial and ventricular PAL activity greatly exceeded PHM activity. Atrial and ventricular cardiomyocytes secreted PHM and PAL activity at a constant rate throughout the culture period. Immunofluorescence studies localized PAM proteins to the perinuclear region, with intense punctate staining. Both in vivo and in vitro, PAM mRNAs encoding integral membrane proteins predominated throughout the neonatal period, with PAM-1 mRNA becoming more prevalent after the first week in culture. Although PAM-2 mRNA decreased in prevalence in vivo at the time when PAM-1 expression increased, levels of PAM-2 mRNA remained elevated throughout 2 weeks in vitro. Western blot analysis demonstrated intact PAM-1 and PAM-2 proteins in atrial cultures, with the prevalence of PAM-1 increasing in older cultures. Atrial cardiomyocytes secreted only bifunctional PAM proteins. Many of the features of PAM expression, processing, and storage that are unique to cardiomyocytes as opposed to endocrine cells are faithfully replicated by primary atrial and ventricular cultures.
Expression plasmids were constructed with cDNAs encoding the rat gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABAA) receptor alpha 1, beta 2, and gamma 2 subunits and were cotransfected into cultured human embryonic kidney 293 cells. A single cell line (WS-1) was established after G-418 treatment and clonal selection. This cell line contained saturable, high affinity binding sites for the benzodiazepines [3H] Ro 15-4513 and [3H]flunitrazepam that were modulated by GABA. Competition experiments with benzodiazepine receptor ligands suggest a profile characteristic of native &quot;type I&quot; benzodiazepine receptors, because strong correlations were observed between the Ki values of these ligands in WS-1 cells and in both cerebellar homogenates (r = 0.97, p &lt; 0.0001) and 293 cells transiently transfected with the corresponding cDNAs (r = 0.96, p &lt; 0.001). Fluorescence intensity in WS-1 cells loaded with the Cl(-)-specific probe 6-methoxy-N-(3-sulfopropyl)-quinolinium was reliably increased by GABA. This effect was blocked by bicuculline and augmented by midazolam, consistent with the presence of GABA-gated, benzodiazepine receptor-modulated, Cl- channels. Northern blot analysis revealed the presence of mRNAs encoding alpha 1 and gamma 2 receptor subunits. Southern blot analysis confirmed genomic integration of transfected alpha 1 and gamma 2 cDNAs. The beta 2 subunit was not detected in either Northern or Southern blot analysis, indicating that a functional type I GABAA/benzodiazepine receptor complex can be constituted without a beta subunit.

Bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin cells maintained in tissue culture accumulated [3H]-noradrenaline by a high affinity, Na(+)-dependent, desipramine-sensitive process. The accumulation was linear with time (1-90 min) and had an apparent Km of 0.52 +/- 0.24 mumol/l and Vmax of 1.70 +/- 0.48 pmol/(10(5) cells.15 min). Pretreatment of the cells with the ADP-ribosylating agent pertussis toxin resulted in a reduction in the Vmax [0.81 +/- 0.39 pmol/(10(5)cells.15 min)] but no significant change in the apparent affinity (Km = 0.42 +/- 0.07 mumol/l). This inhibition of [3H]noradrenaline accumulation was distinct from that produced by the vesicular transport inhibitor reserpine. Pertussis toxin inhibition probably did not arise through an indirect action on the Na(+)-gradient because while, as expected, Na+,K(+)-ATPase inhibition reduced [3H]noradrenaline accumulation, pertussis toxin pretreatment always caused a further significant reduction even in the presence of maximally effective concentrations of ouabain. Stimulation of the cAMP-protein kinase A system by forskolin or 8-bromocyclic AMP also caused a reduction in [3H] noradrenaline accumulation but again pertussis toxin pretreatment always resulted in a further reduction. Thus, the data provide evidence for a pertussis toxin-sensitive element in the catecholamine accumulation process and are consistent with an action at a site directly associated with the transporter itself rather than with an indirect action via secondary processes.
The aim of this review is to describe environmental requirements for survival of neuronal cells in culture, and secondly to survey the complex interplay between hormones, neurotrophic factors, transport- and extracellular matrix- proteins, which characterize the developmental program of differentiating neurons. An overall reconsideration of the literature in this vast field is above the limits of the present paper; since progress and refinement in the techniques of neuronal cell cultures have paralleled the advancement in Developmental Neurobiology, we will run instead through the main steps which form the conceptual framework of neuronal cell cultures.
Gastrodia elata Bl. (GE) and Uncaria rhynchophylla (Miq.) Jacks (UR) are two traditional Chinese medicinal herbal drugs, used for the treatment of convulsions and epilepsy. Their antioxidant effects in vivo and their free radical scavenging effects in vitro were investigated. Epileptogenic foci in the lateral brain of the rat were induced by the injection of ferric chloride into the lateral cortex. Both extracts significantly inhibited the increase in levels of lipid peroxide in the ipsilateral cortex, at all times observed. In addition, the two extracts also induced an early increase of activity of superoxide dismutase in the mitochondrial fraction of the ipsilateral cortex. In in vitro experiments, the two extracts exhibited significant dose-dependent scavenging effects on free radicals, using electron spin resonance spectroscopy. These results suggest that the proposed antiepileptic effects of GE and UR may be attributable to the antioxidant activity of the active components in these two medicinal herbs.
This essay reviews research on interhemispheric transfer time derived from simple unimanual reaction time to hemitachistoscopically presented visual stimuli. Part 1 reviews major theoretical themes including (a) the significance of the eccentricity effect on interhemispheric transfer time in the context of proposed underlying neurohistological constraints; (b) the significance of gender differences in interhemispheric transfer time and findings in dyslexics and left-handers in the context of a fetal brain testosterone model; and (c) the significance of complexity effects on interhemispheric transfer time in a context of &quot;dynamic&quot; vs. &quot;hard-wired&quot; concepts of the underlying interhemispheric communication systems. Part 2 consists of a meta-analysis of 49 published behavioral experiments, in view of drawing a portrait of the best set of experimental conditions apt to produce salient, reliable, and statistically significant measures of interhemispheric transfer time, namely (a) index rather than thumb response, (b) low rather than high target luminance, (c) short rather than prolonged target display, and (d) very eccentric rather than near-foveal stimulus location. Part 3 proposes a theoretical model of interhemispheric transfer time, postulating the measurable existence of fast and slow interhemispheric channels. The proposed mechanism's evolutionary adaptive value, the neurophysiological evidence in its support, and favorable functional evidence from studies of callosotomized patients are then presented followed by proposals for critical experimental tests of the model.
Results from behavioural studies have shown that central cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) is a powerful antagonist against opioid effects and that an increased release of central CCK-8 plays an important role in the mechanisms of tolerance to morphine analgesia. No information is available concerning the rate of biosynthesis of CCK-8 in response to chronic morphine administration. Blot hybridization experiments made in the present study revealed a marked increase in preproCCK mRNA in the brain of rats receiving chronic morphine treatment for 1, 3 and 6 days, showing an increment of 52% (p &lt; 0.05), 62% (p &lt; 0.05) and 97% (p &lt; 0.01) respectively. The results suggest that an acceleration of the expression of the CCK gene during long-term morphine treatment might constitute one of the mechanisms for morphine tolerance.
Spatial organization of neurons in the prefrontal and cingulate cortex, cortex of the piriform lobe and the hippocampus which project axons to the preoptic region, has been studied in cats using horseradish peroxidase tracing. Cortical areas were selected taking into consideration their phylogenetical distinctions. The prefrontal cortex was found to send a major portion of fibres to the preoptic region, while the density of units forming such connections was maximal in the cingulate cortex. Field potentials and neuronal reactions of the medial and lateral divisions of the preoptic region and the adjacent hypothalamic zones were studied in ketamine-anaesthetized cats. The most pronounced field potentials were recorded in the preoptic region upon stimulation of the cortex of the piriform lobe and cingulate cortex. There was a close correlation between the responses of single neurons and components of the field potentials. The majority of neurons responding to cortical stimuli were located mainly in the lateral preoptic region, where the larger amount of primary excitatory reactions were recorded. The medial preoptic region contained a smaller number of responsive neurons prevailingly generating the primary inhibitory reactions. For the lateral preoptic region the inhibition/excitation ratio was 0.6:1 at all cortical stimulations, but for the medial region it was 5.8:1. In the preoptic division adjoining the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the primary inhibitory reactions considerably prevailed over the primary excitatory; on the other hand, in the supraoptic nucleus the primary excitatory reactions prevailed weakly (ratios of 4.9:1 and 0.7:1, respectively). The preoptic region was found to be a zone of wide convergence of cortical inputs to single cells, where three-quarters of neurons responded to the stimulation of two, three or even four cortical areas.
The GABAergic innervation of the extraocular motor nuclei in the cat was evaluated using postembedding immunocytochemical techniques. The characterization of GABA-immunoreactive terminals in the oculomotor nucleus was carried out at the light and electron microscopic levels. GABA-immunopositive puncta suggestive of boutons were abundant in semithin sections throughout the oculomotor nucleus, and were found in close apposition to somata and dendrites. Ultrathin sections revealed an extensive and dense distribution of GABA-immunoreactive synaptic endings that established contacts with the perikarya and proximal dendrites of motoneurons and were also abundant in the surrounding neuropil. GABAergic boutons were characterized by the presence of numerous mitochondria, pleiomorphic vesicles and multiple small symmetrical synaptic contacts. The trochlear nucleus exhibited the highest density of GABAergic terminations. In contrast, scarce GABA immunostaining was associated with the motoneurons and internuclear neurons of the abducens nucleus. In order to further elucidate the role of this neurotransmitter in the oculomotor system, retrograde tracing of horseradish peroxidase was used in combination with the GABA immunostaining. First, medial rectus motoneurons were identified following horseradish peroxidase injection into the corresponding muscle. This was carried out because of the peculiar afferent organization of medial rectus motoneurons that contrasts with the remaining extraocular motoneurons, especially their lack of direct vestibular inhibition. Semithin sections of the oculomotor nucleus containing retrogradely labeled medial rectus motoneurons and immunostained for GABA revealed numerous immunoreactive puncta in close apposition to horseradish peroxidase-labeled somata and in the surrounding neuropil. At the ultrastructural level, GABAergic terminals established synaptic contacts with the somata and proximal dendrites of medial rectus motoneurons. Their features and density were similar to those found in the remaining motoneuronal subgroups of the oculomotor nucleus. Second, oculomotor internuclear neurons were identified following the injection of horseradish peroxidase into the abducens nucleus to determine whether they could give rise to GABAergic terminations in the abducens nucleus. About 20% of the oculomotor internuclear neurons were doubly labeled by retrograde horseradish peroxidase and GABA immunostaining. A high percentage (80%) of the oculomotor internuclear neurons projecting to the abducens nucleus showed immunonegative perikarya. It was concluded that the oculomotor internuclear pathway to the abducens nucleus comprises both GABAergic and non-GABAergic neurons and, at least in part, the GABA input to the abducens nucleus originates from this source. It is suggested that this pathway might carry excitatory and inhibitory influences on abducens neurons arising bilaterally.
Based on the recent cloning of the mouse thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor, oligonucleotide probes complementary to the DNA sequence were constructed and used for in situ hybridization studies on the rat brain. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor messenger RNA was found in many areas of the brain, mostly showing high degree of overlap with the distribution thyrotropin-releasing hormone binding sites as previously revealed in autoradiographic studies. Thus, a strong signal was observed in the accessory olfactory bulb, the perirhinal sulcus, the ventral aspects of the hippocampal formation, some amygdaloid nuclei, the diagonal band nucleus, parts of nucleus accumbens, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, dorsomedial, lateral and perifornical hypothalamic regions, the septohippocampal nucleus, parts of the vestibular complex, as well as many bulbar motoneurons including the facial, dorsal vagal, ambiguus and hypoglossal nuclei, the superficial layer of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, and motoneurons and dorsal horn neurons in the spinal cord. Cells within one and the same nucleus expressed varying levels of thyrotropin releasing hormone receptor messenger RNA suggesting marked differences in rate of receptor synthesis. Most of these areas receive an input by thyrotropin-releasing hormone-positive nerve endings. Taken together these results suggest that thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptors are mostly localized in the vicinity of the cell bodies which express thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor messenger RNA and mediate the wide range of actions that have been recorded after administration of exogenous thyrotropin-releasing hormone.
The trkB gene encodes a tyrosine kinase receptor which is an essential component of the high-affinity cell surface receptor for the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor. In this report we have used quantitative in situ hybridization to study the expression of trkB messenger RNA in the rat hippocampus following stimulation of afferents in the entorhinal cortex. A bilateral three-fold increase of trkB messenger RNA levels in the hippocampus was seen 4 h after quisqualate injection into the left entorhinal cortex. The increase was confined to the granule layer of the dentate gyrus. A small increase, however, was also seen bilaterally in the pyramidal cell layer. The increases in all hippocampal areas were completely prevented by pretreatment of the animals with systemic injection of diazepam but not with scopolamine. We suggest that glutamate release from cortical afferents to the hippocampus has the capacity to increase neuronal expression of trkB messenger RNA within the hippocampus. The results from the present study extend the interpretation of our previous evidence of cortical transynaptic activation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA and indicate the presence of a concomitant activation of trkB messenger RNA expression in the hippocampus.
The expression of c-fos protein was examined in the basal forebrains of male rats 60 min following intracerebroventricular infusions of 250 pmol angiotensin II. Levels of corticosterone and vasopressin were also measured at the same time point. In animals not allowed access to water after infusion, angiotensin II induced intense c-fos expression in a band of neurons extending throughout the anterior region of the third ventricle region, including the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, the median preoptic nucleus (nucleus medianus) and the subfornical organ. There were also high levels of expression in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus and the paraventricular nucleus, particularly its lateral (magnocellular) region, though other, parvicellular areas were also affected. No other area of the hypothalamus was altered. There was increased c-fos expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Allowing rats to drink during the 60-min survival period modified this pattern of response. c-fos was markedly reduced in the supraoptic nucleus and the paraventricular nucleus but not in the other areas examined, including the anterior region of the third ventricle and the amygdala. When water was withheld for 15 min, but then allowed, rats drank the same total volume but c-fos expression was no longer inhibited in either the supraoptic nucleus or paraventricular nucleus. When rats were given 0.9% saline to drink, they ingested about three times as much as water, but angiotensin II-induced c-fos expression was similar to that in rats denied access to water. The pattern was similar following access to 1.8% saline, though levels in the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis were reduced. There was a marked correlation between the number of c-fos-positive neurons in the supraoptic nucleus or paraventricular nucleus and plasma levels of corticosterone 60 min after infusion, but not with arginine-vasopressin levels. These experiments show that angiotensin II induces highly localized expression of c-fos in areas known to be concerned with the dipsogenic and endocrine actions of this peptide, and that this pattern is selectively altered by allowing the animal to drink solutions of different tonicity. Immediate-early gene expression is a novel and valuable method of determining the neural response to peptides at the cellular level.
Calretinin and calbindin-D28k are homologous calcium-binding proteins, each present in a variety of neurons in the brain. Their distributions in the rat brain have been compared at the cellular level to determine whether they tend to occur in the same or in different cells, and to determine whether calbindin-positive cells show any common features once crossreaction with calretinin has been eliminated. The results show great heterogeneity. Most cells which contain one of the proteins do not contain the other, but many cells do contain both; even in the ventral cochlear nucleus, where there is abundant calretinin and most calbindin-like immunoreactivity is due to crossreaction, a few cells contain both proteins. In the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area, many cells are double-positive but some only contain one or the other protein. Only the triangular septal nucleus is uniformly positive for both proteins. Cells which look like local-circuit neurons in many forebrain areas (cortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulb, anterior olfactory nucleus) are exclusively positive for either calretinin or calbindin, in spite of their similar morphology. In the more heterogeneous parts of the brain (including hypothalamus central gray and substantia gelatinosa), there are mixtures of calretinin-positive, calbindin-positive, and double-positive cells. In comparison with previous data on the chick, some aspects of the distributions are conserved, but double-positive cells are more frequent in the rat. The degree of heterogeneity observed, even within comparatively well-defined neuronal populations, makes it difficult to infer in what neuronal properties these proteins could be involved.
Electrolytic lesions performed in brain cortex of six-day-old or adult rats resulted in the appearance of many reactive astrocytes around the injury site after a postoperative delay of eight days. They were revealed by immunohistochemistry using antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein. Injection of tritiated thymidine 24 h prior to autopsy indicated that, in neonates, 50% of the reactive astrocytes were proliferating. Infusion of 2 microliters of liposome suspension made of phosphatidylcholine and a monosialoganglioside, in the injury site, immediately after the electrolytic lesion did not modify the extent of the reactive gliosis. Liposomes containing 3 nmol of either 7 beta-hydroxycholesterol, 7 beta-hydroxycholesteryl-3-stearate or 7 beta-hydroxycholesteryl-3-oleate reduced by about 50% the intensity of the reactive gliosis in the frontal cortex of six-day-old rats and by 40% the number of dividing astrocytes. In the adult rat cortex the intensity of the glial reaction was also decreased by 30% by 15 nmol 7 beta-hydroxycholesteryl-3-oleate. Further investigations demonstrated that it is the 7 beta-hydroxy function which is needed for the biological activity of these oxysterols. These findings, which demonstrate anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory properties of 7 beta-hydroxycholesterol on astrocytes, facilitate the future investigation of the influence of reactive gliosis on functional recovery following brain injury. This anti-proliferative property could also be used in other kinds of pathologies involving glial cell proliferation, such as glioblastomas.
Previous investigations have shown that cerebrospinal fluid from Alzheimer's disease patients contains antibodies that recognize the amoeboid microglia--a nascent and active form of microglia in the developing rat brain [McRae et al. (1991) Neuroscience 41, 739-752]. The present study extended this to show that the same cerebrospinal fluid from Alzheimer's disease patients also labeled the activated microglia and macrophages induced experimentally in adult central nervous system. Thus, in the spinal cord, activated microglia were elicited following the destruction of the motor neurons by the toxic lectin, Ricinus communis agglutinin, injected into the sciatic nerve. The activated microglia which were closely associated with the soma of the degenerating neurons were intensely immunostained with the cerebrospinal fluid from Alzheimer's disease patients. The labeling pattern was comparable to some known monoclonal antibodies including OX-42, OX-18 and OX-6 that mark microglia. The microglia cells on the contralateral normal side remained unstained. In the cerebrum, activated microglia and neural macrophages were induced following an epidural application of the excitotoxin, kainic acid or cryolesion. Immunoelectron microscopy of these cells showed that the immunoreactivity was localized at the plasma membrane and its derivatives suggesting that these are the sites where the antigens are associated. The results obtained in this investigation suggest that these experimental models may be a means to gain further insight to antigens recognized by antibodies in the cerebrospinal fluid of Alzheimer's disease patients.
Two monoclonal antibodies, one which recognizes a glycosaminoglycan epitope present in heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan and another which recognizes the core protein of a basement membrane heparan sulfate proteoglycan, were used to study the distribution and localization of these components in Alzheimer's disease and control brain. The cytoplasm of neurons, and occasional neurofibrillary tangles, senile plaques and astrocytes were immunopositive for the heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan antibody in control brains. In Alzheimer's tissue, however, the number and intensity of these elements was more extensive than in control brains. In addition, within the Alzheimer's brains studied, the nuclei of select neurons and a small number of microglia were also immunopositive for heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan in contrast to controls, where nuclei and neuroglia were immuno-negative. Some senile plaques in Alzheimer's tissue also contained strong heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan-positive neurites which were not seen in controls. In Alzheimer's tissue, double labeling for heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycans and the beta-amyloid protein in adjacent sections revealed that, in general, heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan- and beta-amyloid protein-immunopositive plaques were co-localized. Occasionally, however, beta-amyloid-positive plaques were seen without heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan immunoreactivity and vice versa. Heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan immunoreactivity and Tau immunoreactivity co-localized in many neurofibrillary tangles; however a small number of heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan-positive neurofibrillary tangles did not co-localize with Tau-positive neurofibrillary tangles. In contrast, the heparan sulfate proteoglycan antibody immunostained only the walls of blood vessels and a few senile plaques in Alzheimer's brains and primarily blood vessels in control brains. Heparan sulfate glycosaminoglycan immunostaining was present within neurons, glia, neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques in Alzheimer's tissue. These results suggest that heparan sulfate-like molecules play an important role in the pathogenesis of the characteristic lesions of Alzheimer's disease and could serve as a marker reflecting early pathological changes.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and peptide histidine isoleucine, two peptides with a common precursor and with strong vasodilatory actions, have been suggested to be involved in control of blood flow through the hypothalamic portal blood vessels, in this way regulating the amounts of releasing and inhibitory factors reaching the anterior pituitary. Using the indirect immunofluorescence technique, we now show that this system also contains the enzyme nitric oxide synthase, as well as acetylcholinesterase. It is therefore likely that the control of blood flow through the portal vessels is mediated via relaxation of smooth muscle cells with a high myogenic tone by neuronal release of four vasodilatory compounds, acetylcholine, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, peptidine histidine isoleucine, and nitric oxide, i.e. a classic neurotransmitter, two neuropeptides and a gas.
Manipulation of the developing nervous system has provided valuable insights into nervous system function. One important concept to arise from this type of study has been the identification of specific &quot;critical periods&quot; for the development of various functions. A critical period has been most clearly shown for the visual system where monocular eye closure for a few weeks led to functionally significant changes in visually guided behaviors and the connectivity of the visual cortex. Critical periods have also been defined for other sensory systems. Although studies of the effect of manipulating sensory systems during development are sometimes difficult to interpret (e.g. Ref. 7), this difficulty is compounded in the case of the motor system. Problems arise because manipulations of the postnatal motor system are difficult to implement and usually require invasive procedures such as tenotomy, neurotomy, and nerve crush (for review, see Ref. 17). We have approached the problem of manipulating the motor environment by adapting a paradigm widely used to study the experimental effects of simulated weightlessness in adult rats: namely, tail suspension. This method has several advantages for manipulating the motor system: (i) because it is noninvasive, it is less discomforting than neurotomy, tenotomy or nerve crush; (ii) it does not immobilize the animals, they move about the cage and extend and flex their hindlimbs; and (iii) it specifically examines the importance of load-bearing on the development of antigravity muscles and their neuronal circuits.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It is well known that the electroencephalogram of the cat in the early stages of slow wave sleep is mainly characterized by rhythmic wave activity at 7-14 Hz, termed spindles, which recur periodically with a slow rhythm of 0.1-0.2 Hz. From early stimulation, decortication and transection studies (see Ref. 14), spindle oscillations were thought to originate in the thalamus. The search for the anatomical substrate of thalamic spindling, however, moved from medial (intralaminar nuclei) to lateral thalamic nuclei, and recently focused on the extreme shell-shaped collection of GABA-ergic cells, the nucleus reticularis thalami. This proposition was based on its structural, hodological, and physiological aspects. There is accumulating evidence that the nucleus reticularis may act as a conditional pacemaker, synchronizing the activity of cortically projecting thalamic neurons. The introduction of glutamate analogues with excitotoxic properties such as ibotenic acid provided the opportunity of studying the immediate effects of chemical excitation of this nucleus on synchronized electroencephalographic activity. We found that, in cats, spindle density was dramatically increased following infusion of ibotenic acid into the rostral pole of the nucleus, supporting the role of this sector in spindle-related rhythmicity.
In mammals, monocular deprivation performed during the early stages of postnatal development (critical period) dramatically affects the functional organization of the visual cortex. Since the early work of Hubel and Wiesel, the effects of monocular deprivation are accounted for by the fibers driven by the two eyes competing for the control of cortical territories. In cat and monkey striking structural changes accompany the functional effects of monocular deprivation. Also, in the rat, monocular deprivation causes functional alteration at the level of visual cortex; no structural correlates of these effects, however, have so far been described. Parvalbumin is a calcium binding protein that in the neocortex colocalizes with a subpopulation of GABAergic neurons. Here we report that in the rat monocular deprivation results in a dramatic reduction of parvalbumin-like immunoreactivity in the visual cortex contralateral to the deprived eye. This effect is due to competitive phenomena and not to visual deprivation itself, it is restricted to the binocular portion of the visual cortex and neither binocular deprivation, nor dark rearing can induce it. We conclude that parvalbumin-like immunoreactivity is a useful immunohistochemical marker for the effects of monocular deprivation in the rat visual cortex.
In situ hybridization was used to study the effect of 6-hydroxydopamine-induced damage to the midbrain dopaminergic neurons on the level of glutamate decarboxylase mRNA in globus pallidus neurons in the rat. Some animals received an injection of Fluoro-gold in the entopeduncular nucleus or the substantia nigra prior to the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion in order to identify glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA levels in pallidal neurons that project to one of these targets. Analysis was carried out on a sample of all pallidal neurons as well as neurons that were identified as projection neurons in control and lesioned groups. The loss of the dopamine-containing neurons in the substantia nigra resulted in significant increases in the percentage of globus pallidus neurons that expressed glutamate decarboxylase mRNA and in the amount of glutamate decarboxylase mRNA per globus pallidus neuron. These increases were noted in a sample of all pallidal neurons, as well as pallidal neurons that were identified as projecting to either the entopeduncular nucleus or the substantia nigra. In control animals, glutamate decarboxylase mRNA was clearly identified in globus pallidus neurons projecting to the entopeduncular nucleus, indicating that this recently reported projection is at least partially GABAergic. The results of this study indicate that substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons regulate globus pallidus neurons in the rat, and that removal of the dopaminergic input to the corpus striatum results in a significant increase in the amount of glutamate decarboxylase mRNA in pallidal neurons. The decreased firing rate of pallidal neurons that is seen following the loss of dopamine input appears to be accompanied by an increase in the level of glutamate decarboxylase mRNA in these neurons.
The vascularization of neural grafts in ischemic brain was studied in spontaneously hypertensive rats grafted with a suspension of fetal neocortical tissue into the infarcted area five to six days after ligation of the middle cerebral artery. The brain vasculature was examined by scanning electron microscopy of corrosion vascular casts and the cortical microvasculature was stereologically quantified in light microscopy three months after the occlusion. Patent anastomoses were present between the middle cerebral artery distal to occlusion and the proximal part, as well as to the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries, in both grafted and non-grafted rats. A vascular plexus covering the infarct cavities and the grafts contained leptomeningeal vessels intermingled with a thin capillary network which is not normally found on the brain surface. The graft vessels were derived from this vascular plexus. The regular pattern of arterioles and venules penetrating from the cortical surface in normal neocortex was absent in the grafts but the capillary morphology was similar in both types of tissue. The grafts had a lower capillary density than normal tissue and lacked the laminar distribution of capillaries characteristic of normal neocortex. The results demonstrate the plasticity of the vascular system where remodeling of the vascular tree after an ischemic insult provides suitable conditions for the vascularization of neocortical grafts.
The development of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons in the rat brain cerebral cortex was studied in a model of a pure cortical culture. In this model, development of neurons devoid of any afferents from other brain structures could be observed. Since mutual interactions between neuropeptide Y and catecholamines have been postulated, such a pure cortical culture offers a possibility of studying the development of neuropeptide Y neurons devoid of any brainstem monoaminergic afferents. A tissue dissected from 16-day-old rat fetuses and cultivated in a dissociated culture for 14 days was examined immunohistochemically for the presence of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons. Three main types of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons were found: unipolar, bipolar and multipolar. Cell processes and terminal varicose fibres were also observed. The results obtained indicate that neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons and fibres may develop in a pure culture of the rat cerebral cortex without the influence of any other structures.
The earliest events of neuronal regeneration require resealing of the neurite's membrane after injury and the subsequent formation of a new growth cone. We have investigated these activities in vitro employing the large identified neurons of the snail Helisoma. Regeneration was elicited by transection of neurite processes and assessed by studying the formation of new growth cones from the proximal neurite stumps. Under normal conditions new growth cones formed rapidly in 100% of the preparations. This formation appeared to follow, however, a large rise in intracellular calcium and did not start until after the cells homeostatic machinery had re-established near baseline calcium levels. To test the hypothesis that elevated intracellular calcium levels delayed or inhibited growth cone formation, transections were performed after experimentally increasing intracellular calcium concentrations to different levels by either depolarization or by calcium ionophores. Under these conditions, regeneration was significantly retarded in a fashion dependent upon the intracellular calcium concentration. Another change in the extracellular milieu, namely lowering of the extracellular calcium concentration, also significantly retarded growth cone formation. Under these conditions neurons appeared unable to reseal their cut ends and eventually died. Taken together, these studies demonstrate the importance of both the extracellular and intracellular milieu at times immediately following neurite transection in determining whether or not the earliest stages of neuronal regeneration will occur.
Because of evidence that the nucleus accumbens mediates the activating effects of many drugs, this study examined the hypothesis that the firing rates of individual nucleus accumbens neurons are positively correlated with spontaneous changes in behavioral arousal that occur during the sleep-wake cycle. The present report examined the firing patterns of 80 neurons in the nucleus accumbens of unanesthetized, unrestrained rats during various electrographically determined levels of arousal. Synaptic responses to stimulation of hippocampal and pallidal nucleus accumbens afferents indicated that the present sample of neurons was similar to a large population of nucleus accumbens neurons previously recorded in anesthetized rats. Confirming the participation of the nucleus accumbens in behavioral arousal, the firing rates of nucleus accumbens neurons were greatest during wakefulness and rapid eye movement sleep and lowest during non-rapid eye movement sleep. Furthermore, the induction of halothane anesthesia decreased behavioral and electrocorticographic arousal concurrent with a suppression of the spontaneous nucleus accumbens unit discharge. These data support the hypothesis that the firing of nucleus accumbens neurons is closely related to arousal.
Evidence derived from many experimental approaches indicates that cholinergic neurons in the dorsal striatum (caudate-putamen) are responsive to excitatory amino acids. Furthermore, evidence from physiological experiments indicate that the excitatory input is derived from the cortex and/or the thalamus. The object of the present experiment was to anatomically test whether cholinergic neurons receive cortical and/or thalamic input in the dorsal striatum using a combined anteograde tracing and immunocytochemical approach at both the light- and electron-microscopic levels. Rats received injections of the anterograde tracers Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin or biocytin at multiple sites in the frontal cortex or parafascicular nucleus of the thalamus. Sections of the striatum were stained to reveal the anterogradely transported markers and then immunostained to reveal choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. The striata of these animals contained dense networks of anterogradely labelled fibres that were dispersed throughout the neuropil and interspersed with the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive (i.e. cholinergic) perikarya and dendrites. The anterogradely labelled fibres were often closely apposed to the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons. Examination of electron-microscopic sections failed to demonstrate cortical terminals in synaptic contact with the cholinergic neurons even when choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive structures were examined that had first been identified in the light microscope as having cortical terminals closely apposed to them. In these cases it was often observed that the cortical terminal, although apposed to the membrane of the labelled neurone, made synaptic contact with an unlabelled spine that was in the vicinity. In contrast to the cortical input, analysis of material that was double-stained to reveal thalamostriatal terminals and choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive structures, revealed that the thalamostriatal terminals were often in asymmetrical synaptic contact with the perikarya and dendrites of cholinergic neurons. It is concluded that the cholinergic neurons of the dorsal striatum, like those of the ventral striatum or nucleus accumbens [Meredith and Wouterlood (1990) J. comp. Neurol. 296, 204-221] receive very little or no input from the cortex but are under a prominent synaptic control by the thalamostriatal system. Those pharmacological effects of excitatory amino acids on the cholinergic systems of the striatum are therefore presumably related to the thalamostriatal and not the corticostriatal system.
Tyrosine protein kinases trk, trkB and trkC are signal-transducing receptors for the neurotrophins nerve growth factor, brain-derived nerve growth factor, neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4. Here we report on the isolation of cDNA fragments encoding a part of rat trk and trkB proteins, respectively, and characterization of a full-length cDNA clone encoding rat trkC. Cells expressing mRNAs for the different members of the trk family were identified in the rat central nervous system by in situ hybridization using oligonucleotide probes designed from the isolated cDNA sequences and complementary to mRNA sequences coding for the extracellular region of the receptors. The expression of trk mRNA was found to be restricted to neurons of the basal forebrain, caudate-putamen with features of cholinergic cells and to magnocellular neurons of several brainstem nuclei. In contrast, cells expressing trkB and trkC mRNAs were widely distributed in the brain. Areas expressing high levels of trkB or trkC mRNAs included olfactory formations, neocortex, hippocampus, thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei, brainstem nuclei, cerebellum and spinal cord motoneurons. A similar distribution for trkB and trkC mRNAs was shown in most areas but each probe specific for these mRNAs also provided distinct labeling patterns in different subregions, layers and cells. Comparison between our data and previous analyses of cells expressing mRNAs for neurotrophins and the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor suggests that different modes of action and different combinations of receptors mediate biological responses to neurotrophins in the adult rat brain.

Tissue injury results in several changes in spinal cord neurons that contribute to hyperalgesia arising from the injured tissue. In models of unilateral hindpaw inflammation, changes in the neurochemistry and electrophysiology of dorsal horn neurons ipsilateral, and to a much lesser extent contralateral, to the inflamed paw have been reported. For example, the excitability of dorsal horn neurons increases, receptive field size increases, and the content of various proteins and neuropeptides in the dorsal horn (e.g. FOS, dynorphin, enkephalin) are affected following peripheral inflammatory insult. These changes are typically interpreted on the basis of their relevance to nociception.
Acetylcholine has long been known to play an important role in the cortical activation that accompanies the states of wakefulness and paradoxical sleep (for review, see Refs 17, 21) when this neurotransmitter is released from the cerebral cortex at the highest rates. The major supply of acetylcholine to the cerebral cortex arises from the cholinergic neurons of Meynert's Basal-ganglion or nucleus basalis of the forebrain. Lying in the substantia innominata within the major ascending pathway from the brain stem reticular formation, magnocellular basalis neurons project upon the cerebral cortex as the important ventral, extrathalamic relay of the ascending reticular activating system. Although the cholinergic basalis nucleus neurons have been shown to be important for cortical activation, the precise manner in which they influence cortical activity has not as yet been elucidated, in part because the cholinergic cells of this nucleus have not been identified in electrophysiological studies. Using intracellular recording in guinea-pig brain slices, we were able to record and fill with biocytin nucleus basalis neurons which were subsequently revealed by immunohistochemical staining to be choline acetyltransferase-positive and thus cholinergic. The cholinergic cells displayed rhythmic bursting activity mediated by a low-threshold calcium spike in vitro, which would endow them with a capacity for phasic (in addition to tonic) firing in vivo. By virtue of these different modes, cholinergic basalis neurons may accordingly deter or facilitate the cortical response to sensory input and may furthermore modulate the major frequencies of cortical activity across the different states of the sleep-waking cycle.
Chemical depolarization is often used to study neurotransmitter release. Three commonly used depolarizing agents, veratridine, potassium, and glutamate, were evaluated for neurotoxicity. Neuronal survival and lactate dehydrogenase efflux were measured to assay irreversible injury. In addition, video-enhanced differential interference contrast microscopy was used to measure acute neuronal swelling. We found that lactate dehydrogenase efflux and cell death associated with exposure to potassium and glutamate could be blocked by the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist amino-phosphonovaleric acid. Neuronal swelling was observed with all three agents, and could not be blocked by amino-phosphonovaleric acid. These results suggest multiple mechanisms of neuronal injury accompanying chemical depolarization. A 60-min exposure to 100 microM veratridine increased lactate dehydrogenase appearing in the medium at the end of this exposure to 615% of control and produced a 62% loss of neurons after 20-24 h. These effects could not be blocked by amino-phosphonovaleric acid at 500 microM. Differential interference contrast imaging revealed acute neuronal swelling in response to veratridine within 5 min of exposure, and this swelling could not be blocked by amino-phosphonovaleric acid. A 60-min exposure to medium supplemented with 50 mM KCl caused a lactate dehydrogenase efflux of 204% of control and produced a 48% loss of neurons. Amino-phosphonovaleric acid blocked both the neuronal loss and the excess lactate dehydrogenase efflux. In addition, differential interference contrast monitoring showed no KCl-evoked swelling. In contrast, isotonic substitution of 50 mM KCl for NaCl resulted in acute swelling which could not be blocked by amino-phosphonovaleric acid, in addition to neuronal death and lactate dehydrogenase release. Glutamate was, as expected, neurotoxic, and as has been shown before, this toxicity could be blocked by amino-phosphonovaleric acid. Observation of neurons exposed to 300 microM glutamate revealed that this treatment was invariably associated with neuronal swelling. In the presence of amino-phosphonovaleric acid, 81% of neurons swelled to greater than 110% by 30 min exposure to glutamate. These results suggest that experimental paradigms which investigate the effects of chemical depolarization upon central neurons are likely to be associated with reversible and irreversible forms of injury. This is of special importance to any study of the mechanisms of release of substances from central neurons.
Molecular requirements for hapten recognition by antibodies raised in rabbits against glutaraldehyde conjugates of L-glutamate and L-aspartate were determined in enzyme immunoassays by measuring the displacement of binding of glutamate and aspartate, respectively, by a large number of selected haptens to two anti-glutamate and two anti-aspartate sera. The results indicate that N-terminal modifications of the amino acids, such as the presence of an N-acetyl or N-carbamyl group or the addition of a second amino acid to form dipeptides with C-terminal glutamate or aspartate, are tolerated to variable degrees, more so by the aspartate than the glutamate antisera. The antibodies possess point-to-point recognition sites for the two carboxyl groups present in both amino acids. Strong shape complementarity between the amino acids and their respective binding sites is suggested by the lack of recognition of the appropriate D stereoisomers by any of the antibodies. Changes in the distance between the two carboxyl groups, or modification, replacement or loss of either or both carboxyl groups, strongly reduce or eliminate binding. Based on these results, we suggest that other antibodies raised to similar conjugates of these amino acids are likely to share similar recognition characteristics. In addition, the results provide a rational background for the evaluation of antibody specificity and the interpretation of results in immunocytochemical studies using antisera to glutamate and aspartate.
It has been suggested recently that dopamine in the cerebellum not only acts as a precursor for noradrenaline in afferent fibers supplied by locus coeruleus neurons, but also subserves an independent transmitter role in a separate neural system. The present study was initiated to investigate the possible sources for dopaminergic innervation of the cerebellum. Employing anterograde and retrograde axonal tracing with cholera toxin and a combination of fluorescent retrograde axonal tracing with Fluoro-Gold and tyrosine hydroxylase immunofluorescence histochemistry, we found in the rat that the ventral tegmental area, containing the A10 dopaminergic cell group, sends projection fibers to the cerebellum bilaterally with a slight contralateral predominance. The projections from the ventral tegmental area to the cerebellum were segregated into the dopaminergic one to the cerebellar cortex and the non-dopaminergic one to the deep cerebellar nuclei. Dopaminergic fibers projecting from the ventral tegmental area to the cerebellar cortex terminated mainly in the granular layer, additionally in the Purkinje cell layer, but not at all in the molecular layer. They were distributed predominantly in the crus I ansiform lobule and paraflocculus, and to a lesser extent in the crus II ansiform lobule. On the other hand, non-dopaminergic fibers projecting from the ventral tegmental area to the deep cerebellar nuclei were seen to terminate mainly in the lateral nucleus, to a lesser extent in the interpositus nucleus, but not at all in the medial nucleus. The ventral tegmental area was also observed to receive projection fibers from the lateral and interpositus cerebellar nuclei bilaterally with a contralateral predominance. The projections from the ventral tegmental area to the cerebellum revealed in the present study might exert limbic influences upon the cerebro-cerebellar loops subserving the execution and co-ordination of voluntary movements.
The relation between quantal transmitter release and presynaptic Ca2+/Ba2+ entry at the mouse neuromuscular junction was studied, making use of the finding that in the presence of Ba2+ trains of nerve stimuli or brief nerve terminal depolarizations elicit &quot;tails&quot; of raised miniature end-plate potential frequency (fm) that reflect entry of Ba2+ per pulse, and hence effectiveness of pulses in opening Ca2+/Ba2+ channels; at the same time these pulses elicit end-plate potentials. With nerve stimulation in the presence of Ba2+ and Ca2+ and modulation of release by raised Mg2+ or bekanamycin, slopes of log quantal content (m) vs log apparent Ba2+ entry per pulse were close to 4, which is the same as the Hill coefficient for Ba2+ cooperativity derived from other data. With depolarizing pulses of varied intensity, however, similar plots gave slopes close to 2, with Ba2+ alone or in a mixture of Ca2+ and Ba2+. Thus, the relation between transmitter release and Ca2+ (or Ba2+) entry apparently depends upon how entry is varied; varying the numbers of channels opened is not the same as varying ion entry per channel. A mathematical model was developed to examine the consequences of heterogeneity of local Ca2+ (or Ba2+) between release sites, arising because of stochastic variation of number and time course of Ca2+ channels opened per site; the experimental results were consistent with this model. It was therefore concluded that release is normally governed by intracellular Ca2+ close to points of Ca2+ entry through channels; stochastic factors give rise to more release than if Ca2+ were homogeneously distributed. If Ca2+ channels are uniformly close to release sites the average number of channels opened per site per action potential may be as low as 4.
We recently showed that acute administration of nicotine in the rat decreases bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation and that adrenal medullary-derived epinephrine, acting at a beta 2-adrenergic receptor, mediates the nicotine effect. Since agents which decrease bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation have been associated with increased joint injury in a rat model of chronic inflammation (experimental arthritis induced by subcutaneous injection of Mycobacterium butyricum) we examined the effect of chronic nicotine on both plasma extravasation and the severity of joint injury. In normal rats, bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation was decreased after nicotine administered both by repeated injection (10(-2) mg/kg, s.c., once per h for 4 h) and by continuous long-term infusion (subcutaneous mini-osmotic pump; 1.5 x 10(-3) mg/kg per h for 30 days). Nicotine-induced inhibition of bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation did not show tachyphylaxis. In rats with arthritis, chronic administration of nicotine also produced a decrease in bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation. This effect of chronic nicotine in the arthritic rats was antagonized by co-administration of hexamethonium (a nicotinic receptor antagonist), by surgical removal of the adrenal medulla, or by co-administration of ICI-118,551 (a beta 2-adrenoceptor antagonist). Chronic administration of nicotine decreased the latency to the onset of arthritis and, in a dose-dependent manner, led to an increase in the radiographic joint injury score.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Results from previous studies have suggested that the hypothalamus modulates cardiorespiratory responses to hypoxia and/or hypercapnia. Many neurons in the caudal hypothalamus are stimulated by hypercapnia and hypoxia in vivo; however, it is not known if these responses are dependent upon input from other areas. Whole-cell patch and extracellular recordings from a brain slice preparation were used in the present study to determine the direct effects of hypoxia (5% CO2/95% N2 or 10% O2/5% CO2/85% N2) and hypercapnia (7% CO2/93% O2) on caudal hypothalamic neurons in vitro. Coronal sections (400-500 microns) were obtained from young Sprague-Dawley rats and placed in a recording chamber that was perfused with nutrient media equilibrated with 95% O2/5% CO2. Extracellular recordings demonstrated that hypoxia stimulated over 80% of the neurons tested; the magnitude of the response was dependent upon the degree of hypoxia. In addition, over 80% of cells that were excited by hypoxia retained this response during synaptic blockade. Hypercapnia increased the discharge frequency of 22% of the caudal hypothalamic neurons that were studied. A second set of caudal hypothalamic neurons were studied with whole-cell patch recordings; the mean resting membrane potential of these neurons was -51.8 +/- 1.0 mV with an average input resistance of 399 +/- 49 M omega. Hypoxia produced a depolarization in 76% of these neurons; a poststimulus hyperpolarization often occurred. A depolarization and/or increase in discharge rate during hypercapnia was observed in 35% of the neurons tested. Only 10% of all neurons studied were excited by both hypoxia and hypercapnia. These findings suggest that separate subpopulations of caudal hypothalamic neurons are sensitive to hypoxia and hypercapnia. Thus, this hypothalamic area may be a site of central hypoxic and hypercapnic chemoreception.
The physiological significance of glutathione in the mammalian central nervous system is still uncertain, although some evidence indicates that it may be an important regulatory peptide. In the present study, the distribution and characteristics of glutathione binding sites in the brain have been studied. Biotinyl-glutathione was synthesized as a probe to detect glutathione binding sites in the CNS. Specific glutathione binding sites in the brain were largely localized to the white matter, suggesting the presence of glutathione receptors on neuroglial cells. The colloidal gold technique and immunofluorescence double staining allowed the visualization of the receptor at the cellular level and thus demonstrated that there are glutathione receptors on cultured astrocytes. Glutathione applied to cultured astrocytes elicited increased levels of intracellular inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate, suggesting that glutathione receptors were coupled to phospholipase C. The localization of glutathione receptors on astrocytes and the activation of a second messenger system by glutathione suggest that glutathione may be a neuropeptide in the central nervous system.
The effects of ethosuximide on calcium channels were studied on dorsal root ganglion neurons from one-day-old rats using the patch-clamp technique. Bath application of ethosuximide induced dose-dependent and reversible suppression of calcium currents without affecting their time-course. Substantial differences between the effects of ethosuximide on the low-threshold and high-threshold (T- and L-) currents were observed. Ethosuximide reduced the T-current with greater potency than the L-current (Kd for T-current is 7 microM vs 15 microM for L-current). This relative specificity of its action still remained if applied at concentrations up to 1 mM. These data support the hypothesis according to which the anti-epileptic action of ethosuximide is related to reduction of the low-threshold calcium currents in sensory neurons.
The distribution of the alpha 6 subunit of the GABAA receptor has been established in rat cerebellum and compared to the distribution of the alpha 1 (cat) and the beta 2/3 (rat, cat) subunits, using immunocytochemistry. The synapses established by Golgi cell terminals on the dendrites of granule cells were immunoreactive for the alpha 6, alpha 1 and beta 2/3 subunits in virtually all glomeruli, indicating that two variants (alpha 1 and alpha 6) of the same subunit are co-localized at the same synapses. The somatic membranes of the granule cells, which receive no synapses, were immunopositive for the alpha 1 and beta 2/3 subunits, but not for the alpha 6 subunit. Thus, the alpha 1 and the beta 2/3 subunits are located at both synaptic and extrasynaptic sites, but the alpha 6 subunit is detectable only at synaptic sites.
The endogenous opioid peptides are known to play a significant role in the modulation and/or mediation of numerous environmental or experimental stressors. However, the specific opioid peptide(s) and receptor type(s) involved, under what physiologic conditions they are engaged and within which regions of the CNS is not well understood. We therefore examined the effects of both a chronic and an acute stressor-90-h water deprivation and a single 20-min foot shock on opioid receptor binding in 17 specific rat brain nuclei. [3H]DSTLE (Tyr-D-Ser-Gly-Phe-Leu-Thr) and [3H]DAGO(Tyr-D-Gly-Phe-NMe-Phe-Gly-ol) were used to label delta and mu receptors, respectively. Foot shock induced profound antinociception as measured by tail-flick latency which outlasted the stressor by several minutes. However, only the septum responded with a decrease in [3H]DAGO binding to this type of stress-induced analgesia. No other alterations in either [3H]DAGO or [3H]DSTLE binding were seen in response to foot shock. In contrast, water deprivation induced increases in [3H-DAGO] binding in the septum as well as increases in [3H]DSTLE binding in the caudate and accumbens nuclei. Moreover, the presumptive mild stress of handling in the foot shock control group was sufficient to decrease mu or delta receptor binding in seven out of 17 brain regions investigated (including the frontal cortex and olfactory tubercle where both mu and delta binding were increased) when compared to unhandled deprivation control animals. These changes in opioid receptor binding may have been the result of alterations in treatment-induced peptide release, receptor regulation, or interactions with other released neurotransmitter ligand/receptor complexes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The development of Na(+)- and K(+)-currents in the primary afferent neurons of the cochlear ganglion was studied using the patch-clamp technique. Cells were dissociated between days 6 and 17 of development and membrane currents recorded within the following 24 h. Outward currents were the first to appear between days 6 and 7 of embryonic development and their magnitude increased throughout development from 200 pA on day 7 to 900 pA on days 14-16. Threshold for activation decreased by 20 mV between days 8 and 14. Outward currents were absent when Cs+ replaced K+ in the pipette and were partially blocked by external tetraethylammonium. Outward currents contained at least three components: (i) a non-inactivating outward current, similar to the delayed-rectifier, predominating in mature neurons; (ii) a slowly inactivating current (tau about 200 ms), most evident in early and intermediate stages (days 7-10); and (iii) a rapidly inactivating outward current (tau about 20 ms) similar to the A-current (IA) described in other neurons, which was distinctly expressed in mature neurons. Sodium currents were identified as fast transient inward currents, sensitive to tetrodotoxin and extracellular Na(+)-removal. They appeared later than K(+)-currents and increased in size from about 100 pA between days 9-11 to 600 pA by days 13-16. The development of membrane currents in cochlear ganglion neurons corresponded to defined stages of the innervation pattern of the chick cochlea [Whitehead and Morest (1985) Neuroscience 14, 255-276]. These currents could be functionally related to the establishment of synaptic connections between transducing cells and primary afferent neurons.
Morphologically polarized hippocampal neurons, grown in culture for two days, contain immunoreactivity of the growth-associated protein B-50 along the plasma membrane of both dendrites and axons. In mature hippocampal neurons, both in vitro and in vivo, B-50 is located in the axon. In order to assess at which stage during neuronal differentiation B-50 is selectively located in the axon, an immuno-light and electron-microscopic study was performed on rat hippocampal neurons developing in vitro. B-50 immunofluorescence was detected in the axon, dendrites and soma of two-day-old polarized neurons. Simultaneously, microtubule-associated protein 2, a marker specific to dendritic microtubules, was predominantly found in the soma, the short dendritic processes and at the base of axonal growth cones. In hippocampal neurons cultured beyond seven days in vitro, microtubule-associated protein 2 immunofluorescence is restricted to the cell soma and dendrites. The spatial distribution of B-50, however, varies. In solitary neurons maturing without interneuronal contacts, B-50 immunofluorescence is observed in axons and in the dendrosomatic domain characterized by the presence of microtubule-associated protein 2. In contrast, in high-density cell cultures B-50 immunofluorescence is absent in the cell body and dendrites, but punctate in axons running along the dendrites. Electron microscopy was carried out on hippocampal neurons of eight to 21 days in vitro to study the process of redistribution of B-50 at the subcellular level. In neurons of eight days in vitro with prominent synapses, B-50 immunoreactivity is significantly elevated at the axonal plasma membrane compared to the plasma membrane of the dendrites and the soma. In neurons from the same culture without synapses, B-50 immunoreactivity is distributed rather densely along the plasma membrane of the soma, dendrites, and on the axonal plasma membrane. A similar B-50 distribution is observed in mature neurons cultured at low cell density without interneuronal cell contacts, for 15 days in vitro. In high-density cell cultures of 21 days in vitro, B-50 is virtually absent at the plasma membrane of the soma and dendrites, and heterogenously distributed along the plasma membrane of axon and axonal varicosities. Our results indicate that selective sorting of B-50 into axons occurs after initial morphological polarization of hippocampal neurons and is correlated with the formation of synapses and with the cessation of dendritic outgrowth.
Developmental changes of the expression of various GABAA receptor subunits (alpha 1, alpha 3, alpha 4, beta 1-3, and gamma 2) were examined in the fetal rat cerebral cortex using in situ hybridization histochemistry. The subunits showed three main patterns of development. The alpha 1 subunit showed the first pattern, in which no expression was observed during embryonic development. The alpha 4 and beta 1 subunits showed the second pattern, in which expression was observed in both the undifferentiated neuroepithelium and the developing cortical layers. The alpha 3, beta 2, beta 3, and gamma 2 subunits showed the third pattern, in which expression was only seen in the developing cortical layers. These findings strongly suggest the following: (i) the alpha 1 subunit is involved in GABAergic transmission in the mature cerebral cortex; (ii) the alpha 4 and beta 1 subunits are involved in both the differentiation of the neuroepithelium and the development of the cortical plate, and (iii) the alpha 3, beta 2, beta 3, and gamma 2 subunits are involved in the development of the cortical plate. Subunits already expressed on embryonic day 13 (beta 1, beta 3, and gamma 2) appear especially likely to have a special role in neuronal development.
Incubation of the rat sensory neuron-derived cell line ND7 in serum-free medium results in the arrest of mitosis and the appearance of numerous neuronal processes. During this differentiation event, secretory granule components such as chromogranins, neuropeptide Y and the C-flanking peptide of pro-neuropeptide Y move to the tips of the majority of the neuronal processes regardless of process length. In contrast, the synaptic vesicle component, synaptophysin, is found only at the tips of the very long processes which appear following prolonged periods of culture in serum-free medium. A similar restriction of synaptophysin to long processes is also observed following differentiation and process formation induced by other treatments such as incubation in reduced serum or treatment with cyclic AMP or phorbol myristate acetate. Hence the regulated secretory pathway associated with the chromogranins and neuropeptides appears to be segregated into the processes at an earlier stage of ND7 differentiation than the synaptophysin-associated synaptic vesicle pathway. ND7 cells therefore provide a model system for studying the processes regulating these pathways and the redistribution of their components during neuronal differentiation.
The present study was designed to determine the neurotransmitter(s) involved in activation of noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons by urinary bladder distention. The spontaneous discharge rate of single locus coeruleus neurons was recorded from halothane-anesthetized rats during the physiological challenge of bladder distention. Intrabladder saline infusion (0.5 ml) increased bladder pressure by 77 +/- 9.7 mmHg (n = 19) and this was associated with an increase in locus coeruleus discharge rate of 53 +/- 4.8% (n = 29). Simultaneous recordings of cortical electroencephalographic activity demonstrated that electroencephalographic activation, characterized by a decreased amplitude and tendency to shift from low frequency activity to higher frequency activity, was also associated with bladder distention. The role of corticotropin-releasing factor and excitatory amino acid inputs to the locus coeruleus in activation by bladder distention was tested in rats pretreated with a corticotropin-releasing factor antagonist, or excitatory amino acid antagonists. Intracerebroventricular administration of the corticotropin-releasing factor antagonist did not alter locus coeruleus activation by bladder distention. In contrast, both locus coeruleus activation and electroencephalographic activation associated with bladder distention were prevented by intracerebroventricular administration of kynurenic acid. The same dose of kynurenic acid also prevented locus coeruleus activation by repeated sciatic nerve stimulation, as previously reported. Local administration of kynurenic acid into the locus coeruleus greatly attenuated, but did not completely prevent the increase in locus coeruleus discharge elicited by bladder distention.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hypoxic stimulation of carotid body chemoreceptors is conveyed to the brainstem by primary sensory neurons whose peripheral axons run in the carotid sinus nerve. While considerable attention has focused on defining chemical neuroregulators released by glomus cells in the carotid body, our understanding of the morphology, distribution and transmitter phenotype of these carotid body afferent neurons remains limited. Carotid body afferent neurons were labeled by microinjection of the retrograde tracer, Fluorogold, into the vascularly isolated rat carotid body. In addition, immunoelectron microscopy was used to correlate transmitter phenotype with ultrastructural features of afferent terminals in the carotid body. Our results indicate that 41% of all carotid body afferent neurons express tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis, whereas 7% contain substance P. Tyrosine hydroxylase- and substance P-positive neurons constitute separate subpopulations of carotid body afferents, as these two phenotypes were not colocalized. Most of the tyrosine hydroxylase-containing carotid body afferent neurons were small- or medium-sized (mean cell diameter 15-20 microns) and located in the distal petrosal ganglion, whereas the majority of substance P-containing carotid body afferent neurons were medium- to large-sized (mean cell diameter 20-29 microns) and located in the proximal petrosal ganglion and jugular ganglion. These differences strengthen the notion that these catecholaminergic and peptidergic carotid body afferent neurons give rise to functionally distinct subsets of chemoafferent fibers. To further characterize the catecholaminergic phenotype expressed by tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells in the petrosal ganglion, we examined the colocalization of tyrosine hydroxylase and DOPA decarboxylase, the dopamine-synthesizing enzyme. Eighty-six per cent of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the distal petrosal ganglion also contained DOPA decarboxylase; as these cells do not express the norepinephrine-synthesizing enzyme, dopamine beta-hydroxylase, these data indicate that the catecholaminergic carotid body afferent neurons are dopaminergic. Finally, ultrastructural analysis of the peripheral processes of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive afferent terminals in the carotid body demonstrated endings in close opposition to Type I glomus cells, consistent with a role for dopaminergic afferent neurons in carotid body chemoreception. One possibility is that these cells, in addition to their role as afferents, constitute a morphologic substrate for dopaminergic &quot;efferent&quot; inhibition in the carotid body.
Previous studies employing extracellular single-unit recording in the intact cerebellum have demonstrated that norepinephrine can potentiate GABA-induced suppression of Purkinje cell spike activity. However, many issues related to the nature of this modulatory phenomenon remain to be resolved. Using whole-cell patch clamp recording, the present study investigated the effect of norepinephrine on GABA-activated membrane currents (IGABA) in solitary Purkinje cells isolated from neonatal rat cerebella following acute dissociation. Exposure of Purkinje cells to norepinephrine at a concentration which, by itself, had no obvious effect on Purkinje cell membrane conductance, consistently augmented IGABA. The catecholamine also potentiated GABA-gated chloride currents as well as muscimol-induced currents in Purkinje cells. Thus, the facilitating effect of norepinephrine on IGABA was attributed to an interaction between norepinephrine and the GABAA receptor-mediated chloride conductance. The effect of norepinephrine could be mimicked by isoproterenol as well as by 8-bromo cAMP, suggesting that a beta-receptor-mediated, cAMP-dependent cascade may underlie the observed heteroreceptor interaction. Our results establish the existence of a postsynaptic mechanism by which norepinephrine, through activation of the beta-adrenoceptor, may modulate GABAA receptor function in cerebellar Purkinje cells. This study provides the groundwork for a detailed investigation into the cascade of membrane and intracellular events underlying such a synergistic modulatory interaction at the cellular and subcellular levels.
Laminar preparations of fixed segments of the guinea-pig intestine were examined for nitric oxide synthase activity using reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate and nitroblue tetrazolium salt as substrates. Under conditions specific for detecting nitric oxide synthase-related diaphorase activity, a subpopulation of neural elements in the myenteric plexus, deep muscular plexus and submucosa were intensely stained. Intensely stained nerve fibres were distributed throughout the meshworks of the myenteric plexus and its innervation of the circular muscle, and in the submucosa within Henle's plexus. Intensely stained nerve cells and their processes were evident in most myenteric ganglia but were rare in ganglia of Henle's plexus. Stained ganglion cells comprised types I, II and VI of the morphologically defined enteric nerve cells. Stained neural elements were increasingly prevalent within successively more caudal segments of the intestine. In addition to neuronal staining, arterioles of the submucosal vascular network displayed distinct, punctate patches of staining distributed over their surface. Perivascular nerve fibre staining was absent. These results show nitric oxide synthase activity to be present within neurons and fibres of the major enteric nerve layers and within submucosal blood vessels throughout the guinea-pig small and large intestine.
The distribution of the urea cycle enzyme, argininosuccinate synthetase, in the rat brain was determined using immunohistochemistry. This enzyme participates in the only known metabolic pathway for citrulline, its condensation with aspartate to form argininosuccinate, which can then be cleaved to fumarate and arginine. It may thus provide a mechanism to recycle citrulline, formed in the nervous system via nitric oxide synthase activity, back to the nitric oxide precursor, L-arginine. Argininosuccinate synthetase immunoreactivity was detected in discrete populations of neurons throughout the brain. Double-staining with nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (reduced form)-diaphorase histochemistry for the localization of nitric oxide synthase demonstrated that argininosuccinate synthetase coexists with nitric oxide synthase in some brain regions. However, many neurons were found that contained one of these two enzymes, but not the other. Thus some nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons appear able to recycle citrulline via argininosuccinate, while others do not. Additional roles for argininosuccinate synthetase in the brain are discussed.
Employing both anterograde and retrograde axonal tracing, we investigated direct projections from the central amygdaloid nucleus to the basal ganglia in the cat. The anterograde axonal tracing of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin revealed that projection fibers from the central amygdaloid nucleus to the basal ganglia ended in the globus pallidus (the feline homolog to the external segment of the globus pallidus of primates) and substantia nigra. The amygdalopallidal fibers terminated chiefly in the medial most part of the globus pallidus at its caudal level. The amygdalonigral fibers terminated densely in the substantia nigra pars lateralis, and moderately in the dorsolateral part of the substantia nigra pars reticulata; none of them were found to end in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Both of the amygdalopallidal and amygdalonigral projections were ipsilateral. These neuronal connections were confirmed by retrograde axonal tracing of cholera toxin B subunit in the second set of the experiments: The cells of origin of the amygdalopallidal and amygdalonigral projections were located predominantly in the lateral part of the central amygdaloid nucleus, and additionally in the intercalated cell islands of the amygdala. Most of them were of small bipolar or multipolar type. The cells projecting to the globus pallidus were preferentially distributed at the rostral levels of the central nucleus and intercalated cell islands of the amygdaloid complex, while those projecting to the substantia nigra were mainly located at the caudal levels of these amygdaloid subdivisions. In the third set of the experiments, sequential double-antigen immunofluorescence histochemistry for transported cholera toxin B subunit and horseradish peroxidase showed that some single neurons in the lateral part of the central amygdaloid nucleus, particularly at its middle level, issued axon collaterals to both the globus pallidus and substantia nigra pars lateralis. The results of the present study indicate that the central amygdaloid nucleus sends projection fibers to the globus pallidus and substantia nigra possibly to exert a limbic influence upon forebrain motor mechanisms.
We have studied the effects and interactions of the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist CP-96,345 and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor/channel blocker MK-801, both applied intravenously, on the flexor reflex and on the facilitation of the flexor reflex by conditioning stimulation of cutaneous C-afferents in decerebrate, spinalized, unanesthetized rats. The flexor reflex was evoked by subcutaneous electrical stimuli applied to the sural nerve innervation area 1/min at an intensity that activated C-fibers and was recorded as electromyogram from the ipsilateral hamstring muscles. The magnitude of the baseline flexor reflex was usually highly stable in the course of the experiments without experimental manipulations. The same stimulus was used as a conditioning train (0.9 Hz, 20 shocks) and caused a brief facilitation of the flexor reflex, which was maximal 0.5 and 1 min after stimulation (255.1 +/- 23.6% over baseline). During the course of the conditioning stimulus train, the reflex magnitude was gradually increased (wind-up). MK-801 (0.1 and 0.5 mg/kg) consistently depressed the polysynaptic flexor reflex. At a dose of 0.5 mg/kg, but not 0.1 mg/kg, MK-801 reduced the wind-up and blocked the facilitation of the flexor reflex induced by the conditioning stimulus by 90%. The facilitatory effect of 7 pmol intrathecal substance P was also partially reduced by MK-801. CP 96,345 (1 and 3 mg/kg) did not depress the flexor reflex, but dose-dependently antagonized reflex facilitation by the conditioning stimulus train, similarly to its antagonism of intrathecally applied 7 pmol substance P-induced facilitation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cochlear ganglion neurons were isolated from chick embryos and membrane currents recorded using the patch-clamp technique. Depolarizing voltage steps elicited transient outward currents whose inactivation was best fitted by a double-exponential function with time constants &lt; 30 ms and &gt; 100 ms. The fast inactivating transient outward current (Ito,f) had a threshold for activation of -61 +/- 5.5 mV; steady-state inactivation was voltage-dependent between -90 and -60 mV, with half-inactivation near -75 mV. The slowly inactivating outward current (Ito,s) showed an activation threshold of 34 +/- 4 mV. Half-inactivation was at -67 +/- 3 mV. Ito,f was blocked by 4-aminopyridine which did not affect Ito,s. The effect was concentration- and voltage-dependent. Tetraethylammonium had no effect on either fast or slow transient currents but reduced the amplitude of the non-inactivating outward current in a dose-dependent manner. Ito,f was strongly inhibited by removing Ca2+ from the extracellular bathing solution. Cobalt ions inhibited Ito,f in a dose-dependent manner between 2 and 20 mM. The inhibitory effect of Co2+ was voltage-dependent, displaying a bell-shaped inhibition curve as a function of membrane voltage, maximal inhibition occurring between -20 and 0 mV. Ca2+ removal did not affect Ito,s and partially reduced the amplitude of the steady-state current. These results provide kinetic and pharmacological evidence for the presence of two distinct transient outward currents in cochlear neurons. These currents may play a role in the first synaptic relay of sound transmission.
If the &quot;sensed presence&quot; is the transient intrusion of the right hemispheric equivalent of the left hemispheric (and highly linguistic) sense of self, then any process that facilitates interhemispheric electrical coherence should enhance these experiences. As predicted, the &quot;ego-alien intrusion&quot; (sensed presence) factor was specifically and significantly elevated in 221 people who had learned to meditate (65 to 70% were involved in Transcendental Meditation) compared to 860 nonmeditators. Variants of a sensed presence were more frequent in female than in male meditators and were particularly evident in left-handers who had learned to mediate. The effect size suggests that learning a meditation technique is counterindicated for subpopulations, such as borderline, schizotypal, or dissociative personalities, who display very fragile self-concepts.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is the normal reduction in a startle response that occurs when the startling stimulus is preceded by a weak lead stimulus (&quot;prepulse&quot;). Schizophrenic patients exhibit abnormally low levels of PPI; therefore, animal models of deficient PPI may provide information regarding neural dysfunctions underlying schizophrenia. We recently reported that infusion of the cholinergic agonist carbachol into the dentate gyrus (DG) disrupts PPI in the rat. We now report the effects of carbachol microinjected into CA1, the DG, or the ventral subiculum (VS) on acoustic startle and PPI. Carbachol infusion into CA1 or the DG depressed startle. Carbachol infusion decreased PPI with a regional rank-order potency CA1 &gt; DG &gt; VS. CA1 infusions more potently depressed the startle reflex. By contrast, DG infusions preferentially decreased PPI, while VS infusions decreased PPI without altering startle amplitude. Coinfusion with the muscarinic cholinergic antagonist atropine opposed the effects of carbachol. These results demonstrate the regional heterogeneity and pharmacological specificity of the hippocampal cholinergic modulation of acoustic startle and PPI and suggest that abnormalities within various regions of the hippocampal formation may contribute to deficient sensorimotor gating in schizophrenic patients.
We tested the hypothesis that brain somatostatin levels modify two motor behaviors evoked by ICV infusions of nicotine. Unrestrained, awake rats were given fixed-concentration infusions of nicotine until the prostration/immobility (PI) syndrome and convulsions were produced. Infusion duration ranged from 0.9 to 1.2 min for the PI syndrome and 2.5 to 4.9 min for the convulsions. Octreotide, a stable somatostatin analog (4.5 micrograms, ICV), significantly raised the threshold for nicotine convulsions 1.0 and 5.5 h after pretreatment but not at 24 or 48 h. Cysteamine, a somatostatin releaser and depletor (0.35-0.75 mg/rat, ICV), also caused a dose-dependent increase in seizure threshold. Similarities in the response to octreotide and cysteamine suggest that depression of nicotine convulsions by cysteamine may be mediated by release of endogenous somatostatin. Neither octreotide nor cysteamine altered the threshold for the PI syndrome. These results support the view that one motor behavior evoked by nicotine is subject to control by somatostatin whereas another is not.
Limbic seizures (forepaw clonus) were induced in Lewis rats by subcutaneous injections of lithium (3 mEq/kg) followed 24 h later by a muscarinic agent. Either 7 days before, 7 days after, or on the day of seizures, rats were inoculated with a spinal cord preparation. Other groups received these preparations but served as treatment (no seizure) controls. In three separate experiments, rats in which seizures had been induced at the time of inoculation displayed significant increases in the severity of clinical symptoms 14-20 days later relative to controls while rats in which seizures had been induced 7 days after inoculation displayed less severe symptoms; the latter effect was partially simulated by multiple injections of 1 mg/kg dexamethasone. The immunofacilitation effect was much stronger than the immunosuppression and explained 25-30% of the variance in the clinical severity scores.
The relationship between the neuron and its target is explored and the possible mechanisms for achieving correct connections are analysed. The most plausible mechanism is the presence of a retrograde intra-axonal message from the target to the neuronal cell body. The molecular form of the message and the mechanisms to achieve this signal transduction are discussed and it is proposed that there are two types of neurotrophic factors. One has a short-acting second messenger, itself incapable of surviving for the time required for transport to the cell body and thus requiring the transport of the message-generating complex to the cell body. The other has a long-lasting second messenger complex which is well able to survive the transport to the cell body so that there is no need for the transport of the neurotrophic factor itself. Thus all neurotrophic factors do not themselves require retrograde axonal transport and such non-transportable factors may generate intricate messages due to associations of signal transduction molecules via binding sites such as phosphorylated tyrosines and the src homology domain 2.
The effects of wheel running on the food intake of rats, and on the extent to which rats defend their daily food intake against increases in the instrumental cost of food, were studied in a closed economy. Rats lived in cages that were attached to running wheels. Within each cage, water was freely available and lever pressing was required for access to food; a fixed number of presses was required for the delivery of a single food pellet. All cages were located in an environmental chamber where a 12-h light/dark cycle was continuously maintained. During stage I, the entrance to each running wheel was blocked and two series (series 1 and 2) of progressively increasing fixed ratios (FRs) of presses per pellet were imposed. Each FR was used for a single day. During stage II, the entrance to each wheel was unblocked and wheel running and food intake were allowed to stabilize. During stage III, the running wheels remained available and the FR was again increased (series 3). In stage I, increases in the FR reduced food intake proportionally more rapidly during the light than during the dark, and this reduction in the light was greater during series 1 than series 2. During stage II, food intake was transiently reduced during the first week of access to running wheels, but recovered by the end of the second week. During stage III, increases in the FR again reduced food intake proportionally more rapidly during the light than during the dark. Wheel running did not affect the extent to which food intake was reduced within light and dark periods.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Prosaposin, the precursor of saposins A, B, C, and D, which activate lysosomal hydrolysis of sphingolipids, exists in various tissues and body fluids and is especially abundant in the nervous system. Prosaposin and saposins A,B, C, and D formed stable complexes with 13 different gangliosides as measured by an assay using column chromatography. Gangliosides of the gangliotetraose type (a series) were bound with high affinity, whereas b series gangliosides, O-acetylated gangliosides, and gangliosides with shorter carbohydrate chains, were bound with lower affinity. Prosaposin and saposins transferred gangliosides from donor liposomes to erythrocyte ghost membranes. Prosaposin also stimulated ganglioside GM1 beta-galactosidase more than mature saposins. Prosaposin exists as a secretory protein and as an integral membrane protein, and we propose that prosaposin is active as a ganglioside binding and transport protein in vivo.
Recent evidence from cognitive science and neuroscience indicates that brain-damaged patients and normal subjects can exhibit nonconscious or implicit knowledge of stimuli that they fail to recollect consciously or perceive explicitly. Dissociations between implicit and explicit knowledge, which have been observed across a variety of domains, tasks, and materials, raise fundamental questions about the nature of perception, memory, and consciousness. This article provides a selective review of relevant evidence and considers such phenomena as priming and implicit memory in amnesic patients and normal subjects, perception without awareness and &quot;blindsight&quot; in patients with damage to visual cortex, and nonconscious recognition of familiar faces in patients with facial-recognition deficits (prosopagnosia). A variety of theoretical approaches to implicit/explicit dissociations are considered. One view is that all of the various dissociations can be attributed to disruption or disconnection of a common mechanism underlying conscious experience; an alternative possibility is that each dissociation requires a separate explanation in terms of domain-specific processes and systems. More generally, it is concluded that rather than reflecting the operation of affectively charged unconscious processes of the kind invoked by psychodynamic or Freudian theorists, dissociations between implicit and explicit knowledge are a natural consequence of the ordinary computations of the brain.
The epidemiological and clinical features of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease have never before been studied in Scotland and Northern Ireland. Case records for those dying with this diagnosis were obtained for the period 1980-89. Over the ten year period, 25 definite or probable cases were identified, giving an annual incidence of 0.37 cases/million. There were more cases in the second half of the decade, and this was most likely due to increased ascertainment. One pair of cases occurred in close proximity to each other. Sex distribution showed an excess of males (male:female ratio = 1.8:1). Mean age at onset was 65.2 years, and mean duration of disease was 5.3 months. The presenting symptoms and clinical features were similar to those noted in previous studies of other populations. There was no excess of cases in occupations linked to food, farming, or medical/paramedical work.


Although increased cerebral blood flow velocity is readily measured by transcranial doppler ultrasonography (TCD), the causes of the velocity elevation may differ. After severe head injury, increased blood flow velocity can develop both in patients with global hyperemia (suggestive of vasodilation) and in those without hyperemia (suggestive of vasospasm). The present study attempts to determine whether TCD can differentiate these two mechanisms of velocity increase. Fourteen severely brain-injured patients who developed increased middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity (time-averaged mean velocity &gt; 100 cm/s) were studied. Eight cases were nonhyperemic and six were hyperemic as defined by arterial-jugular venous oxygen content differences of more than 4 mL/dL and less than 4 mL/dL, respectively. The TCD waveform of all eight nonhyperemic cases showed a diastolic notch, which was absent in all six hyperemic patients (p = 0.00066). TCD waveform profile appears to provide a noninvasive means of differentiating at the bedside the two causes of increased flow velocity. If associated with raised intracranial pressure, these require different treatment.
The influence of subthalamic nucleus (STN) afferents on dopaminergic (DA) neurons of the rat substantia nigra (SN) was investigated. Hemisections of the brain placed between the STN and the SN or located anterior to the STN caused an increase in the firing rate of DA cells without producing significant changes in their firing pattern. In contrast, electrolytic and ibotenic acid lesions of the STN resulted in 93% and 49% reductions, respectively, in the level of burst firing without affecting the firing rate of DA cells recorded in the lateral SN. Furthermore, procedures which interrupted the STN input to the SN produced rapid pacemaker-like firing in 18% of the lateral SN DA neurons recorded. Activation of the STN using single pulses of electrical stimulation caused: 1) a 20-50 msec inhibition of DA cell firing followed by an excitation, which in 35% of DA cells was accompanied by spikes occurring in a burst-like pattern, and 2) a short-latency inhibition lasting 5-25 msec in 75% of non-DA SN zona reticulata (ZR) neurons. On the other hand, stimulation of the STN for 1 minute at 20 Hz resulted in an initial decrease in DA cell burst firing followed by elevated firing rates and increased burst firing by 30-60 minutes after the stimulation. Pharmacological activation of the STN by infusion of bicuculline caused a rapid inhibition of DA cells followed by a two-fold increase in burst firing 6-14 minutes later, whereas SN ZR cells responded with an elevation in firing rate which dissipated in 6-14 minutes. Muscimol-induced STN inhibition produced complimentary biphasic changes in SN neuron firing: 1) an initial increase followed by a decrease in burst firing and firing rate of DA neurons and 2) a rapid inhibition followed by an excitation of ZR cells over a similar time course. Thus, the STN appears to exert a dual action on SN DA cells: 1) initial inhibition possibly mediated through STN excitation of the inhibitory SN ZR projections to DA cells, and 2) a facilitation of burst firing which may be a direct effect of excitatory STN afferents.
Our knowledge of olfactory signal transduction has been greatly clarified by several recent advances. Molecular cloning has revealed a large family of putative odorant receptors localized to olfactory epithelium that display a seven-transmembrane-domain motif suggesting an association with G proteins. Very potent and rapid enhancement of both adenylyl cyclase and phosphoinositide turnover has been demonstrated in response to odorants both in isolated olfactory cilia and primary olfactory receptor neuronal cultures. A Ca(2+)-calmodulin-dependent phosphodiesterase has been localized to olfactory cilia. A key role for Ca2+ is evident from many investigations. More recently, odorants have also been shown to affect the levels of cGMP in olfactory receptor neurons. The involvement of multiple second messengers may provide mechanisms for both fine-tuning and desensitization of olfaction.


During the last decade, an animal model of human amnesia was developed in the monkey. Studies using this model have identified structures in the medial temporal lobe that are essential for forming long-term memory (i.e. the hippocampus and the entorhinal, perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices). Recently, an important aspect of these studies was questioned by Ringo (Behav. Brain Res., 42 (1991) 123-134). He suggested that the data from the delayed non-matching-to-sample task, which has been extensively used in these studies, have been analyzed in a potentially misleading way. He reanalyzed the data from several laboratories by transforming percent correct data to a discriminability (d') measure based on signal detection theory. In monkeys with lesions, performance appeared to be equivalently impaired at short and long retention delays. He concluded that the data do not support the idea that medial temporal lobe damage produces an impairment in long-term memory, but not short-term memory. However, most of the studies he analyzed were not designed to address the distinction between short-term and long-term memory. We show here that, in studies designed to compare short-term and long-term memory directly, medial temporal lobe lesions impair long-term memory while leaving short-term memory intact. This result is obtained whether the data are analyzed using a percent correct measure, the d' measure, or an arcsine transform.
We previously showed that mouse sensory dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons chronically exposed to 1 microM D-ala2-D-leu5-enkephalin (DADLE) or morphine for &gt; 2-3 days in culture become tolerant to the usual opioid inhibitory receptor-mediated effects, i.e. shortening of the duration of the calcium-dependent component of the action potential (APD), and supersensitive to opioid excitatory APD-prolonging effects elicited by low opioid concentrations. Whereas nanomolar concentrations of dynorphin(1-13) or morphine are generally required to prolong the APD of naive DRG neurons (by activating excitatory opioid receptors), femtomolar levels become effective after chronic opioid treatment. Whereas 1-30 nM naloxone or diprenorphine prevent both excitatory and inhibitory opioid effects but do not alter the APD of native DRG neurons, both opioid antagonists unexpectedly prolong the APD of most of the chronic opioid-treated cells. In the present study, chronic exposure of DRG neurons to 1 microM DADLE together with cholera toxin-B subunit (which selectively blocks GM1 ganglioside-regulated opioid excitatory, but not inhibitory, receptor functions) prevented the development of opioid excitatory supersensitivity and markedly attenuated tolerance to opioid inhibitory effects. Conversely, sustained exposure of DRG neurons to 1 nM DADLE, which selectively activates excitatory opioid receptor functions, resulted in characteristic opioid excitatory supersensitivity but no tolerance. These results suggest that 'dependence'-like properties can be induced in chronic opioid-treated sensory neurons in the absence of tolerance. On the other hand, development of some components of tolerance in these cells may require sustained activation of both excitatory, as well as inhibitory, opioid receptor functions.
Blindsight, the ability of some blind patients to describe attributes of stimuli they have no conscious awareness of seeing, has been attributed to a secondary (retinotectal) visual pathway. However, it has also been proposed that blindsight could be due to residual function within the primary (geniculostriate) visual pathway. Data have now been obtained that support the second alternative. With an image stabilizer ensuring the accurate retinal placement of stimuli, dense visual field mapping was carried out with a hemianopic patient. This perimetry revealed, embedded in the patient's scotoma, an isolated 1-degree island of residual vision that was not disclosed by conventional perimetric methods. Stimuli presented to this island could be detected and discriminated, although the subject reported he did not see them. The existence of this island of vision implies a corresponding island of functioning cortex within the patient's lesion. Other instances of blindsight may be mediated by similar islands of functioning cortex.
In anesthetized rats, iontophoretic application of ATP excited the spinal cord-projection neurons in the rostral ventrolateral reticular nucleus of the medulla oblongata. The neuronal response to ATP was mimicked and then blocked by alpha,beta-methylene-ATP, a metabolically stable ATP analogue, and the response was abolished by suramin. Microinjections of ATP (3-100 pmol) into the rostral ventrolateral medulla produced a powerful pressor response. The results suggest that ATP may function as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator involved in medullary regulation of cardiovascular functions.
The amino acid sequence of the first of a family of insect cardioregulatory peptides from the tobacco hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, has been determined using a combination of Edman degradation microsequencing and mass spectroscopy. This peptide contains 9 amino acid residues and an observed mass for the monoisotopic protonated molecule of 956.4 Da. There are two cysteines at positions 3 and 9 forming a disulfide bridge and the carboxyl-terminus is amidated. The structure of this peptide, Pro-Phe-Cys-Asn-Ala-Phe-Thr-Gly-Cys-NH2, is identical to a peptide recently isolated from crabs called crustacean cardioactive peptide (CCAP) and we propose that this peptide be named Manduca CCAP.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) reduced the mobility of human tau on SDS-PAGE, prevented binding of the monoclonal antibody (mAb), Tau.1, and induced binding of the mAb 8D8. Recombinant tau phosphorylated by GSK-3 aligned on SDS-PAGE with the abnormally phosphorylated tau (PHF-tau) associated with the paired helical filaments in Alzheimer's disease brain. Phosphorylated serine396 (numbering of the largest human brain tau isoform) was identified as a binding site on tau for mAb 8D8. The localisation of GSK-3 within granular structures in pyramidal cells indicates that GSK-3 alpha and GSK-3 beta may have a role in the production of PHF-tau in Alzheimer's disease.
The ultrastructures and distributions of the discrete anatomical synapses which constitute two distinct types of output connections made by individual ocellar L-neurons, L1-3, are described. Outputs to neurones L4-5 are excitatory and transmit tonically, whereas reciprocal connections among the three L1-3 neurones are inhibitory and incapable of transmission for longer than a few milliseconds. The tonically transmitting synapses are located in the lateral ocellar tract and are made between the axons of L1-3, which do not receive inputs, and short branches of L4-5, which make no outputs. Each excitatory connection is composed of a few hundred discrete anatomical synapses, each characterised by a bar-shaped presynaptic density which is 0.15-1.5 microns in length and associated with a large number of round synaptic vesicles. Two postsynaptic profiles are apposed to each presynaptic density. Associated with tonic synapses are abundant invaginations of the presynaptic membrane. Synapses of the reciprocal, inhibitory, phasic connections occur in the protocerebral arbors of L1-3, among numerous output synapses of these neurones. Each phasic connection is composed of a few tens of discrete anatomical synapses. Each bar-shaped presynaptic density is associated with two postsynaptic profiles, and is 0.1-1.0 microns long. Compared with the tonic, excitatory connection, there are fewer vesicles and fewer invaginations of the presynaptic membrane associated with each synapse.
The effects of ZnCl2 on [3H]GABA binding to GABAA and GABAA binding sites were investigated using receptor autoradiography. At concentrations exceeding 100 microM, zinc non-competitively inhibited GABAB binding in a dose dependent fashion. GABAA binding was not inhibited significantly by zinc eliminating the possibility of a non-specific effect of zinc. Increased calcium concentrations up to 10 mM enhanced total GABAB binding but did not prevent zinc induced inhibition of GABAB binding, indicating a separate site of action for these cations at the GABAB binding site. In some regions, zinc modulates GABAB binding in a biphasic manner as concentrations of 10-100 microM zinc significantly enhanced GABAB binding in the hippocampus and the molecular layer of the cerebellum but not in the thalamus. These results provide further evidence for a neuromodulatory role for zinc in the central nervous system.
Opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met5]enkephalin, serves as an inhibitory influence on the developing nervous system and is especially targeted to cell proliferative events. OGF interacts with the zeta (zeta) opioid receptor to perform its function. Using [3H]-[Met5]enkephalin, the ontogeny of the zeta receptor in the whole brain and cerebellum of rats was explored. Specific and saturable binding was recorded at the earliest time sampled, prenatal day 15 (E15). In the whole brain, binding capacity (Bmax) was two-fold greater at E15 than at E18 and E20. The quantity of zeta receptor appeared to increase in the first postnatal week, reaching a maximum on postnatal day 8. Binding decreased the remainder of the 2nd week and between postnatal days 15 and 25 binding was no longer recorded. In the cerebellum, binding capacity increased from E20 to the 2nd postnatal week, reaching a maximum on postnatal days 8-10. The Bmax of the zeta receptor decreased precipitously on postnatal day 11, being 5.4-fold lower than on postnatal day 10. Between postnatal days 21 and 30, no binding was observed. The binding affinities of the whole brain and cerebellum were 2.3 and 2.7 nM, respectively, and no differences between ages could be detected. Continuous opioid receptor blockade from birth to postnatal day 6 increased body weight, the Bmax of the zeta receptor in the whole brain and cerebellum (but not the Kd), and increased the number of layers of germinal cells in the cerebellum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Residual dopamine terminals in the dorsal striatum, caudate-putamen nuclei (CPN), of adult rats neonatally lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) sustain a relatively high level of dopamine release. We examined whether there were morphological differences in the spared dopamine terminals that might correlate with this increased efficacy. Postnatal male rat pups from 50 litters were pretreated with desmethylimipramine (DMI) to protect from non-specific monoamine damage, then given unilateral intranigral injections of 6-OHDA or vehicle. Coronal sections through the CPN and substantia nigra of the surviving adult animals from each litter were co-processed for immunoautoradiographic or immunoperoxidase localization of the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Quantitative ultrastructural analysis established that in animals showing maximal (greater than 90%) depletions in immunoautoradiographic labeling for TH, the number of TH-labeled axons in the CPN ipsilateral to the 6-OHDA injections was reduced to one third of the number seen in the contralateral, unlesioned hemisphere, or the CPN from vehicle-injected animals. The ultrastructural features of residual terminals ipsilateral to 6-OHDA lesions were morphologically similar to those of the contralateral side or in vehicle-injected animals. However, in comparison with controls, these TH-labeled terminals had significantly larger mean cross-sectional diameters. When subdivided into groups according to size, there were significantly fewer small (0.0-0.1 micron 2) and more large (0.41-0.50 micron 2) TH-immunoreactive profiles in lesioned versus unlesioned CPN. The remaining TH-labeled terminals ipsilateral to the 6-OHDA lesions also appeared to be more often in direct contact with unlabeled soma and proximal dendrites as opposed to dendritic spines in the unlesioned CPN. These results suggest that the enhanced activity of dopamine neurons innervating the CPN after nigral 6-OHDA lesions may contribute to changes in size and target of their terminals. Alternatively, the observed large size of remaining dopamine terminals may reflect selective vulnerability of smaller axons to 6-OHDA toxicity.
The gene encoding the rat mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptor (MBR) was cloned and characterized. Hybridization of a previously cloned cDNA for MBR to genomic Southern blots indicated that the gene was probably present at one copy per haploid genome. Rapid amplification of cDNA ends with rat adrenal RNA was used to obtain 47 nt of additional sequence upstream from our previously cloned MBR cDNA proving to be a crucial step in cloning the first exon of this gene. The MBR gene is comprised of four exons spanning approx. 10 kb. The first intron, contained within a 8-kb stretch of this gene, is located within the 5'-untranslated sequence, whereas the remaining two introns are much shorter (641 and 854 bp) and interrupt the coding sequence. The third intron contains sequences homologous to rodent B1 repetitive elements and a novel sequence closely resembling part of a repetitive element belonging to the Alu family in humans. The transcription start point was mapped by S1 nuclease protection assays suggesting that the first exon is just 56 bp in length. The sequence upstream from this region contains three GC boxes but lacks other known consensus recognition sites for sequence-specific transcription factors.
In the course of characterizing the distribution of putative catecholaminergic neurons in the brain of the common marmoset, we encountered a population of such cells in the basal forebrain. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons are abundant within the nucleus basalis magnocellularis throughout its entire rostrocaudal extent, but not in other cholinergic basal forebrain nuclei. Most tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells are large and multipolar. Double staining with antibodies to choline acetyltransferase or nerve growth factor receptor confirmed that these tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons are cholinergic, and compose at least 40% of the nucleus basalis cholinergic cells. The presence of a catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme in the neurons that provide the major cholinergic input to the neocortex may have important consequences for cortical function, and may be relevant to the vulnerability of the nucleus basalis in certain neurodegenerative disorders.
Exposure of primary cultures of neonatal rat cortical astrocytes to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) results in the appearance of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity. The induction of NOS, which is blocked by actinomycin D, is directly related to the duration of exposure and dose of LPS, and a 2-hr pulse can induce enzyme activity. Cytosol from LPS-treated astrocyte cultures, but not from control cultures, produces a Ca(2+)-independent conversion of L-arginine to L-citrulline that can be completely blocked by the specific NOS inhibitor NG-monomethyl-L-arginine. The induced NOS activity exhibits an apparent Km of 16.5 microM for L-arginine and is dependent on NADPH, FAD, and tetrahydrobiopterin. LPS also induces NOS in C6 glioma cells and microglial cultures but not in cultured cortical neurons. The expression of NOS in astrocytes and microglial cells has been confirmed by immunocytochemical staining using an antibody to the inducible NOS of mouse macrophages and by histochemical staining for NADPH diaphorase activity. We conclude that glial cells of the central nervous system can express an inducible form of NOS similar to the inducible NOS of macrophages. Inducible NOS in glia may, by generating nitric oxide, contribute to the neuronal damage associated with cerebral ischemia and/or demyelinating diseases.
Diazepam-binding inhibitor (DBI) is a 9-kDa polypeptide that colocalizes in glial, adrenocortical, and Leydig cells with the mitochondrial DBI receptor (MDR). By binding with high affinity to the MDR, DBI and one of its processing products--DBI-(17-50)--regulate pregnenolone synthesis and have been suggested to participate in the immediate activation of adrenal steroidogenesis by adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). In adrenals of hypophysectomized rats (1 day after surgery), ACTH failed to acutely affect the amount of adrenal DBI and the density of MDR but increased the rate of DBI processing, as determined by the HPLC profile of DBI-(17-50)-like immunoreactivity. The similar latency times for this effect and for ACTH stimulation of adrenal steroidogenesis suggest that the two processes are related. The ACTH-induced increase in both adrenal steroidogenesis and rate of DBI processing were completely inhibited by cycloheximide; this result suggests the requirement for the de novo synthesis of a protein with a short half-life, probably an endopeptidase. This enzyme, under the influence of ACTH, may activate formation of a DBI-processing product that stimulates steroidogenesis via the MDR. In support of this hypothesis is the demonstration that in hypophysectomized rats the MDR antagonist PK 11195 1-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinolinecarboxam ide completely inhibited the adrenal steroidogenesis stimulated by ACTH and by the high-affinity MDR ligand 4'-chlorodiazepam.
The expression of mycobacterial 65-kDa heat shock protein (HSP65)-like immunoreactivity in cultured mouse oligodendrocytes and astrocytes was investigated using three monoclonal antibodies (ML30, IA1, 3A) specific for the mycobacterial HSP65. In western blot analysis, these antibodies recognized the proteins with molecular weights approximately of 50-, 60-, and 70-kDa expressed in both heat-stressed and unstressed glial cells. When the cells were exposed to heat stress, the expression of both 50- and 70-kDa proteins was attenuated, whereas that of the 60-kDa protein was not affected. On immunocytochemical studies, an appreciable level of HSP65 immunolabelling was identified in most (&gt; 90%) oligodendrocytes under both heat-stressed and unstressed conditions but only marginally detectable in most (&gt; 95%) astrocytes. These results indicate that mouse oligodendrocytes in vitro express the mycobacterial HSP65-like immunoreactivity constitutively.
Most models of neural networks have assumed that neurons process information on a timescale of milliseconds and that the long-term modification of synaptic strengths underlies learning and memory. But neurons also have cellular mechanisms that operate on a timescale of tens or hundreds of milliseconds, such as a gradual rise in firing rate in response to injection of constant current or a rapid rise followed by a slower adaptation. These dynamic properties of neuronal responses are mediated by ion channels that are subject to modulation. We demonstrate here how a neural network with recurrent feedback connections can convert long-term modulation of neural responses that occur over these intermediate timescales into changes in the amplitude of the steady output from the system. This general principle may be relevant to many feedback systems in the brain. Here it is applied to the vestibulo-ocular reflex, whose amplitude is subject to long-term adaptive modification by visual inputs. The model reconciles apparently contradictory data on the neural locus of the cellular mechanisms that mediate this simple form of learning and memory.
Human D3 dopamine receptor DNA was stably transfected into GH4C1 pituitary cells. Displacement of iodosulpiride binding in hD3 transfected cells (Kd = 0.3 nM, Bmax = 89 fmol/mg protein) by dopaminergic ligands was indistinguishable from that of hD3 receptors in CHO cells. Only two clonal cell lines exhibited weak GppNHp-dependent shifts in [3H]N-0437 binding, and these were used for functional assays. Neither arachidonic acid metabolism, cAMP levels, inositol phosphate turnover, intracellular calcium, or potassium currents were consistently affected by dopamine (1-10 microM). The paucity of responses indicates that human D3 receptors do not couple efficiently to these second messengers in GH4C1 cells.
Application of a new method of fractal analysis to human, intracerebrally recorded, ictal electroencephalographic (EEG) signals is reported. 'Frameshift-Richardson' (FR) analysis involves estimation of fractal dimension (1 &lt; FD &lt; 2) of consecutive, overlapping 10-s epochs of digitised EEG data; it is suggested that this technique offers significant operational advantages over use of algorithms for FD estimation requiring preliminary reconstruction of EEG data in phase space. FR analysis was found to reduce substantially the volume of EEG data, without loss of diagnostically important information concerning onset, propagation and evolution of ictal EEG discharges. Arrhythmic EEG events were correlated with relatively increased FD; rhythmic EEG events with relatively decreased FD. It is proposed that development of this method may lead to: (i) enhanced definition and localisation of initial ictal changes in the EEG presumed due to multi-unit activity; and (ii) synoptic visualisation of long periods of EEG data.
The ryanodine receptor, an integral membrane protein of the sarcoplasmic reticulum in muscle, embodies a high conductance channel permeable to calcium ions. Recent studies have identified ryanodine-binding proteins in avian and mammalian central nervous systems. These neuronal ryanodine receptors appear to function as Ca2+ channels which may gate the release of Ca2+ from caffeine-sensitive intracellular pools in neurons. In the present investigation, we employed monoclonal antibodies against ryanodine-binding proteins of avian muscle cells to the brain of weakly electric gymnotiform fish. Immunoprecipitation and Western blot analysis revealed two isoforms in the fish brain, with molecular weights comparable to those of avian and fish muscle ryanodine-binding proteins. By employing immunohistochemical techniques, we mapped these proteins in fish brain. Ryanodine receptor-like immunoreactivity was found in nerve cell bodies as well as dendrites and axonal processes. The ryanodine-binding protein is distributed throughout the neuraxis in specific cell types of the gymnotiform brain. In the telencephalon, immunoreactive cells were found in the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb, in the supracommissural subdivision of the ventral telencephalon, and in the intermediate rostral subdivision of the ventral telencephalon. In the diencephalon, immunoreactive cells or fibers were observed in the nucleus prethalamicus and the habenula, within the nucleus at the base of the optic tract and the adjacent dorsal tegmental nucleus, the pretectal nuclei A and B, and the nucleus electrosensorius. In addition, immunopositive cells were seen in several nuclei of the hypothalamus, with the inferior and lateral subdivision of the nucleus recessus lateralis displaying the highest concentration of neurons. In the mesencephalon, the optic tectum contained the greatest number of immunopositive cells. In the rhombencephalon, labelling was seen in the nucleus of the lateral valvula, central gray, lateral tegmental nucleus, in boundary cells of the nucleus praeminentialis, efferent octavolateral nucleus, an area adjacent to the medial edge of the lateral reticular nucleus, nucleus medialis, and electrosensory lateral line lobe. As in avian brain, cerebellar Purkinje cells were positive for ryanodine-binding protein, although only subsets of Purkinje cells were labelled.
The existence and regulation of phospholipase D (PLD) activity in cell-free system from primary cultured cells of fetal rat frontal cortex were investigated. PLD activity was detectable only in the presence of Triton X-100. Other detergents examined (deoxycholate, taurocholate, CHAPS, Tween 20, sodium dodecyl sulfate) caused only a small increase in PLD activity. Triton X-100 enhanced PLD activity maximally at 0.1% (w/v) and reduced at higher concentrations. The optimal pH was about 7.2. Both Ca2+ and Mg2+ inhibited PLD activity in a dose-dependent manner. When comparing the primary cultured cells with adult rat frontal cortices, all of the results of the primary cultured cells were in agreement with those of the frontal cortices. Moreover, the apparent Km value of the enzyme in primary cultured cells for phosphatidyl-choline was the same as that in rat frontal cortex. These results suggest that the same kinds of PLD exist in the primary cultured cells and the rat frontal cortex, and that the primary cultured cells are a good experimental model for analyzing the mechanism of PLD in neuronal system.
The concurrent determination of free amino acid enantiomers and non-chiral amino acids in rat brain and serum was accomplished by high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorimetric detection after derivatization with N-tert.-butyloxycarbonyl-L-cysteine and o-phthaldialdehyde. The method revealed the presence of a large amount of free D-serine (0.22 mumol/g of tissue; D/D + L ratio = 0.25) in the brain whereas D-aspartate and D-alanine were established to be at trace levels. These results further support the presence of D-serine in adult brain tissues as demonstrated by recent work using gas chromatography.

Plasticity of the developing visual system has been regarded as the best model for changes of neuronal connections under the influence of the environment. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are crucial for experience-dependent synaptic modifications that occur in the developing visual cortex. NMDA-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in layer IV neurons of the visual cortex lasted longer in young rats than in adult rats, and the duration of the EPSCs became progressively shorter, in parallel with the developmental reduction in synaptic plasticity. This decrease in NMDA receptor-mediated EPSC duration is delayed when the animals are reared in the dark, a condition that prolongs developmental plasticity, and is prevented by treatment with tetrodotoxin, a procedure that inhibits neural activity. Application of L-glutamate to outside-out patches excised from layer IV neurons of young, but not of adult, rats activated prolonged bursts of NMDA channel openings. A modification of the NMDA receptor gating properties may therefore account for the age-dependent decline of visual cortical plasticity.
The microtubule-binding protein tau is important in establishing and maintaining neuronal morphology and is a major component of the neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) characteristic of Alzheimer's brain. The neuron-specific tau transcript undergoes complex alternative splicing. The human tau gene has been cloned and mapped. The restriction analysis and partial sequencing of the gene shows that it contains (1) four alternatively spliced exons previously described in rodent and bovine but not in human tau cDNAs and (2) two CpG islands, one associated with the promoter region, the other with exon 9. Examination of human tau mRNA indicates that the human cerebrocortical splicing pattern differs from that previously reported for the murine and bovine tau mRNAs, despite conserved exon organization in all three genes.
The ability of centrally administered angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors to lower mean arterial pressure (MAP) has been demonstrated in numerous animal models of hypertension. In the present study, we assessed the effect of intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of the ACE inhibitor captopril (10 micrograms) on MAP in conscious, freely moving hypertensive inbred Dahl salt-sensitive (DS/JR) rats and their normotensive control inbred Dahl salt-resistant (DP/JR) rats. Both DS/JR and DR/JR rats were maintained on an 8% salt diet from 4 weeks of age until experimentation at 7-8 weeks of age, at which time DS/JR pressures were significantly elevated as compared to DR/JR rats (185 +/- 6 vs. 99 +/- 2 mm Hg, respectively). Following i.c.v. administration of captopril, a significant depressor response lasting for several hours was observed in DS/JR rats, with a maximum reduction of 17.6 +/- 4.1 mm Hg. The same treatment had no effect on the MAP of DR/JR rats. Mean arterial pressures in both groups were not significantly affected by i.c.v. administration of vehicle alone or by intravenous (i.v.) administration of 100 micrograms of captopril. These findings indicate that i.c.v. captopril lowers MAP in hypertensive DS/JR rats. Further studies will be necessary to elucidate the mechanism of this antihypertensive effect.
Some data suggest dopamine (DA) release from neuronal terminals is partially independent of impulse flow. We examined the changes in tissue DA and its major metabolite levels 30 and 90 min after treatment with y-butyrolactone (750 mg/kg). Accumulation of 3-methoxytyramine within 10 min of pargyline injection (75 mg/kg) was used as an index of DA release. Thirty minutes after gamma-butyrolactone injection, DA content was increased maximally in the frontal cortex, nucleus accumbens and striatum (by 91%, 80% and 73%, respectively). 3-Methoxytyramine rates of accumulation were reduced by 77%, 77%, and 92%, respectively. Ninety minutes after the treatment, DA levels remained high in all three areas, while DA release was persistently low in the striatum and nucleus accumbens, but had returned to baseline in the frontal cortex. Changes in 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-acetic acid and homovanillic acid levels were not synchronized with changes in DA release in the striatum and nucleus accumbens, and were absent in the frontal cortex. The data suggest that an impulse flow-independent mechanism contributes to approximately one tenth and one fourth of the basal DA release in the terminals of DA neurons originating in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area, respectively. The acidic DA metabolite levels become at best poorly associated with DA release during blockade of the DA neuronal firing, probably because of the increased in situ metabolism of newly synthesized DA.
The aim of the present study was to characterise the neurokinin receptors involved in mediating contractile responses in guinea-pig urinary bladder smooth muscle. The use of selective NK1, NK2, and NK3 receptor agonists indicated that contractile responses in this tissue are mediated via activation of NK1 and NK2, but not NK3 receptors. This was confirmed by the observation that responses to [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P were inhibited by (+/-)-CP 96,345 (a NK1 receptor antagonist) and responses to eledoisin (following NK1 receptor desensitization) were inhibited by L-659,877 (a NK2 receptor antagonist).

Substance P was examined for sneeze-inducing activity and its involvement of sneeze responses in experimental allergic rhinitis. Substance P, dripped into a nostril of guinea pigs, at concentrations of 100 pM and above induced sneezing in a dose-dependent fashion. The activity of substance P was not affected by the previous subcutaneous injections of capsaicin that depleted substance P in nerve fibers. Histamine induced sneezing at concentrations of 30 mM and above and the activity was reduced by capsaicin treatment. The frequency of antigen-induced sneezing was proportional to the substance P content in nasal mucosa of sensitized guinea pigs treated with increasing doses of capsaicin; correlation coefficient 0.91. These results suggest that substance P plays an important role as a stimulator of sneeze responses in experimental allergic rhinitis in guinea pigs.
The influence of aging on the ability of ethanol to inhibit N-methyl-D-aspartate-stimulated catecholamine overflow in rat brain was examined. Alcohol effects on N-methyl-D-aspartate stimulated [3H]norepinephrine or [3H]dopamine overflow from the cortex, hippocampus, and striatum of aged (24-28 months) middle aged (12-14 months), and young (3-5 months) rats were examined. N-methyl-D-aspartate (500 microM) stimulated catecholamine overflow in all brain regions, with aged rats showing declines in overflow of 33% in the hippocampus and 41% in the striatum. Alcohol (30-200 mM) produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of overflow at all ages and brain regions tested. The IC50 for alcohol inhibition of NMDA-stimulated catecholamine release was not significantly different in aged brain or across brain regions. These results indicate that alcohol's ability to inhibit NMDA-stimulated catecholamine release is not significantly altered with aging.
Fifty families (491 individuals in 137 sibships) with more than one living case of isolated, nonsyndromic spina bifida (SB) were analyzed genetically. There were twice as many gene-carrier females (56) as gene-carrier males (28) (P &lt; 0.005). This was not an artifact of ascertainment bias because the sex ratio of gene-carriers was the same whether the pedigree was obtained through the proband's father or mother. Also, this effect was not observed in other disorders analyzed by the same method. Neither was the effect due to differential fertility because the number and sex of affected and unaffected children per gene-carrier parent were not different for male or female gene-carrier parents. There was no evidence that the missing male gene-carriers were lost by selective spontaneous abortion. There was no deficit of male-to-male or male-to-female transmission, excluding simple X-linked or simple mitochondrial inheritance. If genomic imprinting plays a role in the unequal female and male carrier frequencies in SB, penetrance should differ with parental sex. Penetrance was higher for offspring of female parents than of male parents, but the difference was not statistically significant. In addition, both male and female gene-carriers were frequently found in the same pedigree. Thus, the present data suggest a possible role for imprinting in SB.
Levels (by immunoblotting) and cell distribution (by immunofluorescence) of connexins (Cxs) and glucagon receptors (GRs) were studied during the ontogeny of the rat liver. Cx32, the main rat liver gap junction protein, was present in fetal hepatocytes, and its abundance increased between the 19th and 21st gestational days. The major increase in Cx32 levels occurred between the 7th and 21st postnatal days, after which adult levels were reached. The adult pattern of distribution of Cx26 and Cx32 was established by the 21st postnatal day. Cx43 was present in the liver capsule and perisinusoidal cells, and its levels did not show significant variations throughout development. Levels of GRs were much lower in fetal than in adult livers. After birth, GRs increased progressively, reaching adult levels at about the 28th postnatal day. In adults, GR immunoreactivity on the plasma membrane of hepatocytes was localized to the region facing the sinusoid and showed a density gradient of distribution along the hemiacinus: high in pericentral regions and decreasing toward more glucogenically active cells located in periportal regions. Because cells of the hepatic acinus communicate via gap junctions, which are permeable to second messengers, we propose that signals transduced by GRs in cells expressing high levels of receptor might spread to cells expressing low levels of receptor, thus maximizing metabolic activation.
Increasingly, neurologists are participating in the rehabilitation of disorders of the nervous system. Compelling reasons why neurologists, especially those with academic interests, should become involved in rehabilitation include the opportunity to observe patients in the recovery phases of their illnesses and to study issues relating to functional recovery, exposure to patients (such as those with spinal cord injury) who are often not seen by neurologists in the acute phase, and the opportunity to help establish a scientific base for rehabilitation medicine. Many areas of investigation can contribute to the scientific basis of neurological rehabilitation. Among the most promising are regeneration in the central (CNS) and peripheral nervous systems, adaptive mechanisms following CNS injury, computational neuroscience, neuromuscular physiology of chronic denervating conditions (e.g., the post-polio syndrome), and outcome studies of both physical and pharmacological therapeutic modalities. While there may be financial advantages to involvement in neurological rehabilitation, these are probably overestimated and interest in this field would continue to grow without them. There is a need for enhanced training in this subspecialty, including the development of dual certification programs in neurology and rehabilitation medicine.
We injected botulinum toxin into the horizontal rectus muscles of the right eyes of 2 patients who had acquired pendular nystagmus with horizontal, vertical, and torsional components. This treatment successfully abolished the horizontal component of the nystagmus in the injected eye in both patients for approximately 2 months. Both patients showed a small but measurable improvement of vision in the injected eye that may have been limited by coexistent disease of the visual pathways. The vertical and torsional components of the nystagmus persisted in both patients. In 1 patient, the horizontal component of nystagmus in the noninjected eye increased; we ascribe this finding to plastic-adaptive changes in response to paresis caused by the botulinum toxin. Such plastic-adaptive changes and direct side effects of the injections--such as diplopia and ptosis--may limit the effectiveness of botulinum toxin in the treatment of acquired nystagmus. Neither patient elected to repeat the botulinum treatment.
We studied the accuracy of aimed arm movements in normal gravity, and during the hypergravity (hyper-G) and microgravity (micro-G) episodes of KC-135 parabolic flights. Subjects pointed at mirror-viewed targets without sight of their arm, and final pointing position was measured by a digitizing pad. Compared with the normal gravity (normal-G) baseline, subjects pointed consistently higher in hyper-G, and still higher in micro-G. Results were not different if subjects viewed targets only during normal-G and pointed at their memorized position under changed gravity (changed-G); this suggests that the &quot;elevator illusion&quot; played a minor role in our study. The observed impairments were attributed to degraded proprioceptive feedback and/or inappropriate motor programs in changed-G. Pointing accuracy improved movement-to-movement but not parabola-to-parabola, indicating that prolonged exposure is needed for sustained adaptation.
This experimentation partially defines, for the first time, the response of beta-endorphin (ENDO) in man during tests designed to elicit nausea and motion sickness. These responses are similar to those associated with arginine vasopressin (AVP) and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) to the extent that all hormones rise in response to motion sickness (p &lt; 0.003). Repeated exposure diminished motion-induced release of ENDO (p &lt; 0.005) and AVP (p &lt; 0.004) despite a three-fold increase in resistance to motion stimuli. Higher post-stress levels of AVP (p &lt; 0.04) and ACTH (p &lt; 0.02) were correlated with greater resistance to motion sickness. These data support the hypothesis that release of AVP is a significant link between stressful motion and motion-induced nausea and other autonomic system changes. Further, resistant individuals apparently can tolerate higher peripheral levels of AVP before nausea results. Peripheral release of ENDO and ACTH may follow release of AVP; however, given the extensive and complex functional interactions that exist between AVP and the opiate systems, it is not yet possible to define a clear role for ENDO in the etiology of motion sickness.
The N-methyl-D-asparate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) subtypes of glutamate receptors have been shown to play critical roles in various forms of synaptic plasticity (i.e., learning and memory, long-term potentiation). We previously demonstrated that the binding of [3H]AMPA to the AMPA subtype of glutamate receptors was selectively increased in hippocampus following classical conditioning of the rabbit nictitating membrane response in a delay paradigm. We report here that the same effect was observed in a variant of this learning paradigm that requires the participation of the hippocampus, i.e., trace conditioning of the rabbit nictitating membrane. The binding of [3H]TCP (N-[1-(2-thienyl)cyclo-hexyl]-3,4-piperidine) to the NMDA receptor remained unchanged in all the experimental groups tested. Paired presentations of conditioned and unconditioned stimuli resulted in an increased binding of [3H]AMPA, an agonist of the AMPA receptors, in several hippocampal subfields while the binding of an antagonist, [3H]CNQX (6-nitro-7-cyanoquinoxaline-2,3-dione), was decreased. The results suggest that the learning-induced changes in binding of the ligands to the AMPA receptor reflect changes in affinity of the receptor rather than in the number of sites. These results support the hypothesis that changes in hippocampal glutamate receptors are a corollary of synaptic plasticity in certain forms of learning.

4',6-Diamidino-2-phenylindole hydrochloride (DAPI) is a fluorescent dye with high affinity for DNA. We have employed it as a fluorescent chromatin counterstain on sections immunofluorescent-stained using rhodamine and on tissues enzymatically stained using beta-galactosidase. DAPI also allows easy identification of mitotic figures and can be used to supplement cytochemical studies involving cell division in the nervous system.
A technique called partial-digest sequencing that permits DNA of 4-6 kb in length to be sequenced without subcloning is described. The method exploits the specific cuts introduced by partial digestion with restriction endonucleases that have 4-base recognition sites to produce ordered ladders of PCR-amplified fragments. The staggered ends contain PCR primers and can thus be individually sequenced using conventional methods to yield overlapping sequences covering the entire region. This method should have significant impact on both large and small DNA sequencing projects and find many applications in general manipulations in which ordered sets of deletions need to be produced.
1. The transient potassium current was recorded in single hippocampal CA1 neurones from the rat by use of the whole-cell patch clamp technique. The effects on this current of a homologous series of aliphatic alcohols, ranging from butanol to octanol, were investigated. 2. The predominant effect of octanol (and the other alcohols) was to cause an increase in the initial rate of decay of the transient potassium current together with a slight decrease in the rate of decay of later phases of the current, such that the current decay became markedly non-monotonic. The alcohols also caused a decrease in peak current amplitude which could not be accounted for solely by the change in current decay kinetics. 3. The effect of the alcohols was concentration-dependent and readily reversible. Increasing chain length increased the potency of each alcohol by about 3 fold for each methylene group added. Other than a difference in potency, there appeared to be little difference in the action of aliphatic alcohols of different chain length on the transient current. 4. The alcohols did not appreciably change the voltage-dependence of steady state inactivation or activation of the transient potassium current. 5. The rate of inactivation of the transient current in these cells was only weakly voltage-dependent. This weak voltage-dependence was not changed by the presence of aliphatic alcohols, neither was the effect of the alcohols themselves voltage-dependent. 6. The potencies of each of the aliphatic alcohols were well correlated with their respective membrane/buffer partition coefficients, a finding which implies a hydrophobic locus of action.
1. Responses to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were evoked in mouse fibroblast L-cells stably transfected with bovine, alpha 1, beta 1, gamma 2L sub-units of the GABAA receptor. Expression was stimulated via a steroid-inducible promoter system. 2. In near symmetrical intracellular and extracellular chloride concentrations, GABA evoked inward currents at negative holding potentials that reversed at +5 mV and displayed slight outward rectification. Concentration-response curves were fitted well by the logistic equation. GABA had a pEC50 = 5.1 +/- 0.1 and the curves had a slope of 1.9 +/- 0.1. 3. Responses to GABA were antagonized by bicuculline, picrotoxin and penicillin. The action of bicuculline was competitive (pA2 = 6.4) whilst the block by picrotoxin was uncompetitive and strongly agonist-dependent. 4. Benzodiazepine receptor agonists potentiated responses to 3 microM GABA. The rank order of potency was FG 8205 &gt; flunitrazepam &gt; zolpidem &gt; C1218872. FG 8205 and C1218872 produced markedly lower maximal potentiations with efficacies 0.4 and 0.6 x that of flunitrazepam, respectively. The potencies of zolpidem and C1218872 observed are in agreement with the BZ1 type pharmacology of this sub-unit combination. The potentiation of GABA by flunitrazepam was antagonized by flumazenil with a Ki of 3.8 nM. 5. GABA responses were potentiated in the presence of pentobarbitone and alphaxalone. The response was also noticeably broadened by these compounds due to a decrease in the response decay rate. Concentrations of pentobarbitone of 100 microM and above evoked an inward current in the absence of GABA. Alphaxalone up to 10 microM did not evoke a direct response. 6. This expression system produced functional receptors that behaved in a fashion analogous to those found endogenously in other preparations. Thus, this system appears to provide a useful and versatile preparation for the analysis of sub-unit regulation of GABAA receptor pharmacology.
Event-related potentials may offer more precision than behavioural measures for understanding the extent and timing of information processing difficulties that follow closed head injury (CHI). Behavioural tests consistently indicate a general reduction in cognitive function but lack adequate diagnostic or prognostic function. This study compares a group of seven CHI patients, in which time since injury varied between 1 and 5 years following injury, with 10 matched controls on a three-tone discrimination task. Abnormality in the processing of tones as early as 200 ms following their onset, as measured by the P2 and N2 components of the event-related potential, indicated a general difficulty with tone discrimination. This abnormality was obtained despite differing damage profiles over patients and is likely to be due to the diffuse aspects of damage normal in CHI. These results also indicate that functional deficits in CHI patients can extend up to 5 years or more. A correlation between P2/N2 amplitudes and time since injury, however, suggests that both these components normalize with the passage of time and offers the prospect of a sensitive, non-behavioural measure of recovery in cognitive processing.
A Fos-lacZ transgenic mouse has been described that accurately recapitulates both constitutive and inducible patterns of c-fos expression in adult mice. Here we describe the developmental expression of the transgene in the brain during the early postnatal period. On the day of birth, expression of the transgene is observed in several discrete regions of the CNS; including the olfactory bulb, hippocampus, retrosplenial cortex, parafascicular nucleus of the thalamus, and several cranial nerve nuclei. In these regions, expression declines to adult levels by three weeks. In other regions of the CNS, expression appeared transiently after P0.
The regulation of prodynorphin gene expression by glucocorticoids in the hippocampus was examined in rats that were adrenalectomized (ADX) either 7, 30, 60 and 90 days prior to sacrifice. Peptide levels in the hippocampus of ADX rats were determined by radioimmunoassay and immunocytochemistry. Prodynorphin (PDYN) mRNA was measured by Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization. A time-dependent decrease in dynorphin A(1-8)(DYN) levels in the hippocampus (18% at 7 days; 44% at 30 days; 58% at 60 days) of ADX rats was found, which was accompanied by a comparable decrease in the abundance of PDYN mRNA. An in situ hybridization analysis revealed that both the number of positively hybridized cells and the number of silver grains per cell were decreased in the dentate gyrus after ADX. The administration of dexamethasone after surgery reversed the peptide and mRNA attenuation induced by ADX. ADX had no effect on the expression of proenkephalin mRNA or [Met5]-enkephalin immunoreactivity in the hippocampus. Examination of thionin-counterstained tissue showed that the dentate granule cell layer was intact. The decrement of DYN expression in this system is proposed to have resulted from the removal of glucocorticoid input and not dentate granule cell loss. This study provides the strong evidence for a differential susceptibility of these two opioid peptides in the hippocampus to the removal of glucocorticoids. In addition, these data provide support for a potentially selective, glucocorticoid-permissive component in PDYN gene expression.
The major intent of this study was to compare the role of stimulus repetition and change in the elicitation of the MMN, an ERP component specific to stimulus change, and N2b, usually partially overlapping the MMN when stimuli are attended. Event-related potentials were recorded in one set of conditions where subjects ignored the stimuli and read a book, and in another set of conditions where subjects counted stimuli designated as targets. Stimuli were delivered in 4 ways, the common feature between all these conditions being the occurrence of infrequent events at a probability of 0.20: (1) an oddball paradigm with 1 deviant, (2) an oddball paradigm with 2 deviants, each with a probability of 0.10, (3) a regular alternation of tones of 2 pitches where either of the 2 tones infrequently repeated (P = 0.20), and (4) a random presentation of tones of 5 different pitches, where any of the 5 tones infrequently repeated (P = 0.20). In the count conditions, the infrequent events were designated as targets. It was found that the MMN was elicited by stimulus change and not stimulus repetition in the ignore and count conditions, whereas the N2b was elicited by both stimulus changes and repetitions in the count conditions. It was also possible, in the count conditions, to disentangle the part of the late positive complex which is related to stimulus deviation and the part which is related to stimulus significance (target).
In female mammals, reproduction is sensitive to the availability of metabolic fuels, and food deprivation has been shown to suppress pulsatile LH secretion, attenuate the preovulatory LH surge, and prevent ovulation. It has been suggested that food deprivation impairs fertility by reducing the secretion of GnRH by GnRH-producing neurons in the forebrain. A series of experiments tested this hypothesis by examining the effects of estrous cycles and manipulations of metabolic fuel availability on the expression of Fos-like proteins (Fos-IR) in GnRH-immunoreactive (GnRH-IR) neurons in the forebrain of Syrian hamsters. GnRH-IR neurons were detected in several areas, including the diagonal band of Broca (DBB), medial septum (MS), rostral medial preoptic area (mPOA), and caudal POA. In the more rostral regions (DBB and MS/mPOA), GnRH-IR neurons expressed Fos-IR almost exclusively on day 4 of the cycle, just after the preovulatory LH surge. However, in the caudal POA, GnRH-IR neurons expressed Fos-IR across the entire cycle, including days 1-3, when LH secretion is pulsatile. Food deprivation on days 1 and 2 of the cycle, which attenuates the LH surge and blocks ovulation in hamsters, significantly reduced the proportion of GnRH-IR neurons that expressed Fos-IR on days 2 and 4 (caudal POA) or only on day 4 (DBB and MS/mPOA). Suppression of fuel availability with insulin or 2-deoxy-D-glucose on day 1 of the cycle mimicked the effects of food deprivation and reduced the proportion of caudal POA GnRH-IR neurons that expressed Fos-IR. The results of these experiments suggest that in Syrian hamsters, there are separate populations of GnRH-IR neurons associated with pulsatile and surge modes of LH secretion. In addition, the fact that manipulations of metabolic fuel availability cause changes in the expression of Fos-IR in both populations of GnRH-IR neurons provides strong support for the hypothesis that nutritional infertility is due in part to decreased GnRH secretion.
Bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulates the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis by a mechanism involving the release of cytokines, which activate the CRH-ACTH system and, as a result, increase glucocorticoid secretion. In the present study we investigated the possibility that endogenous sex hormones modulate the in vivo endotoxin-stimulated adrenal and immune responses in adult BALB/c mice. In preliminary experiments we determined that the maximal glucocorticoid release in response to LPS (50 micrograms, ip) administration was reached 2 h after treatment. The endotoxin effect on the adrenal and immune responses was then tested in male, randomly cycling female, 20-day-gonadectomized and 20-day-gonadectomized mice treated with either testosterone or estradiol. In addition, in vitro experiments were performed to determine whether 1) LPS exerts any direct effect on basal and ACTH-stimulated corticosterone release, and 2) adrenal function is influenced by bilateral gonadectomy and sex steroid therapy. Our results indicate that 1) randomly cycling female mice have significantly more pronounced corticosterone secretion than males 2 h after endotoxin injection, although the tumor necrosis factor responses were similar; 2) the response of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis to endotoxin stimulation in female mice was invariable throughout the different stages of the normal estrous cycle; 3) gonadectomy leads to enhanced (P &lt; 0.05) adrenal and immune responses to LPS stimulation compared to the responses in shams; 4) the endotoxin-elicited adrenal and immune overresponses observed in gonadectomized mice are reversed by testosterone treatment, regardless of sex; 5) LPS does not directly modify spontaneous and ACTH-stimulated adrenal corticosterone secretion; and 6) gonadectomy alone or combined with sex steroid therapy does not increase the in vitro adrenal response to ACTH stimulation. Our findings further suggest an evident neuroendocrine-immunological sexual dimorphism during the acute phase of inflammatory processes.
The effect on limbic kindling of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) injection into the midline thalamus of rats was investigated. Repeated injection of 25 nmol/0.5 microliters NMDA (experimental group) into the massa intermedia (MI), particularly into the reuniens nucleus, caused tonic and/or clonic generalized convulsion associated with temporal limbic EEG seizure discharge. This did not occur after injection of phosphate-buffered saline (PBS, control group). When the animals were subjected to subsequent kindling at either the hippocampus (HP) or the amygdala (AM), only the experimental group showed a significant facilitation of kindling rate. The results suggest that an NMDA receptor in the reuniens nucleus participates in modulation of temporal limbic excitability and seizure development.
We have developed an experimental model to study in vivo inositol lipid metabolism in frog retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, including the effect of light on phospholipase C-mediated hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate. RPE cells were rapidly isolated after either brief light or dark periods. Light and electron microscopy showed complete detachment of the retina from the RPE cells, and that the RPE cell suspensions were devoid of photoreceptor cell outer segments. Frog tissues were labeled in vivo for 20 hr by intravitreal injection of [3H]inositol (4 microCi, 4 microliters per eye) within a 24-hr constant illumination period. Following 1 hr of darkness (priming period), frogs were intravitreally injected with LiCl (0.5 M, 4 microliters per eye) 15 min before the onset of either 30-min light stimulation or an additional 30 min of darkness (controls). In order to preserve endogenous inositol phosphate pools present after dark and light exposure, the RPE cells were harvested in the shortest time possible, at low temperatures (18-20 degrees C), and in the presence of 10 mM LiCl. Total [3H]inositol-labeled water-soluble products (inositol plus inositol phosphates) were increased by 86% after 30 min of light. Inositol trisphosphate (IP3) showed the highest accumulation (a 5.5-fold increase), followed by inositol bisphosphate (1.9-fold increase) and inositol monophosphate (1.4-fold increase). Free [3H]inositol also accumulated (2.8-fold increase), reflecting only a partial inhibition of phosphomonoesterase by LiCl. These changes were paralleled by a 12% decrease in 3H-labeled phosphatidylinositol with no significant difference in the labeling of polyphosphoinositides.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A constriction injury to the sciatic nerve of the rat produces a painful peripheral neuropathy that is similar to the conditions seen in man. The pathology of the sciatic nerve in these animals was examined at 10 days postinjury, when the abnormal pain sensations are near maximal severity. The nerves were examined with (1) complete series of silver-stained longitudinal sections of pieces of the nerve (3 cm or more) that contained the constriction injury in the center, (2) toluidine blue-stained semithin sections taken at least 1 cm proximal and 1 cm distal to the constriction, and (3) EM sections taken adjacent to those stained with toluidine blue. One centimeter or more proximal to the constriction, both myelinated and unmyelinated axons were all normal. Nearer to the constriction, extensive degeneration of myelinated axons became increasingly common, as did signs of endoneurial edema. Distal to the constriction, the nerve was uniformly edematous and full of myelinic degeneration. There was a profound loss of large myelinated axons and a distinctly less severe loss of small myelinated and unmyelinated axons. These observations show that at 10 days postinjury the constriction produces a partial and differential deafferentation of the sciatic nerve's territory. The absence of degeneration in the nerve 1 cm proximal to the constriction indicates the survival of the primary afferent neurons whose axons are interrupted.
The sympatho-modulating effects of eperisone hydrochloride, a centrally acting muscle relaxant, on microneurographically recorded muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSA) were analyzed in human volunteers. A single dose of 300 mg of eperisone was orally administered to 19 healthy subjects aged between 19 and 27, and effects on 1) spontaneous MSA in 30 degrees head-up tilted position, 2) resting MSA and responsiveness to standing, 3) exercise-induced enhancement of MSA were observed. Eperisone has a sympatho-suppressive action in resting skeletal muscles, but has no effect on MSA in actively contracting muscles, e.g. standing, hand-gripping. The sympatho-suppressive effect of eperisone may be related to the drug-induced increase of blood low in the resting skeletal muscles; also it may be one more mechanism through which the drug can exert its muscle relaxant action.


The identification of cells comprising epiretinal membranes is difficult because of the phenotypic changes that occur. Examination of intermediate filament protein content by immunocytochemical analysis can help to identify some cells with altered ultrastructure but is not always definitive because altered expression of intermediate filament proteins can also occur. To examine this issue further, the authors utilized a postembedding immunocytochemical technique with epiretinal membranes in which they were able to double label for keratin, a useful marker for identifying retinal pigment epithelial cells, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a useful marker for identifying glial cells. Nine of ten idiopathic epiretinal membranes contained cells that labeled for GFAP and not keratin. Two of these membranes also contained cells that labeled only for keratin and one membrane contained cells that simultaneously labeled for both GFAP and keratin. Other types of epiretinal membranes had an equal participation by cells that expressed only GFAP or keratin (12 of 17 membranes contained cells positive for keratin; 13 of 17 contained cells positive for GFAP). Ten of 17 nonidiopathic membranes contained cells simultaneously expressing GFAP and keratin, although they comprised only a minor subpopulation of the total number of cells present. These findings demonstrate that keratin and GFAP are not mutually exclusive intermediate filament proteins in cells of epiretinal membranes and that, although each may provide a helpful adjunct for cell type identification, neither is an absolutely specific marker.
Human subjects localized brief 1/6-oct bandpassed noise bursts that were centered at 6, 8, 10, and 12 kHz. All testing was done under binaural conditions. The horizontal component of subjects' responses was accurate, comparable to that for broadband localization, but the vertical and front/back components exhibited systematic errors. Specifically, responses tended to cluster within restricted ranges that were specific for each center frequency. The directional transfer functions of the subjects' external ears were measured for 360 horizontal and vertical locations. The spectra of the sounds that were present in the subjects' ear canals, the &quot;proximal stimulus&quot; spectra, were computed by combining the spectra of the narrow-band sound sources with the directional transfer functions for particular stimulus locations. Subjects consistently localized sounds to regions within which the associated directional transfer function correlated most closely with the proximal stimulus spectrum. A quantitative model was constructed that successfully predicted subjects' responses based on interaural level difference and spectral cues. A test of the model, using techniques adapted from signal detection theory, indicated that subjects tend to use interaural level difference and spectral shape cues independently, limited only by a slight spatial correlation of the two cues. A testing procedure is described that provides a quantitative comparison of various predictive models of sound localization.
We studied the mechanism by which cell adhesiveness becomes activated when keratinocytes are removed from skin and placed into cell culture. Our results suggest that activation involves altered beta 1 integrin subunit glycosylation accompanied by an increase in cell surface beta 1 integrin receptors. Activated keratinocytes contained two forms of the beta 1 integrin subunit, approximately 93 kDa and approximately 113 kDa. As shown by pulse-chase experiments, the smaller represented the cytoplasmic precursor of the larger, and only the 113 kDa mature form was detected in integrin receptors expressed at the cell surface. Pre-activated keratinocytes contained beta 1 integrin subunits ranging from approximately 97 to 110 kDa. These beta 1 subunits had been processed through the Golgi, based on resistance to endoglycosidase-H treatment, and were not converted to 113 kDa subunits during subsequent cell culture. Experiments with endoglycosidase-F showed that differences in the apparent sizes of beta 1 integrin subunits observed in pre-activated and activated keratinocytes could be attributed to differences in subunit glycosylation. Smaller beta 1 subunits found in pre-activated keratinocytes, like the precursor beta 1 subunits of activated cells, appeared to be less efficient in reaching the cell surface. Overall, a approximately 10-fold increase in the level of cell surface integrin receptors occurred concomitant with the increased proportion of 113 kDa beta 1 subunits found in activated cells. Endoglycosidase-F experiments also indicated that there were changes in keratinocyte alpha subunits associated with beta 1. In related experiments, keratinocytes cultured in low Ca2+, serum-free MCDB medium for 4 days proliferated but their adhesiveness did not become activated. Therefore, keratinocyte proliferation and activation of adhesion are regulated separately. Finally, substantial activation of keratinocytes was observed when serum was added to cells cultured in MCDB with serum, indicating a role for serum factors in the activation process.
Motion sickness inhibits gastric motility, making the oral route ineffective for medications. The intramuscular route is an effective alternative. The rotating chair was used to produce the M 111 level of motion sickness on the Graybiel Symptom Scale. The intramuscular medications given 30 minutes before rotation were compared with placebo (saline, 1 mL) for effectiveness and duration in increasing the number of tolerated head movements. Average placebo number of head movements was 294. Promethazine 25 mg increased head movements by 78% (P &lt; .05), with a duration of 12 hours. Scopolamine 0.2 mg increased head movements by 91% (P &lt; .05), with a duration of 4 hours. The effect of caffeine 250 mg and ephedrine 25 mg was not significant. When combined with scopolamine, ephedrine produced an 32% additive effect. Scopolamine 0.08 mg, 0.1 mg, and 0.2 mg and also promethazine 12.5 mg and 25 mg were significant (P &lt; .05). Promethazine appears to be the drug of choice for intramuscular use because of a longer duration and a high level of effectiveness. Scopolamine was of high effectiveness, but had a duration of 4 hours. It was eight times as potent by the intramuscular as by the oral route.
In modern frogs, the amphibian papilla exhibits a caudal extension whose shape, relative length, and proportion of hair cells vary markedly from species to species. Tuning in the caudal extension is organized tonotopically and evidently involves the tectorium. In terms of the proportion of amphibian-papillar hair cells in the caudal extension, we report more diversity among 8 species of a single genus (Eleutherodactylus) on a single island (Puerto Rico) than has been found so far among all of the (more than 50) other modern anurans examined for this feature from around the world. These 8 Puerto Rican species have overlapping habitat and conspicuous diversity in the male advertisement call. For 7 of the 8 species, we report that the call has transient spectral components in the frequency range of the amphibian papilla, and that the proportion of caudal extension hair cells and the frequency distribution of those components are correlated. Thus one might conclude that the selective pressures that led to diversity of calls among the 8 species also led to diversity in form of the amphibian papilla.

A rat oestrogen receptor-beta-galactosidase fusion protein was expressed using a pEX2/rat oestrogen receptor cDNA construct. Scatchard analysis of [3H]oestradiol-17 beta binding to the cell lysate revealed that the fusion protein had functional binding sites specific for oestradiol with a dissociation constant of 1.49 nmol/l. The relative molecular weight (M(r)) of the fusion protein was determined as 180,000 by immunoblot analysis of the cell lysate employing a monoclonal antibody to the human oestrogen receptor. The protein was isolated by means of SDS-PAGE and subsequent electroblotting. By immunization with the purified materials on nitrocellulose membrane, a polyclonal antibody to the rat oestrogen receptor was raised in a rabbit. Binding of [3H]oestradiol to the oestrogen receptor from the rat uterus was inhibited by the antibody in a dose-dependent manner. The antibody was also able to recognize the oestrogen receptor occupied by [3H]oestradiol. Thus, the antibody could react with both forms of the receptor molecule, either occupied or unoccupied by the hormone. In immunoblot analysis of the cytosol fraction of the rat uterus, a single band of M(r) 67,000, the size of the oestrogen receptor, was detected by the antibody. Moreover, when the antibody was applied to immunohistochemical examination of paraffin-embedded pituitary and brain sections of the rat, immunostaining was observed in cells of the anterior pituitary and in neurones in specific regions of the brain. The immunoreactivity was restricted exclusively to cell nuclei in both tissues.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We reviewed the records of 42 consecutive cases of children with Tourette Syndrome (TS) who had IQs above 70, and contrasted the reading, reading comprehension, math, and spelling quotients with IQ scores to determine how many would meet criteria for a learning disability. The mean IQ of the 35 males and 7 females was 94.4 and was higher than the mean math score (82.8), spelling score (90.4), reading score (87.4), and reading comprehension score (85.3). Using a 1.5 standard deviation discrepancy, 51% met criteria for learning disability in at least one academic area; 21% had a 2-standard-deviation discrepancy. Children with TS frequently have learning disabilities, and assessment of academic achievement should be a routine aspect in the evaluation of such children.
The tertiary amine lidocaine is used clinically for preventing cardiac arrhythmias, and has been widely studied on mammalian tissue. Xenopus oocytes were used as an expression system to study the effect of lidocaine on a sodium (Na) channel, derived from a full-length human heart (hH1) cDNA clone. The concentration dependence of the lidocaine block of hH1 Na current was consistent with a binding stoichiometry of 1:1. At low frequency stimulation, and at holding potentials &lt; or = 100 mV, the IC50 was 226 microM, comparable to values found in mammalian cardiac cells. Lidocaine also shifted the steady-state inactivation of hH1 Na current to hyperpolarized potentials in a dose-dependent manner. Our experiments suggest that lidocaine block is state dependent, with high affinity for an inactivated state (KI = 11 microM) and low affinity for the resting state (KR = 3.9 mM). The quaternary amine derivative of lidocaine, QX-314, had no effect on Na current at an extracellular concentration of 1 mM.
Kindling is a use-dependent form of synaptic plasticity and a widely used model of epilepsy. Although kindling has been widely studied, the molecular mechanisms underlying induction of this phenomenon are not well understood. We determined the effect of amygdala kindling on protein kinase C (PKC) activity in various regions of rat brain. Kindling stimulation markedly elevated basal (Ca(2+)-independent) and Ca(2+)-stimulated phosphorylation of an endogenous PKC substrate (which we have termed P17) in homogenates of dentate gyrus, assayed 2 h after kindling stimulation. The increase in P17 phosphorylation appeared to be due at least in part to persistent PKC activation, as basal PKC activity assayed in vitro using an exogenous peptide substrate was increased in kindled dentate gyrus 2 h after the last kindling stimulation. A similar increase in basal PKC activity was observed in dentate gyrus 2 h after the first kindling stimulation. These results document a kindling-associated persistent PKC activation and suggest that the increased activity of PKC could play a role in the induction of the kindling effect.
An anion-exchange HPLC mass assay was used to characterize Swiss-Webster mouse brain and peripheral tissue inositol(1)phosphate [Ins(1)P]levels. Ins(1)P was identified in all tissues studied but Ins(4)P could be identified only in brain, and then only as a part of a peak containing an additional, unidentified component. As a result, it was not possible to quantify Ins(4)P levels. Following a single subcutaneous dose of lithium (10 mmol/kg), brain Ins(1)P levels were maximally elevated after 6 h (corresponding to peak brain lithium concentrations) and were increased to levels 35- and 20-fold higher than in saline-treated animals in cholinergic agonist (pilocarpine)-stimulated and unstimulated animals, respectively. The ED50 for the lithium-induced accumulation of brain Ins(1)P 6 h after administration was 4-6 mmol/kg. The pilocarpine stimulation of lithium-induced brain Ins(1)P accumulation had an ED50 of 22 mg/kg, with maximal accumulation occurring 120 min after pilocarpine administration. Atropine reduced Ins(1)P levels, in both the absence and the presence of lithium, by 40%, indicating that cholinergic systems contribute a large (40%) component of basal brain phosphatidylinositol (PI) cycle activity. In peripheral tissues, there were lithium-induced accumulations of Ins(1)P in kidney, heart, and liver (but not testes) but these were less than that seen in the brain, suggesting that under basal (and pilocarpine-stimulated) conditions, the brain has a higher turnover of the PI cycle than the various peripheral tissues studied. These data support the hypothesis that lithium exerts its effects in vivo via modulation of the PI cycle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Neutral endopeptidase (NEP) 24.11 appears to be an important enzyme in both vertebrate and invertebrate autoimmunoregulation. Activation of human or invertebrate immunocytes that express NEP with substrates such as monokines and neuropeptides results in its increased expression, in other words, upregulation. However, since certain neuropeptides are also substrates for NEP, these activated immunocytes will respond to neuropeptides only at higher concentrations, thus downregulating the response. Specifically, in tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-treated immunocytes, we demonstrate the effects of increased NEP expression on altering the stimulatory activities of the neuropeptides met-enkephalin, melanocyte-stimulating hormone and substance P. We demonstrate the significance of NEP in modulating these responses through the use of specific enzyme inhibitors such as phosphoramidon, thiorphan and captopril. Furthermore, we present evidence suggesting that the individual variations seen in immunocytes from both different and the same donors to activating substances may reflect fluctuating levels of NEP expressed in response to endogenous stimuli. These results indicate that NEP is a highly significant factor in controlling the response(s) of certain immunocytes in man and higher invertebrates to the influence of biologically active substances such as monokines and neuropeptides.

The analysis of human skeletal muscle mitochondria revealed a progressive decline in mitochondrial respiratory chain function with age. The activities affected to the greatest extent were those of complexes I and IV which were decreased by 59% and 47% respectively between the ages of 20-30 years and 60-90 years of age. Quantitation of the 5 kb 'common' deletion of mtDNA using PCR revealed a progressive accumulation with age, from approximately 1 in 100,000 at 21 years to 1 in 10,000 at 56 years and 1 in 5000 at 78 years of age. The low absolute levels of this mutation are unlikely to contribute significantly to the observed mitochondrial dysfunction.
The cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is unknown. In this review clinical and scientific data that are pertinent to understanding this disease are reviewed. There are currently several major controversies concerning the possible role of immunological factors, genetic factors, environmental toxins, and viral infection in pathogenesis. These concepts must be considered in relation to what is known about the disease in all its aspects, including epidemiological data, information on the classical and molecular pathology of the disease, and on associated involvement of other systems, e.g., the spinocerebellar pathways and frontal dementia. Only when all this information is assimilated can full understanding of the disease and, hopefully, a logical approach to treatment and prevention, be achieved.
Recent studies of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) encephalitis have shown that in addition to well established white matter damage, the neocortex shows thinning, loss of large neurons and dendritic damage. In order to identify neuronal populations affected in HIV encephalitis and to determine how neuronal damage relates to the severity of HIV infection within the nervous system, we quantified parvalbumin (PV+) and neurofilament (NF+) immunoreactive neurons in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. We found that in the neocortex, the density of NF+ and PV+ neurons was independent of severity of HIV encephalitis, and therefore changes in these neuronal subsets did not account for previously reported neuronal loss. However, neuritic processes of PV+ neurons were fragmented, atrophic and in some cases distended. In contrast to the frontal cortex, there was a trend toward decreased density of PV+ neurons in the hippocampus which only reached significance in the CA3 layer where there was a 50-90% decrease in PV+ neurons. This decrease was closely correlated with the severity of HIV encephalitis. Double-label immunocytochemical analysis confirmed neuritic damage to interneurons. These results suggest that HIV encephalitis differentially involves specific subpopulations of neurons. Since direct HIV infection of neuronal cells was not detected, damage to PV+ cells and fibers may be indirectly mediated by cytokines released by HIV-infected microglia.
1. Previous studies have described a subpopulation of interneurons in the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) pathways that express large changes in their responses to head turns in conjunction with motor learning in the VOR. These neurons are called flocculus target neurons (FTNs) because they are inhibited at monosynaptic latencies by stimulation of the flocculus and ventral paraflocculus. 2. Electrical stimulation of the vestibular labyrinth revealed that FTNs receive excitatory monosynaptic inputs from the ipsilateral vestibular labyrinth and longer-latency, excitatory inputs from the contralateral labyrinth. 3. Our data show that commissural inhibition, which has been thought to be an important feature of vestibular processing, does not provide the dominant inputs from the contralateral labyrinth to FTNs. Instead, the inputs from both labyrinths are excitatory and may be functionally antagonistic. Changes in the balance of excitatory inputs from the two horizontal canals to FTNs could contribute to motor learning in the VOR.
1. During constant velocity off-vertical axis rotations (OVAR) in the dark a compensatory ocular nystagmus is present throughout rotation despite the lack of a maintained signal from the semicircular canals. Lesion experiments and canal plugging have attributed the steady-state ocular nystagmus during OVAR to inputs from the otolith organs and have demonstrated that it depends on an intact velocity storage mechanism. 2. To test whether irregularly discharging otolith afferents play a crucial role in the generation of the steady-state eye nystagmus during OVAR, we have used anodal (inhibitory) currents bilaterally to selectively and reversibly block irregular vestibular afferent discharge. During delivery of DC anodal currents (100 microA) bilaterally to both ears, the slow phase eye velocity of the steady-state nystagmus during OVAR was reduced or completely abolished. The disruption of the steady-state nystagmus was transient and lasted only during the period of galvanic stimulation. 3. To distinguish a possible effect of ablation of the background discharge rates of irregular vestibular afferents on the velocity storage mechanism from specific contributions of the dynamic responses from irregular otolith afferents to the circuit responsible for the generation of the steady-state nystagmus, bilateral DC anodal galvanic stimulation was applied during optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) and optokinetic afternystagmus (OKAN). No change in OKN and OKAN was observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. We used a modeling approach to test the hypothesis that, in humans, the smooth pursuit (SP) system provides the primary signal for cancelling the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) during combined eye-head tracking (CEHT) of a target moving smoothly in the horizontal plane. Separate models for SP and the VOR were developed. The optimal values of parameters of the two models were calculated using measured responses of four subjects to trials of SP and the visually enhanced VOR. After optimal parameter values were specified, each model generated waveforms that accurately reflected the subjects' responses to SP and vestibular stimuli. The models were then combined into a CEHT model wherein the final eye movement command signal was generated as the linear summation of the signals from the SP and VOR pathways. 2. The SP-VOR superposition hypothesis was tested using two types of CEHT stimuli, both of which involved passive rotation of subjects in a vestibular chair. The first stimulus consisted of a &quot;chair brake&quot; or sudden stop of the subject's head during CEHT; the visual target continued to move. The second stimulus consisted of a sudden change from the visually enhanced VOR to CEHT (&quot;delayed target onset&quot; paradigm); as the vestibular chair rotated past the angular position of the stationary visual stimulus, the latter started to move in synchrony with the chair. Data collected during experiments that employed these stimuli were compared quantitatively with predictions made by the CEHT model. 3. During CEHT, when the chair was suddenly and unexpectedly stopped, the eye promptly began to move in the orbit to track the moving target. Initially, gaze velocity did not completely match target velocity, however; this finally occurred approximately 100 ms after the brake onset. The model did predict the prompt onset of eye-in-orbit motion after the brake, but it did not predict that gaze velocity would initially be only approximately 70% of target velocity. One possible explanation for this discrepancy is that VOR gain can be dynamically modulated and, during sustained CEHT, it may assume a lower value. Consequently, during CEHT, a smaller-amplitude SP signal would be needed to cancel the lower-gain VOR. This reduction of the SP signal could account for the attenuated tracking response observed immediately after the brake. We found evidence for the dynamic modulation of VOR gain by noting differences in responses to the onset and offset of head rotation in trials of the visually enhanced VOR.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. We examine the critical image cues that are used by the locust visual system for the descending contralateral motion detector (DCMD) neuron to distinguish approaching from receding objects. Images were controlled by computer and presented on an electrostatic monitor. 2. Changes in overall luminance elicited much smaller and briefer responses from the DCMD than objects that appeared to approach the eye. Although a decrease in overall luminance might boost the response to an approaching dark object, movement of edges of the image is more important. 3. When two pairs of lines, in a cross-hairs configuration, were moved apart and then together again, the DCMD showed no preference for divergence compared with convergence of edges. A directional response was obtained by either making the lines increase in extent during divergence and decrease in extent during convergence; or by continually increasing the velocity of line movement during divergence and decreasing velocity during convergence. 4. The DCMD consistently gave a larger response to growing than to shrinking solid rectangular images. An increase compared with a decrease in the extent of edge in an image is, therefore, an important cue for the directionality of the response. For single moving edges of fixed extent, the neuron gave the largest response to edges that subtended 15 degrees at the eye. 5. The DCMD was very sensitive to the amount by which an edge traveled between frames on the display screen, with the largest responses generated by 2.5 degrees of travel. This implies that the neurons in the optic lobe that drive this movement-detecting system have receptive fields of about the same extent as a single ommatidium. 6. For edges moving up to 250 degree/s, the excitation of the DCMD increases with velocity. The response to an edge moving at a constant velocity adapts rapidly, in a manner that depends on velocity. Movement over one part of the retina can adapt the subsequent response to movement over another part of the retina. 7. For the DCMD to track and continue to respond to the image of an approaching object, the edges of the image must continually increase in velocity. This is the second important stimulus cue. 8. Edges of opposite contrasts (light-dark compared with dark-light) are processed in separate pathways that inhibit each other. This would contribute to the reduction of responses to wide-field movements.
1. The &quot;descending contralateral movement detector&quot; (DCMD) neuron in the locust has been challenged with a variety of moving stimuli, including scenes from a film (Star Wars), moving disks, and images generated by computer. The neuron responds well to any rapid movement. For a dark object moving along a straight path at a uniform velocity, the DCMD gives the strongest response when the object travels directly toward the eye, and the weakest when the object travels away from the eye. Instead of expressing selectivity for movements of small rather than large objects, the DCMD responds preferentially to approaching objects. 2. The neuron shows a clear selectivity for approach over recession for a variety of sizes and velocities of movement both of real objects and in simulated movements. When a disk that subtends &gt; or = 5 degrees at the eye approaches the eye, there are two peaks in spike rate: one immediately after the start of movement; and a second that builds up during the approach. When a disk recedes from the eye, there is a single peak in response as the movement starts. There is a good correlation between spike rate and angular acceleration of the edges of the image over the eye. 3. When an object approaches from a distance sufficient for it to subtend less than one interommatidial angle at the start of its approach, there is a single peak in response. The DCMD tracks the approach, and, if the object moves at 1 m/s or faster, the spike rate increases throughout the duration of object movement. The size of the response depends on the speed of approach. 4. It is unlikely that the DCMD encodes the time to collision accurately, because the response depends on the size as well as the velocity of an approaching object. 5. Wide-field movements suppress the response to an approaching object. The suppression varies with the temporal frequency of the background pattern. 6. Over a wide range of contrasts of object against background, the DCMD gives a stronger response to approaching than to receding objects. For low contrasts, the selectivity is greater for objects that are darker than the background than for objects that are lighter.
1. The spatial distribution of the sharpness of tuning of single neurons along the dorsoventral extent of primary auditory cortex (AI) was studied. A sharpness of tuning gradient was initially obtained with multiple-unit recordings, and in combination with the cochleotopic organization, served as a frame of reference for the locations of single neurons. The frequency selectivity or &quot;integrated excitatory bandwidth&quot; of multiple units varied systematically along the dorsoventral extent of AI. The most sharply tuned unit clusters were found at the approximate center of the dorsoventral extent. A gradual broadening of the integrated excitatory bandwidth in both dorsal and ventral directions was consistently seen. 2. The multiple-unit measures of the bandwidth 10 (BW10) and 40 dB (BW40) above minimum threshold, pooled across several animals and expressed in octaves, were similar to those described within individual cases in cats. As in the individual animals, the bandwidth maps were V shaped with minima located at the approximate center of the dorsal-ventral extent of AI. The location of the minimum in the multiple-unit bandwidth map (i.e., the most sharply tuned area) was used as a reference point to pool single-neuron data across animals. 3. For single neurons, the dorsal half of the BW40 distribution showed a gradient paralleling that found for multiple units. For both single and multiple units, the average excitatory bandwidth increased at a rate of approximately 0.27 octaves/mm from the center of AI toward the dorsal fringe. Differing from the dorsal half of AI, the ventral half of AI showed no clear BW40 gradient for single units along its dorsoventral extent. At 40 dB above minimum threshold, most ventral neurons encountered were sharply tuned. By contrast, the multiple-unit BW40 showed a gradient similar to the dorsal half with 0.23 octaves/mm increasing from the center toward the ventral border of AI. 4. For single neurons, BW10 showed no clear systematic spatial distribution in AI. Neither the dorsal nor the ventral gradient was significantly different from zero slope, although the dorsal half showed a trend toward increasing BW10s. Contrasting single neurons, both dorsal and ventral halves of AI showed BW10 slopes for multiple units confirming a V-shaped map of the integrated excitatory bandwidth within the dorsoventral extent of AI. 5. On the basis of the distribution of the integrated (multiple-unit) excitatory bandwidth, AI was parceled into three regions: the dorsal gradient, the ventral gradient, and the central, narrowly tuned area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The present study investigated regulation of reflex excitability after experimental contusion injury of the spinal cord. 2. Four measures of H-reflex excitability were evaluated in normal rats and at 6, 28, and 60 days after contusion injury at the T8 level: 1) reflex thresholds, 2) slope of the reflex recruitment curves, 3) maximal plantar H-reflex/maximal plantar M-response (Hmax/Mmax) ratios, and 4) rate-sensitive depression (i.e., the decrease in reflex magnitude relative to repetition rate). 3. Tested as a function of the afferent volley magnitude, the thresholds for reflex initiation fell progressively subsequent to contusion injury. No change was observed at 6 days postinjury, and the decrease at 28 days was not significant. However, by 60 days postinjury, the threshold had decreased by 23% of the maximal afferent volley, and this decrease was significant, [analysis of variance (ANOVA, P &lt; or = 0.01)]. 4. Hmax/Mmax ratios elicited in postcontusion animals at 0.3 Hz were not significantly different from those recorded in normal animals. 5. The slopes of the recruitment curves were markedly reduced subsequent to contusion injury. The decrease was greatest at 6 days postinjury. Although some recovery toward normal occurred at 28 and 60 days postinjury, the slopes of recruitment curves in postcontusion animals remained significantly decreased. 6. H-reflexes elicited at 1-5 Hz were less sensitive to rate depression in postcontusion animals than in normal animals at the same respective frequencies. The decrease was progressive in onset, becoming significant by 28 days postinjury, and of an enduring nature, i.e., still significantly different from normal in the reflexes tested 60 days postinjury. 7. Rate sensitivity of the tibial nerve monosynaptic reflex (MSR) was also compared in normal and postcontusion animals. Rate sensitivity of the tibial MSRs was significantly reduced at 28 and 60 days post-contusion, compared with normal animals. 8. These data indicate that significant changes in lumbar reflex excitability result from midthoracic contusion injury of the spinal cord. These changes include reflex threshold, slope of recruitment, and rate-sensitive depression. Although recruitment slope was most altered in the shortest postinjury interval tested, followed by some recovery, the other changes were progressive in onset and enduring in duration.
Central cholinergic (muscarinic) systems play an important role in learning and memory. In mammalian central neurons, muscarinic stimulation depresses several voltage-activated K+ currents and modulates synaptic transmission. Using whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings in hippocampal CA1 neurons of rat brain slices, we report that activation of muscarinic receptors potentiates a voltage-activated, sustained K+ current (IK-type). This potentiation of IK is mediated by activation of protein kinase C and involves a G-protein-linked, intracellular Ca(2+)-dependent process. This underlying second messenger pathway may prove to be important in the mediation of other previously reported muscarinic neuronal actions.
In nature, sound sources move and signals are accompanied by background noise. Noting that motion helps the perception of visual stimuli, we tested whether motion similarly facilitates the detection of acoustic targets, at the neuronal level. Auditory neurons in the central nucleus of the barn owl's inferior colliculus (ICc), due to their selectivity for interaural phase difference (delta phi), are sharply tuned to the azimuth of sound sources and are arrayed to form a topographic map of delta phi. While recording from single ICc neurons, we presented tones that simulated either moving or stationary sound sources with and without background noise. We found that the tuning of cells in the ICc for delta phi was sharper for stimuli that simulated motion than for those that simulated stationary targets. The neurons signaled the presence of a tone obscured by noise better if the tone moved than if the tone remained stationary. The resistance to noise observed with moving stimuli could not be reproduced with the temporal modulation of the stimulus amplitude, suggesting that a change of position over time was required.
Kainic acid, an analog of the excitatory amino acid L-glutamate, induces acute hyperexcitability and permanent structural alterations in the hippocampal formation of the adult rat. Administration of kainic acid is followed by acute seizures in hippocampal pathways, neuronal loss in CA3 and the hilus of the dentate gyrus, and reorganization of the synaptic connections of the mossy fiber pathway. Rats with these hippocampal structural alterations have increased susceptibility to kindling. To evaluate the role of the acute seizures and associated hippocampal structural alterations in the development of this long-lasting susceptibility, rats that received intraventricular kainic acid were cotreated with phenobarbital (60 mg/kg, s.c., once daily). Treatment with this dose for 5 d after administration of kainic acid suppressed acute seizure activity, protected against excitotoxic damage in the dentate gyrus, reduced mossy fiber sprouting, and completely abolished the increased susceptibility to kindling associated with kainic acid. Brief treatment with phenobarbital modified the pattern of damage and synaptic reorganization in the dentate gyrus in response to seizure-induced injury, and altered the long-lasting functional effects associated with hippocampal damage. As phenobarbital treatment did not protect against neuronal damage in CA3 or other regions of the hippocampus, the circuitry of the dentate gyrus was implicated as a locus of cellular alterations that influenced the development of kindling. These observations are evidence that pharmacological intervention can prevent the development of epilepsy in association with acquired structural lesions, and suggest that pharmacological modification of cellular responses to injury can favorably alter long-term functional effects of CNS damage.
The respective roles of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (protein kinase A [PKA]) and protein kinase C (PKC) in the early stages of neurite outgrowth were examined in SH-SY-5Y human neuroblastoma cells. Forskolin or dbcAMP, agents that increase intracellular cAMP levels, and intracellular delivery of PKA catalytic subunit induced neurite outgrowth. The PKA inhibitor, N-(2-guanidinoethyl)-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide (HA 1004), prevented the increases, and decreased further the percentage of cells possessing short, filopodia-like neurites in the absence of inducers. In contrast to effects on PKA activation, PKC activation by 12-0-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) reduced the percentage of filopodia-like neurites elaborated by otherwise untreated cells, and prevented neurite outgrowth induced by PKA activators. PKC inhibitors 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine dihydrochloride (H7), staurosporine, and sphingosine induced neurite outgrowth. Neurites induced by PKA activation contained higher levels of tubulin immunoreactivity than those induced by PKC inhibition. Furthermore, PKA-induced neurites rapidly retracted in the presence of colchicine, while those elaborated following PKC inhibition were more resistant. These data suggest that neurites elaborated in response to PKA activation are dependent upon microtubule polymerization, and that neurite induction following PKC inhibition is mediated by a different mechanism. PKA activators and PKC inhibitors exerted additive effects on neurite outgrowth, suggesting that the distinct pathways regulated by these two kinases function cooperatively during neuritogenesis.
Injury to the spinal column and spinal cord occurs relatively infrequently in the pediatric population. The authors present a unique review of 61 pediatric deaths associated with spinal injury. This group represented 28% of the total pediatric spine-injured population and 45% of the total pediatric spinal cord-injured group studied. The ratio of pediatric to adult spinal injury mortality was 2.5:1. Of the 61 children, 54 (89%) died at the accident scene. Thirty patients underwent a complete autopsy, 19 of whom had an Abbreviated Injury Scale Grade 6 injury (maximum score, untreatable). Spinal cord injury was found to be the cause of death in only eight children and was associated with injury to the high cervical cord and cardiorespiratory arrest. These children typically sustained severe multiple trauma. In this population, there appears to be little room for improved outcome through changes in treatment strategy.
Injury to the spinal column and spinal cord occurs relatively infrequently in the pediatric population. A review of 174 pediatric patients is presented, representing 5.4% of all patients admitted with spinal injury. Spinal cord injury was present in 45% of patients. A distinct injury profile, explained by anatomical and biomechanical features, distinguishes the young patient with an immature spine from older adolescents with a more mature, adult-like spine. The younger patients, while less likely to have spinal injury, had a higher incidence of neurological injury, in addition to a higher frequency of both spinal cord injury without radiological abnormality and upper cervical cord injury. In addition, younger patients with spinal cord injury and no radiological abnormality were more likely to have complete or severe cord injury. Prognosis was determined by the severity of spinal cord injury. Patients with complete cord injuries showed little improvement, while patients with incomplete injuries generally fared much better, with 74% showing significant improvement and 59% experiencing a complete recovery of neurological functions. There were six deaths, but none was attributed solely to spinal injury. The authors conclude that outcome is quite good after pediatric spinal cord injury that does not produce a physiologically complete cord deficit.
Both muscarinic m2 receptors that inhibit adenylyl cyclase and m3 receptors that stimulate the hydrolysis of inositol phospholipids are expressed in cerebellar granule cells. In order to determine whether a reserve population of either of these receptors is present in this cell culture, the irreversible muscarinic receptor antagonist, propylbenzilylcholine mustard (PBCM), was used at different concentrations to bind various proportions of available muscarinic receptors. After pretreating the cell cultures with low concentrations of PBCM (&lt; 1 nM), the muscarinic m2 receptor-mediated response decreased. Higher concentrations of PBCM (1-3 nM) were needed to reduce the muscarinic m3 receptor-mediated response. These results suggested that either a reserve population of muscarinic m3 receptors is present or that PBCM shows greater specificity for muscarinic m2 receptors. Because the muscarinic m2 receptor is a 66 kDa protein, whereas the muscarinic m3 receptor is a 92 kDa protein, these receptors can be separated by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis after being labeled with [3H]PBCM. PBCM appears to specifically bind the 66 kDa m2 receptor at concentrations lower than those required to bind to the 92 kDa m3 receptor. A linear correlation was found between the increased binding of [3H]PBCM to each receptor and the proportional loss of that receptor-mediated response. Thus, a reserve population of either muscarinic m2 or m3 receptors does not appear to exist in cerebellar granule cells. These studies also show that PBCM has greater affinity for the muscarinic m2 receptor than the muscarinic m3 receptor.
The Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is a neurogenetic disorder caused by congenital deficiency of the purine salvage enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT). The disorder is characterized by prominent neurobehavioral abnormalities which appear to result in part from dysfunction of striatal dopamine systems. HPRT-deficient (HPRT-) mutant strains of mice have been produced as animal models for this syndrome, but these animals exhibit none of the neurobehavioral abnormalities seen in Lesch-Nyhan patients. The present studies describe the behavioral responses of three strains of mice carrying one of two mutations in the HPRT gene to agents which interact with brain dopamine systems. HPRT- mice are more sensitive than age- and sex-matched littermates to the motor-activating properties of dopamine-releasing agents (amphetamine, amfonelic acid and methylphenidate), but not dopamine uptake inhibitors (GBR 12909 and nomifensine). The enhanced sensitivity of the HPRT- mice to the dopamine-releasing agents is not caused by dopamine receptor supersensitivity, because the HPRT- mice do not show enhanced motor responses to the direct D1/D2 dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine or to the selective D1 dopamine receptor agonist SKF 38393. The function of regulatory dopamine autoreceptors, as assessed by suppression of spontaneous motor activity by low doses of R(-)-propylnorapomorphine, also appears normal in the HPRT- mice. Biochemical analysis shows that the HPRT- mice have significantly lower levels of dopamine (-45%), but normal levels of tyrosine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, homovanillic acid and 3-methoxytyramine in the caudoputamen. In contrast to the deficit in caudoputamen dopamine, no deficits were noted in the accumbens of the HPRT- mice. These results indicate the existence of an inherent abnormality in the dopamine systems in the brains of HPRT- mice, despite their apparently normal spontaneous behavior.
The effects of norepinephrine (NE) were examined on active ion transport in the porcine distal jejunum under base-line conditions and after electrical transmural stimulation (ETS). Serosal administration of NE decreased basal short-circuit current across sheets of muscle-stripped jejunal submucosa-mucosa in vitro. These effects were absent in tissues pretreated with the neuronal conduction blocker, tetrodotoxin. NE stimulated net Na secretion in tissues which displayed basal net Na and Cl absorption and increased net Cl absorption in tissues which displayed net Na absorption and Cl secretion under base-line conditions. Moreover, NE inhibited short-circuit current elevations produced by ETS (300 pulses at 10 Hz, 0.5 msec pulse duration, 2.8 mA cm-2), the ganglionic stimulant dimethylphenyl-piperazinium or the gut peptide neurotensin. In contrast, NE did not alter mucosal responses to the directly acting secretagogues forskolin and carbachol. The inhibitory action of NE on mucosal responses evoked by ETS were selectively antagonized by the alpha adrenoceptor blockers phentolamine and yohimbine. Moreover, the selective alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonists p-aminoclonidine, UK-14,304 and oxymetazoline and the NE releasing agent tyramine mimicked the inhibitory effects of NE on ETS-evoked mucosal responses. Desipramine, a blocker of neuronal NE uptake, produced a 1000-fold increase in the potency of NE at concentrations less than 1 nM. These results suggest that NE modulates active ion transport by interacting with alpha-2 adrenoceptors located on submucosal neurons of the porcine small intestine.
Antisera to the naloxone-insensitive receptor for beta-endorphin expressed on the U937 cell line were generated by using the complementary peptide strategy. A nanopeptide complementary to a C-terminal fragment of human beta-endorphin was synthesized as predicted by reading the beta-endorphin antisense mRNA 3' to 5'. By using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, rabbit antisera specific for the peptide complementary to beta-endorphin (C'-peptide) were characterized. With the exception of C'-peptide, preabsorption of the antisera with human-beta-endorphin1-31 or 10 unrelated peptides of 5 to 21 amino acids failed to reduce the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay titer. Sucrose gradient separation was also used to show that the antisera failed to recognize beta-[125I]endorphin. Immunoglobulin to C'-peptide (10-800 micrograms/tube) inhibited the binding of beta-[125I]endorphin (1-2 nM) to intact U937 cells in a dose-dependent manner, whereas control immunoglobulin was ineffective. Moreover, immunoglobulin to C'-peptide failed to reduce [3H]naloxone binding to rat brain membrane. After binding and cross-linking of beta-[125I]endorphin to U937 cell membrane in the presence of beta-endorphin (2.5 x 10(-5) M), control immunoglobulin or anti-C'-peptide immunoglobulin, sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed that anti-C'-peptide immunoglobulin inhibited binding to 44 and 59 kDa bands. Nonspecific antibody was completely ineffective, whereas beta-endorphin completely inhibited binding to the 44 kDa and partially to the 59 kDa band. Western blot analysis of U937 cell membrane showed bands at 64, 58 and 56 kDa. In summary, antibodies selective for C'-peptide displaced beta-endorphin from the naloxone-insensitive receptor on U937 cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We sought to isolate and partially purify proteins corresponding to the binding element of the imidazoline receptor (IR) from adrenal chromaffin cell membranes. These cells express IRs of the I-2 subclass and not alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. Proteins were solubilized in 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylammonio]-1-propanesulfonate-containing buffer and were assayed by binding of [3H]idazoxan, an imidazoline radioligand. Two ligand affinity resins, p-aminoclonidine-Trisacryl GF-2000 (PAC-ReactiGel) and idazoxan-PharmaLink agarose (IDA-agarose), were synthesized. These allowed purification by single-step affinity chromatography of a major receptor binding protein component of 70 kDa, as assessed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analysis and [3H]idazoxan binding assay. The purified imidazoline-binding proteins from IDA-agarose and PAC-ReactiGel had similar affinities for the radioligand [3H]idazoxan (Kd = 3.7 and 4.9 nM, respectively) and a displacement profile, showing sensitivity to imidazoline agents (cirazoline &gt; clonidine) and insensitivity to catecholamines and adrenergic agents (epinephrine approximately rauwolscine), that was similar to that of the intact membrane receptor. The imidazoline-binding protein did not bind to concanavalin A, suggesting that it may not be glycosylated or that the sugar moieties present are not recognized by this lectin. The results indicate that IR and alpha 2 receptor proteins may be biochemically distinct and that IDA-agarose and PAC-ReactiGel columns are useful for purification of sufficient quantities of imidazoline-binding proteins to allow for structural and functional studies of the IR.
The aim of this study was to quantitate the turnover of alpha 2-adrenoceptors in different regions of the rat brain and its modulation during desipramine (a cyclic antidepressant drug)-induced receptor down-regulation. The recovery of [3H]clonidine (a mixed alpha 2A/B-adrenoceptor agonist) binding after irreversible inactivation by N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ) (an alkylating agent for both alpha 2-adrenoceptor subtypes) was assessed in control and desipramine-treated (3 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, every 12 hr for 7-35 days) rats to study the process of alpha 2-adrenoceptor repopulation and to calculate receptor turnover parameters. In control rats, the turnover of brain alpha 2-adrenoceptors showed marked regional differences. The fastest receptor turnover rate was found in the hypothalamus and corpus striatum (receptor half-life, t1/2 = 2.1 days), compared with that in the brainstem (t1/2 = 2.6 days), cerebral cortex (t1/2 = 3.9 days), and hippocampus (t1/2 = 4.3 days). In the cerebral cortex and other brain regions, desipramine induced a time-dependent modulation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors, with significant decreases in the number of receptors (40-71%; p &lt; 0.01) during the first 7-14 days of treatment and regulation to base-line values by 21-35 days. In the cerebral cortex, alpha 2-adrenoceptor turnover evaluated during desipramine-induced receptor down-regulation (phase of 7-14 days of treatment) revealed an increase in both the disappearance (degradation) (delta k = 122%; p &lt; 0.05; t1/2 = 1.7 days) and appearance (synthesis) (delta r = 68%; p &lt; 0.05) rates of the receptor. In other noradrenergic brain regions (hippocampus, brainstem, and hypothalamus) but not in the corpus striatum, desipramine (7-14 days) also increased alpha 2-adrenoceptor degradation (delta k = 97-144%) and shortened the half-life of the receptor, and it tended to increase the rate of synthesis (delta r = 51-83%). Similar results, but with a higher appearance rate, were obtained in the cerebral cortex during the phase of treatment (21-35 days) without apparent receptor down-regulation (delta k = 160%; p &lt; 0.01; t1/2 = 1.5 days; delta r = 128%; p &lt; 0.001). It is proposed that sustained stimulation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors by endogenous norepinephrine, after inhibition of neuronal uptake, increases their disappearance rate (degradation), leading to a reduction in receptor number. The increase in the appearance (synthesis) rate could be viewed as a later compensatory mechanism that would lead to restoration of brain alpha 2-adrenoceptor density.
The ability of cations to modulate the binding of the sigma 1 receptor-selective ligand (+)-[3H]pentazocine to guinea pig cerebellum was investigated. Di- and trivalent cations biphasically inhibited (+)-[3H]pentazocine binding, revealing multiple affinity states. The rank order of potency of these cations (based on the high affinity component of inhibition) was Zn2+ &gt; Co2+ &gt; La3+ = Ni2+ = Cd2+ = Mn2+ = Gd2+ &gt; Ba2+ = Sr2+ &gt; Mg2+ &gt; Ca2+. The inhibition of 1,3-[3H]di(2-tolyl)guanidine binding to the sigma 2 receptor by these cations differed qualitatively and quantitatively from their effects on (+)-[3H]pentazocine binding. Although monovalent cations decreased the Kd for (+)-[3H]pentazocine binding, divalent cations split (+)-[3H]pentazocine binding into low and high affinity components. The Bmax of the high affinity component decreased with increasing divalent cation concentrations. Both mono- and divalent cations significantly reduced the rate of association of (+)-[3H]pentazocine with the sigma 1 receptor without altering the dissociation rate. (+)-[3H]Pentazocine binding was not altered by guanine nucleotides or by treatment with cholera or pertussis toxins. However, nonselective cation channel blockers (cinnarizine, hydroxyzine, prenylamine, amiodarone, and proadifen) potently inhibited (+)-[3H]pentazocine binding. These results indicate that physiologically relevant concentrations of divalent cations allosterically modulate (+)-[3H]pentazocine binding to the sigma 1 receptor, to reveal multiple affinity states. These sites do not represent sigma 1 to sigma 2 subtype interconversion or ternary complex formation with guanine nucleotide-binding proteins. However, the rank order of cation potency and the inhibition of binding by cation channel blockers is consistent with a potential role for sigma receptors as constituents of cation channels.
The concentration of oxytocin was measured by radioimmunoassay in different brain areas, hypophysis, and plasma of male Wistar Kyoto rats during aging. Although no difference in the concentration of oxytocin in any of the above tissues among 2- and 6-month-old rats was found, in 12-month-old rats a 21% decrease was observed in both septum and hippocampus, but not in the hypothalamus, hypophysis, and plasma, when compared to values of 2- and 6-month-old rats. In 18-month-old rats, the decrease of septal and hippocampal oxytocin content was higher than that found in 12-month-old rats, but no change was found in the hypothalamus, neurohypophysis, and plasma. In 24-month-old rats, oxytocin content was similar to that found in 18-month-old rats in all tissues analyzed. The results suggest that aging induces an impairment of oxytocinergic transmission in the central nervous system but not in the neurohypophyseal system.
Recent evidence suggests that Alzheimer's disease is an etiologically heterogeneous disorder. A human model of Alzheimer's disease exists that avoids such problems of etiologic heterogeneity. Down syndrome (DS), trisomy 21, is a genetic disorder in which an extra portion of chromosome 21 leads to mental retardation, short stature, and phenotypic abnormalities. Prior investigations by others have shown that DS subjects over 40 years of age demonstrate neuropathologic and neurochemical defects postmortem that are virtually indistinguishable from those found in brains of Alzheimer's disease patients and a universal cognitive deterioration more severe in demented than nondemented older DS subjects. In our study, these nondemented older DS subjects show a distinctive pattern of age-related deficits, while a more global pattern is seen in demented older DS subjects. Dementia occurs in 40% of older DS subjects. We find that in older demented DS subjects positron emission tomography (PET) shows identical patterns of abnormal glucose metabolism as those described previously in Alzheimer's disease patients, selectively involving the phylogenetically newer association areas of parietal and temporal neocortices but sparing primary sensory and motor regions. Further, we find in older demented DS patients quantitative computer-assisted tomography (CT) indicates accelerated neuronal loss and brain atrophy, similar to that previously shown in Alzheimer's disease patients. As a potential use of the DS model, we observed a case of DS with dementia but without mental retardation. This case suggests that expression of dementia in DS may involve genes on chromosome 21 other than in the &quot;obligatory&quot; distal segment of the q arm. Alternatively, differential expression of genes on the q arm of chromosome 21 might cause dementia without phenotypic features and mental retardation.
To investigate the age-dependent functional importance of cholinergic neocortical inputs, and to explore whether cortical cholinergic denervation in aged animals might better model the cerebral metabolic changes of Alzheimer's disease, the effects of unilateral ablation of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) on cerebral glucose metabolism were studied in young and aged rats. Regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) were determined, using the [14C]deoxyglucose method, in 48 brain regions of 3- and 24-month old Fischer-344 rats at 3, 7, 14 and 28 days after stereotaxic injection of ibotenate into the right NBM, and in sham-operated animals at 3 and 14 days later. For both ages the peak effect of unilateral NBM ablation occurred 3 days later: in young rats, rCMRglc was significantly reduced (compared to the contralateral side) in all 24 anterior cortical areas examined (mean decline 20%), whereas in aged animals, only 9 of 24 areas showed a significant decline in glucose utilization, and the magnitude of rCMRglc reduction (9%) was smaller. Near complete recovery of rCMRglc occurred by 7 days in young and old rats. We conclude that the basalocortical cholinergic projection plays a smaller role in neocortical function of aged rats, possibly because its tonic activity is reduced. Both young and aged rats undergo cortical metabolic normalization after unilateral NBM ablation; hence the NBM-lesioned aged rat is not a better model of the progressive decline in rCMRglc that occurs in Alzheimer's disease.
Can loop diuretics like ethacrynic acid and furosemide, when administered intravenously, significantly alter ion transport and fluid dynamics in CNS? To shed light on this unresolved issue, we tested the ability of these agents to effect redistribution of Na, K and Cl in adult rat brain. Cl penetration into various CNS regions was assessed as the volume of distribution, i.e., uptake, of 36Cl from blood. Ethacrynic acid and furosemide (50 mg/kg IV) reduced by 20-30% the rate of permeation of 36Cl across the blood-CSF barrier, and they elevated [K] and [Cl] in choroid plexus (CP) by 15-25%. The loop diuretic-induced buildup of K and Cl in CP (lateral and 4th ventricle) was likely a reflection of decreased movement of these ions across the apical membrane into CSF. 36Cl activity in parietal cortex and pons-medulla decreased in treatment with furosemide and ethacrynic acid, due to slowing of Cl transport across blood-brain and/or blood-CSF barriers. Our inhibitory findings in intact rats are consistent with those from previous in vitro experiments demonstrating diminution by loop diuretics of Na, K and Cl transport across isolated CP membranes.

5-Hydroxytryptamine1A receptors were studied in rats during the first postnatal month in the normal cerebellum and in the granule cell-deprived cerebellum produced by X-irradiation at postnatal day 5. Quantitative autoradiographic studies on sagittal sections of cerebellar vermis, using [1251]BH-8-MeO-N-PAT as radioligand or specific anti-receptor antibodies, revealed that 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors existed in the molecular/Purkinje cell layer but at variable density from one lobule to another. Thus, in both normal and X-irradiated rats, the posterior lobules were more heavily labelled than the anterior ones, and the density of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A sites decreased progressively in all the cerebellar folia down to hardly detectable levels at postnatal day 21. However, the intensity of labelling remained higher at postnatal day 8 and postnatal day 12 in X-irradiated rats than in age-paired controls. Measurements of [3H]8-OH-DPAT specific binding to membranes from whole cerebellum confirmed that the density of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A sites per mg membrane protein (Bmax) was higher in X-irradiated animals than in age-paired controls. However, on a &quot;per cerebellum&quot; basis, no significant difference could be detected between the total number of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A sites, which progressively increased in both control and X-irradiated animals during the first postnatal month. These results therefore show that 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors are not located on developing granule cells. The progressive decrease in 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor density during the first postnatal month did not reflect a transient expression of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors in the cerebellum of newborn rats, but resulted from the progressive &quot;dilution&quot; of these sites in this growing structure. The higher density of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A sites in X-irradiated rats simply reflected a lower &quot;dilution&quot; due to the delayed growth of the cerebellum in these animals.
Brain glycogen stores are localized primarily to glia and undergo continuous utilization and resynthesis. To study the function of glycogen under normal conditions in brain, we developed an autoradiographic method of demonstrating local-glycogen utilization in the awake rat. The method employs labeling of brain glycogen with 14C(3,4)glucose, in situ microwave fixation of brain metabolism, and anhydrous tissue preparation. With this technique, tactile stimulation of the rat face and vibrissae was found to accelerate the utilization of labeled glycogen in brain regions known to receive sensory input from face and vibrissae: the contralateral somatosensory cortex and the ipsilateral trigeminal, sensory and motor nuclei. These findings demonstrate a link between neuronal activity and local glycogen utilization in mammalian brain and suggest that, like other tissues, brain may respond to sudden increases in energy demand in part by rapid glycolytic metabolism of glycogen. As cerebral glycogen is restricted primarily to glia, these observations also support a close coupling of glial energy metabolism with neuronal activity.
The dynamics of receptive fields of 73 neurons in area 17 of cat visual cortex were studied using the temporal slice method. Three-dimensional maps of the receptive fields were plotted using the criterion of spike number in successive fragments (step 10 or 20 ms) of responses to 100 local flashes presented at different parts of the receptive field in random order. The size and configuration of such dynamically recorded receptive fields were then estimated. This allowed us to reveal the dynamic reorganization of all receptive fields 20-400 ms after stimulation. A small zone of responses appeared in the receptive field after initial latency, then it widened, received definitive configuration, and after that decreased and disappeared. The effect was reproducible under repeated estimations. The relationships between receptive field and the previously described orientation tuning dynamics, as well as between dynamics of receptive fields and their summation zones, mechanisms and possible functional meaning of the revealed effects for signal processing in the primary visual cortex are discussed.
There is a certain recovery of function following brain damage, due to neuronal plasticity. The experiments were performed in order to investigate the effects of cortical lesion on seizural activity in rats induced by systemic application of penicillin. The sensorimotor cortex was unilaterally removed in the lesioned animals, while the control animals were only sham operated or non-operated (before implantation of the electrodes). Seizural activity was recorded by means of electroencephalograms before and after penicillin treatment (1,000,000 I.U./kg, i.p). Testing of penicillin started at least 30 days after cortical lesion. Seizural activity was characterized by spike and wave complexes accompanied by vigilance reduction and sometimes by mild myoclonic jerks in both control and lesioned animals. The early period (about 2 h after penicillin administration) with appearance of the spike-wave discharges with relative increase of the mean total electroencephalogram powers as well as the succeeding period 2.5-5.5 h after penicillin administration) with maximum number of spike-wave discharges did not differ in the electroencephalogram of the control and lesioned animals. The late period of penicillin effect (from 6-11 h after penicillin administration) with frequent spike-wave discharges and still large mean total electroencephalogram powers was observed only in lesioned animals. It is concluded that a cortical lesion destabilizes the brain function in the rat model of epilepsy induced by parenteral administration of penicillin.
The basal forebrain projection to the cerebral cortex was studied in the lizard Podarcis hispanica by anterograde transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. After injections of the lectin into the septal-basal forebrain area, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labelled fibres were mainly detected in the outer plexiform layer of the medial cortex and in the inner plexiform layer of the dorsal and dorsomedial cortices. Ultrathin sections from these areas were obtained and processed for postembedding immunogold staining for GABA. Most of the Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labelled boutons in the dorsal and dorsomedial cortical areas were GABA immunoreactive and all the double-labelled boutons established symmetric synaptic contacts on cell bodies and dendrites that were also found to be GABA immunoreactive in all cases. In contrast, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labelled varicosities in the outer plexiform layer of the medial cortex made asymmetric synaptic contacts on GABA-immunonegative profiles and they were themselves negative for GABA. In double-labelled sections, GABA-, calbindin D28k- and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons were found to be innervated by multiple Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labelled varicosities in the dorsal and dorsomedial cortical areas, whereas in the medial cortex Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labelled fibres were not observed in contact with any subpopulation of GABAergic cells. The results demonstrate that in lizards the septal-basal forebrain projection to the cortex has a GABAergic component, which selectively terminates on GABAergic non-pyramidal cells including the neuropeptide Y- and the calbindin D28k-containing subpopulations. This synaptic organization is remarkably similar to that in mammals, and suggests that the mechanisms of control of the cortical activity by the basal forebrain have been highly preserved during phylogeny.
The present studies were undertaken to determine whether the major electrophysiological characteristics of neostriatal neurons are altered during aging. The passive and active membrane properties of 130 neostriatal neurons obtained from young (three to five months, N = 65) and aged (24-26 months, N = 65) Fischer 344 rats were compared using an in vitro slice preparation. The results indicated that in a population of aged neostriatal neurons the majority of the electrophysiological changes that occurred resulted in decreases in cellular excitability. These changes included increased threshold to induce action potentials by intracellular current injection and decreased negativity of membrane potentials at which such action potentials were induced. In addition, there were increases in the amplitude of the action potential afterhyperpolarization and increases in the frequency of occurrence of accommodation when trains of action potentials were induced. These two latter effects can limit the frequency of action potential generation. The thresholds to elicit synaptically evoked depolarizing responses and action potentials were increased. The results also indicated that a number of basic electrophysiological parameters were unchanged by the aging process. These included action potential amplitude, rise time and duration, resting membrane potential, input resistance and time constant. Although thresholds for the induction of synaptic and action potentials by extracellular stimulation were increased, the latency, amplitude and duration of the evoked depolarization remained unchanged. These findings suggest that the ability of neostriatal neurons to integrate spatiotemporal inputs must be severely compromised in this population of aged cells. Furthermore, the present findings, when compared with age-induced electrophysiological alterations in neurons in other brain areas, indicate that age may differentially alter electrophysiological properties of neurons in separate nuclei. Profiles of age-related changes in neurophysiological properties of neurons provide important information that can be related to the contributions of individual neural areas to the behavioral effects of aging.
In a previous work we have shown that culturing adult rat dorsal root ganglia neurons modifies their neurotransmitter phenotype in such a way that cultured neurons synthesize transmitters that are not found in situ, while several other transmitters are expressed in a much higher percentage of neurons in culture than in situ [Schoenen J. et al. (1989) J. Neurosci. Res. 22, 473-487]. The aim of the present study was to investigate the origin and the nature of the relevant environmental signals that allow this plasticity to be expressed, focusing on three neurotransmitters: 5-hydroxytryptamine, thyrotropin-releasing hormone and calcitonin-gene related peptide. The main results can be summarized as follows: (1) culturing cells in fetal calf serum or on feeder layers of astrocytes, Schwann cells or fibroblasts partially inhibits the serotoninergic phenotype of dorsal root ganglia neurons; (2) in vivo disconnection of dorsal root ganglia from their spinal targets but not from their peripheral or supraspinal targets induces a significant increase of the percentage of 5-hydroxytryptamine- and thyrotropin-releasing hormone-positive neurons in disconnected ganglia; (3) growth factors such as ciliary neuronotrophic factor or basic fibroblast growth factor but not nerve growth factor repress 5-hydroxytryptamine and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in cultured sensory neurons. In conclusion, neurotransmitter gene expression of adult dorsal root ganglia neurons is controlled by complex influences. Our data suggest that thyrotropin-releasing hormone and 5-hydroxytryptamine gene expression are tonically repressed in vivo by factors originating from the spinal segmental level and that growth factors such as ciliary neurotrophic factor or basic fibroblast growth factor could be potential vectors of this repressing effect.
Corticotropin-releasing factor has an integrative role on the behavioral, endocrine and autonomic responses to stress. Immediate-early gene (c-fos) expression was used to determine patterns of neural activity in the limbic system following i.c.v. infusion of corticotropin-releasing factor. Either 250 or 1000 pmol corticotropin-releasing factor infused into the lateral ventricle of precannulated and handled male rats resulted in marked c-fos expression 60 or 120 min later in localized regions of the basal forebrain, including the ventrolateral septum, the dorsal and medial parvicellular divisions of the paraventricular nucleus, the central nucleus of the amygdala, and dorsal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Pre-infusion of alpha-helical corticotropin-releasing factor (2500 pmol), a competitive corticotropin-releasing factor antagonist of corticotropin-releasing factor, had no effect on immediate-early gene expression alone but reduced that elicited by exogenous i.c.v. corticotropin-releasing factor (250 pmol)--in some areas to control levels. Fifteen minutes of restraint stress, a situation in which corticotropin-releasing factor is released endogenously, also activated c-fos expression in a pattern that resembled corticotropin-releasing factor infusions but was not identical. There was enhanced expression in the dorsal and medial areas of the paraventricular nucleus, but not its magnocellular region, and increased expression in the ventrolateral septum; however, there was no detectable response on the central amygdala. Preinfusion of alpha-helical corticotropin-releasing factor (2500 pmol) had no significant effect on stress-induced c-fos expression in the ventrolateral septum or paraventricular nucleus. This suggests that corticotropin-releasing factor release may form only a part of the central neurochemical response to restraint stress. Rats given i.c.v. corticotropin-releasing factor (250 pmol) before restraint stress showed additive effects on c-fos in the ventrolateral septum but not in the paraventricular nucleus; the central nucleus of the amygdala reacted as if corticotropin-releasing factor alone had been infused. Corticosterone levels were raised by both stress and corticotropin-releasing factor, but pretreatment with alpha-helical corticotropin-releasing factor reduced them after either procedure, which correlates with c-fos expression in the paraventricular nucleus and ventrolateral septum. These results show that corticotropin-releasing factor induces a specific pattern of c-fos expression in localized regions of the amygdala, hypothalamus and septum, which may indicate a corresponding pattern of neural activation. Restraint, one form of stress, activates c-fos in a similar but not identical manner, suggesting that corticotropin-releasing factor may not be the only neuropeptide involved in the response to this stressor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Administration of kainic acid (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or pentetrazole (75 mg/kg, i.p.) to rats evoked recurrent limbic or tonic-clonic seizures, respectively. Radioimmunoassay showed that the level of alpha-neoendorphin (prodynorphin-derived peptide) in the hippocampus was decreased after 3 h (by c. 60%) and 72 h (by c. 40%), but was not changed after 24 h following kainic acid administration. The basal release of alpha-neoendorphin from hippocampal slices of kainic acid-treated rats was decreased after 3, 24 and 72 h following the drug injection by c. 50%. The K(+)-stimulated release was decreased after 3 and 24 h (by c. 300 and 200%, respectively) and was back to the control level after 72 h. An in situ hybridization study showed that kainic acid strongly enhanced the prodynorphin messenger RNA levels in the dentate gyrus after 3 and 24 h (by c. 200%), whereas after 72 h it tended to decrease. Twenty four hours after pentetrazole injection the hippocampal level of alpha-neoendorphin was elevated (by c. 33%) and remained unchanged after 3 and 72 h. No significant changes in the basal or K(+)-stimulated alpha-neoendorphin release from hippocampal slices of pentetrazole-treated rats were found at any time points measured. Three and 24 h after pentetrazole administration the level of prodynorphin mRNA in the dentate gyrus was slightly decreased (by c. 30%), but was back to the control values after 72 h. Hence seizure-related changes in hippocampal prodynorphin neuron activity seem to depend on the experimental model of epilepsy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Tachykinins exert a broad range of actions in the mammalian nervous system. While much is known about the localization of peptides derived from one of the two mammalian tachykinin genes (substance P- and neurokinin A-encoding preprotachykinin), little has been reported on the localization of peptides derived from a second tachykinin gene encoding neurokinin B. Using an antiserum raised against a 30-residue peptide fragment (Peptide 2) of the protein precursor to neurokinin B, we have mapped the distribution of Peptide 2 by immunocytochemistry. Peptide 2 antiserum specificity was determined by western blot analysis (which showed antibody cross-reactivity to a neurokinin B fusion protein from a cloned neurokinin B-encoding complementary DNA) and by the elimination of immunoreactive product in brain tissue sections upon preabsorption with a 10 microM concentration of Peptide 2 peptide. In addition, we report on the distribution of neurokinin B-messenger RNA with a full-length complementary RNA probe to localize cells that express the neurokinin B precursor. Peptide 2 immunoreactivity and neurokinin B-messenger RNA-positive cells were found, in some instances, paralleling the distribution of substance P and in other cases existing separately from substance P. Peptide 2 immunoreactivity as well as neurokinin B-messenger RNA-positive cells were found in the main olfactory bulb, cortex, olfactory tubercle, nucleus accumbens, hippocampus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, amygdala, medial habenula, periaqueductal gray, superior and inferior colliculus, and nucleus of the spinal trigeminal tract. Whereas substance P is found throughout the rat brain, neurokinin B appears to be partitioned more to forebrain than to brainstem structures. The marked differences in the distribution of both tachykinins in the rat central nervous system suggests that neurokinin B may play an important role in olfactory, gustatory, visceral, and neuroendocrine processing of information.
A new class of G-proteins, the Gq family, has been recently identified and found to be involved in phospholipase C activation. The alpha subunits of the Gq and G11 members of this family are separate polypeptides but appear to have the same function. In this study, the cellular distribution in the adult rat brain of these G-proteins, Gq alpha/G11 alpha, was determined by immunohistochemistry using an antipeptide antiserum directed against the predicted C-terminal decapeptide which is conserved between these polypeptides. The specificity of the antiserum was verified by Western blot analysis using rat brain homogenates. Immunoreactivity was detected in neurons, where it was localized in the dendrites and at the periphery of the cell bodies. The staining was abundant in the dendrites of cerebellar Purkinje cells and hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. Staining was also found in neurons in the olfactory bulb, minor and major islets of Calleja, anterior olfactory nuclei and piriform cortex; the different cortical areas especially in their superficial layers; caudate-putamen, accumbens and olfactory tubercle; lateral septum and amygdala; hippocampal CA2-4 sectors of Ammon's horn, dentate gyrus and hilus; hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus; cerebellar granular layer; colliculi and superficial layers of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. In conclusion, the brain neuronal localizations of Gq alpha/G11 alpha match that of phospholipase C, 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor and, to a lesser extent 1,4,5-triphosphate-3-kinase.
Polyclonal antibodies were generated against the major polypeptide (73,000 mol. wt) present in a highly purified preparation of the [Na+ + K+]coupled L-glutamate transporter from rat brain. These antibodies were able to selectively immunoprecipitate the 73,000 mol. wt polypeptide as well as most of the L-glutamate transport activity--as assayed upon reconstitution--from crude detergent extracts of rat brain membranes. The immunoreactivity in the various fractions obtained during the purification procedure [Danbolt et al. (1990) Biochemistry 29, 6734-6740] closely correlated with the L-glutamate transport activity. Immunoblotting of a crude sodium dodecyl sulphate brain extract, separated by two-dimensional isoelectric focusing-sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, showed that the antibodies recognized one 73,000 mol. wt protein species only. Deglycosylation of the protein gave a 10,000 reduction in molecular mass, but no reduction in immunoreactivity. These findings establish that the 73,000 mol. wt polypeptide represents the L-glutamate transporter or a subunit thereof. The antibodies also recognize a 73,000 mol. wt polypeptide and immunoprecipitate L-glutamate transport activity in extracts of brain plasma membranes from rabbit, pig, cow, cat and man. Using the antibodies, the immunocytochemical localization of the transporter was studied at the light and electron microscopic levels in rat central nervous system. In all regions examined (including cerebral cortex, caudatoputamen, corpus callosum, hippocampus, cerebellum, spinal cord) it was found to be located in glial cells rather than in neurons. In particular, fine astrocytic processes were strongly stained. Putative glutamatergic axon terminals appeared non-immunoreactive. The uptake of glutamate by such terminals (for which there is strong previous evidence) therefore may be due to a subtype of glutamate transporter different from the glial transporter demonstrated by us.
Neurons in the perigeniculate sector of the reticular thalamic nuclear complex were recorded extra- and intracellularly under deep urethane anesthesia. They were identified by burst responses to optic chiasm stimulation and depolarizing spindle oscillations in response to internal capsule stimulation. Perigeniculate neurons displayed oscillations within the frequency range of electroencephalogram delta waves (1-4 Hz). One-third of extracellularly recorded neurons discharged rhythmic (2.5-4 Hz), high-frequency (150-200 Hz) spike bursts. This was similar to an intrinsic oscillation that was recently observed in dorsal lateral geniculate cells studied in vitro and in vivo. Other oscillating neurons displayed trains of single spikes (20-50 Hz) crowning rhythmic (2.5-4 Hz) depolarizing envelopes that were best expressed at the &quot;resting&quot; membrane potential (-60 to -65 mV). It is suggested that this oscillation reflects synaptic drives from dorsal lateral geniculate neurons. Changes in ambient room luminosity disrupted both types of delta rhythms. These data demonstrate for the first time that delta oscillations are present in the visual sector of the reticular thalamic nucleus. The results suggest that the two types of delta rhythmicity result from intrinsic and network properties of visual thalamic neurons and that perigeniculate cells may synchronize, through backward connections, the activity of dorsal lateral geniculate cells during deep stages of resting sleep.
Thalamocortical neurons of cat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus were recorded under urethane anesthesia. Neurons were identified by antidromic invasion from the internal capsule and by orthodromic stimulation from the optic chiasm or light stimuli. An intrinsic oscillation within the frequency of sleep delta waves (1-4 Hz) was induced by hyperpolarizing current pulses triggering a rhythmic sequence of low-threshold spikes alternating with after hyperpolarizing potentials. The increased propensity to oscillation after blockage of inputs arising in the retina indicates that afferent synaptic drives interfere with the intrinsic oscillation of lateral geniculate cells. The relatively rare occurrence of this type of oscillation in impaled neurons, as compared with extracellular recordings in the same nucleus or to intracellular recordings in other dorsal thalamic nuclei, suggests that the interplay between the two intrinsic currents generating delta oscillation is particularly critical in lateral geniculate cells. Another type of delta oscillation was characterized by excitatory postsynaptic potentials which gave rise to action potentials or to low-threshold spikes at more depolarized or hyperpolarized levels, respectively. It is suggested that this rhythm reflects synaptic coupling by intranuclear recurrent axonal collaterals. Light stimulation induced fast (30-70 Hz) excitatory events that were blocked after lidocaine injections into the eye. In all tested cells, changes in the ambient luminosity of the experimental room blocked the intrinsic as well as the synaptic oscillation within the delta frequency. In some cells, this suppressing effect was associated with depolarization and increased firing rate. These results demonstrate different types of sleep delta oscillations in visual thalamic neurons and show that they are modulated not only by brainstem regulatory systems, but also by specific drives along the visual channel.
Extra- and intracellular recordings of thalamic reticular and relay neurons were performed in rats under urethane anaesthesia. Under this type of anaesthesia it was found that, throughout the whole reticular thalamic nucleus, a large proportion of cells (approximately 34%) discharged like clocks within a 25-60 Hz frequency band width (i.e. 40 Hz). Simultaneous recordings of pairs of reticular cells showed that the regular discharges of nearby units were not synchronous. Thus, the asynchronous 40-Hz firing of reticular thalamic cells was not correlated with any 40-Hz extracellular activity as revealed by the spectral analysis of the electroencephalogram and by recordings performed in various thalamic nuclei. In relay cells of the ventrobasal, ventral lateral and posterior thalamic nuclei, the regular firing of reticular thalamic neurons induced a rhythmic inhibitory modulation that was detected by the time-series analysis of the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. In many relay cells, however, the disclosure of this inhibitory modulation required cellular depolarization since the resting potential in these cells was maintained at the reversal potential of the inhibitory events. Intracellular recordings of reticular thalamic cells showed that their regular firing was not driven in an all-or-nothing manner by 40-Hz synaptic inputs but rather that it depended upon the activation of a voltage-dependent pacemaker mechanism; this pacemaker activity was manifested by the presence of subthreshold oscillations that drove spike discharges and whose frequency was voltage dependent. In the context of data already published on the genesis of 40-Hz oscillations in the brain, and given the key position of reticular thalamic neurons in thalamocortical networks, the present results indicate that the reticular thalamic nucleus might play a pacemaker function in the genesis of 40-Hz oscillations in the thalamus and cortex during states of focused arousal.
alpha-Calcitonin gene-related peptide expression in alpha-motoneurons is regulated by spinal cord transection, axotomy and testosterone, but to date there are no studies which examine the regulation of cholecystokinin expression in motoneurons. In the present study, we compared the regulation of preprocholecystokinin and alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA levels in motoneurons of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus. Previously, we demonstrated that manipulations which decrease activity in target muscles of the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus motoneurons increase alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide message and peptide levels in spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus motoneurons. This muscle-nerve interaction is mediated by a soluble factor which is increased by castration. We now report that decreasing plasma testosterone levels decreased preprocholecystokinin messenger RNA levels. Testosterone replacement at the time of castration restored preprocholecystokinin messenger RNA levels to intact values. Injections of crude extracts prepared from denervated bulbocavernosus/levator ani into the homologous muscles of gonadally intact rats increased the levels of alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA in spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus motoneurons. The levels of preprocholecystokinin messenger RNA did not differ in rats injected with denervated bulbocavernosus/levator ani extract or buffer, both of which were significantly higher than in intact, untreated rats. The results of the present experiments imply that levels of preprocholecystokinin and alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger ribonucleic acid are differentially regulated in spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus motoneurons.
The distribution of nicotinic receptors in the brain and ganglia of the Cynomolgus monkey was studied by in situ hybridization and receptor autoradiography. A 35S-labeled antisense riboprobe for the mRNA of the alpha 3 subunit of the human nicotinic receptor, [3H]L-nicotine and [125]alpha-bungarotoxin were used as markers. The highest levels of alpha 3-mRNA were observed in the hippocampus, the medial habenula, the lateral geniculate, the granular layer of the cerebellum, as well as in the pineal gland; moderate levels were found in other nuclei of the thalamus and in the deeper layers of the cerebral cortex. High-affinity binding sites for [3H]L-nicotine were observed mainly in the thalamus. The distribution of [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites was different from that observed for alpha 3-mRNA and [3H]L-nicotine; they were most abundant in a few specific thalamic nuclei, in the medial habenula and in lamina I of the cerebral cortex. The localization of these three markers was also investigated in the sympathetic, parasympathetic and sensory ganglia of the monkey. Intense labeling was observed for alpha 3-mRNA and for [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin in the sympathetic and parasympathetic ganglia, whereas no positive signal was seen in the ganglion of Gasser. [3H]L-nicotine binding was not detected in any of the ganglia examined. High levels of mRNA for the alpha 3 subunit of the nicotinic receptor were also detected in human sympathetic ganglia. Comparison between alpha 3-mRNA distribution and [3H]L-nicotine binding suggests that in the Cynomolgus monkey brain, the alpha 3 subunit may participate in the formation of more than one nicotinic receptor subtype: a high-affinity binding site for [3H]L-nicotine in the thalamus, and other sites with low affinity for nicotine in the medial habenula and cerebral cortex. Both the alpha 3-mRNA and the [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin are highly expressed in the sympathetic ganglia; however, since no information is presently available on the intraneuronal cellular localization, it cannot be established whether or not they are both present at synaptic sites.
Fast (20-80 Hz) oscillations of cortical activity, occurring during an increased level of focused alertness or elicited by optimal sensory stimuli, have been described by recording field potentials and neuronal firing in various cortical areas. Despite the increasing interest in this topic, little is known about the cellular mechanisms of the fast (generally termed 40-Hz) rhythm. An in vitro study demonstrated that, in sparsely spiny interneurons of frontal cortex, the 40-Hz rhythm is generated by a voltage-dependent persistent Na+ current, with the involvement of a delayed rectifier. Here we report depolarization-dependent 40-Hz oscillations in cat's motor and association neocortical neurons with identified projections to contralateral homotopic cortical area and thalamus. Our data indicate that this fast rhythm may be synchronized through intracortical and corticothalamic linkages.
The regional and cellular ontogeny of the mRNA encoding the dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, DARPP-32, has been studied in rat striatum by quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. The mRNA for DARPP-32 exhibited a characteristic developmental profile. The hybridization signal was first visible on the day of birth, at which time DARPP-32 mRNA was concentrated in patches in the caudate-putamen. By the end of the first postnatal week, the majority of neurons in the caudate-putamen expressed the DARPP-32 message. Levels of mRNA per cell increased markedly during the second postnatal week, and peaked around the beginning of the third week. The adult level of DARPP-32 mRNA was lower than that observed at the apex of mRNA expression, on a per cell basis, while the proportion of neurons expressing detectable levels of message remained relatively constant. In the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle, DARPP-32 mRNA development lagged somewhat behind that observed in the caudate-putamen, but was similar in other respects. A non-quantitative study employing an oligonucleotide probe complementary to the mRNA encoding another cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, ARPP-21, revealed a similar developmental sequence to DARPP-32. The present results suggest that for DARPP-32 mRNA, genetic and, possibly, environmental factors play a role in determining the developmental patterns observed.
Synaptic overflow of dopamine in the striatum has been investigated during electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle in anesthetized rats. Dopamine has been detected with Nafion-coated, carbon-fiber electrodes used with fast-scan voltammetry. In accordance with previous results, dopamine synaptic overflow is a function of the stimulation frequency and the anatomical position of the carbon-fiber electrode. In some positions the concentration of dopamine is found to respond instantaneously to the stimulus when the time-delay for diffusion through the Nafion film is accounted for. In these locations the measured rates of change of dopamine are sufficiently rapid such that extracellular diffusion is not apparent. The rate of dopamine overflow can be described by a model in which each stimulus pulse causes instantaneous release, and cellular uptake decreases the concentration between stimulus pulses. Uptake is found to be described by a constant set of Michaelis-Menten kinetics at each location for concentrations of dopamine from 100 nM to 15 microM. The concentration of dopamine released per stimulus pulse is found to be greatest at low frequency (&lt; or = 10 Hz) with stimulus trains, and with single-pulse stimulations in nomifensine-treated animals. The frequency dependence of release is not an effect of dopamine receptor activation; haloperidol (2.5 mg/kg) causes a uniform increase in release at all frequencies. The absence of diffusional effects in the measurement locations means that the constants determined with the electrode are those operant inside intact striatal tissue during stimulated overflow. These values are then extrapolated to the case where a single neuron fires alone. The extrapolation shows that while the transient concentration of dopamine may be high (200 nM) at the interface of the synapse and the extrasynaptic region, it is normally very low (&lt; 6 nM) in the bulk of extracellular fluid.
The effects of an acute intoxicating concentration of ethanol (50 mM) on the electrotonic membrane properties of hippocampal dentate granule neurons were studied using a system model incorporating electrotonic coupling between neurons. Uncoupling of cells by other alcohols has been shown in several tissues. The system model allows a quantitative estimation of the changes in coupling and other neuronal electrotonic properties. The input impedance of a neuron was measured from the voltage decay of a short hyperpolarizing current pulse. An analytic expression of the input impedance has been written incorporating somatic, dendritic, and electrical coupling parameters. Using this particular current stimulation, the modelling results showed that ethanol selectively increased the junctional resistance by more than 2.5 times, hence uncoupling the neurons. A 30% increase in the final time-constant, tau 0, was also obtained from the voltage transient. Other parameters were not significantly affected. A neuronal model without electrotonic coupling to other neurons gave rise to physiologically impossible values for the membrane resistance and capacitance. With resistive and capacitive coupling in the model, uncoupling did not occur with ethanol. It is concluded that ethanol uncouples neurons by increasing the effective gap junctional resistance in dentate granule neurons.
Accumulation of quinolinic acid and neuroactive kynurenines derived from tryptophan are of potential significance in human neuropathologic diseases because of their neurotoxic and convulsant properties. Clinical studies have established that sustained elevations of quinolinic acid, L-kynurenine and kynurenic acid within the cerebrospinal fluid occur in patients with a broad spectrum of inflammatory diseases and correlate with markers of immune activation and interferon-gamma activity. The present study describes an animal model that replicates these clinical observations and investigates the role of interferon-gamma as a mediator between immune activation and increased kynurenine pathway metabolism. Marked elevations in quinolinic acid, L-kynurenine and 3-hydroxykynurenine as well as an increased ratio of quinolinic acid: kynurenic acid in brain occurred 24 h after systemic pokeweed mitogen administration to C57BL6 mice. In plasma, L-tryptophan and kynurenic acid levels were reduced by pokeweed mitogen, while the concentrations of L-kynurenine, 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinic acid were increased. Interferon-gamma, pokeweed mitogen and lipopolysaccharide induced indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase, the first enzyme of the kynurenine pathway, and increased both L-kynurenine and quinolinic acid concentrations of brain and systemic tissues, particularly in the lung, gastrointestinal tract and spleen. In contrast, hepatic tryptophan-2,3-dioxygenase activity was either reduced or unaffected. Increases in kynurenine pathway metabolism were sustained in mice given daily injections of interferon-gamma for seven days and subsequent responses to interferon-gamma were further enhanced. In contrast, daily administration of lipopolysaccharide was associated with subsequent attenuated responsiveness (tolerance) to lipopolysaccharide, pokeweed mitogen and interferon-gamma. Systemic administration of a monoclonal antibody to mouse interferon-gamma either attenuated or abolished the responses of kynurenine pathway metabolism to pokeweed mitogen and interferon-gamma. We conclude that acute and chronic increases in quinolinic acid and neuroactive kynurenines follow immune stimulation in mice, and result from indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase induction. The results demonstrate that interferon-gamma is an important mediator between immune stimulation and indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase induction. These increases in kynurenine pathway metabolism closely parallel the responses documented in patients with a broad spectrum of inflammatory diseases. Mice treated with immune stimuli are a useful model to investigate the relationships between immune activation and kynurenine pathway metabolism.
This study was undertaken to provide evidence of enhanced regeneration of mammalian peripheral nerves in response to applied d.c. electric fields. Peroneal nerves of adult guinea-pigs were crushed or transected and anastomosed. Constant current d.c. stimulators (20 microA) were implanted in the flank with platinum/iridium electrodes routed to the ankles. Animals with crush lesions were tested for toe spreading ability from the 14th to the 23rd day following the lesion. Animals with transection lesions were allowed to recover for 40 days and isometric force measurements of toe abduction and foot flexion were made. Both myelinated and unmyelinated fiber densities were determined. There proved to be no difference between legs treated with an anode, a cathode, or a sham electrode as evaluated by: the time to return of the toe spreading reflex, the isometric force of either twitches or tonic contractions, the latency between stimulation and contraction, or the number or density of either myelinated or unmyelinated fibers. These negative results are at variance with other studies that have reported beneficial effects of d.c. electric fields on peripheral nerve regeneration. The stimulation and analysis techniques used in this study were well within the variety of protocols that have yielded reports of highly significant positive effects with smaller numbers of animals than used in this study. The conclusion is that either there is a subtle but highly specific and critical difference between the present protocol and others, or the other studies need to be reevaluated. In either case, it seems that the ability of applied d.c. fields to enhance peripheral nerve regeneration in vivo remains open to question.
Full-length mouse microtubule-associated protein 2 complementary DNA inserted between Drosophila heat-shock protein 70 promoter and trailer was introduced in the germ-line of Drosophila melanogaster by P element-mediated transformation. Three transformant lines contained microtubule-associated protein 2 complementary DNA in sense orientation and two in antisense orientation. All sense lines produced microtubule-associated protein 2 after heat-shock in several tissues at low level. In the adult brain, high-level microtubule associated protein 2 expression independent of heat induction occurred in specific neuron types in each sense transformant, suggesting the action of neuron-specific enhancer genes. High microtubule-associated protein 2 levels are expected to interfere with the cells' activity by forming unphysiological cross-links, which may help elucidate the function of the given neurons.
Previous studies have used a sensitive histochemical technique to demonstrate acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase within the pathological lesions of Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we used this technique to show that acetylcholinesterase localized in either frozen or fixed neocortical tissue sections is removed after treatment with various glycosaminoglycans, heparinases or proteases. Heparan sulphate, heparinase lyase type I and to a lesser degree, heparin and chondroitin sulphate were effective in solubilizing a large part of the cholinesterase activity. At physiological concentrations, the protease papain or trypsin readily removed activity but collagenase or pronase were relatively less effective. Peptide protease inhibitors and divalent metals did not exhibit any clear effect. The specificity of these observations was shown by inhibition of activity with various anticholinesterases including diisofluorophosphate. Our results suggest that acetylcholinesterase is anchored to and may be released from the heparan sulphate glycosaminoglycans shown to be contained in the lesions. We further suggest that the localization of cholinesterases is closely associated with the accumulation of the glycosaminoglycans in amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles.
A mechanomyographic response of the hind foot to passive straightening and bending, as well as an electromyographic activity of the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles were recorded in old (35-44-month-old) and young female rats. In old rats, spontaneous, tonic electromyographic activity patterns were concurrently observed in both antagonistic muscles; they were low-amplitude, dense tonic activity and continuous, high-amplitude, sparse electromyographic activity. The tonic electromyographic activity was correlated with a decline in the strength and mass of muscles, as well as with motor disturbances, including paresis of the rigidly straightened backward hind legs, dragged behind by an animal. In muscles of old rats, morphological features of a chronic denervation atrophy were found. Baclofen (10 and 15 mg/kg, i.p.) diminished the spontaneous tonic electromyographic activity and potently decreased the whole body muscle tone, whereas Madopar (50 mg/kg of L-DOPA+12.5 mg/kg of benerazide) was ineffective. It is suggested that old rats in which the above-described pathologic alterations are observed might be a useful animal model in the search for basic etiopathological mechanisms of spasticity and similar disturbances found in humans.
The cellular localization of binding sites for [125I]arginine vasopressin and [125I]atrial natriuretic peptide was studied in explant cultures of rat spinal cord, brain stem and cerebellum by means of autoradiography. In brain stem cultures, especially in the nucleus of the solitary tract, a great number of neurons revealed binding sites for both peptides. In spinal cord cultures, many neurons of various sizes were labelled by [125I]arginine vasopressin, whereas only a small number of cells showed binding sites for [125I]atrial natriuretic peptide. Neurons in cerebellar cultures revealed little or no binding for the peptides. In addition to neurons, binding sites for [125I]arginine vasopressin and [125I]atrial natriuretic peptide were also observed on glial cells. Simultaneous staining of the cultures with glial fibrillary acidic protein has shown that the labelled cells were glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive and could therefore be identified as astrocytes. Labelling of the cells by [125I]arginine vasopressin and [125I]atrial natriuretic peptide was more intense in spinal cord and brain stem cultures than in cultures of cerebellum, providing evidence for a heterogeneity of astrocytes in different regions of the central nervous system. Binding of both [125I]arginine vasopressin and [125I]atrial natriuretic peptide to neurons and astrocytes could be competed by the unlabelled peptides, suggesting specific binding of the radioligands. Our autoradiographic studies provide good evidence that in addition to neurons, astrocytes also express receptors for arginine vasopressin and atrial natriuretic peptide.
Organotypic cerebellar cultures derived from neonatal mice were exposed to recent preparations of cytosine arabinoside that destroyed oligodendrocytes and drastically reduced granule cells, but did not reduce the astrocyte population. The cultures were analysed by light and electron microscopy, and by extracellular electrophysiological recording. Purkinje cells survived in greater numbers than in untreated explants and sprouted excess recurrent axon collaterals that formed heterotypical synapses with Purkinje cell dendritic spines. These changes were similar to those found in earlier studies with a cytosine arabinoside preparation that did reduce the astrocyte population, in addition to destroying oligodendrocytes and granule cells. Results with recent cytosine arabinoside preparations that differed from those obtained previously included astrocytic ensheathment of Purkinje cells and apposition of many unattached dendritic spines, encasement of heterotypical synapses by astroglial processes, a loss of Purkinje cell somatic spines, and a lack of somatic hyperinnervation of Purkinje cells by sprouted recurrent axon collateral terminals. All of these differences were attributed to the presence of adequate numbers of competent astrocytes. Heterotypical synapses formed by sprouted recurrent axon collateral terminals and Purkinje cell dendritic spines were functional, as indicated by cortical inhibition in response to antidromic Purkinje cell activation in the absence of somatic hyperinnervation. These results give further definition to the role of astrocytes in cerebellar development and plasticity.
Excitotoxins are thought to kill neurons while sparing afferent fibers and axons of passage. The validity of this classical conclusion has recently been questioned by the demonstration of axonal demyelination. In addition, axons are submitted to a profound alteration of their glial environment. This work was, therefore, undertaken to reassess axonoglial interactions over time after an excitotoxic lesion in the rat. Ultrastructural studies were carried out in the ventrobasal thalamus two days to 18 months after neuronal depletion by in situ injections of kainic acid. In some cases, lemniscal afferents were identified by using anterograde transport of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase from the dorsal column nuclei. Two and four days after kainate injection, numerous dying axons displaying typical signs of Wallerian degeneration were observed in a neuropile characterized by the loss of neuronal somata and dendrites, an increase in number of microglia/macrophages and the disappearance of astrocytes. Ten and 12 days after kainate injection, degenerating axons were no longer observed although myelin degeneration of otherwise unaltered axons was ongoing with an accumulation of myelin remnants in the neuropile. At 16 and 20 days, the demyelination process was apparently complete and axons of different diameters were sometimes packed together. One and two months after kainate injection, the axonal environment changed again: remyelination of large-caliber axons occurred at the same time as reactive astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and numerous Schwann cells appeared in the tissue. Schwann cell processes surrounded aggregates of axons of diverse calibers, ensheathed small ones and myelinated larger ones. Axons were also remyelinated by oligodendrocytes. Horseradish peroxidase-labeled lemniscal afferents could be myelinated by either of the two cell types. After three months, the neuropile exhibited an increase in number of hypertrophied astrocytes and the progressive loss of any other cellular or axonal element. At this stage, remaining Schwann cells were surrounded by a glia limitans formed by astrocytic processes. These data indicate that although excitotoxins are sparing the axons, they are having a profound and complex effect on the axonal environment. Demyelination occurs over the first weeks, accompanying the loss of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Axonal ensheathment and remyelination takes place in a second period, associated with the reappearance of oligodendrocytes and recruitment of numerous Schwann cells, while reactive astrocytes appear in the tissue at a slightly later time. Over the following months, astrocytes occupy a greater proportion of the neuron-depleted territory and other elements decrease in number.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The localization of messenger RNAs encoding the crustacean hyperglycemic hormone, involved in regulation of carbohydrate metabolism and the gonad inhibiting hormone, which inhibits vitellogenesis, was studied in the eyestalk of the lobster Homarus americanus using complementary RNA probes for in situ hybridization. For the detection of gonad inhibiting hormone messenger RNA, we cloned and sequenced a partial complementary DNA encoding lobster gonad inhibiting hormone and for crustacean hyperglycemic hormone messenger RNA detection an available complementary DNA was used. This approach reveals that there is a frequent but inconsistent cellular co-localization of the two neurohormones. Furthermore, our data show that male lobsters contain an equal number of neuroendocrine gonad inhibiting hormone cells as female lobsters. An additional study, involving the use of in situ hybridization in combination with immunocytochemistry, shows that the synthetic activity of the crustacean hyperglycemic hormone- and gonad inhibiting hormone-producing cells can be followed at the messenger RNA as well as the protein level. This reveals that when strong immunostaining is present, the messenger RNA staining is usually weak or absent and vice versa. In conclusion, the presence of cells, containing only gonad inhibiting hormone messenger RNA or only crustacean hyperglycemic hormone messenger RNA, indicates that lobster crustacean hyperglycemic hormone and gonad inhibiting hormone originate from two different precursors. Co-localization of the two neurohormone messenger RNAs confirms the co-localization at the peptidergic level found by immunocytochemistry and thus these findings were not due to cross-reactions between the two antisera.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This study bears on the control exerted by neurotransmitters on the expression of a 40-Hz pacemaker activity observed in reticular thalamic cells. Experiments were conducted in urethane-anaesthetized rats using extracellular recordings and local applications of antagonists against the neurotransmitters involved in the modulation of reticular thalamic cells. All drugs were dissolved in a Ringer's solution (pH 7.4) and were applied in small quantities (25-150 nl) by pressure through one barrel of a micropipette assembly. Forty-Hertz firing was abolished by local application of the alpha 1 antagonist prazosin and by bilateral lesion of the locus coeruleus. Local applications of glutamate antagonists reduced the rate of discharges by 30-50% as did cortical cooling or complete transection of the internal capsule. Conversely, scopolamine exerted a permissive action on the expression of 40-Hz activities; many spontaneously bursting units started firing at 40 Hz under the influence of this muscarinic antagonist. Since reticular thalamic cells are GABAergic and synaptically coupled via axonal collaterals, we investigated how GABAergic drugs affected the regular firing of these cells. Local applications of bicuculline produced a transient increase of the firing rates while the application of GABA induced intermittent pauses on a background of regular discharges. The application of piperidine-4-sulphonic acid, a GABAA receptor agonist, produced a similar effect. The length of pauses generated by piperidine was statistically analysed. It was found that the duration of short pauses was a multiple integer of the mean interspike interval of surrounding discharges. The preservation of the period and phase of the rhythm across the pauses implies that a subthreshold oscillation was presented into the cells during the arrests of discharges. Given the mode of action of noradrenaline and acetylcholine on reticular thalamic neurons, and considering a possible metabotropic action of glutamate, the above results suggest that deactivation of a leaky K conductance is critically involved in the regular firing of these cells in urethane-anaesthetized rats. Alternatively, because reticular cells are coupled via inhibitory synapses, it is proposed that the 40-Hz firing frequency reflects, in the frequency domain, a point of equilibrium in the reticular thalamic network when the leaky K conductance is fully deactivated by the metabotropic effects of monoamines and/or excitatory amino acids.
The release of somatostatin (somatostatin-like immunoreactivity) from hippocampal slices during the development of hippocampal kindling in rats was measured under resting and depolarizing conditions. Preliminary experiments in naive rats showed that the spontaneous efflux of somatostatin (4.0 +/- 0.3 fmol/ml every 10 min) was independent of external Ca2+ but was reduced to 71.5 +/- 6% of baseline (P &lt; 0.05) during 20 min incubation with 5 microM tetrodotoxin. Neuronal depolarization with 25, 50 and 100 mM KCl induced a Ca(2+)-dependent somatostatin release, respectively 4.3 +/- 0.4, 16.7 +/- 1.6 and 22.0 +/- 1.3 times baseline (P &lt; 0.01). Veratridine caused a dose-dependent Ca2+ and tetrodotoxin (5 microM) sensitive release ranging from 6.5 +/- 0.1 to 13.0 +/- 1.4 times baseline at 1.4 microM and 50 microM respectively (P &lt; 0.01). One week after the last of three consecutive stage 5 seizures (full seizure expression) or 48 h after the last stage 2 stimulation (preconvulsive stage), 50 mM KCl-induced somatostatin release was significantly higher (1.8 +/- 0.1, P &lt; 0.01) than in shams (animals implanted with electrodes but not stimulated) in the stimulated and contralateral hippocampus. Somatostatin release measured under resting conditions was increased by 1.5 times in the stimulated hippocampus at stage 2 (P &lt; 0.05) and by 2.2 and 1.7 times in both hippocampi at stage 5 (P &lt; 0.01). Forty-eight hours after the induction of a single afterdischarge no significant changes were found in either spontaneous or 50 mM KCl-induced release of somatostatin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The adrenal medulla is innervated by sympathetic preganglionic nerve fibers in the splanchnic nerve. Synaptic activation of the adrenal medulla causes catecholamine secretion which is known to be modified by various neuropeptides and other factors. To understand the neuronal control mechanism of catecholamine secretion, it is necessary to know the transfer function at the synapse and how it is affected by such factors. By using a large photodiode array in combination with a voltage-sensitive dye, membrane potential changes in a slice of the rat adrenal gland were recorded upon brief local electrical stimulation. Electrical signals were recorded only on the portion of the diode array corresponding to the medulla. In a typical record, a spike and an underlying slow potential were observed following a small deflection due to a presynaptic nerve action potential. Both the spike and slow potential were blocked in Ca(2+)-free solution or by hexamethonium, a nicotinic antagonist, but were not affected by atropine, a muscarinic antagonist. The slow potential was interpreted as a nicotinic synaptic potential in the chromaffin cells and the spike as a population action potential. A double pulse experiment revealed that the chromaffin cell action potential began to fail only when the stimulus interval was less than 50 ms (20 Hz). When the stimulus intensity was reduced, the minimal response was found to behave in an all-or-none fashion. This suggested that one nerve fiber is innervating a cluster of chromaffin cells, which may correspond to a previously histologically identified &quot;complex&quot; of cells [Hillarp (1946) Acta. anat. 4, Suppl. 1]. Each complex was innervated by approximately four nerve fibers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of a variety of alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists were studied on stimulation-evoked release of endogenous ATP, measured by the luciferin-luciferase assay, and on the release of [3H]noradrenaline from the guinea-pig vas deferens. The biphasic mechanical contraction of the guinea-pig smooth muscle was recorded concomitantly. The alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist, xylazine (1 microM) inhibited the field stimulation-evoked (8 Hz, 0.1 ms, 480 shocks) release of ATP and [3H]noradrenaline, and both phases of the contraction. The inhibitory effect of xylazine on the release of ATP, noradrenaline and muscle contraction was prevented by the selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, CH 38083 [7,8-(methylenedioxi)-14 alpha-alloberbanol, 1 microM]. In the presence of prazosin (0.1-1 microM) or WB 4101 [2-(2,6-dimethoxyphenoxyethyl)aminomethyl- 1,4-benzodioxane hydrochloride, 0.1-1 microM], i.e. under the condition when the effect of noradrenaline on postjunctional alpha 1-adrenoceptors was excluded, the stimulation-evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline was significantly enhanced, however, the release of endogenous ATP and also both phases of contraction were reduced. In the presence of prazosin, xylazine was able to inhibit the stimulation-evoked release of ATP. In vas deferens dissected from reserpine pretreated (2 x 5 mg/kg, i.p.) guinea-pigs, the content of noradrenaline was 0.5% of control and there was no detectable evoked release of noradrenaline. Under this condition, the release of ATP evoked by electrical stimulation was still detectable, but the amount of ATP was much smaller than that measured from control animals. Xylazine did not reduce the release of ATP. Oxymetazoline, a relatively selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist failed to inhibit the release of [3H]noradrenaline.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Agatoxin-489, extracted from the venom of the Agelenopsis aperta spider, was studied on acutely isolated perfused hippocampal neurons of rat using the concentration clamp technique. Agatoxin-489 proved to be a selective N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist; responses to applications of N-methyl-D-aspartate or L-aspartate were blocked by concentrations of agatoxin-489 ranging between 0.1 nM and 1 microM, while responses to kainate were not affected by agatoxin-489 at concentrations up to 10 microM. The actions of agatoxin-489 against responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate or L-aspartate were use- and voltage-dependent, being less pronounced with an increase in the holding potential from -100 to -30 mV. The action of agatoxin-489 could be completely or partially reversed only after washout in the presence of an N-methyl-D-aspartate agonist. The washout was more effective at positive membrane potentials ranging from 0 to +20 mV. These results imply that the spider toxin agatoxin-489, like dizocilpine, is a potent and selective N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist which preferentially interacts with activated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and/or open N-methyl-D-aspartate-activated ionic channels.
It has recently been reported that exogenous supply of nerve growth factor prevents the effects of monocular deprivation both in rats and in cats. Here we have extended these experiments to the case of strabismus. Repeated intraventricular injections of nerve growth factor were performed in rats made surgically strabismic early in the critical period. At the end of the critical period the ocular dominance distribution of visual cortical neurons was assessed in strabismic untreated, strabismic nerve growth factor-treated and strabismic Cytochrome C-treated (control) rats by means of extracellular recordings. We found that in rats surgical strabismus causes a consistent loss of binocular neurons. By contrast the treatment with nerve growth factor maintains the normal ocular dominance distribution of neurons in the primary visual cortex. We conclude that nerve growth factor exogenously supplied prevents the effects induced by surgical strabismus in rats and suggest that nerve growth factor has a role in visual cortical plasticity.
Nicotinic stimulation and high K+ depolarization of bovine chromaffin cells cause disassembly of cortical filamentous actin networks. Previous work from our laboratory has demonstrated that disassembly of actin filaments is Ca(2+)-dependent, precedes exocytosis and occurs in cortical areas of low cytoplasmic viscosity which are the sites of exocytosis. It has also been suggested that protein kinase C is involved in catecholamine secretion from chromaffin cells. Therefore, the possibility that protein kinase C activation might be implicated in cortical filamentous actin disassembly was investigated. Here we report that phorbol myristate acetate, a protein kinase C activator, causes cortical filamentous actin disassembly. Short-term phorbol ester treatment does not alter the morphology of chromaffin cells; however, 1 h after phorbol ester exposure an increase in cell flattening and membrane ruffling is observed. Phorbol ester-induced cortical filamentous actin disassembly is inhibited by protein kinase C activity inhibitors, is independent of extracellular Ca2+ and has a slower time course than that induced by either nicotinic receptor stimulation or K(+)-depolarization. Phorbol ester effects are likely to be mediated by activation of protein kinase C and not by any changes in intracellular Ca2+ levels, as indicated by measurements of Ca2+ transients. Pretreatment of chromaffin cells with phorbol myristate acetate increases the initial rate of nicotine-evoked catecholamine release. Nicotine-induced cortical actin filament disassembly and catecholamine secretion are partially (29-40%) inhibited by pretreatment of cells with either calphostin C, staurosporine or sphingosine. The results suggest that protein kinase C may be involved in the reorganization of the cortical actin filament network priming the cells for release by removing a barrier to secretory granule mobility. However, its role in exocytosis is modulatory but not essential.
In the absence of cellular estrogen receptors or proven direct estrogen action in the rat, it is assumed that estrogen indirectly regulates the secretory activity of the preoptic area luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-producing cells. We have previously shown that pro-opiomelanocortin neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the rat send axons rostrally to connect with luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons of the preoptic area. An experiment combining retrograde tracing and double-immunostaining was used to test the hypothesis that rat GABAergic and/or catecholaminergic neurons can influence luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-producing cells via mediobasal hypothalamic beta-endorphin neurons. The retrograde tracer horseradish peroxidase was injected into the medial preoptic area; two days later, arcuate nucleus Vibratome sections were double-immunostained for beta-endorphin and glutamate decarboxylase or tyrosine hydroxylase. Light and electron microscopic analysis of these triple-labeled sections demonstrated that a population of beta-endorphin-immunoreactive neurons concentrated in the ventromedial arcuate nucleus contain retrogradely transported horseradish peroxidase granules and form synaptic contacts with glutamate decarboxylase- and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axon terminals. The present data suggest that arcuate nucleus GABA and catecholamine fibers may influence luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-containing neurons via projective pro-opiomelanocortin cells.
Biopsies of human cerebral cortex were fixed by immersion and immunostained for the detection of neuropeptides in neuronal cell bodies and axons. Four neuropeptides (neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, , substance P and cholecystokinin) were visualized in a series of adjacent sections. All populations of immunoreactive neurons had a morphology characteristic of interneurons, with variations in dendritic arborizations and laminar distribution. The cholecystokinin-immunoreactive neurons were most numerous in the supragranular layers, whereas neurons containing the other three peptides occurred mainly in infragranular layers, or even in neurons populating the subcortical white matter. Quantitatively, each population of neuropeptide-containing neurons accounted for 1.4-2.5% of the total neuronal population. The distribution of these neurons varied slightly between cytoarchitectonic divisions, with substance P- and somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons dominating in the temporal lobe and cholecystokinin-immunoreactive neurons in the frontal lobe. Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons dominated in the gray matter of the frontal half of the hemisphere and in the subcortical white matter of the caudal half of the hemisphere. Furthermore, co-existence of neuropeptide Y or substance P immunoreactivity within somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons could be demonstrated using double labeling immunofluorescence techniques. The axonal plexuses immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, or substance P were distributed in all layers, with a strong predominance of horizontally oriented fibers in layer I, a moderate plexus of randomly oriented fibers in the supra- and infragranular layers, and a slightly weaker innervation of layer IV. Immunoreactive axons formed, in addition, complex terminal arbors, mostly in older subjects, suggesting that they resulted from an as yet undefined aging process. The present study underlines several aspects of the organization of the neuropeptide-containing neurons of the human cerebral cortex, which are of particular interest in the light of the involvement of these neurons in several neurodegenerative diseases.
The possible involvement of mu and kappa receptors in the opioid control of the spinal release of substance P-like material was assessed in vivo, in halothane-anaesthetized rats whose intrathecal space was continuously perfused with an artificial cerebrospinal fluid supplemented with various opioid receptor agonists and antagonists. Whereas the intrathecal perfusion with the mu agonist DAGO (10 microM) significantly enhanced (approximately + 50%) the spontaneous release of substance P-like material, that with the kappa agonist U 50488 H (10 microM) produced no change in the peptide outflow. The respective antagonists naloxone (10 microM) for the mu receptors and nor-binaltorphimine (10 microM) for the kappa receptors did not affect the spontaneous release of substance P-like material, indicating that endogenous opioids acting at mu and kappa receptors do not exert a tonic control on substance P-containing neurons in the spinal cord of halothane-anaesthetized rats. However, as expected from the involvement of mu receptors, the stimulatory effect of DAGO on the peptide outflow could be prevented by naloxone but not norbinaltorphimine. Furthermore, instead of an increase with DAGO alone, a significant decrease in the spinal release of substance P-like material was observed upon the intrathecal perfusion with DAGO plus U 50488 H. Additional experiments with the respective mu and kappa antagonists naloxone and nor-binaltorphimine demonstrated that this effect actually resulted from the simultaneous stimulation of mu and kappa receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The fate of serotonin and substance P receptors following serotonin/substance P hyperinnervation of CNS tissue was investigated in the inferior olivary complex of adult rats subjected to earlier intraventricular administration of 5,6-dihydroxytryptamine. [3H]8-hydroxy-2-(Dl-n-propylamino)tetralin, [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine, [3H]ketanserin and [125I]Bolton-Hunter-substance P were respectively used to label 5-hydroxytryptamine1A, 5-hydroxytryptamine1B, 5-hydroxytryptamine2 and neurokinin-1 receptor sites for quantitative ligand binding autoradiography. Only 5-hydroxytryptamine2 and neurokinin-1 sites were detected in the normal or serotonin/substance P-hyperinnervated inferior olivary complex. In the normal inferior olivary complex, the density of [3H]ketanserin binding (5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors) was relatively low, being the highest in pars a of the caudal medial accessory olive and the principal olive; moderate in pars c of the caudal medial accessory olive; truly low in the medial and the lateral dorsal accessory olive, nucleus b and pars b of the caudal medial accessory olive; and negligible in the middle medial accessory olive, rostral medial accessory olive and the smaller subnuclei. [125I]Bolton-Hunter-substance P binding (neurokinin-1 receptors) appeared denser, being highest in nucleus beta and the middle medial dorsal accessory olive; moderate in the three portions of the caudal medial accessory olive, the lateral dorsal accessory olive and the dorsal cap of Kooy; low in the rostral medial accessory olive, the ventrolateral outgrowth and the dorsomedial cell column; and very low or null in the principal olive and the medial dorsal accessory olive. After serotonin/substance P hyperinnervation, there were striking increases in the apparent density of both populations of receptor. [3H]Ketanserin binding was now stronger in the most olivary subnuclei, including some in which it had not been found in the normal, such as the middle and the rostral medial accessory olive. [125I]Bolton-Hunter-substance P binding showed even greater elevations in a few subnuclei, such as the principal olive and the dorsomedial cell column; it was now detectable in the medial dorsal accessory olive, unchanged in the dorsal cap of Kooy and the ventrolateral outgrowth, and slightly decreased in the lateral dorsal accessory olive. The normal and altered distributions of both ligands did not match the respective patterns of serotonin and substance P innervation and hyperinnervation previously demonstrated with immunocytochemistry. In some sectors of the inferior olivary complex where both transmitters are presumably co-localized, there was no overlap in the distribution of the respective binding sites either in the normal or in the hyperinnervated state.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The expression of substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and thiamine monophosphatase in the sciatic nerve terminal field of the lumbar dorsal horn of the rat was examined following neonatal sciatic nerve section and ligation. The total terminal field from L3 to L5 was mapped from semi-serial sections on the treated side and compared to equivalent maps on the contralateral intact side. To obtain a detailed time course of events, data were obtained 4, 7, 10, 15-20 and 40-60 days after sciatic nerve section. At 4-7 days thiamine monophosphate was depleted from the cut nerve terminals resulting in a gap in dorsal horn thiamine monophosphate stain similar to that seen after adult nerve section. In contrast, substance P and CGRP-containing terminals showed only a transient fall in expression in the first week following nerve section and then staining was no different from that seen on the control side. The depletion of peptides normally observed after adult nerve section did not occur. This phenomenon was only observed if the sciatic nerve was cut at birth. Nerve section at 10 days of age resulted in the same pattern of peptide depletion as is observed in the adult. A week after neonatal sciatic nerve section, thiamine monophosphate-containing nerve terminals from nearby intact nerves begin to sprout into the sciatic nerve territory in the dorsal horn. This, together with some recovery of thiamine monophosphate from the remaining sciatic terminals themselves, results in a slow filling in of the gap in the thiamine monophosphate stain. Resection of the cut sciatic nerve, together with adjacent intact nerves, re-establishes the depletion. Substance P and CGRP terminals from nearby intact nerves also sprout into the deafferented sciatic field and this can be demonstrated by the larger than normal area of depletion following section of these nerves when adult. Furthermore, resection of the neonatally cut sciatic nerve when adult also causes some depletion of substance P and CGRP within the sciatic field, indicating a degree of recovery or up-regulation of peptides in surviving cut afferents. However, even after resection of the cut sciatic nerve and nearby intact nerves, substance P and CGRP staining remained in the terminal region. We conclude that while central collateral sprouting does take place in both substance P and CGRP-containing afferents following peripheral nerve section, it cannot account for the lack of depletion of peptides observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The distribution of enkephalin-positive neurons, substance P-positive and enkephalin-positive fibers was studied in the nucleus caudalis of the trigeminal spinal V in the medulla oblongata regions of developing humans (12 weeks gestation to 40 weeks gestation). Enkephalin-positive neurons were identified in all the subnuclei of the nucleus caudalis as early as 12 weeks of gestation and increased in number as the fetus aged. Substance P-positive neurons were absent in this area throughout development. On the other hand, substance P-positive and enkephalin-positive fibers were present in all the subnuclei, again commencing as early as 12 weeks of gestation. These fibers tended to be linked to each other in the different subnuclei and to the reticular formation in this area and to increase significantly in quantity by the latter quarter of pregnancy. These results show the early presence of these neurons and fibers in the first trimester of development.
Previous studies have shown that basal forebrain lesions using different excitotoxins produce similar decreases in cortical choline acetyltransferase, but differential effects on memory. However, basal forebrain cholinergic neurons send efferents to the amygdala and cortex. The present studies compared the effects of several excitotoxins on choline acetyltransferase levels in both of these structures. Lesions of the basal forebrain were made in rats by infusing different doses of either alpha-amine-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid, ibotenic acid, quisqualic acid, quinolinic acid or N-methyl-D-aspartic acid and measuring choline acetyltransferase seven days later. All of the excitotoxins exerted a differential response on cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain projecting to the cortex or amygdala. Quinolinic acid was a more potent neurotoxin to cholinergic neurons innervating the amygdala than those projecting to the cortex. In contrast, quisqualic acid and alpha-amine-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole were more potent neurotoxins to the cortical projection. alpha-Amine-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid was the most potent excitotoxin for destroying cholinergic neurons innervating either the cortex or amygdala. A parallel neurotoxic response was obtained in the cortex and amygdala following infusion of ibotenic acid or N-methyl-D-aspartic acid with little selectivity for choline acetyltransferase depletion in the cortex or amygdala. Histological analysis of the injection site revealed that acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons were destroyed by the excitotoxins in a dose-dependent manner. Excitotoxins (ibotenic acid, quinolinic acid, N-methyl-D-aspartic acid) that produce the greatest impairments in memory were found to produce the greatest depletion of choline acetyltransferase in the amygdala.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution of neurokinin B was investigated in the basal forebrain of the rat by immunocytochemistry with an antibody directed against neurokinin B, and with a second antiserum directed to a peptide sequence contained within its precursor, and by means of in situ hybridization. The staining pattern was compared in closely adjacent sections to that of substance P- and enkephalin-like immunoreactivities. Cholecystokinin immunoreactivity was used to delineate the apparent dorsolateral border of the ventral pallidum with the nucleus accumbens. Remarkable similarities are found in the distribution of these peptides in the basal forebrain, especially in its ventral part. The coarse band-like terminal staining pattern (woolly fibers) that has been shown by others for substance P- and enkephalin-like immunoreactivity, is also observed for neurokinin B-like immunoreactivity, mainly in the ventral pallidum. Medium-sized cells are found arranged in clusters or singularly within the caudate-putamen even without colchicine. A band of strong neurokinin B immunoreactivity extends just underneath the dorsal pallidum to the amygdala. In comparison to enkephalin the most distinct observation is that neurokinin B immunoreactivity is not present in the dorsal pallidum (global pallidus). Neurokinin B immunoreactivity was not found in the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra which is strongly immunopositive for substance P. The number of cells detected by in situ hybridization was higher compared to the immunopositive perikarya throughout the basal ganglia. The staining pattern observed reflects a partial overlap with the substance P and enkephalin system although a differential distribution for each of these peptides was observed for cell bodies and axons terminals.
The neuropeptide galanin coexists with acetylcholine (ACh) in the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and modulates cholinergic activity in the forebrain. The cholinergic forebrain neurons appear to play a significant role in learning and memory, as suggested by a severe loss of these neurons in Alzheimer's disease. The involvement of endogenous galanin in learning is demonstrated here by the use of the recently synthesized high-affinity galanin antagonist M35 [galanin(1-13)-bradykinin(2-9) amide] (Kd = 0.1 nM). Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of M35 (6 but not 3 nmol) produced a significant (P &lt; 0.025) facilitation of acquisition in a spatial learning test (Morris swim maze) without any increase in swim speed. Thus, M35 (6 nmol) shortened the escape latency, reduced the number of failures to reach the platform, and shortened the path length to reach the hidden platform. M35 (3 and 6 nmol) tended to enhance retention performance seven days after the last training session. Receptor autoradiographic studies on the distribution of [125I]M35 following i.c.v. administration show that it binds preferentially in the periventricular regions including the hippocampus. These results suggest that galanin may modulate spatial learning and memory and that galanin antagonists may provide a new principle in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
From 1985 to 1991, 13 children were diagnosed at the University of Illinois College of Medicine at Peoria, Saint Francis Medical Center, with cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) by magnetic resonance imaging scan. Ages ranged from newborn to 5 years. Six children were premature neonates, five were term neonates and two were 5 years old. In the premature neonates, thrombosis was usually associated with other problems. All the term neonates had seizures. In all neonates, thrombosis resolved without any specific treatment. In the two older children, one presented with pseudotumor cerebri and one with coma. These children required neurosurgical intervention. Follow-up magnetic resonance imaging scans were obtained in 9 of 13 children and showed thrombus resolution in each case. Three children were studied in the acute and convalescent stages by magnetic resonance angiography using time-of-flight techniques. Each follow-up magnetic resonance angiogram showed improvement in venous flow consistent with their clinical course and other imaging studies. We conclude that 1) CVT in children encompasses a range of clinical conditions which may or may not require neurosurgical intervention; 2) magnetic resonance imaging is superior to other modalities for the diagnosis of CVT; and 3) magnetic resonance angiography is an alternative means to monitor the evolution of CVT and efficacy of therapeutic intervention.
Synaptic plasticity is thought to be the basic mechanism underlying learning and memory. The cellular mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity have been extensively investigated in invertebrates and in vertebrates. What is the nature of synaptic plasticity? Can genes and gene products regulate plasticity? If so, how? The behavioral sensitization of the gill-and-siphon-withdrawal reflex of Aplysia is a simple model of plasticity in invertebrates, and can be examined in dissociated cell culture. Using a model of plasticity in cell culture, the molecular cascades of both short-term and long-term sensitization have been investigated, and characterized. Both gene transcription and protein synthesis were shown to contribute to the long-term sensitization. Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a well-characterized model for synaptic plasticity in vertebrates. Many possible cascades have been proposed, but it has not yet been settled whether an increase of transmitter release from presynaptic terminal, an increase of synaptic current, is responsible for the maintenance of LTP. Inhibition of protein synthesis resulted in a failure to maintain LTP over 3-4 hours. Thus, new protein synthesis may be needed for the maintenance of LTP. Induction of so-called immediate early genes that are induced immediately upon depolarization or neurotransmitter stimulation of the neuron has been studied as a possible mechanism underlying LTP. However, there is no good evidence yet implicating gene regulation to be involved in plasticity in vertebrates.

Leptomeningeal glioneuronal heterotopia was observed in 40 of 129 autopsied infants (31%). It was present in 49% of patients who had congenital anomalies in general and in 65% of patients who had central nervous system malformations. Most of the leptomeningeal glioneuronal heterotopias appeared in the base of the brain (62.5%), midbrain (40%), frontal lobe (37%), and pons (35%). Leptomeningeal glioneuronal heterotopia is closely related to migration disorders on the basis of frequent association with polymicrogyria or neuronal heterotopias.
The interaction of the novel CCK analogs JMV-180, JMV-320, and JMV-332 with CCK-B/gastrin receptors on small cell lung cancer (SCLC) cells was investigated. JMV-180, JMV-320, and JMV-332 potently inhibited specific binding of 125I-CCK-8 to CCK-B/gastrin receptors expressed on the SCLC cell line NCI-H345 (H345) with IC50 values of 4.9, 1.8, and 7.0 nM, respectively. JMV-320 and JMV-332 stimulated intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) release in a dose-dependent manner in cells preloaded with indo-1. JMV-180 did not stimulate [Ca2+]i but inhibited the [Ca2+]i release elicited by 10 nM CCK-8 in a dose-dependent manner. These data indicate that JMV-320 and JMV-332 function as CCK-B/gastrin receptor agonists while JMV-180 functions as a CCK-B/gastrin receptor antagonist in H345 cells.
Transient (5-min) global forebrain ischemia, induced by four- vessel occlusion, was assessed using a multiple fixed-ratio, fixed-interval schedule of food presentation in five rats. Under control conditions, the schedule produced distinctive response rates in each schedule component. Initially, ischemia disrupted responding under both schedule components, and to approximately the same degree. In general, total session responses returned to pre-occlusion levels during the course of 45 post-occlusion days, however, response rates under the fixed-interval component showed slightly less recovery than those under the fixed-ratio component. Histological assessment revealed considerable variability in hippocampal damage between rats. Severe damage in the CA1, CA2, and CA3 formations was observed in a single rat, and that rat also showed the greatest degree of response disruption. These results suggest that schedule-controlled responding may be a valuable method for assessing the effects of ischemic injury, and thus, putative neuroprotective compounds, on complex behavior.
The Na(+)-independent neutral amino acid transporter (NAA-Tr) that we had previously cloned from rat kidney has been investigated with respect to its distribution in mammalian tissues and cells. By Northern blot analysis and RNase protection assay, a 2.4-kilobase (kb) mRNA in rat intestine was found to be identical to that in rat kidney. Of the other rat tissues examined, only brain and heart were found to contain mRNAs related to kidney NAA-Tr by Northern assay. However, these were larger (approximately 5 and approximately 7 kb). Mouse and rabbit kidney also contain mRNAs of 2.4 kb that exhibited a high degree of homology with rat kidney NAA-Tr. Of the several cultured cells investigated that demonstrated considerable Na(+)-independent neutral amino acid transport activity, only human colon carcinoma (Caco) cells were positive by Northern assay. The failure to detect NAA-Tr mRNA in many cells and tissues that carry out Na(+)-independent transport indicates that unrelated transporters must also exist. Cells and tissues that were negative with respect to rat kidney NAA-Tr as well as those that were positive transported leucine and tryptophan equally well. However, when mRNA from the same cells and tissues was expressed in oocytes, in all cases tryptophan was transported far less efficiently than leucine. This defect in tryptophan transport is apparently due to aberrant expression of neutral amino acid transporters in general in Xenopus oocytes.
Severe, transient global ischemia of the brain induces delayed damage to specific neuronal populations. Sustained Ca2+ influx through glutamate receptor channels is thought to play a critical role in postischemic cell death. Although most kainate-type glutamate receptors are Ca(2+)-impermeable, Ca(2+)-permeable kainate receptors have been reported in specific kinds of neurons and glia. Recombinant receptors assembled from GluR1 and/or GluR3 subunits in exogenous expression systems are permeable to Ca2+; heteromeric channels containing GluR2 subunits are Ca(2+)-impermeable. Thus, altered expression of GluR2 in development or following a neurological insult or injury to the brain can act as a switch to modify Ca2+ permeability. To investigate the molecular mechanism underlying delayed postischemic cell death, GluR1, GluR2, and GluR3 gene expression was examined by in situ hybridization in postischemic rats. Following severe, transient forebrain ischemia GluR2 gene expression was preferentially reduced in CA1 hippocampal neurons at a time point that preceded their degeneration. The switch in expression of kainate/AMPA receptor subunits coincided with the previously reported increase in Ca2+ influx into CA1 cells. Timing of the switch indicates that it may play a causal role in postischemic cell death.
Activation of protein kinase C by phorbol esters is known to accelerate the processing and secretion of the beta/A4 amyloid protein precursor. We have now examined various first messengers that increase protein kinase C activity of target cells for their ability to affect beta/A4 amyloid protein precursor metabolism. Acetylcholine and interleukin 1, which are altered in Alzheimer disease, were shown to increase processing of the beta/A4 amyloid protein precursor via the secretory cleavage pathway. Cholinergic agonists stimulated secretion in human glioma and neuroblastoma cells as well as in PC12 cells transfected with the M1 receptor, while interleukin 1 stimulated secretion in human endothelial and glioma cells.
Phantom studies and cerebral blood flow (CBF) measurements in 11 normal subjects at rest were performed by single photon emission tomography (SPECT) with Xe-133 (16 mm full-width at half-maximum [FWHM] collimation) and Xe-127 (16 mm, 12 mm, and 9 mm FWHM collimation). The phantom results clearly illustrated the feasibility of Xe-127 studies and the advantage of Xe-127 over Xe-133 for equivalent patient dose exposures. CBF values obtained with Xe-127 were comparable to those of Xe-133 for the 16 mm collimator, although higher flow values were found with the better resolution, probably because of reduced partial volume effects. The correlations between the various groups of examinations were high, except for the Xe-133 and Xe-127 16 mm collimator groups. Xe-127 allows a considerable increase in the resolution of the images, while exposing the patient to a lower radiation dose. Potential limitations because of higher energy penetrating photons from Xe-127 were not observed in this specially shielded equipment.
Pavlovian heart rate and eyeblink conditioning were simultaneously assessed in human subjects. Tone durations of 0.6, 1.1, and 2.1 s were employed in separate groups of subjects as the conditioned stimulus. A 100-ms corneal airpuff, which served as the unconditioned stimulus, overlapped the last 100 ms of the tone in each group, thus producing interstimulus intervals of 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 s. Other groups of pseudoconditioning subjects received explicitly unpaired tone and airpuff presentations of identical durations but in a pseudorandom sequence so that they never occurred together. The best eyeblink conditioning was observed in the group with the .5-s interstimulus interval, although the 1.0-s group also demonstrated some evidence of eyeblink conditioning. The group with the 2.0-s interstimulus interval showed a lower overall rate of conditioned response occurrence and the highest rate of pseudoconditioned responding. The conditioned heart rate response in all three conditioning groups consisted of cardiac decelerations, but tone-evoked cardiac accelerations were observed in the pseudoconditioning groups. The magnitude of the cardiac deceleration was comparable in all three conditioning groups.

How can the interaction between theoretical neuroscientists and their experimental counterparts be improved? This article discusses a number of suggestions relating to the presentation of data in experimental studies. In particular, published data should account for the diversity of response properties encountered, rather than concentrating on the 'representative' response, as well as emphasizing the stochastic nature of neurons by routinely including raw, unprocessed data from individual trials, which show the degree of variability prior to averaging.
Although one particular model of the cerebellum, as proposed by Marr and Albus, provides a formal framework for understanding how heterosynaptic plasticity of Purkinje cells might be used for motor learning, the physiological details remain largely an engima. Developments in computational neuroscience and artificial neural networks applied to real control problems are essential to understand fully how workspace errors associated with movement performances can be converted into motor-command errors, and how these errors can then be used as one kind of synaptic input by motor-learning algorithms that are based on biologically plausible rules involving heterosynaptic plasticity. These developments, as well as recent advances in the study of cellular mechanisms of synaptic plasticity, form the basis for the detailed computational models of cerebellar motor learning that have been proposed. These models provide hints toward resolving a long-standing controversy in the oculomotor literature regarding the sites of adaptive changes in the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) and the optokinetic eye movement response (OKR), and suggest new experiments to elucidate general mechanisms of sensory motor learning.

Age-related changes in learning performance and the brain cholinergic system were studied in a senescence accelerated mice-prone series (SAM-P/8) and a senescence accelerated mice-resistant series (SAM-R/1, control) bred under specific pathogen-free conditions. In a radial-arm maze task, SAM-P/8 mice at 4 and 12 months of age showed virtually no significant impairment in working memory or reference memory compared with SAM-R/1 mice at the same age, although they needed more time to complete a trial than SAM-R/1. In contrast, in a passive avoidance task, SAM-P/8 showed a marked age-accelerated deficit in acquisition performance relative to SAM-R/1. Also, SAM-P/8 showed an age-accelerated decrease in locomotion and rearing in an open-field box. At the end of these behavioral tasks, neurochemical analyses showed that there were no differences in the concentrations of acetylcholine (ACh) in the cortex, hippocampus, striatum, midbrain, or cerebellum between SAM-P/8 and SAM-R/1. Although SAM-P/8 mice did not demonstrate any age-accelerated decline in radial-arm maze performance, they showed a normal age-related decline particularly in working memory, equal to that observed in SAM-R/1. Also, ACh levels in the aged groups of SAM-P/8 showed a significant decrease related to normal aging in the hippocampus and striatum, and a slight decrease in the cortex compared to the young group of the same strain. Thus, we found that SAM-P/8 show dissociative effects of aging in spatial learning and passive avoidance performance.

Electrical stimulation of the anterior pretectal nucleus (APtN) elicits antinociception by inhibiting the responses of spinal multireceptive neurones to noxious stimuli. This descending inhibition is mediated, in part, by activating cells in the ventrolateral medulla. Neuronal tract tracing has previously shown that the APtN also projects directly to the pontine parabrachial region (PPR). The PPR, investigated by Katayama et al. (Brain Res., 296 (1984) 263-283), corresponds to the cholinergic cell group Ch5 of Mesulam et al. (Neuroscience, 10 (1983) 1185-1201). In this study, the pathway from APtN to PPR was investigated using urethane anaesthetised rats. Electrical stimulation (single square wave 0.2 ms pulses, 1-10 V, 5 Hz) of the APtN potently excites 40% of the cells recorded in the PPR. In the reverse experiment, stimulation of the PPR at the same parameters excited 36% of the cells recorded in the APtN. The contribution of this pathway to the spinal inhibitory effects of APtN stimulation was then examined. Unanaesthetised animals received electrical stimulation to the APtN (35 microA r.m.s., 15 s) and the increase in tail-flick latencies was measured. Bilateral electrolytic lesions of the PPR caused a 67% reduction of the antinociceptive effect of APtN stimulation. In urethane anaesthetised rats, microinjection of tetracaine into the PPR blocked the inhibition of multireceptive dorsal horn neurones caused by APtN stimulation (20 s train of 50 microA square wave 0.1 ms pulses, 100 Hz). In conclusion, these experiments strongly sugget that the PPR may be an important part of a descending antinociceptive pathway originating in the APtN.

In rat cortical cultured neurons, spontaneous oscillations in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) were observed by direct [Ca2+]i measurements using the fluorescent indicator fura-2. These [Ca2+]i responses were eliminated by the removal of extracellular Ca2-, L-type Ca2+ channel blockers or a glutamate receptor antagonist. Three antidepressants (amitriptyline, imipramine and mianserin) suppressed the [Ca2+]i oscillations in the range of 1-50 microM. In addition, amitriptyline inhibited high K(+)-and glutamate-induced [Ca2+]i increases with IC50 values of 19 and 27 microM, respectively. Imipramine and mianserin also inhibited the high K(+)-induced [Ca2+]i increases with IC50 values of 45 and 24 microM, respectively. These results suggest that blocking actions by the antidepressants on voltage-dependent Ca2+ influx and glutamate receptor-mediated Ca2+ influx may be involved in the suppression of the [Ca2+]i oscillations.
The tetradecapeptide somatostatin (SRIF) is a hormone release-inhibiting substance that mediates diverse effects in brain and peripheral organs via specific receptors. A cDNA encoding a rat SRIF receptor was identified by use of degenerate oligonucleotide primers and polymerase chain reaction amplification of cDNA prepared from transcripts expressed in rat brain. The complete cDNA encodes a protein of 391 amino acids with seven potential transmembrane domains. Expression of the cDNA product in transfected COS-7 cell lines provides the same high affinity of binding to [125I-Tyr11]SRIF-14 as that of rat cerebral cortex tissues. However, the binding of [125I-Tyr11]SRIF-14 to cloned rat SRIF receptor is not displaced by MK678, a SRIF analog that partially displaces [125I-Tyr11]SRIF-14 binding sites in membranes of rat cerebral cortex. Northern analysis and in situ hybridization indicate that mRNA (4.0 kilobases) for cloned rat SRIF receptor is preferentially expressed in rat brain regions such as cerebral cortex and hippocampus with no detectable expression in most peripheral organs. This pattern contrasts with the exclusive peripheral expression of a recently cloned human SRIF receptor. The cDNA probe of rat receptor detects mRNA from mouse brain but not from human cerebral cortex and cerebellum.
Stimulation of phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis by excitatory amino acids (EAAs) was studied in coronal slices of kitten visual cortex. Coincubation with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) markedly reduced the stimulation by quisqualate, however, this inhibition developed with a latency of &gt; 10 min and occurred even when the NMDA exposure preceded, but did not overlap with, incubation in quisqualate. This time-course of NMDA inhibition of EAA-stimulated PI turnover places new constraints on its possible mechanism of inhibition.
It has been postulated that nerve growth factor (NGF) binding to the low-affinity fast-dissociating NGF receptor (p75 NGFR) on Schwann cells and growing neurites is involved with the molecular feedback necessary for continued neurite extension during development and regeneration. Since central projections of somatosensory fibers sprout into the spinal cord after daily neonatal injections of antibodies to NGF (ANTI-NGF) for a one month period, it is of interest to determine if the distribution of p75 NGFR correlates with the occurrence of sprouting. Spinal cords from three groups of rats: untreated, preimmune sera treated and ANTI-NGF treated were examined on postnatal days (PD) 0, 14 and 30. The p75 NGFR distribution was determined using the monoclonal antibody 192 with standard immunohistochemical techniques and the optical density of the immunoreaction product was quantified using an Amersham image analysis system. The 192 immunoreaction product was localized to laminae I-IV, the dorsal columns, the dorsolateral funiculus, Lissauer's tract (LT) and the ventral horn on PD 0; to laminae I-III and medial IV and LT on PD 14; and laminae I-II and LT on PD 30. The untreated and preimmune sera treated groups show no difference in distribution. In the ANTI-NGF treated group, the 192 immunoreaction product was localized to laminae I-V and LT on PD 14 and to laminae I-III and medial IV and LT on PD 30. Similarly, the optical density of the ANTI-NGF treated group was significantly greater than same aged untreated and preimmune sera treated groups, but was not statistically different from these two groups examined 14 days earlier. Thus, ANTI-NGF treatment interferes with the postnatal downregulation of p75 NGFR in the dorsal horn and may provide for continued neurite growth.
We have used a combination of techniques to analyze the primary olfactory projection in trout: anterograde tract tracing with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and immunocytochemistry with antisera to olfactory marker protein (OMP) and to keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH). HRP labeling and the OMP antiserum revealed a subset of ciliated receptor neurons with a wide dendrite that lacked the protruding knob found on other receptor neurons. The organization of the primary olfactory axons was clearly revealed by antisera to KLH, which reacted with no other neurons. When visualized with anti-KLH, fascicles of olfactory axons penetrated the basal lamina of the olfactory rosette at scattered sites and converged to form the olfactory nerve. Fascicles within the olfactory nerve traveled parallel to the long axis of the nerve until resorted by extensive intermixing as they entered the olfactory bulb. Within the olfactory bulb, most axons terminated in nine discrete terminal fields in the glomerular layer; however, a few olfactory nerve axons projected into the ventral medial telencephalon. Fascicles supplying each terminal field in the glomerular layer followed distinctive trajectories within the olfactory nerve layer. Axons ending in two terminal fields made brush-like terminations rather than the glomerular terminations characteristic of the remaining seven fields. After unilateral olfactory nerve transection, returning olfactory axons reestablished the normal pattern of terminal fields within 14 weeks. It is likely that the organization of afferents in the trout olfactory bulb is similarly well regulated during normal receptor cell replacement.

The electrophysiological activity of mesoaccumbens dopaminergic neurons was monitored during the ethanol-withdrawal syndrome in ethanol-dependent and in control rats. Spontaneous firing was reduced by about half in ethanol-dependent rats as compared to controls. Likewise, the number of spikes/burst was also reduced in ethanol-dependent rats. These results are consistent with the reduction in dopamine release observed during ethanol-withdrawal syndrome and may provide the basis for the aversive effects of the ethanol-withdrawal syndrome.
Withdrawal of rats from chronic ethanol, morphine, cocaine and amphetamine resulted in a marked reduction in extracellular dopamine (DA) concentration in the ventral striatum as measured by microdialysis. Following ethanol and naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal, the time course of DA reduction paralleled that of the withdrawal symptomatology. On the other hand, following discontinuation of chronic cocaine, DA reduction was delayed by over 24 h but persisted for several days. After amphetamine withdrawal the fall in DA occurred more rapidly but the reduction also persisted for several days. The administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801, to rats withdrawn from chronic ethanol, morphine or amphetamine, but not from chronic cocaine, readily reversed the fall in DA output. The reduction in extracellular DA during ethanol withdrawal was also reversed by SL 82.0715, another NMDA receptor antagonist.
Previous studies have indicated that amyloid precursor protein (APP) might be a trophic agent in the nervous system, possibly through the regulation of cell adhesion and the protease/protease inhibitor activity. Additionally, APP is upregulated during the development of the nervous system. In order to further study the role of APP in neuritic outgrowth, we examined the patterns of distribution of APP in the immature neonatal rat brain (P1). Laser-scanning confocal imaging of double-immunolabeled sections showed that a subpopulation of the anti-GAP43-immunoreactive outgrowing neurites contained APP immunoreactivity in the neocortex and hippocampus. These fine, long neuritic processes were also positive with antibodies against phosphorylated neurofilaments and were glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) negative. In addition, anti-APP strongly immunolabeled neurons in the inner cortical layers, while GAP43 strongly immunolabeled the neuropil surrounding them. These observations are consistent with a previous study where APP was localized to aberrant sprouting neurites and suggest a possible role for APP in neuritic outgrowth in plaques of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), which might explain the abnormal neuritic response found in AD.
Kindled seizures evoked by electrical stimulation of limbic pathways in the rat induce sprouting and synaptic reorganization of the mossy fiber pathway in the dentate gyrus (DG). To investigate whether seizures evoked by different methods also induce reorganization of this pathway, the distribution of mossy fiber terminals in the DG was examined with Timm histochemistry after systemic administration of pentylenetetrazol, a chemoconvulsant that reduces Cl- mediated GABAergic inhibition. Myoclonic seizures evoked by subconvulsant doses of pentylenetetrazol (24 mg/kg i.p.) were not accompanied by electrographic seizures in the DG, and did not induce mossy fiber sprouting. Generalized tonic-clonic seizures evoked by repeated administration of PTZ (24 mg/kg i.p.) were consistently accompanied by electrographic seizure activity in the DG, and induced sprouting and synaptic reorganization of the mossy fiber pathway. The results demonstrated that repeated generalized tonic-clonic seizures evoked by pentylenetetrazol induced mossy fiber synaptic reorganization when ictal electrographic discharges activated the circuitry of the DG.
In human Y-79 retinoblastoma cells corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) produces a marked and rapid increase of adenylate cyclase activity. The concentration of the peptide producing half-maximal stimulation is 60 nM. The effect of CRH is significantly antagonized by the specific CRH receptor antagonist alpha-helical CHR 9-41 and is mimicked by sauvagine and urotensin I, two peptides displaying sequence homology with CRH. These results demonstrate the presence of functional CRH receptors in human Y-79 retinoblastoma cells and suggest that this cell line may be a suitable model in which to study the action of CRH on human retinal cell function.
The quantitative autoradiographic analysis of muscarinic cholinergic and GABAA (benzodiazepine) receptors was performed on selected regions of the cerebral cortex and striatum of rats flown in the Soviet Biosatellite COSMOS 2044. An age- and strain-matched synchronous ground-based control group was employed for comparison. Muscarinic cholinergic receptor density was found to be significantly lower in the striatum of the flight animals as compared with that in the synchronous control group. No significant differences between flight and synchronous control groups were found in the other regions examined. GABAA (benzodiazepine) receptors showed no significant differences between the flight and control groups in any of the regions sampled. Although additional studies are needed to reach definitive conclusions, the decrease in muscarinic cholinergic receptors observed in the striatum suggests spaceflight-related alterations in motor activity.
Retrograde transport studies have shown that widespread areas of the cerebral cortex project upon the superior colliculus. In order to explore the organization of these extensive projections, the anterograde autoradiographic method has been used to reveal the distribution and pattern of corticotectal projections arising from 25 cortical areas. In the majority of experiments, electrophysiological recording methods were used to characterize the visual representation and cortical area prior to injection of the tracer. Our findings reveal that seventeen of the 25 cortical areas project upon some portion of the superficial layers (stratum zonale, stratum griseum superficiale, and stratum opticum, SO). These cortical regions include areas 17, 18, 19, 20a, 20b, 21a, 21b, posterior suprasylvian area (PS), ventral lateral suprasylvian area (VLS), posteromedial lateral suprasylvian area (PMLS), anteromedial lateral suprasylvian area (AMLS), anterolateral lateral suprasylvian area (ALLS), posterolateral lateral suprasylvian area (PLLS), dorsolateral lateral suprasyvian area (DLS), periauditory cortex, cingulate cortex, and the visual portion of the anterior ectosylvian sulcus. While some of these corticotectal projections target all superficial laminae and sublaminae, others are more discretely organized in their laminar-sublaminar distribution. Only the corticotectal projections arising from areas 17 and 18 are exclusively related to the superficial layers. The remaining 15 pathways innervate both the superficial and intermediate and/or deep layers. The large intermediate gray layer (stratum griseum intermedium; SGI) receives projections from almost every cortical area; only areas 17 and 18 do not project ventral to SO. All corticotectal projections to SGI vary in their sublaminar distribution and in their specific pattern of termination. The majority of these projections are periodic, or patchy, and there are elaborate (double tier, bridges, or streamers) modes of distribution. We have attempted to place these findings into a conceptual framework that emphasizes that the SGI consists of sensory and motor domains, both of which contain a mosaic of connectionally distinct afferent compartments (Illing and Graybiel, '85, Neuroscience 14:455-482; Harting and Van Lieshout, '91, J. Comp. Neurol. 305:543-558). Corticotectal projections to the layers ventral to SGI, (stratum album intermediale, stratum griseum profundum, and stratum album profundum) arise from thirteen cortical areas. While an organizational plan of these deeper projections is not readily apparent, the distribution of several corticotectal inputs reveals some connectional parcellation.

Nitric oxide generation in brain cytosolic fractions markedly enhances ADP-ribosylation of a single 37-kDa protein. By utilizing a biotinylated NAD and avidin affinity chromatography, we purified this protein. Partial amino acid sequencing establishes its identity as glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH). This is further confirmed by detection of GAPDH enzymatic activity in the purified 37-kDa protein. GAPDH is ADP-ribosylated in the absence of brain extract. This auto-ADP-ribosylation is enhanced by nitric oxide generation. ADP-ribosylation appears to involve the cysteine where NAD interacts with GAPDH so that ADP-ribosylation likely inhibits enzymatic activity. Such inhibition may play a role in nitric oxide-mediated neurotoxicity.
Myogenin is one of four muscle-specific basic helix-loop-helix regulatory factors involved in controlling myogenesis. We here describe various protein complexes that increase the affinity of myogenin for DNA. We mixed an oligonucleotide containing a degenerate center large enough to accommodate multiple binding sites with crude myotube nuclear extracts and used cyclic amplification and selection of targets with an antimyogenin monoclonal antibody to isolate protein-DNA complexes. Since each cycle of selection results in the enrichment for the sequences with the highest affinity, we isolated multicomponent sites in which myogenin binding was increased by its interaction with other DNA binding proteins. Myogenin interacts with members of the nuclear factor 1 family, the muscle-specific factor myocyte-specific enhancer-binding factor 2, and another factor, COMP1 (cooperates with myogenic proteins 1), that binds to the sequence TGATTGAC. Myogenin also exhibits cooperative binding with other proteins that recognize CANNTG motifs, and various constraints on spacing and orientation were observed. The application of this approach to other transcription factors should not only help identify the different functions of myogenin versus other members of the muscle basic helix-loop-helix regulatory family but also help define the general combinatorial mechanisms involved in eukaryotic gene regulation.
The brain tissue from a case of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) caused by a missense (valine to glycine) mutation at codon 717 of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene has been examined for the presence of abnormally phosphorylated paired helical filament tau (PHF-tau). There was abundant PHF-tau present, which on Western blots, was indistinguishable from the PHF-tau typical of cases of sporadic Alzheimer's disease and that of another FAD mutation (valine to isoleucine), previously (Neurosci. Lett., 137 (1992) 221-224). This result implies that the cytoskeletal pathology in Alzheimer's disease is biochemically linked to abnormal APP processing and amyloid deposition.
We compared the concentration of mRNA encoding the m1 and m2 muscarinic receptors in several brain regions obtained from young (5-8 months) and aged (24-28 months) male Fischer 344 rats. DNA-excess solution hybridization was employed as a quantitative measure of mRNA concentration. The results indicate the absence of changes in the m1 receptor message with aging in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and striatum. While there was no statistically significant aging-associated alteration in the concentration of the message encoding the m2 receptor in the thalamus, midbrain, cerebellum and brainstem, there was a decrease in the message level in the hypothalamus.
Because some responses to forskolin are adenosine 3',5'-cyclic phosphate (cyclic AMP) independent, we investigated the involvement of adenylate cyclase in the stimulatory effect of forskolin on synaptosomal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity of rat striatum. The forskolin analogue, 1,9-dideoxyforskolin, which mimics the cyclic AMP-independent effects of forskolin, was a very weak activator of both striatal adenylate cyclase and tyrosine hydroxylase activities, whereas forskolin stimulated the two enzymes effectively and with similar potencies. Moreover, exposure of synaptosomes to the specific cyclic AMP antagonist Rp-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic phosphorothioate reduced basal TH activity and counteracted the stimulatory effect on the enzyme activity by submaximal concentrations of forskolin. These results provide circumstantial evidence that in striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals a presynaptic adenylate cyclase mediates the stimulation of TH activity by forskolin.
Membrane depolarization evoked by 25-40 mM K+ elicited an immediate increase of somatic and neuritic [Ca2+]i in cultured dopaminergic neurons as measured by digital fluorescence microscope imaging. The rise of neuritic [Ca2+]i was inhibited by N-type but not L-type Ca2+ channel blockers, while the rise of somatic [Ca2+]i was prevented by both L- and N-type Ca2+ channel blockers. Similarly, depolarization-induced [3H]dopamine release was selectively attenuated by N-type Ca2+ channel blockers. The present results suggest that [3H]dopamine release from mesencephalic neuronal cell cultures relates to a Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism regulated by N-type channels located in the vicinity of the exocytotic sites within neuritic processes.
N-Acetylated-alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase (NAALADase) is a membrane-bound peptidase which hydrolyzes the endogenous neuropeptide N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) to N-acetylaspartate (NAA) and the excitatory amino acid, glutamate (Glu). Although there is evidence that NAAG might be a neurotransmitter, this dipeptide could also function as a precursor form of Glu, which is liberated by the dipeptidase. We found that the activity of this NAAG hydrolyzing enzyme in genetically epilepsy-prone rats was 11-26% greater than control in brain regions, including the amygdala, hippocampus and cerebellum, as well as the pyriform, entorhinal and frontal cortices. This is consistent with possible increased availability of Glu in certain CNS synapses in these rats, which are reported to have increased susceptibility to audiogenically, electrically and chemically induced convulsions.
Developmental changes in Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) have been immunochemically examined in the forebrain, cerebellum and brainstem of the rat using antibodies against its alpha or beta protein. The concentration of alpha and beta proteins varied markedly in different brain regions at increasing postnatal ages. In early postnatal brain, the concentration of the alpha and beta proteins was low, and a large increase was observed between postnatal days 10 and 30. The maximum expression of the alpha protein was in the order of 6.01, 2.33 and 0.168 micrograms/mg of forebrain, brainstem and cerebellum proteins respectively, in the soluble or particulate fraction. On the other hand, that of the beta protein was in the order of 1.81, 0.495 and 0.291 micrograms/mg of forebrain, cerebellum or brainstem protein. The ratio of alpha and beta proteins also differed in the soluble and particulate fractions. The maximum expression of the alpha protein was observed at day 30 in soluble and particulate fractions of forebrain, and at day 20 in those of the brainstem. The major alpha protein peak was observed on or after day 30 in particulate and soluble fractions from cerebellum, respectively. The maximum expression of the beta protein was observed at day 20 in soluble and particulate fractions of the forebrain as well as in soluble fraction of the cerebellum, and was observed at day 30 in the particulate fraction of cerebellum. The expression of the alpha and beta proteins roughly correlated with the CaM kinase II activity from forebrain and brainstem.

The activity of p34cdc2 kinase is regulated in the phases of vertebrate cell cycle by mechanisms of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. In this paper, we demonstrate that casein kinase II (CKII) phosphorylates p34cdc2 in vivo and in vitro at Ser39 during the G1 phase of HeLa cell division cycle. Human p34cdc2 shows a typical phosphorylation sequence motif site for CKII at Ser39 (ES39EEE). In our experiments, either p34cdc2 expressed and purified from bacteria or p34cdc2 immunoprecipitated from HeLa cells enriched in G1 by elutriation were substrates for in vitro phosphorylation by CKII. Phosphoamino acid analysis, N-chlorosuccinimide mapping, and two-dimensional tryptic mapping of p34cdc2 phosphorylated in vitro were performed to determine the phosphorylation site. A synthetic peptide spanning residues 33-50 of human p34cdc2, including the CKII site, was used to map the site. In addition, phosphorylation at Ser39 also occurs in vivo, since p34cdc2 is phosphorylated during G1 on serine, and its two-dimensional tryptic map shows two phosphopeptides that comigrate exactly with the synthetic peptides used as standard.
Seven types of mRNA for choline acetyltransferase that differ in the 5'-noncoding region were identified in the mouse spinal cord by cDNA cloning and polymerase chain reaction. Among these transcripts, the M-type mRNA corresponding to the previously cloned mouse cDNA was most abundant in the spinal cord of mouse. A mouse genomic DNA clone containing the 5'-region of choline acetyltransferase mRNA was isolated and sequenced. Comparison of the sequences between the cDNAs and the genomic DNA revealed that the different mRNA species were transcribed from different promoter regions and produced by differential splicing. Two murine cholinergic cell lines, NS20Y and NG108-15, were shown to express the M-type mRNA almost exclusively, and were therefore used to study transcription of M-type mRNA. Fragments of the 5'-region of choline acetyltransferase gene were ligated with chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene and introduced into cultured cells. The fragment from -2752 to +46, which contained the M-type exon, a TATA-box like element upstream of the M-type exon, and the downstream intron, induced a significant expression of CAT activity in neuronal but not in non-neuronal cell lines. This result indicates that this region of choline acetyltransferase gene contains elements that regulate neuron-specific expression of choline acetyltransferase activity. However, there was no parallel correlation between reporter gene expression in the transfected cells and intrinsic choline acetyltransferase activity in these neuronal cell lines. Possible mechanisms that would explain this observation are discussed.
The AP-1 proteins (c-fos and fos-related antigens and jun proteins) are transcription factors that are induced in most cells by various stimuli, but the expression of these proteins is low or undetectable in the basal state. Our data indicate that the rat adrenal gland contains a basally expressed elevated level of AP-1 proteins and mRNAs (40- and 35-kDa fos-related antigens, a 39-kDa c-jun protein, c-jun, junB, and junD mRNA), as well as high basal AP-1 DNA binding activity. Both the medulla and cortex contained equivalent levels of fos-related antigens and c-jun protein; however, the majority of AP-1 DNA binding was detected in the medulla. Handling of rats for several days prior to sacrifice failed to affect protein expression or binding; on the other hand, repeated injections of nicotine increased AP-1 DNA binding. A single nicotine injection 60 min prior to removing the adrenals caused a significant reduction in AP-1 DNA binding without any detectable changes in AP-1 protein expression. Pretreatment of adrenal nuclear extracts with alkaline phosphatase prior to incubation with the AP-1 oligomer decreased binding activity. Thus, unlike most tissues where AP-1 DNA binding activity is controlled by increased expression of AP-1 proteins, DNA binding in the rat adrenal gland appears to be controlled at the post-translational level, possibly through dephosphorylation.
Mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase is a serine/threonine kinase whose function is thought to be essential for the transduction of mitogenic signals. MAP kinase is activated by phosphorylation induced by a variety of extracellular stimuli, and its direct upstream activator has been identified. Using amphibian and mammalian systems, we show here that ras can activate MAP kinase and its activator. Injection of v-Ha-ras p21 into Xenopus immature oocytes activated both MAP kinase and maturation-promoting factor (MPF) activities. The activation of MAP kinase preceded that of MPF, demonstrating that ras activates MAP kinase in an MPF-independent pathway. Moreover, we found that the MAP kinase activator is also activated in ras-injected oocytes. Activation of MAP kinase and its activator occurred also when the v-Ki-ras gene was conditionally induced in rat fibroblastic 3Y1 cells. Furthermore, we observed that ras activated MAP kinase and its activator in a cell-free system prepared from Xenopus oocytes. Using an antibody against the Xenopus 45-kDa MAP kinase activator, we demonstrated that the 45-kDa activator molecule was activated by ras. These findings suggest that the MAP kinase activator/MAP kinase system may be the downstream components of ras signal transduction pathways.
Illusory motion and displacement of the restrained forearm can be elicited by vibrating the biceps brachii or triceps brachii muscle. We measured the influence of gravitoinertial force level on these perceptual responses to vibration during parabolic flight maneuvers where normal (1G) and high force (1.8G) background levels alternated with microgravity (0G). Subjects indicated the apparent forearm position of the vibrated arm with the other forearm and also made verbal reports. Biceps brachii vibration induced illusory extension of the forearm and triceps brachii, illusory flexion; these apparent motions and displacements were highly G force-dependent being enhanced at 1.8G and diminished at 0G relative to normal 1G force level. These alterations are discussed in terms of vestibulo-spinal and propriospinal influences on alpha-gamma motoneuronal control of muscle tone and the varying requirements for postural load support in different force backgrounds. Their implications for the control and appreciation of limb movements during exposure to different G force levels are also described.
Torsion of the neck relative to the fixed head results in several reflexes involving the eyes, the neck and the body. One of these reflexes, the cervico-ocular reflex, has been described as having a small gain in the normal animal. However, when the body of a guinea pig is moved relative to the fixed head with a ramp-like velocity profile, saccades are systematically elicited in the direction of body movement. We re-examined the characteristics of this reflex in the normal guinea pig and demonstrated that: (1) it occurs mainly in the range of high velocity body movements; (2) the latency of the saccades is shorter than previously suspected; (3) the saccades are triggered at specific positions relative to the starting and ending positions of rotation, revealing some degree of flexibility in the reflex. We hypothesize that these saccades of nuchal origin are under the control of the same neuronal circuit as visually triggered saccades and quick phases of vestibular nystagmus. Thus, this nuchal reflex may fundamentally subserve orienting behaviour in normal animal.
Previous studies have indicated that tonic stimulation of GABAB receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) contributes to the regulation of arterial blood pressure (AP). The present studies examined the hypotheses that (1) tonic stimulation of GABAB receptors in the NTS provides a tonic attenuation of the baroreceptor reflex and (2) enhanced stimulation of these GABAB receptors markedly attenuates the baroreceptor reflex resulting in an increase in AP. In chloralose-anesthetized rats electrical stimulation of the aortic depressor nerve elicited frequency-dependent decreases in AP and heart rate (HR). These responses were markedly attenuated, but not eliminated, by injection of the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen into the ipsilateral NTS. In contrast, the GABAA receptor agonist muscimol completely inhibited aortic depressor nerve-evoked responses. Blockade of GABAB receptors in the NTS by local injection of CGP-35348 elicited a dose-dependent decrease in AP, and a dose-dependent blockade of the pressor response elicited by injection of baclofen into the NTS. These results support the hypothesis that GABA acts tonically on GABAB receptors in the NTS to attenuate the baroreceptor reflex, thereby contributing to the regulation of AP.
Twenty-six patients, ASA physical status 1, scheduled for elective cesarean section, were divided at random into two groups and received via an epidural catheter 20 ml of 2.2% lidocaine hydrocarbonate (17.3 mg.ml-1 lidocaine base) with 5 micrograms.ml-1 epinephrine freshly added (Group CO2 = 13 patients) or 20 ml of 2% lidocaine hydrochloride (17.3 mg.ml-1 lidocaine base) also with 5 micrograms.ml-1 epinephrine freshly added. Following clampage of the umbilical cord (at 40.1 +/- 4.9 min after the injection of lidocaine for the CO2 group and at 41.0 +/- 5.4 min for the HCl group), serum concentrations of lidocaine were measured both in the mother and in the umbilical vein. All newborns were examined by the same blinded pediatrician with Apgar scores at 1, 5 and 10 min and with Neurobehavioral Adaptive Capacity Scores (NACS) at 15 min, 2 h and 24 h. The concentrations of lidocaine in the serum were comparable in both groups: in the mothers 8.61 +/- 1.48 mumol.l-1 for the CO2 group vs 8.04 +/- 2.36 mumol.l-1 for the HCl group and in the newborns 3.86 +/- 0.84 mumol.l-1 for the CO2 group vs 3.92 +/- 0.95 mumol.l-1 for the HCl group. The ratio of umbilical vein to maternal vein concentrations of lidocaine was also similar in both groups: 0.45 +/- 0.07 for the CO2 group vs 0.54 +/- 0.24 for the HCl group. The percentage of newborns with a normal NACS (score &gt; or = 35/40) was equal in both groups, i.e. 91% at 15 min and 2 h of life and 100% at 24 h of life.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We sought to characterize the excitatory effect of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV) motoneurons by using the patch-clamp technique in rat brain stem slices. In our initial studies we used the cell-attached recording configuration using concentrations of TRH from 1 to 30 microM. Exposure of DMV motoneurons to TRH resulted in a concentration-related increase in spontaneously occurring action potential firing rate. This was observed in 63 of 85 DMV neurons (75%) tested and was unrelated to their location rostral or caudal to the obex. Invariably, desensitization occurred to the excitatory effect of TRH. Subsequent experiments using whole cell recordings in the current-clamp mode confirmed that TRH excites DMV neurons located both rostral and caudal to the obex. In the current-clamp configuration, TRH produced depolarization; i.e., 30 microM TRH elicited a depolarization of 8.7 +/- 3.2 mV (P &lt; 0.05, n = 7). Studies using whole cell current recordings in voltage-clamp mode indicated that TRH in a concentration-dependent manner produces a small inward current that is associated with a decrease in the input resistance of -42.5 +/- 15.6 M omega (TRH 30 microM). TRH-induced inward current was also present under conditions of inhibition of synaptic transmission (i.e., in the presence of tetrodotoxin and cobalt). We also found that TRH reduced in a concentration-dependent manner both the fast transient A-type K+ current (IA) and the Ca(2+)-dependent afterhyperpolarizing current (IAHP). Using the extracellular recording technique in the cell-attached configuration, we investigated whether any part of TRH-induced increase in firing rate was due to an increase in the synaptic release of L-glutamate or acetylcholine. Prior exposure of DMV neurons to either kynurenic acid or to atropine did not antagonize any of the excitatory effect of TRH. Finally, we observed that addition of 30 microM TRH to the perfusing solution produced an increase in spontaneously occurring excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs). This occurred without any change in the amplitude of EPSCs. These results indicated that TRH-induced increase in firing of DMV neurons is due to direct postsynaptic effects to activate an inward cationic current and to counteract IA and IAHP, as well as a presynaptic effect to increase the frequency of EPSCs.
The distribution and colocalization of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)- and glycine-like immunoreactivity in the cochlear nuclear complex of the guinea pig have been studied to produce a light microscopic atlas. The method used was based on post-embedding immunocytochemistry in pairs of 0.5-micron-thick plastic sections treated with polyclonal antibodies against conjugated GABA and glycine respectively. Immunoreactive cells, presumably short axon neurones, predominated in the dorsal cochlear nucleus, with mostly single-GABA-labelled cells in the superficial layer, double-labelled in the middle, and single-glycine-labelled in the deep layers. A few large single-glycine-labelled cells, interpreted as commissural neurons, occurred in the ventral nucleus. Scattered double-labelled cells, probably Golgi cells, were seen in the granule cell domain. Immunolabeled puncta of all three staining categories occurred in large numbers throughout the complex, apposed to somata and in the neuropil, showing a differential distribution onto different types of neuron. Three immunolabeled tracts were noted: the tuberculoventral tract, the commissural acoustic stria, and the trapezoidal descending fibres. Most of the fibres in these tracts were single-labelled for glycine, although in the last mentioned tract single-GABA- and double-labelled fibres were also found. Some of the immunolabeled cell types described here are proposed as the origins of the similarly labelled puncta and fibres on the basis of known intrinsic connections.
The author sets forth a conception of an inborn reciprocally organized neuropsychological pre-program of the personality. In tender age it orientates the experience and the behaviour unconsciously and later its activity becomes conscious to one or another degree. Elements of this pre-program are a reciprocally organized system of the fundamental drives and emotions and adjacent structures. On the basis of this conception, the author makes a neuropsychological analyse of some para-adaptive personality reactions.
We tested the hypothesis that in adult humans, recovery from stroke results from the emergence of ipsilateral, fast-conducting corticospinal pathways. In 10 patients recovering from stroke, the unaffected hemisphere was stimulated with an electromagnet and changes in the firing probability of single biceps motor units were used to derive postsynaptic potentials in single biceps motoneurons. Stimuli sufficient to excite the neurons of the fast-conducting corticospinal pathway (as shown by short-latency facilitation of contralateral biceps motoneurons) did not produce short-latency depolarization of ipsilateral biceps motoneurons. The hypothesis is therefore not supported.
Angelman and Prader-Willi syndromes are clinically distinct neurobehavioral disorders most commonly resulting from large deletions of chromosome 15q11-q13. The deletions arise differentially during maternal or paternal gametogenesis, respectively. A subgroup of patients with either syndrome have no apparent deletion, and because many such patients with Prader-Willi syndrome display inheritance of two copies of chromosome 15 from the mother only (uniparental disomy; UPD), we suggested that paternal UPD might be found in patients with Angelman syndrome. We report here clinical, cytogenetic, and molecular evidence on the 1 patient with paternal UPD for chromosome 15 who was found in our study population. This represents, to our knowledge, the first patient with paternal UPD to be studied with DNA probes from the chromosome 15q11-q13 critical region. In contrast to our findings for patients with Prader-Willi syndrome, in which maternal UPD was common, our data demonstrate that paternal UPD is infrequent in patients with Angelman syndrome.
Huntington's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease in which the basal ganglia are preferentially affected. Recent evidence, however, suggests involvement of the cerebral cortex as well, with sparing of neurochemically defined subsets of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic interneurons. In the present study, we examined changes in concentrations of the amino acid neurotransmitters GABA, glutamate, and aspartate in nine cortical regions from 23 patients with advanced Huntington's disease and 12 control brains. GABA concentrations were significantly increased in eight of the nine regions, consistent with a sparing of GABAergic local circuit neurons in the context of progressive cortical atrophy. Small but significant increases in glutamate were found in six of the nine regions, while aspartate levels were generally unaffected. Striate cortex (Brodmann's area 17) showed the most profound increases in GABA and glutamate. We also investigated the effects of powdering the excitotoxins N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or kainic acid onto the dura of rats. The resulting lesions were examined at 1 week and 6 months. The NMDA-induced lesions showed striking sparing of parvalbumin-positive neurons (a subset of GABAergic interneurons), and this sparing was reflected in neurochemical measurements of GABA; kainic acid lesions failed to display this selectivity. Somatostatin, cholecystokinin, and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide concentrations were spared by the NMDA-induced lesions, and substance P levels were significantly increased. These results provide evidence that NMDA excitotoxic lesions of cerebral cortex can produce a selective pattern of neuronal damage similar to that which occurs in Huntington's disease.
Rabbits were implanted with chronic stimulating electrodes in white matter underlying lobule HVI of the cerebellar cortex. Stimulation elicited movements of the face or neck and, when paired with a tone conditioned stimulus (CS), produced learning comparable to that seen with peripheral unconditioned stimuli (USs). CS-alone trials produced extinction. Reinstatement of paired trials produced reacquisition with savings. Additional groups received either explicitly or randomly unpaired CS-US trials before paired conditioning. Low-frequency responding during these sessions indicated that the paired training results were associative and not due to pseudoconditioning or sensitization. Explicitly unpaired sessions retarded learning on subsequent paired trials compared with groups that received either randomly unpaired or no CS-US preexposure. These results are interpreted in terms of the role of the cerebellum and associated pathways in classical conditioning of motor responses.
The effects of age and lesion of the cholinergic nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBm) were assessed behaviorally, morphologically, and biochemically. Groups consisted of rats lesioned 1 month before testing, rats lesioned 13 months before testing, and their respective age-matched controls. Both age and lesion independently induced behavioral deficits in performance on two water maze tasks. The combined effect of these two factors produced behavioral deficits equal to the sum of the individual impairments. NBm lesion produced a 28% decrease in anterior cortical choline acetyltransferase activity and a 20% decrease in synaptophysin immunoreactivity in the neocortex that was stable over a 12-month period. Neither neuritic plaque nor neurofibrillary-tanglelike structures were found in the brains of 18-month-old control rats, nor were they found in NBm-lesioned rats examined 15 months postlesion. There was an age-related decrease in homovanillic acid levels in both control and NBm groups, which suggests a decrease in dopamine turnover. These results show a lack of biochemical and behavioral recovery after NBm lesion and suggest that the effects of age on behavior are independent of NBm-cortical dysfunction.
The stable transfection of immortalized Rat-1 and rat skin primary fibroblast cell lines by calcium phosphate precipitation, lipofection and electroporation methods have been examined. The lipofection method was found to be better than the other methods in terms of higher transfection efficiency and convenient use. Expression of beta-galactosidase from two different viral promoters showed that the level of transgene expression depends on the promoter strength in a particular cell type. The results presented here show that the transgene expression is extremely variable among different colonies generated from individually transfected cells. Therefore, it is necessary to examine individual colonies of cells for the production of reporter gene to obtain cell lines expressing high amounts of gene products.
1. L-689,660, 1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane, 3-(6-chloropyrazinyl)maleate, a novel cholinomimetic, demonstrated high affinity binding (pKD (apparent) 7.42) at rat cerebral cortex muscarinic receptors. L-689,660 had a low ratio (34) of pKD (apparent) values for the displacement of binding of the antagonist ([3H]-N-methylscopolamine ([3H]-NMS) compared with the displacement of the agonist [3H]-oxotremorine-M ([3H]-Oxo-M), in rat cerebral cortex. Low NMS/Oxo-M ratios have been shown previously to be a characteristic of compounds that are low efficacy partial agonists with respect to stimulation of phosphatidyl inositol turnover in the cerebral cortex. 2. L-689,660 showed no muscarinic receptor subtype selectivity in radioligand binding assays but showed functional selectivity in pharmacological assays. At M1 muscarinic receptors in the rat superior cervical ganglion, L-689,660 was a potent (pEC50 7.3 +/- 0.2) full agonist in comparison with (+/-)-muscarine. At M3 receptors in the guinea-pig ileum myenteric plexus-longitudinal muscle or in trachea, L-689,660 was again a potent agonist (pEC50 7.5 +/- 0.2 and 7.7 +/- 0.3 respectively) but had a lower maximum response than carbachol. In contrast L-689,660 was an antagonist at M2 receptors in guinea-pig atria (pA2 7.2 (95% confidence limits 7, 7.4)) and at muscarinic autoreceptors in rat hippocampal slices. 3. The putative M1-selective muscarinic agonist, AF102B (cis-2-methylspiro-(1,3-oxathiolane 5,3')-quinuclidine hydrochloride) was found to have a profile similar to L-689,660 but had up to 100 times less affinity in binding and functional assays.RS-86 (2-ethyl-8-methyl-2,8-diazospiro[4,5]decan 1,3-dionehydrochloride) also had lower affinity than L-689,660, and had no binding selectivity for muscarinic receptor subtypes. RS-86 had a higher NMS/Oxo-M ratio than L-689,660 and was a full agonist at MI,M2 and M3 receptors in the functional pharmacological assays.4. The functional selectivity of L-689,660 in muscarinic pharmacological assays is consistent with the effects of a low efficacy partial agonist in tissues with different effective receptor reserves.
Owing to the Japanese language's unique writing system, which consists of phonograms and ideograms, reading impairments of Japanese brain-damaged patients have attracted the interest of many researchers. Past case reports as well as some widely accepted handbooks and textbooks have concluded that a specific aphasia type or lesion site is associated with a particular impairment pattern of phonograms and ideograms in reading. However, the methodology and analytical procedures in previous studies were inadequate for reliable generalizations to be made. First, the test materials were unspecified or inappropriate, or the number of test items was small. Secondly, the conclusions were presented without providing individual performance data to support them. Thirdly, in associating patterns of reading impairment with lesion sites, only single cases were reported. The present investigation was designed to overcome the omissions of previous studies, and examined the ability to read 46 single phonograms and 46 single ideograms aloud in four groups of sufficiently large numbers of patients; namely, seven pure alexics, 23 Broca aphasics, 13 Wernicke aphasics, and seven patients with alexia and agraphia. Ours are the first data to demonstrate unequivocally no consistent linkage between aphasia type and the patterns of impairment of phonogram and ideogram reading. The impairment patterns were not uniform across patients even in the same aphasia group. A majority of the cases in each group showed that phonograms and ideograms were unselectively impaired. However, ideogram reading was more difficult in three cases in the pure alexia and Broca aphasia groups, respectively, and in one case in the Wernicke aphasia group. Phonogram reading was more severely disturbed in four cases among the Broca aphasics and in one case among the patients with alexia with agraphia. An apparent variability of impairment patterns characterized the Broca aphasic group. These dyslexic patterns did not appear to correlate with the site and extent of lesions identified by computerized tomography scans. Past reports linking a particular impairment pattern of phonogram and ideogram reading and a specific lesion site were studies of single cases, and their conclusions seem oversimplified. While sensory and motor dysfunctions can usually be neuroanatomically localized in individuals, impairments of certain high cortical functions, such as the reading of phonograms and ideograms, may not be correlated with damage to definite neuroanatomical structures.
We compared the ability of eight normal subjects and 15 patients with brainstem or cerebellar disease to follow a moving visual stimulus smoothly with either the eyes alone or with combined eye-head tracking. The visual stimulus was either a laser spot (horizontal and vertical planes) or a large rotating disc (torsional plane), which moved at one sinusoidal frequency for each subject. The visually enhanced vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) was also measured in each plane. In the horizontal and vertical planes, we found that if tracking gain (gaze velocity/target velocity) for smooth pursuit was close to 1, the gain of combined eye-hand tracking was similar. If the tracking gain during smooth pursuit was less than about 0.7, combined eye-head tracking was usually superior. Most patients, irrespective of diagnosis, showed combined eye-head tracking that was superior to smooth pursuit; only two patients showed the converse. In the torsional plane, in which optokinetic responses were weak, combined eye-head tracking was much superior, and this was the case in both subjects and patients. We found that a linear model, in which an internal ocular tracking signal cancelled the VOR, could account for our findings in most normal subjects in the horizontal and vertical planes, but not in the torsional plane. The model failed to account for tracking behaviour in most patients in any plane, and suggested that the brain may use additional mechanisms to reduce the internal gain of the VOR during combined eye-head tracking. Our results confirm that certain patients who show impairment of smooth-pursuit eye movements preserve their ability to smoothly track a moving target with combined eye-head tracking.
Oskar Vogt (1870-1955) was a prominent German neurologist and neuroanatomist with a strong interest in the pathogenesis of brain diseases. Together with his wife Ccile (1875-1962), he published landmark papers on the cyto- and myelo-architecture of the brain and the functional anatomy of the basal ganglia. He developed the concept of pathoclisis, i.e., the selective vulnerability of specific neuronal populations in the CNS. In the 1920's, Vogt created a multi-disciplinary brain research institute, the Kaiser-Wilhelm-Institut fr Hirnforschung in Berlin-Buch. After Lenin's death in 1924, Oskar Vogt was called to Moscow where he formed a new brain research institute, with the main purpose to investigate the revolutionary's brain. After being dismissed from office by the Nazi government in 1937, the Vogts continued their work in a privately funded institute in Neustadt, the Black Forest.
Changes in the mRNA levels of all catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes were examined 24 h after a single injection of reserpine by in situ hybridization. The responses of the midbrain dopaminergic cells in the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra compacta, locus ceruleus and adrenal gland were studied in three groups of animals receiving either no injection, vehicle injection or reserpine 10 mg/kg subcutaneously. Increases in enzyme message signal observed by in situ hybridization were corroborated by Northern blot analysis for all four enzyme mRNAs species expressed in the locus ceruleus and adrenal gland were found while no change of enzyme message was detected the midbrain. Two distinct subpopulations of adrenomedullary cells could be distinguished by their baseline levels of enzyme mRNA expression: the majority of medullary cells have moderate adrenomedullary cells could be distinguished by their baseline levels of enzyme mRNA expression: the majority of medullary cells have moderate levels of all four enzyme mRNAs but a minority of cells show very high signal for the first three enzymes of the catecholamine synthesis pathway. To test whether reserpine elicits a selective transcriptional response of the catecholamine enzyme genes or induces other neuronal genes, cDNA probes for the growth-associated protein GAP-43 which is highly expressed and neurofilament L which is weakly expressed in monoaminergic neurons were used as independent cellular markers and showed no change in message levels. Changes in mRNA levels of the proto-oncogenes c-fos and c-jun were examined 1 h after injection of reserpine by in situ hybridization and compared to the pattern observed for the Fos protein immunohistochemically. C-fos and c-jun proto-oncogene activation was observed 1 h after reserpine in the locus ceruleus and adrenal medulla, specifically in those catecholaminergic structures that respond with increased enzyme gene transcription; in contrast, the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra did not exhibit detectable proto-oncogene activation, only a small group of neurons in the ventral tegmental area showed c-fos without concomitant c-jun expression after reserpine.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is considered to simply contract the gallbladder and relax the sphincter of Oddi with meals. In this study, we examined this hypothesis by investigating the action of CCK on the sphincter of Oddi and gallbladder of the guinea pig. The experimental design used an in vitro preparation of the sphincter of Oddi to measure contraction of the circular muscle. CCK increased tone in both the gallbladder and the sphincter of Oddi in a concentration-dependent manner. The normalized concentration-response curves for CCK, however, revealed that the gallbladder had a greater sensitivity to CCK (ED50 7 nM) than the sphincter of Oddi (ED50 22 nM; p &lt; 0.01). Conversely, the sphincter was more sensitive to bethanechol than was the gallbladder. When the sphincter of Oddi was stimulated maximally with CCK in the presence of atropine (10(-6) M) or tetrodotoxin (10(-6) M), the contractile response was significantly reduced (p &lt; 0.05) although not abolished. Conversely, atropine completely abolished the responses to bethanechol (10(-3) M) and transmural field stimulation (70 V, 10 Hz, 1 ms, for 20 s). Transmural field stimulation of the sphincter that had been precontracted with CCK (26 nM) caused a transient, initial relaxation followed by contraction. Pretreatment with atropine augmented the duration of this relaxation, which could be completely abolished by tetrodotoxin. Thus, CCK contracts the sphincter of Oddi in the guinea pig by a direct (myogenic) and a neural (likely cholinergic) mechanism. Relaxation of the sphincter of Oddi also occurs in the guinea pig via noncholinergic inhibitory nerves.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

T-cell hybridoma activated by a variety of stimuli such as anti-cell surface antigen, notably CD3 and T-cell receptors, and Con A undergoes a cell lysis process called activation-induced cell death (AICD). It was found that the major protein kinase C (PKC) isoform in the 2B4.11 T-cell hybridoma, PKC(alpha), was translocated from the cytosolic to the particulate fraction when these hybridoma cells were induced to die by plastic-adsorbed anti-CD3 antibodies. Inhibitors of protein phosphorylation rescued 2B4.11 cells from AICD as determined by the analysis of cellular metabolism and the proportion of living cells. Furthermore, PKC(alpha) down-regulation by phorbol ester treatment abolished AICD, and the degree of PKC down-regulation correlated well with the degree of AICD abolishment, suggesting that PKC activation represents an essential step in the molecular mechanisms underlying AICD in this T-cell hybridoma.
Sympathetic neurotransmitters have been shown to be present in the ovary of the rat during early postnatal development and to affect steroidogenesis before the ovary becomes responsive to gonadotropins, and before the first primordial follicles are formed. This study was undertaken to determine if development of the ovarian innervation is an event that antedates the initiation of folliculogenesis in the rat, Rattus norvegicus. Serial sections of postnatal ovaries revealed a negligible frequency of follicles 24 h after birth (about 1 primordial follicle per ovary). Twelve hours later there were about 500 follicles per ovary, a number that more than doubled to about 1300 during the subsequent 12 h, indicating that an explosive period of follicular differentiation occurs between the end of postnatal days 1 and 2. Electron microscopy demonstrated that before birth the ovaries are already innervated by fibers containing clear and dense-core vesicles. Immunohistochemistry performed on either fetal (day 19) or newborn (less than 15h after birth) ovaries showed the presence of catecholaminergic nerves, identified by their content of immunoreactive tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis. While some of these fibers innervate blood vessels, others are associated with primordial ovarian cells, thereby suggesting their participation in non-vascular functions. Since prefollicular ovaries are insensitive to gonadotropins, the results suggest that the developing ovary becomes subjected to direct neurogenic influences before it acquires responsiveness to gonadotropins.
Given a homeomorphism f of the circle, any splitting of this circle in two semiopen arcs induces a coding process for the orbits of f, which can be determined by recording the successive arcs visited by the orbit. The problem of describing these codes has a two hundred year history (that we briefly recall) in the particular case when the arcs are limited by a point and its image; in modern language, it is the kneading theory of such maps, and as such is relevant for our understanding of dynamical problems involving oscillations. This paper deals with questions attached to the general case, a problem considered by many mathematicians in the 50's and 60's in the case where f is a rotation, and which has recently found some applications in physiology. We show that, except for trivial cases, any code determines the rotation number, up to the orientation, of the homeomorphism which generates it. In the case the code is periodic, we can also determine whether or not it can be generated in this way. An equivalent problem in arithmetic consists of finding +/-p, knowing a collection of classes in Z/qZ of the form {m,m+p,.,m+(k-1)p}, where 2&lt;/=k&lt;/=q-2 and p and q are relatively prime. We describe this equivalence, and give simple solutions of the decoding problem both in the dynamical context and in the number theoretic context.
The axonal and somatodendritic domains of neurons differ in their cytoskeletal and membrane composition, complement of organelles, and capacity for macromolecular synthesis. Recently there has been progress in elucidating the cellular mechanisms that underlie the establishment and maintenance of neuronal polarity, including microtubule organization and the sorting, transport, and anchoring of membrane proteins.
Membrane-associated neurotransmitter stimulating factor (MANS) can modulate sympathetic neurotransmitter expression and promote ciliary neuron survival in cell culture. Previous studies have shown that its biological effects and biochemical properties are similar to those of ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF). In addition, CNTF is present in spinal cord, the source of MANS. These observations raised the possibility that MANS preparations contain CNTF. We find that partially purified MANS fractions contain a 24-kD protein that is recognized in Western blots by an antiserum generated against recombinant rat CNTF (rCNTF). This antiserum immunoprecipitates virtually all the cholinergic-inducing and the ciliary neurotrophic activities present in MANS preparations. When iodinated rCNTF is incubated with spinal cord membranes, a significant proportion of the labeled CNTF segregates with the membrane pellet. The membrane-associated exogenous CNTF can be eluted from the membrane fraction by treatment with high-salt solutions, similar to that used to solubilize MANS from spinal cord membranes. Our data suggest that a substantial portion of the cholinergic differentiation and ciliary neurotrophic activities present in MANS preparations can be attributed to CNTF or a CNTF-like molecule.
Mutations in the gene ced-4 block almost all of the programmed cell deaths that normally occur during Caenorhabditis elegans development. We have cloned the ced-4 gene using a ced-4 mutation caused by the insertion of the transposon Tc4. When microinjected into a ced-4 animal, a 4.4 kb DNA fragment derived from the wild-type strain and corresponding to the region of the Tc4 insertion in the mutant ced-4(n1416) rescues the Ced-4 mutant phenotype. The ced-4 gene encodes a 2.2 kb RNA transcript. This mRNA is expressed primarily during embryogenesis, when most programmed cell deaths occur. The Ced-4 protein, as deduced from cDNA and genomic DNA clones, is 549 amino acids in length. Two regions of the putative Ced-4 protein product show some similarity to known calcium-binding domains.
Astrocytes have previously been shown to respond to cytokines such as interleukin-1 beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and gamma-interferon from multiple sources including microglia and astrocytes. Recently, astrocytes have also been shown to express the opioid precursor gene proenkephalin and proenkephalin-derived peptides. The objectives of the current study were to determine if immune cytokines regulate proenkephalin gene expression in primary cultures of neonatal rat cerebral astrocytes. Northern analysis of RNA from primary cultures of neonatal rat cerebral astrocytes indicated that proenkephalin transcript levels were decreased by approximately 50% with gamma-interferon treatment and increased approximately 100% by treatment with both tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta relative to untreated controls. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha treatment was unable to reverse the inhibitory effect of gamma-interferon pretreatment on proenkephalin messenger RNA levels in the astrocytes. In contrast, expression of the constitutively expressed glutamine synthetase gene was not altered by either tumor necrosis factor-alpha or gamma-interferon treatment. These cytokines also regulate the secretion of proenkephalin-derived peptides from astrocytes. The levels of immunoreactive Met-enkephalin-Arg6-Phe7 were increased by approximately 50% with tumor necrosis factor-alpha and decreased by approximately 40% with gamma-interferon relative to untreated controls. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha was again unable to reverse the inhibitory effect of gamma-interferon pretreatment on the secretion of proenkephalin-derived peptides. These results provide additional support for the hypothesis that rapidly proliferating astrocytes may serve an important and pivotal role in mediating the bi-directional neuroimmune interactions during central nervous system disease, infection, or trauma.
The effect of N-methyl-D,L-aspartate (NMA) on LH secretion was investigated in Syrian hamsters of the LSH/Ss Lak strain, maintained under either long days (14 h of light, 10 h of darkness) or short days (6 h of light, 18 h of darkness). After 6 weeks of photoperiodic treatment, the animals were orchidectomized. Ten days later, 10-min blood samples were remotely collected from each animal, using surgically implanted intraatrial catheters, and individual pulsatile LH release profiles were subsequently determined by RIA. At the end of the 4-h sampling period, NMA was administered iv (30 mg/kg BW), and the LH response was determined in the next three plasma samples. Hamsters maintained under long days had very high mean plasma LH levels (453 +/- 46 ng/ml) and displayed episodic release patterns characterized by high amplitude pulses. In marked contrast, hamsters that were maintained under short days had significantly (P less than 0.001) lower mean plasma LH levels (90 +/- 12 ng/ml) and showed a significantly (P less than 0.001) lower mean pulse amplitude. The interpulse interval was similar in both of the groups, with LH peaks occurring, on the average, once every 65 min. When challenged with NMA, the long-day hamsters showed only a 37% increase in mean plasma LH levels, which was not statistically significant. In contrast, the short-day hamsters showed a highly significant (P less than 0.01) increase of 294%. Interestingly, the mean plasma LH levels after NMA administration were the same in the two photoperiodic groups despite a marked difference in the plasma levels that preceded the administration. These findings demonstrate that short days can inhibit the neuroendocrine activity of the hamster's reproductive axis independently of gonadal influences. They also suggest that the LHRH neurons have an intrinsic capacity to secrete very high levels of the neuropeptide, regardless of the photoperiod. Taken together, the results support the hypothesis that the breeding season in the hamster is regulated by a gonad-independent mechanism involving a photoperiodic modulation of neuroexcitatory inputs to the LHRH neurons.
Recent disasters have focused attention on performance problems due to the use of alcohol and controlled substances in the workplace. Environmental stressors such as thermal extremes, mixed gases, noise, motion, and vibration also have adverse effects on human performance and operator efficiency. However, the lack of a standardized, sensitive, human performance assessment battery has probably delayed the systematic study of the deleterious effects of various toxic chemicals and drugs at home and in the workplace. The collective goal of the research reported here is the development of a menu of tests embedded in a coherent package of hardware and software that may be useful in repeated-measures studies of a broad range of agents that can degrade human performance. A menu of 40 tests from the Automated Performance Test System (APTS) is described, and the series of interlocking studies supporting its development is reviewed. The APTS tests, which run on several versions of laptop portables and desktop personal computers, have been shown to be stable, reliable, and factorially rich, and to have predictive validities with holistic measures of intelligence and simulator performances. In addition, sensitivity studies have been conducted in which performance changes due to stressors, agents, and treatments were demonstrated. We believe that tests like those described here have prospective use as an adjunct to urine testing for the screening for performance loss of individuals who are granted access to workplaces and stations that impact public safety.
This study concerns the involvement of calbindin-D28K (CaBP28k)-containing neurons in ascending spinal projections to the brainstem (nucleus of the solitary tract, lateral reticular nucleus area), pontine (parabrachial area) and mesencephalic (periaqueductal grey) structures. All these central structures are important in the processing of visceroception and visceronociception and all are targets for spinal efferents from similar areas. CaBP28k controls the excitability of cells by acting on intrinsic calcium metabolism. Results refer to the caudal spinal areas where the visceroceptive regions are concentrated. Experiments were performed through a double labelling approach that combined the retrograde transport of a protein - gold complex to identify the projection cells and immunohistochemistry to identify the CaBP28k-positive cells. The caudal spinal cord is rich in both CaBP28k-containing and projection cells. Cells colocalizing the protein and the retrograde tracer were quite numerous, with a particularly high concentration in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn (laminae I and outer II) and the lateral spinal nucleus. The other spinal areas containing immunoreactive projection cells were the reticular part of the neck of the dorsal horn, the medial laminae VII and VIII, lamina X and the sacral parasympathetic nucleus. The superficial layers and the neck of the dorsal horn are targets for nociceptive, visceroceptive and thermal inputs; the sacral parasympathetic column and lamina X are involved in visceroceptive integration. A functional role for the lateral spinal nucleus has not yet been established. Quite similar results were obtained for each of the ascending pathways under study. The high incidence of CaBP28k in spinal pathways suggests that calbindin has a major role in controlling the excitability of spinal cells subserving the processing of visceroception and/or visceronociception information to supraspinal levels. The participation of CaBP28k-immunoreactive cells in spinal ascending tract cells largely outnumbers those previously reported for various neuropeptides (Leah et al., Neuroscience, 24, 195 - 207, 1988)
Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) is produced when conjunctive stimulation of parallel fibre (PF) and climbing fibre (CF) inputs to a Purkinje neuron (PN) results in a prolonged decrease in the strength of the PF - PN synapse. In cultured PNs, LTD may be induced by substituting depolarization of the PN and iontophoretic glutamate pulses for CF and PF stimulation, respectively, allowing an unambiguous analysis of post-synaptic processes (Linden et al., Neuron, 7, 81 - 89, 1991). Recent studies have suggested that release of the newly described second messenger, nitric oxide, in the cerebellar molecular layer, is necessary for LTD produced in the slice preparation by PF/CF conjunctive stimulation (Shibuki and Okada, Nature, 349, 326 - 328, 1991) or PF/depolarization conjunctive stimulation (Crepel and Jaillard, NeuroReport, 1, 133 - 136, 1990). We report that LTD of glutamate currents produced without synaptic stimulation in cultured PNs is unaffected by reagents that stimulate (sodium nitroprusside) or inhibit (haemoglobin, NG-nitro-l-arginine) nitric oxide signalling.
The elucidation of the mechanisms regulating the properties of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) subtype of glutamate receptors is important for understanding glutamatergic transmission. Here we report that qualitative as well as quantitative analysis of tritiated ligand binding to the AMPA receptor on thin frozen rat brain tissue sections reveals the existence of several mechanisms regulating the binding properties of AMPA receptors. Preincubation of tissue sections at 35 degrees C results in a decreased amount of [3H]AMPA binding as compared to that measured following preincubation at 0 degrees C. The decrease in binding appears to be mainly localized to cell bodies as evaluated by autoradiography, and could be due to proteolysis. Preincubation with calcium at 35 degrees C produces increased levels of [3H]AMPA binding. The effect of calcium is mimicked by manganese and to a lesser extent by magnesium; it is concentration-dependent with a 50% effective concentration for calcium of approximately 150 microM, time-dependent and temperature-dependent. The calcium-induced increase in [3H]AMPA binding is different among various brain structures, being larger in area CA1 of the hippocampus and in the superficial layers of the cerebral cortex. The effect of calcium is partly reduced by preincubation with the calpain inhibitor leupeptin and potentiated by preincubation with purified calpain II. The calcium-induced increase in [3H]AMPA binding is associated with a decrease in the binding of an antagonist of AMPA receptors, [3H]6-nitro-7-cyanoquinoxaline-2,3-dione. The results indicate that the binding properties of the AMPA receptor are rapidly regulated by calcium-dependent processes, and possibly by calcium-dependent proteases. They suggest that modulation of the binding properties involves changes in the configuration of the receptor, producing opposite changes in the affinities of the receptor for agonists and antagonists. Finally, these results strengthen the hypothesis that changes in the properties of AMPA receptors might underlie various forms of synaptic plasticity.
The effects of various proposed GABAB receptor antagonists on baclofen-mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase were studied in cultured cerebellar granule cells from rat. (+/-)-Baclofen maximally inhibited adenylyl cyclase by approximately 60% of the basal enzyme activity with an EC50 value of 10 microM. 3-Aminopropane sulfonic acid (3-APS) and 5-aminovaleric acid (5-AVA) produced similar responses to that seen with (+/-)-baclofen. Saclofen reversed the action of (+/-)-baclofen, 50 microM, with a half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of about 1.0 mM. The most effective antagonist in blocking the action of (+/-)-baclofen was 3-aminopropyl-diethoxy-methyl-phosphonic acid (CGP 35,348). In the presence of (+/-)-baclofen, 50 microM, the IC50 for CGP 35,348 was 290 microM and its inhibitory constant (KA) was 180 microM. The agonist-like actions of 3-APS and 5-AVA were antagonized by CGP 35,348 suggesting that 3-APS and 5-AVA may act as weak agonists at the GABAB receptor that inhibits adenylyl cyclase. All antagonists tested, except the new compound CGP 35,348, have very low potencies at GABAB receptors that inhibit adenylyl cyclase, though these compounds have been quite effective at other GABAB receptor-mediated events. Thus, the GABAB receptor which inhibits adenylyl cyclase differs pharmacologically from other reported GABAB receptor/effector systems and supports the existence of multiple receptor subtypes.
The mechanisms by which adrenal medulla grafts influence the function of host brains in animal models of Parkinson's disease are unclear. To explore this issue, fragments of adrenal medulla or sciatic nerve were transplanted into the lateral ventricle of bilaterally adrenalectomized (ADX) or sham-ADX rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra. Additional control group received sham-transplantation surgery. Behavioral effects of these procedures were tested following administration of apomorphine, amphetamine, or nicotine. Plasma catecholamines were measured before and after transplantation surgery. In both ADX and sham-ADX rats, adrenal medulla grafts produced greater decreases in apomorphine-induced rotational behavior than did sciatic nerve grafts or sham-transplanted groups. Decreases in rotation were smaller in ADX than in sham-ADX animals, regardless of graft treatment. Plasma catecholamines increased after transplantation surgery in each of the sham-ADX groups, regardless of graft type. Increases in plasma dopamine concentrations were associated with decreases in rotational behavior. Five months after transplantation, grafted chromaffin cells demonstrated catecholamine fluorescence, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and chromogranin A immunoreactivities, and expression of TH mRNA. It is concluded that adrenal medulla grafts produce decreases in apomorphine-induced rotation through a combination of two independent effects. One is a specific effect of adrenal medulla grafts. The second is a nonspecific effect that requires an intact adrenal gland and may be related to increases in plasma catecholamine concentrations.
The integrin alpha 1 chain (Vla1) associates with the beta 1 chain to form a heterodimer that functions as a dual laminin/collagen receptor in neural cells and hematopoietic cells. We have used an interspecies backcross gene-mapping technique to map the Vla1 gene to the distal end of chromosome 13 in the mouse genome. The Vla1 locus is located 3.5 cM distal to Ctla-3 and 7.8 cM distal to Htrla. We have further characterized this locus in recombinant inbred (RI) mice by examining the strain distribution patterns of nine genomic DNA restriction fragment length variants detected with alpha 1 cDNA probes. The RI gene mapping did not show linkage to previously mapped genes or mutants in the AXB, BXA, or AKXD RI sets and therefore defines a new genetic marker for the distal end of chromosome 13 in these RI sets.
We evaluated the effect of flunarizine (Fz) (10 mg/d) on migraine in a double-blind placebo-controlled design. The attacks' frequency, duration, severity and associated symptoms were compared before and after treatment. Forty-two patients completed a three-month trial period; 21 patients received Fz and 21 placebo. Statistical analysis showed no significant difference between Fz and placebo (p &gt; 0.05). In this study Fz was not more efficient than placebo in migraine.
Can the vestibular periphery of warm-blooded vertebrates recover functionally from severe sensory hair cell loss? Recent findings in birds suggest a mechanism for recovery but in fact no direct functional evidence has been reported. We produced vestibular hair cell lesions using the ototoxic agent streptomycin sulfate (600 mg/kg/day, 8 days, chicks, Gallus domesticus). Compound action potentials of the vestibular nerve were used as a direct measure of peripheral vestibular function. Vestibular thresholds, neural activation latencies and amplitudes were documented. Eight days of drug treatment elevated thresholds significantly (P &lt; 0.001) and eliminated all but remnants of vestibular activity. Virtually complete physiological recovery occurred in all animals studied over a period of 70 days following treatment. Thresholds recovered within two weeks of drug treatment whereas the return of response morphologies including activation latencies and amplitudes required an additional 6-8 weeks.
The NMDA receptor-mediated component of the hippocampal granule cell population excitatory postsynaptic potential response to low frequency (&lt; 0.2 Hz) stimulation of the medial perforant path was characterized in vivo. Extracellular recordings were obtained from the dentate molecular layer in anesthetized rabbits, and glutamatergic and GABAergic antagonists were applied locally by pressure ejection. To measure the NMDA-mediated component, the NMDA receptor antagonist D-5-aminophosphonovalerate (APV) was applied during the constant ejection of physiological saline, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), and/or bicuculline methiodide. In general agreement with the results of attempts by other investigators to identify NMDA responses in vivo, APV did not significantly reduce the response to a single stimulus impulse in the presence of saline. However, an NMDA-mediated response was revealed when alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprianate receptor-mediated current flow was eliminated by applying the non-NMDA receptor antagonist CNQX. The NMDA component was negative-going as predicted, but its duration was considerably less than indicated in other studies of the dentate in vitro. The relative magnitudes of the NMDA and non-NMDA components of the EPSP were found to vary as a function of stimulus intensity or frequency. The NMDA receptor-mediated component represented 12% of the control response and increased to over 25% in response to higher stimulus intensities. A brief, high-frequency burst of impulses evoked a larger NMDA component in the presence of CNQX and was able to evoke an NMDA component in the presence of saline. Surprisingly, short trains of stimulation at lower frequencies typically produced suppression of the NMDA component. In a final series of experiments, it was found that many characteristics of the NMDA component were substantially altered by GABAergic inhibition. In the presence of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline, the magnitude of NMDA receptor-mediated responses was increased and their duration was greatly extended. Additionally, in the presence of bicuculline, the NMDA component facilitated markedly in response to frequencies of stimulus input &gt; 20 Hz. These results indicate in vivo that the initiation and duration of NMDA current flow depend strongly upon the intensity and frequency of perforant path stimulation. In addition, the NMDA response to a single impulse appears to be reduced and truncated by input from GABAA receptor-mediated feedback and/or feedforward inhibition, and this inhibition affects temporal summation of NMDA receptor-mediated responses over a wide range of input frequencies. It is suggested that such inhibition results from the activation of GABAA receptors located on granule cell dendritic shafts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Six monoclonal antibodies (mABs) against human glioma cells (T2) were produced. T2 cells grown as solid tumors in nude mice, were dissociated and used to immunize Balb/c mice. After fusion of splenocytes with myeloma cells, eight hybrids secreting mABs were selected according to their ability to react immunohistochemically with T2 cells, but not with normal adult human brain. Cytotoxicity of mABs was tested using (3H)-thymidine incorporation assays in vitro. Four mABs showed complement-mediated cytotoxicity for T2 cells, other human glioma cells (T1), and a human melanoma cell line. Incubation with one antibody, mAb2A1, lowered (3H)-thymidine incorporation in the T2 and T1 cells to ca. 10%, and in melanoma cells to ca. 35% of control levels. Another antibody, mAb3B2, displayed a similar cytotoxicity for T2 and T1 cells, but did not show measurable cytotoxicity for melanoma cells and rat primary astrocyte cultures. Moreover, this antibody did not crossreact with haematopoietic cells from patients bearing CNS tumors or normal subjects. MAb3B2, therefore, appears to recognize and epitope associated to human gliomas, will be a useful glioma tumor marker and may have some potential therapeutical value.
A herpes simplex virus (HSV) vector in which the mammalian promoter for neuron-specific enolase (NSE) controls expression of a marker gene was analyzed for its ability to drive expression of this foreign gene in culture and in vivo. In cultured cells, the vector appeared to give neuron-specific expression. Introduction of 10(6) pfu of the virus into the adult rat caudate nucleus by stereotactic injection was not toxic to the animals and yielded beta-galactosidase (beta-gal)-positive neurons for at least 30 days after viral inoculation. This recombinant herpes virus vector is the first described to use a mammalian promoter to yield extended expression of a foreign gene product in the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS).


Presumably unrelated behaviors (e.g. psychiatric admissions, seizures, heart failures) have been correlated with increased global geomagnetic activity. We have suggested that all of these behaviors share a common source of variance. They are evoked by transient, dopamine-mediated paroxysmal electrical patterns that are generated within the amygdala and the hippocampus of the temporal lobes. Both the probability and the propagation of these discharges to distal brain regions are facilitated when nocturnal melatonin levels are suppressed by increased geomagnetic activity. In support of this hypothesis, the present study demonstrated a significant correlation of Pearson r = 0.60 between mortality during the critical 4-day period that followed induction of limbic seizures in rats and the ambient geomagnetic activity during the 3 to 4 days that preceded death; the risk increased when the 24 h geomagnetic indices exceeded 20 nT for more than 1 to 2 days.
Exposure of estrogen treated adult female guinea pigs to the alpha-1 antagonist prazosin has been shown to reduce levels of estrogen binding in the hypothalamus and preoptic area. To further investigate this interaction between the noradrenergic and neuroendocrine axes, newborn female rat pups received an s.c. implant of prazosin (0.0125 mg/day for 5 days) or placebo. In adulthood, subjects were sacrificed by perfusion with DMSO on the morning of proestrous. Tissue analysis of the medial preoptic area, corticomedial amygdala, and mediobassal hypothalamus revealed that cytosolic estrogen binding was significantly reduced in all three areas for the prazosin treated group as compared to controls. Ovarian weight was also significantly reduced in the prazosin treated group, although uterine weight was unaffected. Interestingly, prazosin treated females showed a post-pubertal increase in body weight characteristic of ovariectomized females, while controls showed no such increase. These results support the existence of a significant developmental interaction between the noradrenergic system and the neuroendocrine axis as measured by ovarian weight and estrogen binding in the brain.
The HCN-1A clonal cell line, derived from the cortical tissue of a patient with unilateral megencephaly, was shown to differentiate into a mature neuronal-like state in the presence of the nerve growth factor, dibutyryl cyclic adenosine, 3',5'-monophosphate and either 1-isobutyl-3-methylxanthine or forskolin. Differentiation was assessed by measuring the percentage of cells that displayed branched, varicose processes that stained for synaptophysin. Treatment of cultures with a cocktail containing forskolin increased immunocytochemical staining for gamma aminobutyric (GABA), neurofilament protein and the nerve growth factor receptor species p75NGFR. Treatment with acetyl-L-carnitine alone had some effects on the cell morphology while acetyl-L-carnitine arginyl amide and nerve growth factor together increased the GABA content. Positive staining levels for the neurotransmitters gamma aminobutyric acid, glutamate, somatostatin, cholecystokinin and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide were measured quantitatively for HCN-1A under basal conditions.

Dystrophin was isolated from the purified large oligomeric dystrophin complex with its associated proteins (DC) of rabbit skeletal muscle by alkaline dissociation followed by gel filtration to remove the associated proteins. Isolated dystrophin and DC were subjected to digestion with calpain or alpha-chymotrypsin, and the generated polypeptide fragments were studied by immunoblot analysis using seven kinds of antibodies raised against antigens corresponding to various regions from the N- to the C-terminal of human dystrophin. For some fragments, the amino acid sequences at the N-termini were determined. Two proteinases, which bear distinct specificities, generated very similar fragments from purified dystrophin with or without the associated proteins. The cleavage sites found by mapping the fragments onto the dystrophin molecule were similar to those found in a previous study using crude mouse muscle cell membrane fraction [Koenig, M. &amp; Kunkel, L.M. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 4560-4566]. On the basis of these results, we concluded that dystrophin has several unique proteinase-sensitive sites.
A young girl presented with recurrent episodes of muscle weakness culminating in a severe attack of generalized muscle weakness. In the muscle mitochondria from the patient there was an abnormal pattern of intermediates of beta-oxidation with an accumulation of 3-hydroxyacyl- and 2-enoyl-CoA and carnitine esters, and 3-oxoacylcarnitines. There was low activity of long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase in mitochondria from all tissues. The activity of long-chain 2-enoyl-CoA hydratase was low in muscle mitochondria and 3-oxoacyl-CoA thiolase activity measured with 3-oxohexadecanoyl-CoA as substrate was low in fibroblast, muscle, and cardiac mitochondria but only partial deficiency was present when the activity was measured with 3-oxooctanoyl-CoA. The activity of the long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase and long-chain 3-oxoacyl-CoA thiolase in fibroblasts from the patient's parents was intermediate between those of controls and the patient. The patient has a combined defect of the long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase, long-chain 3-oxoacyl-CoA thiolase, and long-chain 2-enoyl-CoA hydratase which appears to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. This suggests there is a multifunctional enzyme catalyzing these activities in human mitochondria and that this enzyme is deficient in our patient.
The P300 wave is a positive deflection in the human event-related potential. It is most commonly elicited in an &quot;oddball&quot; paradigm when a subject detects an occasional &quot;target&quot; stimulus in a regular train of standard stimuli. The P300 wave only occurs if the subject is actively engaged in the task of detecting the targets. Its amplitude varies with the improbability of the targets. Its latency varies with the difficulty of discriminating the target stimulus from the standard stimuli. A typical peak latency when a young adult subject makes a simple discrimination is 300 ms. In patients with decreased cognitive ability, the P300 is smaller and later than in age-matched normal subjects. The intracerebral origin of the P300 wave is not known and its role in cognition not clearly understood. The P300 may have multiple intracerebral generators, with the hippocampus and various association areas of the neocortex all contributing to the scalp-recorded potential. The P300 wave may represent the transfer of information to consciousness, a process that involves many different regions of the brain.
There has been much research in the electrophysiologic correlates of alertness and attention, but it is fragmented into many subfields. This article integrates current knowledge across multiple disciplines and methodologies to provide a broad overview of alertness and attention. First, terms that are related to alertness and attention are clarified. Then, there is a discussion of basic neuroscience, human neurophysiology, and clinical fields that impact on alertness and attention. Areas discussed include thalamic and neurotransmitter-specific ascending pathways. EEG, event-related potentials, and both physiologic and pathologic states of decreased alertness or attention.
We describe a system of parcellation of the human brain that is based on the functional anatomy of the cerebral cortex and that is applied to the analysis of magnetic resonance images. This system is designed to support investigations of hemispheric asymmetries and quantitative lesion localization studies in cognitive neuroscience. The system of cortical subdivision is a neural systems oriented model that approximates subdivisions supported by previous architectonic and functional analyses. It is based primarily on boundaries determined by &quot;limiting fissures.&quot; It is completed by a set of coronal planes, keyed to visible anatomic landmarks, which &quot;close&quot; the borders of the parcellation subdivisions. The method depends on computational reconstruction of the primary image data in multiple planes so as to allow the observed pattern of limiting fissures in a given brain to be digitized. In this presentation, the method is applied in order to define the surface anatomy of the cerebral hemispheres in a normal subject. Volumetric measurements of individual cortical regions are compared as hemispheric percentiles to areal perceniiles derived from the analysis of Jouandet et al. (1989), a conceptually related though methodologically different approach. We specifically address the approach to the study of interhemispheric differences and interindividual variations in cortical anatomy.
A fundamental observation in the neurosciences is that the brain is a modular system in which different regions perform different tasks. Recent evidence, however, raises questions about the accuracy of this characterization with respect to neo-nates. One possible interpretation of this evidence is that certain aspects of the modular organization of the adult brain arise developmentally. To explore this hypothesis we wish to characterize the computational principles that underlie the development of modular systems. In previous work we have considered computational schemes that allow a learning system to discover the modular structure that is present in the environment (Jacobs, Jordan, &amp; Barto, 1991). In the current paper we present a complementary approach in which the development of modularity is due to an architectural bias in the learner. In particular, we examine the computational consequences of a simple architectural bias toward short-range connections. We present simulations that show that systems that learn under the influence of such a bias have a number of desirable properties, including a tendency to decompose tasks into subtasks, to decouple the dynamics of recurrent subsystems, and to develop location-sensitive internal representations. Furthermore, the system's units develop local receptive and projective fields, and the system develops characteristics that are typically associated with topographic maps.
The near universally accepted theory that the brain processes information persists in current neural network theory where there is &quot;subsymbolic&quot; computation (Smolensky, 1988) on distributed representations. This theory of brain information processing may suffice for simplifying models simulated in silicon but not for living neural nets where there is ongoing chemical tuning of the input/output transfer function at the nodes, connection weights, network parameters, and connectivity. Here the brain continually changes itself as it intersects with information from the outside. An alternative theory to information processing is developed in which the brain permits and supports &quot;participation&quot; of self and other as constraints on the dynamically evolving, self-organizing whole. The noncomputational process of &quot;differing and deferring&quot; in nonlinear dynamic neural systems is contrasted with Black's (1991) account of molecular information processing. State hyperspace for the noncomputational process of nonlinear dynamical systems, unlike classical systems, has a fractal dimension. The noncomputational model is supported by suggestive evidence for fractal properties of the brain.
There has been considerable debate about whether driving privileges should be revoked from patients with a diagnosis of dementia and whether highway safety policies should come under closer scrutiny for all elderly. Two case studies are reported of patients with a diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease who participated in a pilot project to assess driving. Subjects underwent neurologic and neuropsychological evaluation. Caregivers were included in psychosocial assessments. Patients participated in a specially designed driving evaluation, including an actual road test. Although both patients had mild-to-moderate cognitive impairment on standard tests, one of the patients was deemed safe to drive on the road test while the other was not. These preliminary results suggest that driving skill may not be predictable solely on the basis of the office examination. A road competency test provides a more objective and direct measure on which to base a decision of such important consequence. Implications for public policy and the role for healthcare providers in this process are discussed.
In many songbirds, vocal learning depends upon appropriate auditory experience during a sensitive period that coincides with the formation and reorganization of song-related neural pathways. Because some effects of early sensory experience on neural organization and early learning have been linked to activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, we measured binding to this receptor within the neural system controlling song behavior in zebra finches. Quantitative autoradiography was used to measure binding of the noncompetitive antagonist [3H]MK-801 (dizocilpine) in the brains of both adult and juvenile male zebra finches, focusing on four telencephalic regions implicated in song learning and production. Overall, the pattern of MK-801 binding in zebra finches was similar to the pattern found in rats (Monaghan and Cotman, 1985, J. Neurosci. 5:2909-2919; Sakurai, Cha, Penney, and Young, 1991, Neuroscience 40:533-543). That is, binding was highest in the telencephalon, intermediate in thalamic regions, and virtually absent from the brain stem and cerebellum. The telencephalic song areas exhibited intermediate levels of binding, and binding in the juveniles was not significantly different from adult levels in most song nuclei. However, in the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (IMAN), binding at 30 days of age was significantly higher than binding in adults. Given the established role of NMDA receptors in other developing neural systems, both their presence in song control nuclei and their developmental regulation within a region implicated in song learning suggest that NMDA receptors play a role in mediating effects of auditory experience on the development of song behavior.
In the African cichlid fish, Haplochromis burtoni, males are either territorial or nonterritorial. Territorial males suppress reproductive function in the nonterritorial males, and have larger gonads and larger gonadotropin-releasing hormone- (GnRH) containing neurons in the preoptic area (POA). We describe an experiment designed to establish the causal relationship between large GnRH neurons and large testes in these males by determining the feedback effects of gonadal sex steroids on the GnRH neurons. Territorial males were either castrated or sham-operated, 4 weeks after which they were sacrificed. Circulating steroid levels were measured, and the GnRH-containing neurons were visualized by staining sagittal sections of the brains with an antibody to salmon GnRH. The soma areas of antibody-stained neurons were measured with a computer-aided imaging system. Completely castrated males had markedly reduced levels of circulating sex steroids [11-ketotestosterone (11KT) and testosterone (T)], as well as 17 beta-estradiol (E2). POA GnRH neurons in castrates showed a significant increase in mean soma size relative to the intact territorial males. Hence, in mature animals, gonadal steroids act as a brake on the growth of GnRH-containing neurons, and gonadal products are not responsible for the large GnRH neurons characteristic of territorial males.
Conantokins T and G are polypeptide toxins present in snails of the genus Conus. These substances were recently reported to act as N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists. In the present study, we examined the possible mechanisms producing this antagonism. Conantokin-G inhibited spermine- and spermidine-stimulated [3H]MK-801 binding to extensively washed rat forebrain membranes in a noncompetitive manner with IC50 values of approximately 507 and approximately 946 nM, respectively. In contrast, glutamate-enhanced [3H]MK-801 binding was unaffected by conantokin-G concentrations of less than or equal to 20 microM. At concentrations greater than or equal to 5 microM, conantokin-G effected a modest, noncompetitive inhibition of glycine-stimulated [3H]MK-801 binding and also produced a small enhancement of basal [3H]MK-801 binding. Conantokin-G reduced (IC50 approximately 1.08 microM) the NMDA-stimulated accumulation of cyclic GMP in cerebellar granule cell cultures to basal values, but did not affect kainate-mediated increases in cyclic GMP. These findings indicate that conantokin-G acts as a noncompetitive NMDA antagonist through an allosteric inhibition of polyamine responses. The neurochemical profile of this polypeptide is distinct from previously described noncompetitive NMDA antagonists.

The sensitivity of sensory neurons to target cell denervation varies in the CNS. We have examined the effects of surgically interrupting the output axons of the first optic neuropil, or lamina, in the optic lobe of the fly (Musca domestica), upon the receptor terminal inputs to the lamina. Two of the output interneurons are the monopolar cells L1 and L2, which are found as a pair in each of the unit modules or cartridges of the lamina neuropil. The lamina axons of L1 and L2 degenerate rapidly (within 0.5 h) in a retrograde direction from their lesion site, but there is no sign of retrograde transneuronal degeneration to the receptor terminals, across the input synapse. At each of these synaptic sites, L1 and L2 are invariable contributors to two of the four elements of a postsynaptic tetrad. Not only do the receptor terminals persist, but the presynaptic ribbons at the tetrad sites do also, opposite the degenerated spines of L1 and L2, indicating their lack of target dependence at least over the longest period of post-lesion recovery (48 h) examined. The areal density of presynaptic sites was conserved in the face of the degenerative loss of L1 and L2, as were the numbers of capitate projections (glial invaginations into receptor terminals). The stability of both synaptic density and capitate projection number indicates that they are predominantly influenced by the receptor terminals, which are still intact. A reduction in the number of mitochondrial profiles was one of the few observed changes in the receptor terminals. The results reflect the autonomy which the terminals have, during development, from their interneurons; they especially reflect the role of the terminals in the adult, in maintaining the presynaptic site of their afferent synapses, the tetrads.

1. The electrophysiological properties of guinea pig medial mammillary body (MMB) neurons were studied using an in vitro slice preparation. 2. The neurons (n = 80) had an average resting potential of -57 +/- 5.5 (SD) mV, an input resistance of 176 +/- 83 M omega, and a spike amplitude of 58 +/- 15.7 mV. Most of the neurons were silent at rest (n = 52), but some fired spontaneous single spikes (n = 16) or spike bursts (n = 14). 3. The main electrophysiological characteristic of MMB neurons was the ability to generate Ca(2+)-dependent regenerative events, which resulted in very robust burst responses. However, this regenerative event was not the same for all neurons, ranging from typical low-threshold Ca2+ spikes (LTSs) to intermediate-threshold plateau potentials (ITPs). 4. The ITPs were distinct from the LTSs in that they lasted &gt; or = 100 ms and were not inactivated at membrane potentials at or positive to -55 mV. 5. Some cells with a prominent ITP and no LTS (n = 36) displayed repetitive, usually rhythmic, bursting (n = 14). This ITP could be powerful enough to maintain rhythmic membrane potential oscillations after pharmacological block of Na+ conductances. 6. A group of 32 MMB neurons displayed complex bursting that was generated by activation of both LTSs and ITPs. This was established on the basis of their distinct time- and voltage-dependent characteristics. In a group of neurons (n = 14), the burst responses were exclusively generated by an LTS; however, a Ca(2+)-dependent plateau potential contributed to the generation of rebound-triggered oscillatory firing. 7. In addition to the Ca(2+)-dependent LTS and/or ITP, MMB neurons always displayed high-threshold Ca2+ spikes after reduction of K+ conductances with tetraethylammonium. 8. MMB neurons display one of the richer varieties of voltage-dependent Ca2+ conductances so far encountered in mammalian CNS. We propose that the very prominent endogenous bursting and oscillatory properties of MB neurons allow this nuclear complex to function as an oscillatory relay for the transmission of low-frequency rhythmic activities throughout the limbic circuit.
1. The cat medial interlaminar nucleus (MIN) receives inputs almost exclusively from tapetal retina, suggesting that the MIN has a special role in dim-light vision. In this study we compared the sensitivities of cells in the MIN with those in layers A and magnocellular C of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGNd), using drifting sinusoidal gratings to determine contrast thresholds as a function of spatial frequency and retinal adaptation level over the entire scotopic range. 2. About one-half of the cells recorded in the MIN and layer A had brisk responses that could be nulled by properly positioned, counterphased sinusoidal gratings, and were classified as X cells. The rest of the cells in the MIN and layer A, as well as all cells recorded in layer C, were Y cells. 3. MIN cells had higher contrast sensitivity than layer A cells for low spatial frequencies (0.15 cycles/deg and below) over a wide range of adaptation levels, both overall and for separate comparisons within X or Y cells. Layer C Y cells were intermediate in sensitivity between MIN and layer A Y cells. For low spatial frequencies, Y cells as a group were more sensitive than X cells, whereas the reverse was true for high spatial frequencies. 4. These data enable one to determine the lowest adaptation level at which stimuli of a given contrast can be detected for a given structure. At the lowest spatial frequencies, the MIN can function at adaptation levels approximately 1 log unit below layer A, averaged over all stimulus contrasts. In contrast, the tapetum lowers luminance threshold by at most 0.16 log unit. 5. For scotopic conditions and eccentricities within 15 degrees of the area centralis, contrast sensitivity decreases with eccentricity for low spatial frequencies and remains flat or slightly increases for high spatial frequencies. This relationship, which is opposite to that found for photopic vision, is strongest for MIN Y cells. 6. These data support the hypothesis that the retinal conflict between sensitivity and acuity is ameliorated in the CNS through separate thalamic relays with different degrees of afferent convergence. MIN cells have higher luminance sensitivity than layer A cells, but at the expense of acuity. Layer C appears to occupy an intermediate position in this trade-off.
1. The electrophysiological properties of the tuberomammillary and lateral mammillary neurons in the guinea pig mammillary body were studied using an in vitro brain slice preparation. 2. Tuberomammillary (n = 79) neurons were recorded mainly ventral to the lateral mammillary body as well as ventromedially to the fornix within the rostral part of the medial mammillary nucleus. Intracellular staining with horseradish peroxidase (n = 9) and Lucifer yellow (n = 3) revealed that these cells have several thick, long, spiny dendrites emerging from large (20-35 microns) fusiform somata. 3. Most tuberomammillary neurons (66%) fired spontaneously at a relatively low frequency (0.5-10 Hz) at the resting membrane potential. The action potentials were broad (2.3 ms) with a prominent Ca(2+)-dependent shoulder on the falling phase. Deep (17.8 mV), long-lasting spike afterhyperpolarizations were largely Ca(2+)-independent. 4. All tuberomammillary neurons recorded displayed pronounced delayed firing when the cells were activated from a potential negative to the resting level. The cells also displayed a delayed return to the baseline at the break of hyperpolarizing pulses applied from a membrane potential level close to firing threshold. Analysis of the voltage- and time dependence of this delayed rectification suggested the presence of a transient outward current similar to the A current (IA). These were not completely blocked by high concentrations of 4-aminopyridine, whereas the delayed onset of firing was always abolished when voltage-dependent Ca2+ conductances were blocked by superfusion with Cd2+. 5. Tuberomammillary neurons also displayed inward rectification in the hyperpolarizing and, primarily, depolarizing range. Block of voltage-gated Na(+)-dependent conductances with tetrodotoxin (TTX) selectively abolished inward rectification in the depolarizing range, indicating the presence of a persistent low-threshold sodium-dependent conductance (gNap). In fact, persistent TTX-sensitive, plateau potentials were always elicited following Ca2+ block with Cd2+ when K+ currents were reduced by superfusion with tetraethylammonium. 6. The gNap in tuberomammillary neurons may subserve the pacemaker current underlying the spontaneous firing of these cells. The large-amplitude spike afterhyperpolarization of these neurons sets the availability of the transient outward rectifier, which, in conjunction with the pacemaker current, establishes the rate at which membrane potential approaches spike threshold. 7. Repetitive firing elicited by direct depolarization enhanced the spike shoulder of tuberomammillary neurons. Spike trains were followed by a Ca(2+)-dependent, apamine-sensitive, slow afterhyperpolarization. 8. Lateral mammillary neurons were morphologically and electrophysiologically different from tuberomammillary neurons. All lateral mammillary neurons neurons recorded (n = 44) were silent at rest (-60 mV).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Proliferation of astrocytes, and a concomitant increase of intermediate filaments in astrocytes are two fundamental responses of the CNS to injury. We have previously identified these two events in the retina's response to detachment of the neural retina from the adjoining monolayer of retinal pigmented epithelium. In order to analyze the potential role of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in these responses, we studied cellular proliferation and intermediate filament protein expression in the retinas of cats and rabbits 4 d and 4 weeks after a single intravitreal injection of 1 microgram of bFGF. Our results show that bFGF stimulates both of these processes in an otherwise normal eye. The eyes that received bFGF had significantly elevated numbers of 3H-thymidine-labeled Mller cells, astrocytes, vascular cells, retinal pigmented epithelial cells, microglia, and macrophages by comparison to control eyes. This proliferation was apparent at 4 d after the injection of bFGF but not after 4 weeks. In control eyes, antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin labeled intermediate filaments only in the inner (vitread) portion of the Mller cells, the specialized radial astrocytes that span the width of the retina. In eyes that had been injected with bFGF, almost the entire Mller cell cytoplasm was labeled at 4 d after injection; after 4 weeks, the cytoplasmic labeling intensity had increased significantly. Release or activation of endogenous stores of bFGF after injury or disease may be involved in the control of cellular proliferation and intermediate filament expression in the retina and elsewhere in the CNS.
Depolarization has been shown to alter the biosynthesis of a number of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. In the rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG), for example, depolarization has been reported to increase catecholamine biosynthesis and to decrease the level of substance P. We have recently found that, although the level of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-like immunoreactivity (IR) is normally low in the SCG, it increases significantly 48 hr after adult ganglia are deafferented in situ or placed in organ culture. Both manipulations decrease electrical activity of postganglionic neurons. To determine whether the increases in ganglionic VIP-IR could be a consequence of decreased depolarization of sympathetic neurons, the effect of depolarization on the expression of VIP-IR was examined in organ cultures of neonatal and adult SCG. Depolarization with elevated K+ (30 mM) or veratridine (1.5 microM) amplified, rather than blocked, the increases in VIP-IR content seen after 24 hr. Further, it increased the number of detectable VIP-IR neuronal cell bodies and processes. The stimulatory effects of veratridine were prevented by TTX. Since similar changes in expression of VIP-IR were evident in dissociated cell cultures of the SCG, cell-cell interactions requiring intact ganglionic architecture are not necessary for altered peptide expression. Elevating the concentration of Mg2+ blocked the ability of K+ and veratridine to increase VIP-IR in dissociated cell culture, raising the possibility that the effects of depolarization on VIP-IR are mediated by increased Ca2+ entry. The depolarizing conditions that increased VIP-IR also increased substance P-IR. While higher concentrations of veratridine (50 microM) blocked the elevation of both VIP- and substance P-IR induced by explantation, they produced significant neuronal death. Since depolarization with either 30 mM KCl or 1.5 microM veratridine increases expression of VIP-IR in neonatal and adult ganglia, decreased depolarization is unlikely to cause the increases in VIP- and substance P-IR that occur in culture. Furthermore, our data raise the possibility that sympathetic nerve activity in vivo can increase expression of these peptides.
Most catecholaminergic cells derived from the sympathoadrenal lineage of the neural crest contain one or more neuropeptides. Although a great deal is known about the development and regulation of catecholaminergic properties in these cells, relatively little is known about the developmental control of their neuropeptidergic properties. We have investigated the possible role of glucocorticoids and preganglionic innervation in the regulation of leucine-enkephalin (L-Enk) expression in cultures of embryonic and neonatal adrenal chromaffin cells and in mature chromaffin cells in vivo. Exposure of embryonic and neonatal chromaffin cells to the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone increases L-Enk content. Neonatal chromaffin cells grown in medium containing elevated levels of potassium to mimic depolarization also exhibited increased L-Enk levels. The depolarization-induced increase in L-Enk was selectively inhibited by treatment with the enkephalin analog [D-Ala, d-Leu]-enkephalin to mimic the enkephalinergic component of the preganglionic innervation. Denervation of the adrenal gland in vivo resulted in a dramatic increase in L-enk expression that could be partially mimicked by selectively blocking enkephalinergic transmission with administration of the opiate receptor antagonist naloxone. Taken together with the developmental time course and pattern of L-Enk expression in vivo, our results suggest that glucocorticoids and the preganglionic innervation regulate the developmental expression of this peptide in adrenal chromaffin cells and therefore participate in the generation of the mature neurochemical phenotypes present in the adrenal medulla. Further, in adult chromaffin cells similar factors appear to regulate the expression of L-Enk, which could in turn participate in physiological responses to stress.
A comprehensive and versatile computer software for IBM-compatible microcomputers has been developed. It is designed for quantitative off-line analysis of A/D-sampled intracellular or extracellular recordings and behavioural or stimulus data. The program works with single files or file sets. It supports data to be viewed on the monitor and allows sectioning of interesting data for common analysis. It offers 19 filters/operators for data processing and comprehensive possibilities to set and calculate trigger points. Data of trigger points can be exported as ASCII files. Standard neurophysiological histograms like interval-, PST-, phase histograms or auto- and cross-correlograms can be obtained. Time-dependent and phase-dependent averaging is possible for all original and filtered data. All graphical output on the display can directly be copied to a plotter/laser printer or HP-GL file by keyboard commands.
Ticlopidine, a new prototype antiplatelet agent, offers a significant alternative in the primary and secondary prevention of atherothrombotic stroke. While 2 multicenter trials demonstrated benefits of ticlopidine, this drug is not without risks and limitations and more studies are indicated. The neuroscience nurse must apply current knowledge about ticlopidine in the care for patients receiving ticlopidine therapy.
Serving as an expert witness in cases alleging nursing negligence is an interesting, rewarding and stressful role. Having knowledge about qualifications of an expert, what is expected of the expert, how to assess adequacy of nursing care, and how to bill for services may lower the stress. If after careful consideration you choose to serve as an expert witness, you should experience satisfaction knowing you are fulfilling a professional responsibility to maintain standards of care and to protect nurses accused unjustly of negligence.
The case management model for patient care in the neuroscience area was recently implemented in the neurosciences area at a tertiary care hospital. Understanding of the concepts of case management and managed care were essential to the implementation process. Clustering of case types and appointment of group leaders made the development of individual care maps a manageable task. Case management of 2 case types, Parkinson's disease and Guillain Barr syndrome are described, including the rationale for selection, care map development and education. The process of continuing education focused on operational issues regarding utilization of the map and professional issues such as health teaching responsibilities.
Blockage of nasoduodenal feeding tubes is costly in terms of materials and nursing time, and traumatic to the neuroscience patient. A laboratory experimental study explored ways to decrease obstruction of small bore nasoduodenal feeding tubes when medications are given concurrently with continuous tube feeding. The first part of the study examined type and form of 4 medications in relation to frequency and timing of tube blockage. Trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole (Septra) in dissolved pill form blocked tubes most frequently (F10,77 = 10.333, p &lt; .001) and in the shortest time (F10,77 = 10.534, p &lt; .001). The second part of the study examined different irrigation methods. Irrigation before and after administration of medication and irrigation after medication administration only were significantly better than no irrigation in preventing blockage, both in terms of number of occlusions (F2,87 = 5.486, p &lt; .01) and time to occlusion (F2,87 = 4.556, p &lt; .02). The fact the study was performed in vitro rather than in vivo was a limiting factor. However, results of the study suggest trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole forms occlusions, especially in dissolved form. Elixir of this medication should probably be used whenever available. This study also found that irrigating the tube before and after administration of medications was the most effective of the 3 options examined.
False localizing signs, although rare, indicate significant increased intracranial pressure with tissue shift, has occurred. A review of the historical perspective highlights the discovery of these false localizing signs, and exploration of the anatomic and physiologic causes provides important insight for neuroscience nurses. Critical thinking skills, and a world view paradigm for clinical practice are developed upon an in-depth understanding of neurologic dysfunction. Collaborative relationships are enhanced by an interdisciplinary approach to assessment of the critically ill neuroscience patient.
The effect of potassium depolarization and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) on the activity of aspartate aminotransferase (AAT; EC 2.6.1.1), an enzyme suggested to be involved in neurotransmitter glutamate synthesis, was studied in cultured cerebellar granule neurons. Both KCl and NMDA increased AAT activity in a dose-dependent manner. When cells were treated 48-72 hr with 40 mM KCl or 150 microM NMDA the AAT was enhanced about 65-75%. The EC50 for NMDA and KCl were 25 microM and 17 mM, respectively. The effect of NMDA and KCl was specific for AAT without affecting the activity of other enzymes like lactate dehydrogenase or protein content and it was observed only in granule cells but not in astrocytes or cortical neurons. The effect of KCl was not mediated by an activation of excitatory amino acid receptors and was Ca(++)-dependent. The effect of NMDA was completely blocked by Mg++ and NMDA antagonists. The increase of AAT induced by AAT and KCl was blocked by cycloheximide and actinomycin D, suggesting an involvement of de novo synthesis of proteins and RNA. Kainic acid and quinolinic acid were also effective in increasing the AAT activity. The action of kainate was less effective than that of NMDA and it was observed only at relatively low concentrations (10 microM). Quinolinic acid raised the activity of AAT about 45% at a concentration of 500 microM. Other non-NMDA agonists did not modify the AAT activity. From these findings we can conclude that NMDA and KCl exert a trophic action on cerebellar granular neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
As part of our studies of the organization of the cat sacrocaudal spinal cord (S3-Ca7), the portion of the neuraxis that innervates the tail, we have begun to evaluate the behavioral effects of hemisection or complete transection at the level of Ca1. Clinical observations that the tail strongly deviated to the side of a hemisection indicated the presence of an ipsilateral hypertonia. After complete transection of the spinal cord, the tail became ventroflexed in a midline position and exhibited spasticity, i.e., hypertonia, hyperreflexia, and clonus. Bowel and bladder functions and hindlimb gait and reflexes remained intact following either lesion. Quantitative behavioral measures corroborated our clinical observations. With the tail tethered to a force transducer, tail muscle tone was measured after the tail was passively positioned. Following a transection, resistance to dorsiflexion of the tail was greater than resistance to ventroflexion. In addition, tonic deviation of the tail was documented with videotape analysis while cats walked on a plank. Normal cats walked with the tail sharply dorsiflexed and centered. In contrast, the tail deviated ipsilaterally in cats with a hemisection, and the tail was ventroflexed in cats with a transection. These observations indicate that the sacrocaudal spinal cord provides a model with special advantages for investigation of changes in segmental motor functions following spinal cord injury. The effects of lesions on the tail are quantifiable and can resemble that spasticity observed after spinal cord injury in humans. Importantly, minimal effects on locomotive and autonomic functions were observed following hemisection or transection of the sacrocaudal spinal cord.
This study evaluated the effect of a bone plate on mandibular bone strain patterns during static loading. A stainless steel bone plate was unilaterally attached to five human mandibles, which were then subjected to static loads of 60 kiloponds. Four strain gauges attached to the cortical bone were used to measure the strain patterns within the mandible both before and after the bone plate was attached. The results showed that statistically significant alterations in the strain patterns occurred following plating of the mandible. The mandible with the plate attached became more stiff, presumably due to the difference in modulus of elasticity between the plate and the bone. However, this increase in stiffness was relatively small when compared with both total strain under load and strain produced by tightening of the bone screws.
Changes in the cholecystokinin (CCK) mRNA content in rat striatum after the administration of specific glutamate and dopamine (DA) receptor agonists and antagonists were investigated. MK-801 (1 mg/kg i.p.), a selective noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-sensitive glutamatergic receptor antagonist, but not 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (1.1-9.2 micrograms i.c.v.), a competitive non-NMDA glutamatergic receptor antagonist, produced a time- and dose-dependent decrease in striatal CCK mRNA. The maximum inhibition (50%) was observed after a daily treatment for 1 week with MK-801 (1 mg/kg). The activation of NMDA receptors by a single injection of NMDA (1.4 micrograms i.c.v.) elicited an 80% increase in CCK mRNA in rat striatum 8 hr after the injection. These data suggest that glutamate exerts a tonic regulation on striatal CCK mRNA, mainly through NMDA-sensitive glutamatergic receptors. B-HT 920, a DA D2 receptor agonist and benztropine, a DA uptake blocker, increased striatal CCK mRNA. This increase was partially blocked by the concomitant administration of MK-801. Moreover, the DA receptor antagonist haloperidol, at a dose that per se failed to change CCK mRNA (0.3 mg/kg i.p.), partially blocked the increase in CCK mRNA elicited by NMDA. Similarly, the NMDA effect was attenuated in rats with a 6-hydroxydopamine-induced nigrostriatal lesion. Our findings suggest that in rat striatum a complex DA-glutamate interaction tonically regulates CCK expression via D2 and/or NMDA receptor activation.
Transcription regulatory factors are rapidly induced in brain by a wide variety of stimuli and may be important in coordinating changes in gene expression underlying neuronal plasticity. In addition to the transient activation profile typically displayed by many of these genes, zif268 exhibits prominent basal expression in the brain that is dependent on synaptic activity. Accordingly, zif268 may play a key role in regulating neuronal gene expression induced by naturally occurring stimuli. Acute cocaine administration (15 mg/kg i.p.) produces a robust and transient induction of several transcription factors in the brain, including zif268. In the present study we report that, in contrast to the acute effects of a single dose, chronic cocaine treatment (15 mg/kg i.p., twice daily for a total of 10 injections), produces a widespread suppression of basal zif268 mRNA levels in rat forebrain between 8 and 24 hr after the last cocaine injection. This reduction is not evident after a single injection of cocaine or comparable chronic treatment with a structural analog, procaine, that does not share cocaine's uptake inhibitor properties. The suppression of basal zif268 expression may provide a mechanism for producing widespread effects of chronic cocaine administration on neuronal gene expression.
GABA (gamma amino butyric acid) is the most abundant and important inhibitory transmitter in mammalian CNS. It counterbalances the glutamate mediated neuronal excitation. Abnormalities of the interaction of these two transmitters might change the mechanisms of neuronal group selection that according to Edelman [Neural Darwinism. Basic Books, New York] play a role in mediating several brain functions including cognition processes. Indeed imbalances in GABAergic functions were shown to elicit psychoses. They can be obtained by administration of drugs that affect synthesis, metabolism and uptake of GABA and thereby cause a persistent stimulation of GABAA receptors or perhaps by genetic abnormalities in DNA transcription, pre-mRNA splicing, mRNA translation and posttranslation modifications of GABAA receptor subunits. The complexities in the regulation of GABAA receptor subunit structure, synthesis, assembly and the brain location of specific mRNA encoding for these subunits are investigated with in situ mRNA hybridization specific for subunits of GABAA receptors. The role of the variability resulting from the complexities in the regulation of GABAA receptor allosteric modulation by drugs and putative endogenous allosteric modulators of GABA action at GABAA receptors is discussed. This discussion gives relevance to the possibility that genetic abnormalities in the expression of proteins participating in GABAergic function are to be considered as a possible target of the genetic defects operative in psychoses. In line with this thinking, it is suggested that partial allosteric modulators (partial agonists) of GABAA receptors and the phosphothioate or methylphosphonate analogs antisense to specific mRNA oligonucleotides that mediate the expression of genetic information concerning GABAA and glutamate receptor subunits may become valuable tools in psychiatric research. Perhaps in the future these studies might generate new ideas useful in the therapy of genetically determined psychiatric illness.

Prodynorphin is expressed by neurons of the hypothalamus and gonadotrophs of the anterior pituitary gland (AP) and plays a role in the negative feedback regulation of the reproductive neuroendocrine axis. The present study examined whether gonadal steroid hormones are capable of modulating pituitary prodynorphin expression in immature, female rats. Steroids were administered via subcutaneous Silastic implants and rats were killed at 29 days of age. Northern blot analysis was used to measure AP prodynorphin, luteinizing hormone-beta (LH beta), follicle-stimulating hormone-beta (FSH beta), and common alpha-subunit mRNA levels (normalized to 18S ribosomal RNA). Treatment groups (n = 5-6) consisted of control (CNT; empty implants), estradiol (E2; 4 days), E2 + progesterone (E2 + P4; 8 days and 4 days, respectively), and dihydrotestosterone (DHT; 4 days). Pituitary prodynorphin mRNA was significantly suppressed in only the DHT-treated animals (26 +/- 10% of CNT, p &lt; 0.01). LH beta mRNA was suppressed by all steroid treatments (p &lt; 0.01), FSH beta was lower in only the E2 group, and alpha-subunit was reduced in both the E2 + P4 and DHT groups (p &lt; 0.01). Serum LH was suppressed by all steroid treatments but FSH was reduced in only the E2 and E2 + P4 groups (p &lt; 0.01). Treatment of prepubescent rats with continuous high levels of gonadal steroids is known to severely reduce endogenous hypothalamic gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) release and this is supported by our observation of reduced gonadotropin-subunit gene expression.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM; EC 1.14.17.3) is a multifunctional protein containing two enzymes that act sequentially to catalyze the alpha-amidation of neuroendocrine peptides. Peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) catalyzes the first step of the reaction and is dependent on copper, ascorbate, and molecular oxygen. Peptidyl-alpha-hydroxyglycine alpha-amidating lyase (PAL) catalyzes the second step of the reaction. Previous studies demonstrated that alternative splicing results in the production of bifunctional PAM proteins that are integral membrane or soluble proteins as well as soluble monofunctional PHM proteins. Rat PAM is encoded by a complex single copy gene that consists of 27 exons and encompasses more than 160 kilobases (kb) of genomic DNA. The 12 exons comprising PHM are distributed over at least 76 kb genomic DNA and range in size from 49-185 base pairs; four of the introns within the PHM domain are over 10 kb in length. Alternative splicing in the PHM region can result in a truncated, inactive PHM protein (rPAM-5), or a soluble, monofunctional PHM protein (rPAM-4) instead of a bifunctional protein. The eight exons comprising PAL are distributed over at least 19 kb genomic DNA. The exons encoding PAL range in size from 54-209 base pairs and have not been found to undergo alternative splicing. The PHM and PAL domains are separated by a single alternatively spliced exon surrounded by lengthy introns; inclusion of this exon results in the production of a form of PAM (rPAM-1) in which endoproteolytic cleavage at a paired basic site can separate the two catalytic domains. The exon following the PAL domain encodes the trans-membrane domain of PAM; alternative splicing at this site produces integral membrane or soluble PAM proteins. The COOH-terminal domain of PAM is comprised of a short exon subject to alternative splicing and a long exon encoding the final 68 amino acids present in all bifunctional PAM proteins along with the entire 3'-untranslated region. Analysis of hybrid cell panels indicates that the human PAM gene is situated on the long arm of chromosome 5.
High affinity [3H]noscapine binding sites are brain specific, ion insensitive, and present in a variety of species and show strict structure-activity requirements. Among neurotransmitter-related structures, indoleamines and beta-carbolines display highest affinity for [3H]noscapine sites. Noscapine inhibits carbachol-stimulated phosphoinositide turnover in guinea pig and rat brain slices, with structural analogs possessing similar relative potencies for binding to [3H]noscapine binding sites and inhibiting phosphoinositide turnover. Noscapine and its derivatives also markedly enhance the ability of forskolin to augment cAMP levels in brain slices, with relative potencies paralleling affinities for noscapine binding sites.
Short periods of fasting have been shown to cause a significant slowing of pulsatile LH secretion in men and male rhesus monkeys, which appears to result from a slowing of GnRH drive to the reproductive axis. To determine whether an increased activity of endogenous opioid peptides causes this slowing of pulsatile LH secretion, the ability of naloxone administration to reverse the fasting-induced suppression of LH secretion was tested. For this study, 6 adult male rhesus monkeys, with indwelling femoral and jugular venous catheters, were maintained on tether/swivel systems. Naloxone was administered to monkeys as a continuous infusion (0.25 mg/kg/h, with an initial loading dose of approximately 1.0 mg) for 8 h (16.00 to 24.00 h) on a day of normal feeding and again on a day of fasting. The LH response to naloxone was determined by collecting blood samples every 15 min from 12.00 to 24.00 h. LH pulse frequency on a day of normal feeding was 4.0 +/- 0.52 pulses/8 h, and naloxone administration on a day of feeding increased LH pulse frequency to 6.8 +/- 0.86 pulses/8 h. On a day of fasting, LH pulse frequency was 1.67 +/- 0.67 pulses/8 h, and naloxone administration on a day of fasting slightly, but not significantly, increased LH pulse frequency to 2.5 +/- 0.51 pulses/8 h. Similar studies were performed with a higher dose of naloxone (0.625 mg/kg/h, with an initial loading dose of approximately 2.0 mg) and again naloxone administration did not reverse the effects of fasting on pulsatile LH secretion. These results suggest that the slowing of pulsatile LH release that occurs with short periods of food restriction does not result from increased secretion of endogenous opioid peptides.

We determined the rates of lateral ventricular enlargement and decline in cognitive performance for 11 men and nine women with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), and compared these rates with the same measures obtained for age-matched healthy controls (nine men and eight women). DAT patients, as a group, had only mild cognitive impairment at initial evaluation, and each patient was followed from 9 months to over 7 years with yearly evaluations. Six DAT patients had isolated memory impairment as their only cognitive deficit early in the course of the disease. The rate of total lateral ventricle enlargement (cm3/yr) was significantly different between DAT and healthy controls, and was more specific and sensitive to the diagnosis of DAT than comparison of cross-sectional volumes at final evaluation. The rate of total lateral ventricular enlargement did not differ significantly by patient sex, ventricular size at initial evaluation, age, or degree of cognitive impairment as measured by Mini Mental State Examination scores. However, in the six DAT patients initially found to have isolated memory impairment, the rate of ventricular enlargement during the period of isolated memory impairment was significantly less than the rate of ventricular enlargement after the onset of nonmemory cognitive impairment. The diagnostic power of total lateral ventricular measures made from two CTs separated by 1 year and obtained early in the course of the illness, however, was only 0.33. We conclude that the total lateral ventricular enlargement accompanying DAT is due to continuous, pathologic cell loss, significantly greater than cell loss due to the healthy aging process.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous work demonstrated enlargement of the neocerebellar vermis in Williams' syndrome (WS), despite diminished volumes in the cerebral hemispheres. We present the first in vivo volumetric study of any structure within the cerebellar hemispheres. Using MRI, we identified and reliably measured the neocerebellar tonsils in WS subjects; Down's syndrome (DS) subjects matched for age, IQ, and cerebral volume; and age-matched normal controls. WS tonsils were equal in size to control tonsils and larger than DS tonsils. In proportion to the cerebrum, WS tonsils were larger than controls'. These results coincide with the remarkable neuropsychological preservation of language and affect in WS, despite general cognitive impairment. They contrast with the neocerebellar vermal hypoplasia seen in autism, with its communicative and affective deficits. Additionally, two WS subjects showed Chiari type I malformations, but the average tonsillar position in WS was not found to be different than in controls.
To determine the role of the floor plate (FP) in CNS development, I have used labeling techniques, including immunolabeling, to analyze cyclops mutant embryos, which lack the FP. Except for the anterior brain, the mutant phenotype is almost exclusively confined to the vicinity of the ventral CNS midline. In the midbrain, the number of ventral neurons is reduced and cell patterning is disturbed. In contrast, the neuronal arrangement in the spinal cord is almost normal, including in particular both primary and secondary motoneurons. Longitudinal axonal bundles are disorganized in both the brain and spinal cord. Laser ablating the FP in wild-type embryos locally phenocopies cyclops axonal disturbances, and transplanting wild-type FP precursor cells into mutants locally rescues the disturbances. These results demonstrate a significant role for the FP in pathfinding and fasciculation by axons in situ, especially during their longitudinal courses.
Seven lines were isolated with P element insertions in the cytogenetic vicinity of the learning and memory gene, rutabaga, from an enhancer detector screen designed to mark genes preferentially expressed in mushroom bodies. Six of these lines performed poorly in learning and memory tests, and several failed to complement an existing rutabaga allele. Molecular cloning revealed that the P elements were inserted in the putative promoter of the rutabaga gene. RNA in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry demonstrated that the expression of the rutabaga gene, which encodes a Ca2+/calmodulin-responsive adenylyl cyclase, is markedly elevated in the mushroom bodies of normal flies and that the insertion elements compromised its expression in the new rutabaga mutants. The reisolation of a known learning and memory gene, but with a heretofore unknown expression pattern, strongly supports the postulate that mushroom bodies are principal sites mediating olfactory learning and memory.
Hypothalamic injury causes female sexual precocity by activating luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) neurons, which control sexual development. Transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) has been implicated in this process, but its involvement in normal sexual maturation is unknown. The present study addresses this issue. TGF-alpha mRNA and protein were found mostly in astroglia, in regions of the hypothalamus concerned with LHRH control. Hypothalamic TGF-alpha mRNA levels increased at times when secretion of pituitary gonadotropins--an LHRH-dependent event--was elevated, particularly at the time of puberty. Gonadal steroids involved in the control of LHRH secretion increased TGF-alpha mRNA levels. Blockade of TGF-alpha action in the median eminence, a site of glial-LHRH nerve terminal association, delayed puberty. These results suggest that TGF-alpha of glial origin is a component of the developmental program by which the brain controls mammalian sexual maturation.
The psychotomimetic drug 1-(1-phenylcyclohexyl) piperidine (PCP, phencyclidine) was found to cause a deficit in the gating of the response of the hippocampal neuron to repeated auditory stimuli, which is similar to a particular physiological feature observed in human psychosis. Other drugs, with sigma agonist and/or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist effects, were administered and their ability to cause a loss of auditory gating was compared to that of PCP. The rank order of effectiveness was levoxodrol &gt; PCP and (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801) &gt; N-allylnormetazocine (SKF 10047) &gt; dexoxodrol &gt; 3-(+/-)2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl) propyl-1-phosphonate (CPP). Further studies of two of the drugs, PCP and MK-801, showed that selective lesioning of the noradrenergic input with the neurotoxin DSP4, as well as less selective depletion of monoamines with reserpine, blocked the loss of gating. Phencyclidine, and other drugs with the same spectrum of action, most likely disrupt gating by increasing noradrenergic activity through a sigma mechanism.
The location and axonal projection of a type of respiratory neurones (termed bIE neurones), which show burst firing at the time of phase transition from inspiration to expiration, were studied in Nembutal-anaesthetized, paralysed and artificially ventilated cats. The bIE neurones showed maximum firing at the sharp decline of inspiratory activity. All of the bIE neurones tested projected to medullary respiration-related areas of the ventral respiratory group (VRG), the dorsal respiratory group (DRG), and the Btzinger complex (BOT). The bIE neurones were distributed in the dorso-medial border of the main assembly of respiratory neurones of the VRG and BOT. The possibility that these bIE neurones participate in inspiratory termination is discussed.
HIV-1-related neuronal injury may involve a complex web of viral proteins and cytokines, but neurons themselves are not infected. The HIV envelope protein gp120 has been shown to engender an early increase in neuronal free calcium followed by delayed excitotoxic-like damage, which is prevented by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists. In the present study, we found that the injurious effects of gp120 on retinal ganglion cell neurons require the presence of macrophages in mixed neuronal glial cultures of postnatal retina. Within 24 hours of incubation, 20 pM gp120 injured nearly 40% of retinal ganglion cells in cultures containing macrophages and other glial cells, whereas no deleterious effects of gp120 were noted on retinal ganglion cells in cultures depleted of macrophages. Thus, the toxic effect of gp120 on neurons appears to be an indirect one, mediated by activation of macrophages and perhaps other glial cells.
Recent studies have shown that biocytin may have multiple applications in neuroanatomical studies. Biocytin may be injected into the brain by iontophoresis or by pressure injection methods, and localized in tissue sections using avidin-conjugated labels. It is taken up by neurons and rapidly transported down axons in an anterograde fashion. Axons are completely labeled in a Golgi-like manner and can be examined at both light and electron microscopic levels. Biocytin can also be used in retrograde tract tracing experiments, although in some cases it appears that fibers must be damaged to produce such labeling. Retrogradely labeled cells may be completely labeled, resembling neurons stained with the Golgi technique. Individual neurons can also be labeled in a Golgi-like manner by uptake of biocytin from the extracellular space. Thus, it appears that biocytin is an especially versatile marker for neuroanatomical investigations.
Estrogen receptor-like immunoreactivity (ER-LI) was detected in the medial subnucleus of the facial nucleus by immunocytochemistry in both male and female neonatal rats, but not in the adult rat. Identity of the motoneurons in this subnucleus projecting to the corresponding facial muscles and the cells with ER-LI positive signals was examined by retrograde tracing. The majority of the cells marked with the tracer did not carry ER-LI signals.
It has been reported that injection of the antitumoral drug cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum at 10 days of life affects cerebellar development in rats. After a single dose of 5 micrograms/g of body weight, the formation of granule cells is decreased and the maturation of postmitotic neurons is slowed down. A substantial time after treatment, reduced cell packing density of the internal granule layer and atrophy of the molecular layer can be observed. In addition, there is degeneration of some Purkinje cells and Golgi neurons. In spite of all these alterations, the regular architecture of the cerebellar folia is retained in many places. In the present study, we used immunocytochemistry with an immune serum raised against glutamic acid decarboxylase to further characterize the cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum-induced alterations of GABAergic neurons. The aim was to examine cerebellar development and to test for factors controlling the settling of GABAergic circuits. At all post-treatment intervals, most of the Purkinje and Golgi neurons and molecular layer interneurons showed stronger anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase immunoreactivity than in controls; this may have been due to altered fixation because of cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum-induced damages to the blood vessels; but could also reflect cellular retention of the enzyme, maybe due to cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum-induced damage of the microtubular apparatus. After seven days, large roundish immunoreactive varicosities were present in the molecular layer adjacent to the Purkinje cell dendritic poles. These varicosities, which were not observed in control animals, may be terminals of Purkinje cell axon recurrent collaterals contributing to the supraganglionic plexus, whose abnormal development would compensate for the reduced inhibitory inputs from inhibitory interneurons and/or Purkinje cells, which degenerated at early post-treatment intervals. At later post-treatment intervals (15 and 21 days), there were also alterations in the pericellular basket at the Purkinje cell axon hillock, which was poorly developed in or absent from the majority of cells. The finding was confirmed by morphological observation of basket cells in Golgi-Cox preparation and immunocytochemistry with an antibody raised against 200,000 mol. wt phosphorylated neurofilaments. It is concluded that early changes in anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase immunoreactivity of neurons may be due to a direct interference of the drug with the cellular metabolic pathways. The late anomalies in the anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase immunoreactivity appear to be secondary to changes in the tissue cytoarchitecture rather than being primary cis-dichlorodiammineplatinum-induced lesions of the cells.
In this study we investigated degeneration of defined motor pools in the adult rat spinal cord and the associated changes in spinal cord in dorsal root ganglia and peripheral nerve. Degeneration of motoneurons was induced by the neurotoxic lectin, volkensin. This substance is taken up by the axons and retrogradely transported to the cell body, where it inhibits proteosynthesis and kills the neuron. Accordingly, in adult Wistar rats the peroneal or the sciatic nerve was injected with 5.0 ng volkensin, and the effect of this single injection was investigated at different intervals after the operation. Retrograde labelling by horseradish peroxidase was used to reveal the extent of cell death and glial repair was studied by immunostaining with different glial cell markers. Degenerating cells were observed in the ventral horn of the lumbar spinal cord and L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia as early as four days after volkensin treatment and by two weeks no retrogradely labelled motoneurons could be found in the treated peroneal pool. These changes were accompanied by severe muscle weight loss. Examination of the ventral horn of the spinal cord on the treated side revealed many hypertrophic astrocytes and reactive microglial cells expressing an increased level of complement receptor type 3 immunoreactivity. In the volkensin-injected peripheral nerve, distinct signs of Wallerian-like degeneration could be observed. Schwann cells identified by immunostaining to S-100 protein appeared to be preserved. Interestingly, at later stages after volkensin injection (four to eight weeks), some retrogradely labelled motoneurons were seen in the peroneal pool; their number occasionally reached 18.4% of the control pool. The dorsal root ganglia showed extensive loss of neurons and numerous abnormal neurons were found throughout the period of the study. These findings suggest that some motoneurons are able to recover from exposure to volkensin and temporary arrest of proteosynthesis. Despite this, volkensin-induced selective motoneuron death in the adult rat can be a useful experimental model for degenerative motoneuron disease.
We have previously demonstrated that vasopressin-producing neurons are the target of monoclonal antibodies to vasopressin microinjected into the brain tissue. At the same time, this central microinjection of vasopressin-monoclonal antibody into the supraoptic nuclei produced hydro-osmotic disorders mimicking the effects of a central diabetes insipidus. In order to investigate the increase in both duration and amplitude of the biological effects seen after the injection of vasopressin-monoclonal antibody, an immunoconjugate was constructed with the vasopressin-monoclonal antibody IgG1k isotype and the cytotoxic part of the ricin molecule, the ricin A chain. The biological parameters, such as diuresis and urine osmolality which are directly regulated by vasopressin, and vasopressin excretion, were measured after the central injection of this immunotoxin/immunoconjugate. The consequences of immunotoxin injection were also studied when immunotoxin was co-injected with monensin (50 nM) which has been shown to decrease the intracellular degradation of immunotoxin, and plasma complement, which has been shown to increase the neuronal uptake of immunotoxin. Single injection of immunotoxin near the hypothalamic supraoptic nuclei significantly increased diuresis and decreased vasopressin excretion. However, these effects were only transient and disappeared 24 h later. Four successive injections of immunotoxin (one per day) with monensin induced a decrease of vasopressin excretion which was still observed after a resting period of four days after the fourth injection. The long-term reduction of vasopressin excretion was induced in rats receiving four successive injections of a mixture consisting of immunotoxin with monensin and plasma complement. In such experiments, the vasopressin content of urine remained low (55% under the baseline value), two weeks after the fourth injection of immunotoxin. At the same time, the diuresis was increased (80% above the baseline value) and urine osmolality lowered (45% under the baseline value). When non-specific IgG replaced specific antibody, vasopressin excretion, diuresis as well as urine osmolality were unchanged. The results of this study demonstrated that the use of a specific immunotoxin results in a local interference with the vasopressinergic neurons and induces a long-term reduction of vasopressin secretion.
Cytosolic free calcium ([Ca2+]i) was measured using fluorescent digital imaging microscopy in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons isolated from animals of two age groups (adult: seven months; and old: 30 months). Neurons were enzymatically isolated and maintained in primary culture for 14 days. Cultured neurons were loaded with the fluorescent dye, Fura-2. The spatial distribution of resting [Ca2+]i was even in both adult and old rats, but the value of cytoplasmic free calcium in old neurons was significantly higher (207 +/- 37 nmol/l vs 96 +/- 23 nmol/l) in comparison with adult ones. Depolarization with 50 mmol/l K+ produced a rapid increase in [Ca2+]i in all neurons, but the values of depolarization-induced increase of [Ca2+]i in old neurons were significantly lower (423 +/- 54 nmol/l) compared with cells isolated from adult rats (1011 +/- 91 nmol/l). The time of the complete restoration of [Ca2+]i to the resting level was 10-times longer in old neurons. The caffeine-induced rise of intracellular calcium was somewhat higher in neurons from old animals, and its restoration to normal level was delayed. The findings indicate a substantial alteration of the mechanisms of regulation of intracellular calcium homeostasis with neuronal ageing.
The effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine on peripheral nociceptive fibres were studied in an in vitro preparation of the neonatal rat spinal cord with attached tail. The activation of peripheral fibres in the tail by noxious stimuli (bradykinin, capsaicin, heat) was recorded as a depolarization of a ventral root in the lumbar region of the spinal cord (L3-L5). Responses evoked by brief applications of submaximal or threshold concentrations of bradykinin or capsaicin to the tail were enhanced by 5-hydroxytryptamine and the 5-hydroxytryptamine1C/5-hydroxytryptamine2-receptor agonist alpha-methyl-5-hydroxtryptamine but not by the 5-hydroxytryptamine3-receptor agonist 2-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine or the 5-hydroxytryptamine1-receptor agonist 5-carboxamidotryptamine. Sensitization induced by 5-hydroxytryptamine and alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine was blocked by the selective 5-hydroxytryptamine2-receptor antagonist ketanserin. Neither the 5-hydroxytryptamine3/5-hydroxytryptamine4-receptor antagonist ICS 205-930 nor the 5-hydroxytryptamine1/5-hydroxytryptamine2-receptor antagonist methiothepin blocked the 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced sensitization. The responses evoked by submaximal thermal stimuli were also enhanced following the sensitization of peripheral nociceptors with 5-hydroxytryptamine or alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine. The alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine-induced enhancement of thermal responses was reduced by ketanserin. 5-Hydroxytryptamine did not evoke a ventral root response unless peripheral fibres were sensitized with threshold concentrations of bradykinin or capsaicin. This effect was mimicked under the same conditions by 5-carboxamidotryptamine but not by alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine or 2-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine. The excitatory effect of 5-hydroxytryptamine was blocked by methiothepin but not by ICS 205-930 or ketanserin. Neither 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced sensitization nor 5-hydroxytryptamine-evoked activation of peripheral fibres was blocked by indomethacin. These data indicate that two types of receptor are involved in the peripheral actions of 5-hydroxytryptamine in nociception. 5-Hydroxytryptamine-induced sensitization involves a 5-hydroxytryptamine2-receptor, whereas 5-hydroxytryptamine-evoked excitation involves a 5-hydroxytryptamine1-like-receptor.
The afferent pathway of the milk ejection reflex in the hypothalamus was investigated with lesion and electrophysiological methods in anesthetized lactating rats. Destruction of the central region of the mid-hypothalamus (n = 12) blocked milk ejections induced by suckling, while that of the lateral region (n = 7) had no effect. In an electrophysiological study, extracellular recordings of neurons antidromically activated by electrical stimulation of the supraoptic nucleus were obtained from the ipsilateral hypothalamus caudal to the paraventricular nucleus (n = 84). Thirty-nine neurons were examined to see whether their firing activities changed during the milk ejection reflex. A group of 13 neurons were found to show changes in their activities prior to the reflex milk ejection; the neurons displayed a brief high-frequency burst of spikes before each milk ejection in the same manner as oxytocin neurons, and none of them antidromically responded to electrical stimulation of the neurohypophysis. The bursting neurons were recorded from the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (n = 6), the region just lateral to that nucleus (n = 3) and the posterior hypothalamus (n = 4). The locations were included in a region whose destruction blocked the milk ejection reflex. These results indicate that the afferent pathway of the milk ejection reflex in the rat runs through the medial portion of the hypothalamus posterior to the paraventricular nucleus and that this region contains neurons which relay the input to the oxytocin neurons projecting in the neurohypophysis.
This study has analysed by immunocytochemistry the pattern of expression of Fos-related proteins, as well as variations in nuclear size, after the osmotically induced activation of supraoptic nucleus neurons of the rat. In control rats most supraoptic nucleus neurons were Fos-like negative. After acute and chronic dehydration by salt-loading, the number of Fos-like positive neurons increased dramatically. The level of Fos-like immunoreactivity was higher in chronically stimulated rats, and also the neurons of the ventral region of the supraoptic nucleus were more intensely stained than those of the dorsal region. The karyometric analysis was made on electron micrographs. The mean nuclear profile area showed a significant increase in dehydrated rats with respect to the controls (73 +/- 16 microns 2 in those dehydrated for six days vs 54 +/- 13 in controls, mean +/- S.D.). However, no significant differences in this parameter were found when one-day and six-day dehydrated groups were compared. The invagination factor of the nuclear membrane, a nuclear shape indicator, decreased significantly in dehydrated rats, indicating a tendency towards spherical nuclei. It is noteworthy that the nuclear profile perimeter was constant, about 32 microns, in control and osmotically simulated rats. The higher nuclear accumulation of Fos-related antigens after six days of dehydration suggests that in chronically stimulated supraoptic nucleus neurons there is a sustained induction of cell-specific genes. Moreover, the transcription rate of the target genes containing the consensus DNA sequence TGAC/GTCA or c-AMP responsive elements recognition sites may depend upon the nuclear concentration of Fos-related antigens in supraoptic nucleus neurons. Our results also suggest that the initial Fos-related antigen expression and nuclear size increase are triggered concomitantly in supraoptic nucleus neurons after a short period of osmotic stimulation. On the other hand, we propose that nuclear envelope invaginations represent a reservoir of nuclear membrane which allows dynamic changes in nuclear size and shape depending on the metabolic status of the supraoptic nucleus neurons.
Effects of thyrotropin-releasing hormone on spontaneous activity and responses to medial forebrain bundle stimulation were tested in the units of the medial septum-diagonal band complex in slices taken from the brain of hibernating and waking ground squirrels. Administration of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (0.1 microM) into the flow of incubating medium increased the frequency of spontaneous activity of all the medial septum-diagonal band complex neurons in hibernating ground squirrels and of the majority of neurons in the waking ground squirrels. However, in the septal slices of hibernating ground squirrels this increase was significantly more pronounced. In addition, the neuropeptide slightly increased the frequency of bursts in the majority of cells with rhythmic burst activity. The excitatory influence of thyrotropin-releasing hormone on the units was preserved in conditions of synaptic blockade. In neurons from other structures (lateral septum, medial preoptic area, hippocampus) in the brain slices of both hibernating and waking ground squirrels, thyrotropin-releasing hormone did not usually affect the level of spontaneous discharges. When studying the responses of the medial septum-diagonal band complex neurons to electrical stimulation of medial forebrain bundle it was found that application of thyrotropin-releasing hormone (0.1 microM) led to the disappearance of responses in 50 and 44% of units in the hibernating and waking ground squirrels, respectively; in the rest of the neurons a disturbance of stability and probability of responses was observed. The existence of a modulatory thyrotropin-releasing hormone system which participates post-, and, probably, presynaptically in the regulation of the medial septum-diagonal band complex neuronal activity is suggested. The role of thyrotropin-releasing hormone and of medial septum-diagonal band complex in the neural control of hibernation/euthermic waking cycle is discussed.
The present study determined the effects of chronic recombinant human nerve growth factor administration [1 microgram given intracerebroventricularly q.i.d. (every other day) for three weeks] on in vivo hippocampal cholinergic function in adult rats with unilateral partial fimbrial transections. Partial fimbrial transections did not significantly alter the levels of endogenous acetylcholine or [2H4]acetylcholine in the hippocampus due to functional compensation by surviving cholinergic terminals. In animals chronically treated with nerve growth factor, the levels of endogenous choline, endogenous acetylcholine, [2H4]choline and [2H4]acetylcholine accumulated in the hippocampus on the lesioned side were not significantly different from those on the contralateral unlesioned side or from values measured in animals treated with cytochrome c, a control protein. However, changes in cholinergic parameters induced by the partial lesions or recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment became manifest when animals were challenged using pharmacological agents such as pentylenetetrazole or pilocarpine given after lithium chloride pretreatment. First, in nerve growth factor-treated animals administered the general stimulant pentylenetetrazole (10 mg/kg) 2 min prior to measuring in vivo cholinergic parameters, we observed a significant increase in the hippocampal content of [2H4]choline in both lesioned and unlesioned hippocampi. The magnitude of the increase was significantly higher on the lesioned compared to the unlesioned side. Although chronic recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment induced increases of hippocampal [2H4]choline levels, there were no concomitant increases in the level of [2H4]acetylcholine. Second, in nerve growth factor-treated animals administered lithium chloride (3 mmol/kg) 20 h prior to pilocarpine (30 mg/kg), we observed a significant enhancement of the content of endogenous acetylcholine in the hippocampus of the lesioned side. Partial fimbrial transections also reduced in vitro cholinergic parameters reflecting endogenous acetylcholine levels in hippocampal slices. The content of endogenous acetylcholine in the slices was decreased by approximately 50% and chronic nerve growth factor treatment significantly elevated this value to approximately non-lesioned control values. Similarly, reductions in spontaneous and veratridine-evoked release of endogenous acetylcholine induced by partial fimbrial transections were counteracted by recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment. These findings demonstrate that chronic recombinant human nerve growth factor treatment effectively enhances the in vivo and in vitro synthesis, storage and release of endogenous acetylcholine. The results from the in vivo studies suggest that recombinant human nerve growth factor-induced differences in functional performance of hippocampal neurons may only be manifest during behavioral and/or pharmacological stimulation.
Although many workers have appreciated the striking cytologic and neurochemical similarities of neostriatum, accumbens and olfactory tubercle, a compelling case for regarding these areas as territories in a striatal complex awaited the arguments made by Heimer and his colleagues based on their investigations of connections. A number of recent papers support this viewpoint and extend it with the characterization of three accumbal subterritories: core, shell and rostral pole. The case for separate classifications of systems traversing the accumbens has become more compelling with each study that demonstrates connectional, cytoarchitectural and neurochemical specificity conforming to the boundaries separating the core and its downstream targets from the shell and its projection fields. Furthermore, its apparent composite of core-like and shell-like characteristics distinguishes the rostral pole as yet another unique subterritory. Differences in compartmental organization distinguish the accumbens and neostriatum. The available data are consistent with the periventricular and rostrolateral enkephalin-rich zones being ventralmost parts of the neostriatal patch and matrix compartments, respectively. The accumbal cell cluster compartment, on the other hand, appears to be a separate entity, with connectional and neurochemical features that are dissimilar to both patch and matrix of neostriatum. Boundaries between the accumbens and caudate-putamen remain elusive, and the point of view that such boundaries do not exist but, rather, are represented by &quot;transition zones&quot; must to a large degree reflect the reality. Likewise, it is important to acknowledge that the boundaries between accumbal subterritories are not necessarily distinct or observed faithfully by all of the afferent systems. &quot;Transition zones&quot; appear to be particularly significant organizational features in rostral and lateral parts of the accumbens. Interestingly, histochemically distinct cell clusters tend to be numerous in boundary regions between adjacent territories and subterritories. The predominant organizational pattern appears to be one in which the core, shell and rostral pole engage different forebrain systems that possibly subserve entirely different functions mediated by distantly related mechanisms. In this regard, it is of paramount interest that the processing of information conveyed to the accumbens by diverse cortical and subcortical inputs occurs within distinct and perhaps very different dopaminergic environments in the core, shell and rostral pole (e.g., see Refs 24, 34, 90, 110).
Climbing fiber tactile receptive fields in the anterior lobe of the cat's cerebellum are found to have regularities of shape, independent of their relative position on the cerebellar cortex. The shape regularities can be expressed as rules of combination that generate the receptive field shapes. Both face and paw receptive fields are unions of a certain set of skin areas called compartments. Face receptive fields are generated by taking the union of a seed compartment and another compartment in a binary relation to it, called CF-contiguity. Paw receptive fields are formed in a similar iterative fashion, with the constraint that anatomically equivalent areas be included on all toes involved in the receptive field. This paper specifies rules of combination that both reproduce observed receptive fields and also predict receptive fields that have not yet been observed. Because of the regularities of shape among the climbing fiber tactile receptive fields, the rules of combination can be used to predict ensemble activation in response to tactile stimulation.
The continuous perfusion with an artificial cerebrospinal fluid of the cervicotrigeminal area of the spinal cord in halothane-anaesthetized rats allowed the collection of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like material with the same immunological and chromatographic characteristics as authentic rat alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide. The spinal release of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like material could be significantly increased by the local application of 60 mM K+ (approximately +100%), high-intensity percutaneous electrical stimulation (approximately +200%) and noxious heat (by immersion in water at 52 degrees C; approximately +150%) applied to the muzzle. By contrast, noxious mechanical (pinches) and chemical (subcutaneous formalin injection) stimulations and deep cooling (by immersion in water at 0 degrees C) of the muzzle did not alter the spinal release of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like material. In addition, low-intensity electrical stimulation, recruiting only the A alpha/beta primary afferent fibres, significantly reduced (approximately -30%) the release of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like material from the cervicotrigeminal area. These data suggest that among the various types of natural noxious stimuli, noxious heat may selectively excite calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing A delta and C primary afferent fibres projecting within the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, and that activation of A alpha/beta fibres reduces spontaneous calcitonin gene-related peptide-like material release possibly through an inhibitory presynaptic control of calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing A delta/C fibres.
The action of mastoparan (a wasp venom peptide) on &quot;maxi&quot; Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels was studied in excised inside-out patch recordings from cultured bovine chromaffin cells, under normal conditions (160 mM K+ inside, 154 mM Na+ outside). Mastoparan, when applied on the intracellular side of the membrane reduced the open channel probability in a concentration dependent manner. Changes in the channel kinetics were complex. The histograms of the open dwell times were all described by either one or two exponentials. Mastoparan shortened the mean duration of the major (long) component and to a lesser extent the minor (short) component. Closed dwell times, were described by three exponentials. While the short (major) component was prolonged by mastoparan, and the intermediate component was unaffected, the long component was shortened. Overall mean closed times were prolonged. The changes in channel kinetics could only partly be explained by a channel-blocking mechanism, even when assuming that mastoparan acts as both an intermediate and a slow channel blocker suggesting that it affects gating mechanism. The fact that mastoparan is a calmodulin inhibitor and a G-protein activator raises the possibility that in bovine chromaffin cells, either the membrane-bound calmodulin or a G-protein, plays a role in the modulation of Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels.
We attempted to elucidate the cerebrovasomotor function of the caudal ventrolateral medulla. Sixty-one rats were anaesthetized, paralysed and artificially ventilated. The microsphere method was employed for the measurement of blood flow. Microinjection of an antagonist of excitatory amino acids, kynurenate (2 nmol), into functionally identified depressor sites within the caudal ventrolateral medulla produced arterial hypertension of about 140 mmHg. We found that the cerebral blood flow was substantially increased, but was maintained at the same level (17 rats) as that observed under phenylephrine-induced hypertension (26 rats). Bilateral severing of the cervical sympathetic trunks resulted in a further increase in blood flow in all brain regions studied (18 rats). The response was most significant in the cerebral parasagittal cortex (164 +/- 31% of baseline without, and 211 +/- 43% with sympathectomy; mean +/- S.D.; P &lt; 0.001). The contributions of the cerebral metabolic mechanism to this flow increase under denervation was minimal, as evidenced by the observation of disproportionately smaller changes in cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen during any type of hypertension. We conclude that the cerebrovasomotor functions of the caudal ventrolateral medulla may operate to keep an equilibrium between simultaneously working tonic inhibitions against sympathetic vasoconstriction as well as against vasodilatation. This dual effect is mediated by excitatory amino acid receptors located within this particular brain area. The vasodilator mechanism may be of neurogenic origin. When the function of the brain area is suppressed, the subsequently disinhibited vasodilator mechanism dominates the cerebrovascular autoregulatory function.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Immunocytochemical study of cerebral cortex of the lizard Podarcis hispanica using an antibody directed to the M peptide of the rat c-Fos protein showed a distinct pattern of Fos distribution. Abundant Fos-immunoreactive neuronal nuclei were detected in the cell layers of the medial, the dorsal and the lateral cortices, whereas only a few nuclei were found in the cell layer of the dorsomedial cortex. The Fos immunoreactivity was characterized by Western blot analysis of nuclear extracts from lizard brain and showed a distinct band with an apparent molecular weight of 30,000. In band-shift assays, nuclear extracts from lizard brain were shown to contain AP-1 complexes. The basal expression of Fos immunoreactivity is related to sensory olfactory input in the cerebral cortex of the lizard since experiments with olfactory-deprived animals resulted in a complete absence of Fos immunoreactivity in the cortical areas.
Immunocytochemical methods were used to localize the protein product of the immediate-early gene, c-fos, in male rats after exposure to, or direct physical interaction with, oestrous females. Increasing amounts of physical contact with a female, with resultant olfactory-vomeronasal and/or genital-somatosensory inputs, caused corresponding increments in c-fos expression in the medial preoptic area, the caudal part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the medial amygdala, and the midbrain central tegmental field. Males bearing unilateral electrothermal lesions of the olfactory peduncle showed a significant reduction in c-fos expression in the ipsilateral medial amygdala, but not in other structures, provided their coital interaction with oestrous females was restricted to mount-thrust and occasional intromissive patterns due to repeated application of lidocaine anaesthetic to the penis. No such lateralization of c-fos expression occurred in other males with unilateral olfactory lesions which were allowed to intromit and ejaculate with a female. These results suggest that olfactory inputs, possibly of vomeronasal origin, contribute to the activation of c-fos in the medial amygdala. However, lesion-induced deficits in this type of afferent input to the nervous system appear to be readily compensated for by the genital somatosensory input derived from repeated intromissions. Unilateral excitotoxic lesions of the medial preoptic area, made by infusing quinolinic acid, failed to reduce c-fos expression in the ipsilateral or contralateral medial amygdala or central tegmental field following ejaculation. By contrast, combined, unilateral excitotoxic lesions of the medial amygdala and the central tegmental field significantly reduced c-fos expression in the ipsilateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial preoptic area after mating; no such asymmetry in c-fos expression occurred when lesions were restricted to either the medial amygdala or central tegmental field. This suggests that afferent inputs from the central tegmental field (probably of genital-somatosensory origin) and from the medial amygdala (probably of olfactory-vomeronasal origin) interact to promote cellular activity, and the resultant induction of c-fos, in the ipsilateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial preoptic area. The monitoring of neuronal c-fos expression provides an effective means of studying the role of sensory factors in governing the activity of integrated neural structures which control the expression of a complex social behaviour.
We developed a new system to measure the intracellular Ca2+ concentration in the deep region of the central nervous system with a single optical fiber (300 microns in diameter), used for both excitation and detection of the fluorescence of previously loaded fura-2. With this system, a brain region loaded with fura-2 was illuminated by a rotating disc bearing three different interference filters of 340, 360 and 380 nm at a rate of 600 rpm. The emitted fluorescence was collected by the same fiber connected to a photomultiplier whose output was fed into a computer which regulates the timing of illumination and detection. The time course of the change in the fluorescence due to 340, 360 or 380 nm excitation was measured simultaneously at the maximum sampling rate of 10 points/s. Ratios of fluorescence intensities were obtained after the experiment. After confirming that this system was sensitive enough to detect the change of intracellular Ca2+ concentration in cultured hippocampal neurons and hippocampal slices during depolarization by high potassium medium (50 mM), we applied this system to anesthetized rats. In the hippocampus preloaded with fura-2, characteristic changes in fluorescence intensities ascribed to an increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration were detected after asphyxia. The system is potentially useful for investigating the physiological and pathological roles of Ca2+ in the brain.
The hippocampus contains the highest number of glucocorticoid-sensitive neurons in the rat brain and excessive exposure to glucocorticoids can cause damage to hippocampal neurons and impair the capacity of the hippocampus to survive neuronal insults. In this study in situ hybridization combined with quantitative image analysis was used to study preprotachykinin-A mRNA levels after administration of a toxic dose of kainic acid in animals pretreated with glucocorticoids. Kainic acid was injected into dorsal hippocampus CA3 region in animals pretreated with the synthetic glucocorticoid receptor agonist dexamethasone and in control animals. Preprotachykinin-A mRNA was not detected in the hippocampus of untreated animals or in animals analysed 30 min after a kainic acid injection. However, 4 h after injection of kainic acid, the level of preprotachykinin-A mRNA increased to 20-times above the detection limit both in the dentate gyrus and the CA3 region of the hippocampus. Treatment of kainic acid-injected animals with dexamethasone 30 min before and 2 h after the injection attenuated the increase in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus by 50%. In contrast, dexamethasone pretreatment had no significant effect on the kainic acid-induced increase of preprotachykinin-A mRNA in pyramidal cells in regions CA3 or CA1. These results show that an excitatory stimulus within the hippocampus causes a substantial increase in the level of preprotachykinin-A mRNA in hippocampal granule and pyramidal cells and suggest that in granule cells of the dentate gyrus this increase can be modulated by glucocorticoids.
In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to investigate the putative regulation of cholecystokinin messenger RNA expression by dopamine in the rat striatum. Using this method, cholecystokinin messenger RNA was undetectable in the normal rat striatum. Dopamine depletion caused by a 6-hydroxydopamine injection in the medical forebrain bundle induced, two and four weeks after the injection, an increase of cholecystokinin messenger RNA expression in the ipsilateral striatum. The labeling was mostly restricted to the dorsolateral quadrant. At the cellular level, this corresponded to a slight but significant labeling of a moderate density of striatal neurons which most probably represent a subpopulation of medium-sized spiny neurons. Conversely, treatment with either haloperidol or SCH23390 for two weeks did not induce any detectable changes in cholecystokinin messenger RNA expression in the striatum while, as expected, an increase in the striatal enkephalin messenger RNA content was observed. These results suggest that the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway directly, or indirectly, regulates the expression of cholecystokinin messenger RNA in the striatum.
The distribution of cells expressing vasoactive intestinal peptide/peptide histidine isoleucine-amide precursor messenger RNA was investigated in the rat brain and pituitary by in situ hybridization using a synthetic 35S-labeled oligonucleotide probe. Detection of labeled neurons by light-microscopic radioautography revealed a selective repartition of the messenger RNA-expressing cells. Several major vasoactive intestinal peptide/peptide histidine isoleucine-amide messenger RNA-containing cell groups were demonstrated including layers II-VI of the cerebral cortex, the suprachiasmatic nucleus and various thalamic structures such as the ventrolateral, posterior, lateral reticular, paracentralis and gelatinosus nuclei. Positive cells, to a lesser extent, were also found in the limbic system, medial preoptic area, superior and inferior colliculi as well as in the central gray matter. They were totally absent in the pituitary and the pineal gland of normal rats. The results of the present study provide a detailed mapping of neurons expressing vasoactive intestinal peptide/peptide histidine isoleucine-amide messenger RNA in the adult rat brain. The predominance of vasoactive intestinal peptide/peptide histidine isoleucine-amide messenger RNA-containing neurons in the cerebral cortex, suprachiasmatic nucleus and thalamus suggest that vasoactive intestinal peptide is mainly involved in the control of cortical informations, circadian rhythms and sensory perception in agreement with several physiological data.
In homozygous Brattleboro rats a frame-shift mutation in the vasopressin gene prevents secretion of vasopressin by magnocellular neurosecretory neurons and thus causes diabetes insipidus. Whereas most &quot;vasopressin&quot; neurons in Brattleboro homozygotes apparently lack vasopressin and its associated neurophysin and glycopeptide, some isolated cells overcome the mutation and &quot;revert&quot; to producing readily detectable amounts of vasopressin. We describe here two morphologically and immunocytochemically distinct subsets of such &quot;revertant&quot; cells. One subset contain, in their rough endoplasmic reticulum cisterns, electron-dense aggregates immunoreactive for vasopressin, for parts of oxytocin-neurophysin, and for CP14 (a peptide with a sequence deduced from the mutated precursor), but not for vasopressin-associated glycopeptide (&quot;glycopeptide&quot;) or vasopressin-neurophysin. In Brattleboro heterozygotes, which have one mutant and one normal copy of the vasopressin gene, morphologically similar revertant cells exist; the aggregates in the rough endoplasmic reticulum of these cells do not immuno-label for CP14, but the cells do produce 160-nm neurosecretory granules immunoreactive for vasopressin, vasopressin-neurophysin and glycopeptide. In Brattleboro homozygotes, the second, more abundant subset of neurons which recover vasopressin immunoreactivity also express vasopressin-associated glycopeptide and CP14 but not oxytocin-neurophysin; both glycopeptide and CP14 are restricted to the rough endoplasmic reticulum but do not form aggregates. We conclude that two different somatic repairs of the Brattleboro mutation can occur. We propose that, in aggregate-containing neurons, exons B and C have been exchanged between the vasopressin and oxytocin genes; glycopeptide-immunoreactive neurons have either undergone mismatch repair or exchanged exon B.
The influence of sustained epileptic seizures evoked by intraperitoneal injection of kainic acid on the gene expression of the neuropeptides somatostatin and neuropeptide Y and on the damage of neurons containing these peptides was studied in the rat brain. Injection of kainic acid induced an extensive loss of somatostatin and, though less pronounced, of neuropeptide Y neurons in the inner part of the hilus of the dentate gyrus. Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons located in the subgranular layer of the hilus, presumably pyramidal-shaped basket cells, were spared by the treatment. Although neuropeptide Y messenger RNA was not detected in granule cells of control rats, it was found there after kainic acid seizures at all time intervals investigated (12 h to 90 days after injection of kainic acid). High concentrations of neuropeptide Y messenger RNA were especially observed 24 h after injection of kainic acid. At this time neuropeptide Y messenger RNA was also transiently observed in CA1 pyramidal cells. Neuropeptide Y synthesis in granule cells in turn gave rise to an intense immunoreactivity of the peptide in the terminal field of mossy fibers which persisted for the entire time period (90 days) investigated. In addition, neuropeptide Y messenger RNA concentrations were also drastically elevated in presumptive basket cells located at the inner surface of the granule cell layer, especially at the &quot;late&quot; time intervals investigated (30-90 days after kainic acid). These data support the concept that extensive activation of granule cells by limbic seizures contributes to the observed neuronal cell death in CA3 pyramidal neurons and interneurons of the hilus. Consecutively, basket cells containing neuropeptide Y and presumably GABA might be activated and participate in recurrent inhibition of granule cells. Neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive fibers observed in the inner molecular layer at &quot;late&quot; time intervals after kainic acid may result either from collateral sprouting of mossy fibers or from basket cells extensively expressing the peptide. It is speculated that neuropeptide Y synthesized and released at a high rate from granule cells and basket cells may exert a protective action against seizures.
Some peripheral peptidergic nerves selectively innervate different types of tissue in abdominal organs. Neuropeptide Y- and vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive nerve terminals have been identified in the kidney, spleen and intestine and these peptides may have important physiological actions. Somatostatin has been found in sympathetic ganglia, and nerve terminals containing this peptide have been identified in the intestine. We have used fluorescent retrograde tracers to identify renal, splenic and mesenteric postganglionic neurons in rat sympathetic ganglia and then used immunocytochemistry to determine the proportions of these three identified groups of neurons displaying immunoreactivity for neuropeptide Y, vasoactive intestinal peptide and somatostatin. Most renal, splenic and mesenteric neurons were immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y and less than 1% of cells innervating these organs were immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal peptide. Somatostatin immunoreactivity was present only in a small percentage of mesenteric neurons and not in renal or splenic neurons. The present study demonstrates that (i) the rat kidney, spleen and intestine do not differ in the proportion of innervation by neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons, (ii) the solar plexus, splanchnic ganglion and chain ganglia (T12 and T13) provide very little vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive inputs to these organs, and (iii) somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons innervate the intestine but not the kidney or spleen.
Previously, using a new in vitro microsuperfusion procedure, we have demonstrated marked differences in the cholinergic presynaptic regulation of the release of [3H]dopamine continuously synthesized from [3H]tyrosine in two close striosomal- and matrix-enriched areas of the cat caudate nucleus. A tetrodotoxin-resistant stimulatory effect of acetylcholine mediated by muscarinic receptors was observed in both compartments. However, in addition, two opposing types of tetrodotoxin-sensitive acetylcholine-evoked regulation of [3H]dopamine release were only seen in the matrix: one facilitatory, involving nicotinic receptors located on as yet unidentified neurons, and the other inhibitory, mediated by muscarinic receptors located on dynorphin-containing neurons. In the present study, using the same approach, a functional heterogeneity was demonstrated in the matrix. Indeed, in various conditions the effects of acetylcholine (50 microM) on the release of [3H]dopamine were different in a matrix-enriched area (matrix 2) distinct from that previously investigated (matrix 1); these areas being characterized by the presence or absence of islands of striatonigral cells, respectively. As in matrix 1, acetylcholine induced a short-lasting stimulation of [3H]dopamine release in matrix 2 but, in contrast to that observed in matrix 1, the acetylcholine-evoked response in matrix 2 was not modified in the presence of tetrodotoxin (1 microM). Experiments made in the presence of the tetrodotoxin and atropine (1 microM) indicated that both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors are located on dopaminergic nerve terminals in matrix 2 while muscarinic receptors are only present in matrix 1. In the absence of tetrodotoxin, the short-lasting stimulation of [3H]dopamine release was transformed into a long-lasting response in the presence of pempidine (50 microM), in matrix 2 but not in matrix 1 while prolonged responses were seen in both matrix areas in the presence of atropine. Finally, the acetylcholine short stimulatory effect on [3H]dopamine release was transformed into a long stimulatory response in the presence of bicuculline (50 microM) but not naloxone (1 microM) in matrix 2 while the reverse was observed in matrix 1. By providing further evidence for a functional heterogeneity of the matrix, our results suggest that depending on the matrix area investigated, dynorphin- or GABA-containing neurons are involved in the indirect cholinergic inhibitory control of dopamine release.
It has been shown that morphologic and biochemical presynaptic markers of dopaminergic terminals are preserved in a unilateral experimental model of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic injury to the striatum. As the substantia nigra is spared direct injury in this model, we anticipated that the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive dopaminergic neurons projecting to the striatum would also be normal. We have found, however, that following unilateral neonatal striatal injury the number of ipsilateral tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons is decreased, as is the mean area of the substantia nigra pars compacta. The decrease in neurons is correlated with the decrease in striatal size (r = 0.7, P = 0.01). Neuron loss is most pronounced in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, where it is 50%. Calbindin-positive neurons in the dorsal tier of the substantia nigra pars compacta appear to be preserved. We also examined effects on the nigra following a neonatal excitotoxic striatal lesion made with quinolinic acid. We observed a decrease in the number of substantia nigra tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the absence of direct nigral injury, and the decrease was closely correlated with reductions in striatal area (r = 0.91, p &lt; 0.01). While there are a number of possible explanations for these observations, one major possibility is that there has been a reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons due to a diminution in developmental target-derived trophic support from the striatum. If striatum-derived trophic support plays a role in the developmental regulation of substantia nigra neuron number, then abnormalities in this supportive relationship may play a role in the loss of these neurons in some animal models of developmental nigral degeneration, and some forms of human parkinsonism.
The aim of the present study was to quantify time-related modifications in mu and delta opioid binding sites in the superficial layers (laminae I and II) of the L4 lumbar segment in a rat model of mononeuropathy induced by loose ligation of the sciatic nerve. We have shown a 28% (P &lt; 0.01) and 24% (P &lt; 0.01) decrease in ipsi/contralateral side binding ratios for tritiated (Tyr*-D-Ala-Gly-NMe-Phe-Gly-ol) ([3H]DAMGO) and tritiated (Tyr*-D-Thr-Gly-Phe-Leu-Thr) ([3H]DTLET) respectively, at two weeks postlesion which correspond to the delay of maximal hyperalgesia and of maximal alteration of fine diameter primary afferent fibers. In contrast, no change in [3H]U.69593 specific binding could be detected at this postlesion delay. For longer survival delays (four, eight and 15 weeks postlesion), mu and delta binding ratios return towards control values (approximately equal to 1), probably reflecting the occurrence of a long-term neuroplasticity (i.e. a new equilibrium in the metabolism of primary neurons, or collateral sprouting from intact primary afferents) following loose nerve ligation. In addition, a comparison of the results obtained in this model with those measured after sciatic nerve section and lumbar dorsal rhizotomy was performed in order to compare the degree of loss in opioid binding sites in these three types of lesion. The section of the sciatic nerve induced at eight days postlesion an 18% (P &lt; 0.01) and 28% (P &lt; 0.01) decrease in binding ratio for [3H]DAMGO and [3H]DTLET, respectively. At two weeks postlesion the loss was 24% (P &lt; 0.01) for the two ligands, and at longer delays (four and 12 weeks), a progressive recovery in binding ratio was observed. Thus, it appears that both sciatic nerve lesions we have studied result in mu and delta binding modifications which have similar intensity and similar time course from two to 12-15 weeks postlesion. In contrast, the unilateral rhizotomy of nine consecutive dorsal roots (T13-S2), which is known to induce a massive degeneration of fine diameter primary afferent fibers, is followed by a dramatic decrease in binding ratios for [3H]DAMGO (53%, P &lt; 0.001) and [3H]DTLET (45%, P &lt; 0.001) at two weeks postlesion. These data suggest that the more deprived the dorsal horn is of fine diameter primary afferent fibers, the more dramatic is the opioid binding loss in the ipsilateral side as compared to the contralateral side.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The present study examined the distribution of glycine and glycine-receptors in the dorsal vagal complex using pre-embedding immunocytochemistry. Glycine-immunoreactive terminals were present in moderate densities in the medial, intermediate, interstitial, commissural and ventrolateral subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarii. The dorsolateral nucleus tractus solitarii and the dorsal vagal motor nucleus contained only very few, scattered glycine-containing terminals. Glycine terminals appeared to be concentrated in regions of the dorsal vagal complex receiving primary vagal afferents, though previous studies have suggested that glycine is not present in these afferents. A conspicuously high concentration of glycine terminals was observed in the medial nucleus tractus solitarii where a population of cholinergic neurons has been identified previously. Ultrastructurally glycine immunoreactivity was principally associated with terminals containing flattened, pleomorphic vesicles and forming symmetrical synaptic contacts, mostly with dendrites. Glycine receptor immunoreactivity was present throughout the dorsal vagal complex with little evidence of subnuclear localization. With electron-microscopic examination, glycine receptor immunoreactivity was associated with dendritic membranes and was associated presynaptically with terminals containing flattened pleomorphic vesicles. Overall, the present data provide evidence consistent with a neurotransmitter role for glycine in the dorsal vagal complex. The presence of glycine in regions of the dorsal vagal complex receiving vagal afferents suggests a prominent role for this neurotransmitter in autonomic regulation.
The purpose of the present study was to characterize the ionic and pharmacological basis of the actions of synaptically released and exogenously applied GABA in basolateral amygdaloid pyramidal cells in vitro. Stimulation of forebrain afferents to pyramidal neurons in the basolateral amygdala evoked an excitatory postsynaptic potential followed by early and late inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. The early inhibitory postsynaptic potential had a reversal potential near -70 mV, was sensitive to changes in the chloride gradient across the membrane and was blocked by the GABAA antagonists picrotoxin and bicuculline methiodide but not by the GABAB antagonists phaclofen or 2-hydroxysaclofen. In contrast, the late inhibitory postsynaptic potential had a reversal potential of approximately -95 mV and was markedly reduced or abolished by GABAB antagonists. Pressure application of GABA to the surface of the slice typically elicited a triphasic response in basolateral amygdaloid pyramidal neurons consisting of a short-latency hyperpolarization that preceded or was superimposed on a membrane depolarization followed by a longer latency hyperpolarization. Each of the responses was associated with an increase in membrane conductance. Determinations of the reversal potential, ionic dependency and sensitivity to pharmacological blockade of each component of the GABA-induced response revealed that the initial hyperpolarizing (Erev approximately -70 mV) and depolarizing (Erev approximately -55 mV) responses were mediated by a GABAA-mediated increase in chloride conductance, whereas the late hyperpolarizing response (Erev approximately -82 mV) to GABA arose from a GABAB-mediated increase in potassium conductance. Experiments in which GABA was applied at various locations on the cell suggested that the short-latency hyperpolarization resulted from activation of somatic GABA receptors, whereas the depolarizing and late hyperpolarizing responses were generated primarily in the dendrites. In contrast to the complex membrane response profile elicited by GABA, pressure ejection of the GABAB agonist baclofen produced only membrane hyperpolarizations. Taken together, these results suggest that inhibitory responses that are recorded in basolateral amygdaloid pyramidal cells are mediated by activation of both GABAA and GABAB receptors. Consistent with findings elsewhere in the CNS, the early inhibitory postsynaptic potential and initial hyperpolarization and depolarizing response to local GABA application appear to involve a GABAA-mediated increase in chloride conductance, whereas the late inhibitory postsynaptic potential and the late hyperpolarizing response to GABA arise from a GABAB-mediated increase in potassium conductance.
Rates of cerebral glucose utilization were measured by means of the autoradiographic 2-deoxy-D[1-14C]glucose technique in the rat brain in order to determine the metabolic effects of unilateral intranigral application of the GABAA agonist muscimol upon the substantia nigra and its targets. Intranigral injection of 1.5 microliters 0.3 M muscimol (52 micrograms total dose) induced local metabolic activation in the injected substantia nigra reticulata (by 87% as compared to the control group), and distal metabolic depressions in the nucleus accumbens, striatum, globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus only ipsilaterally to the injected nigra. The remaining basal ganglia components, including the substantia nigra compacta and the entopeduncular nucleus were bilaterally unaffected. Among the principal efferent projections of the substantia nigra reticulata, the ventromedial and centrolateral thalamic nuclei as well as the deep layers of the superior colliculi were metabolically depressed bilaterally, whereas the ventrolateral, parafascicular and mediodorsal thalamic nuclei as well as the pedunculopontine nucleus displayed metabolic depressions ipsilateral to the muscimol-injection nigra. The ventromedial and centrolateral thalamic nuclei were depressed by 41 and 42%, respectively, in the ipsilateral side, and by 30 and 26% in the contralateral side, when compared to the respective values of the control group of rats. Furthermore, unilateral intranigral injection of 0.3 M muscimol induced metabolic depressions in reticular, intralaminar and prefrontal thalamocortical areas mostly ipsilateral to the injected nigra, as well as in limbic areas bilaterally. It is suggested that the present findings are due to a postsynaptic effect of muscimol on the nigral GABAergic cells and to a consequent metabolic depression of the basal ganglia and associated thalamocortical areas, in contrast to an earlier suggested presynaptic nigral effect of lower doses of intranigrally injected muscimol which induced metabolic activations within the same network. This suggestion is further supported by the fact that intranigrally injected substrate P19 induced similar effects to those elicited by the lower doses of intranigral muscimol and opposite to those induced at present by the higher muscimol dose. Moreover, it is further substantiated that the nigrothalamic GABAergic system is responsible for considerable transfer of information from one substantia nigra reticulata to the ipsilateral basal ganglia and associated thalamocortical components as well as to bilateral motor, intralaminar and limbic areas.
Investigation into the effect of aging on kappa opioid receptors in the brains of guinea-pigs was carried out in animals aged one, six, 24 and 36 months. Quantitative autoradiography was used to monitor the concentration of kappa receptors in various anatomic regions at five rostrocaudal levels in each age-group. Areas of high binding were found in the deep layers (laminae V, VI) of the neocortex and in the internal band of the periallocortical, dorsal agranular insular cortex. Among non-cortical areas examined, the nucleus accumbens and the substantia nigra possessed kappa binding levels equal to those seen in the deep neocortical layers. In all cases where an age-related change in the level of kappa receptors was detected, the direction of the change was one of decreased binding with advancing age. Statistical analysis of the binding data revealed that the one-month-old animal possessed the highest levels of kappa binding among all age groups examined. The vast majority of age-related changes in kappa binding levels occurred in laminae V and VI of neocortical regions. The per cent decreases (18-42%), as well as their age of onset (six to 36 months) varied in different anatomical regions. Possible mechanisms to explain the age-related decreases in kappa opioid binding are presented. The majority of the age-related decreases in kappa opioid binding are found in areas of the neocortex which are characterized by their motor, sensory and associative functions. It is within these three areas of function that diminutions in performance are most apparent in senescence.
The dendrites of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra play a pivotal role in the neurochemical homeostasis of the nucleus. It is conceivable therefore that the cell body and dendrites of these nigral neurons possess distinct and independent electro-responsive features. By means of differential polarization through applied electric fields, the cell body and dendrites have been activated in effective isolation during intracellular recordings from pars compacta neurons in the substantia nigra in vitro. In one class of neurons, which discharge in a &quot;phasic&quot; fashion and are located in the rostral substantia nigra, the dendrites are shown to be the origin of classic low-threshold and high-threshold type calcium potentials: indeed the high-threshold conductance appears to be exclusively dendritic. By contrast, in a second, more caudally located cell type, which discharges rhythmically, a high-threshold calcium spike is located principally in the cell body. The differential localization of these calcium conductances in sub-populations of neurons is likely to determine the functions for the calcium responses in each type of neuron, and moreover highlight the dendrites as dynamic and selective components in the physiology of the substantia nigra. The presence, for example, of the high-threshold calcium conductance in the dendrites of only one class of neuron suggests that this sub-population plays a prominent role in non-classical phenomena of dendritic release of a variety of chemical mediators.
Deer antler is a unique mineralized tissue which can produce very high growth rates of &gt; 1 cm/day in large species. On completion of antler growth, the dermal tissues which cover the antler are shed and the underlying calcified tissue dies. After several months the old antler is discarded and growth of a new one begins. It is known that deer antlers are sensitive to touch and are innervated. The major aims of this study were to identify and localize by immunohistochemical techniques the type of innervation present, and to find out whether nerve fibres could exhibit growth rates comparable to those of antler. We have taken tissue sections from the tip and shaft of growing Red deer (Cervus elaphus) antlers at three stages of development; shortly after the initiation of regrowth, the rapid growth phase, and near the end of growth. Incubation of tissue sections with antisera to protein gene product 9.5 (a neural cytoplasmic protein), neurofilament triplet proteins (a neural cytoskeletal protein), substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide (both of which are present in and synthesized by sensory neurons) showed the presence of immunoreactive nerve fibres in dermal, deep connective and perichondrial/periosteal tissues at all stages of antler growth. The sparse distribution of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-like immunoreactivity was found in dermal tissue only at the earliest stage of antler development. Nerve fibres immunoreactive to neuropeptide Y, C-flanking peptide of neuropeptide Y and tyrosine hydroxylase, all present in postganglionic sympathetic nerves, were not observed at any stage of antler growth. Nerves expressing immunoreactivity for any of the neural markers or peptides employed could not be found in cartilage, osteoid or bone. These results show that antlers are innervated mainly by sensory nerves and that nerves can attain the exceptionally high growth rates found in regenerating antler.
The blocking actions of the K+ channel toxins charybdotoxin, dendrotoxin and mast cell degranulating peptide were studied in B82 mouse fibroblast cells transformed to express NGK1 (Kv1.2) K+ channels. All three toxins were potent blockers of the K+ current in these cells, with KD values of 1.7, 2.8 and 185 nM, respectively. The toxin block exhibited a weak voltage-dependence with the degree of inhibition decreasing at positive membrane potentials. For charybdotoxin and dendrotoxin, reducing [K+]i did not increase the fractional block, demonstrating that the relief of block at positive membrane potentials is not due to displacement of the toxin molecules by outward flow of K+ ions. A voltage-jump protocol was used to determine the rates of binding and unbinding of dendrotoxin and mast cell degranulating peptide; binding of charybdotoxin was too rapid to be quantitatively evaluated in this manner. The binding rates (dendrotoxin, approximately 5 x 10(7)/M per s; mast cell degranulating peptide, approximately 0.8 x 10(7)/M per s) were largely voltage-independent, suggesting that association of the toxin molecules with the channel is diffusion limited. The rates of unbinding (dendrotoxin, approximately 0.3/s; mast cell degranulating peptide, approximately 3/s at +60 mV) of both toxins increased e-fold per approximately 40 mV change in membrane potential, thus accounting for the voltage-dependence of the equilibrium block. Internal perfusion with the three toxins failed to affect the K+ current (in contrast to internal tetraethylammonium which strongly blocked the current), indicating that the toxins exert their blocking action by binding to extracellular sites.
Previous studies have suggested that peptides such as substance P and thyrotropin-releasing hormone coexist with serotonin in the same varicosities in the ventral horn and intermediate gray of the spinal cord in rat. However, coexistence of these peptides with serotonin is rare in fibers in the superficial dorsal horn. Since it has been proposed that serotonergic fibers in the superficial dorsal horn act to modulate nociception, it was hypothesized that the serotonergic neurons that contain neither substance P nor thyrotropin-releasing hormone might constitute a specifically antinociceptive subset of serotonergic neurons. This being the case, it would be expected that different types of serotonergic neurons innervate nociceptive and non-nociceptive spinal neurons. In order to test this hypothesis, a group of cells that include nociceptive neurons (spinothalamic tract neurons) and a group of predominantly non-nociceptive neurons (postsynaptic dorsal column neurons) in the spinal cord of rat were retrogradely labeled. Sections of the spinal cord containing retrogradely labeled spinothalamic tract or postsynaptic dorsal column neurons were stained for serotonin and either substance P or thyrotropin-releasing hormone using two-color immunohistochemistry. A retrogradely labeled cell was classified as &quot;apposed&quot; if there was no discernible distance between an immunohistochemically labeled varicosity and the cell. Eighty per cent of spinothalamic tract and 83% of postsynaptic dorsal column profiles were apposed by serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities in the spinal cord. Thirty-one per cent of the spinothalamic tract profiles that were apposed by serotonergic varicosities were apposed by serotonergic varicosities that were also stained for thyrotropin-releasing hormone. The distribution of the latter spinothalamic neurons was similar to that reported for spinothalamic tract neurons responsive to joint movement. In addition, at least 63% of the spinothalamic tract profiles which were apposed by serotonergic varicosities were apposed by &quot;serotonin-only&quot; varicosities, including most spinothalamic tract neurons in the marginal zone, suggesting that at least some &quot;serotonin-only&quot; neurons are antinociceptive. However, contrary to the hypothesis, at least 94% of the postsynaptic dorsal column profiles apposed by serotonergic varicosities were apposed by &quot;serotonin-only&quot; varicosities. These findings suggest that there may be a relationship between the sensory modality to which a spinal neuron responds and the type of serotonergic innervation it receives. However, it appears that &quot;serotonin-only&quot; neurons may not constitute a specifically antinociceptive category of serotonergic neurons.
The metabolic activity of several anatomically distinct brain areas was investigated by means of the quantitative autoradiographic 2-deoxy-D[1-14C]glucose method in awake rats following unilateral intranigral application of the putative excitatory neurotransmitter substance P. The primary goal was to determine the metabolic effects of substance P on the substantia nigra and its targets. Intranigral injection of 1 mM substance P (1.5 microliters) induced metabolic activation locally in the substantia nigra reticulata by 117% and substantia nigra compacta by 35%, as well as distally in the contralateral substantia nigra reticulata by 22% and contralateral substantia nigra compacta by 21%. All the basal ganglia components, the striatum, pallidum, entopeduncular, subthalamic nucleus and nucleus accumbens displayed bilateral metabolic activations after unilateral intranigral substance P injection. Among the principal reticulata efferent projections, the ventromedial, ventrolateral, parafascicular, mediodorsal and centrolateral thalamic nuclei, as well as the pedunculopontine nucleus displayed bilateral metabolic activations after intranigral substance P application. Moreover, unilateral intranigral substance P injection elicited metabolic activations in the thalamic and cortical components of the reticular, intralaminar, limbic and prefrontal systems, mostly bilateral. It is suggested that substance P applied into one substantia nigra reticulata activates the compacta nigrostriatal dopaminergic and the reticulata nigrothalamic GABAergic outputs inducing distal metabolic effects, similar to those elicited by unilateral nigral electrical stimulation [Savaki et al. (1983) J. comp. Neurol. 213, 46-65] and, opposite to several of those induced by intranigral injection of the inhibitory GABAA agonist muscimol [Savaki et al. (1992) Neuroscience 50, 781-794]. Furthermore, it is suggested that the ipsilateral basal ganglia effects induced by intranigral substance P application are mediated via both the compacta dopaminergic nigrostriatal projection and the reticulata GABAergic nigro-thalamocortico-striatal loop, whereas the contralateral basal ganglia and associated thalamocortical effects are due to the activation of the GABAergic reticulata efferents and are mediated via an interthalamic circuitry involving the motor, reticular and intralaminar thalamic nuclei.
Using a new in vitro superfusion device, the release of preloaded [3H]GABA was examined in microdiscs of tissues taken from sagittal slices in matrix-enriched areas of the rat striatum. Potassium (9 mM, 15 mM) stimulated the release of [3H]GABA in a concentration- and calcium-dependent manner and the veratridine (1 microM)-evoked release of [3H]GABA was completely abolished in the presence of tetrodotoxin (1 microM). The selective glutamatergic agonist alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (1 mM) enhanced the potassium-evoked release of [3H]GABA as well as the basal outflow of [3H]GABA. This latter effect was found to be calcium-dependent, partially diminished by tetrodotoxin (1 microM), completely blocked by 6,7-dinitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (0.1 mM), which is generally used as an antagonist of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptors, but not affected by (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK801, 10 microM), a specific antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Similarly, N-methyl-D-aspartate (1 mM) enhanced both the potassium (9 mM) and the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (1 mM)-evoked release of [3H]GABA but when used alone, due to the presence of magnesium in the superfusion medium, was ineffective on the basal efflux of [3H]GABA. A stimulatory effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate (1 mM) on the basal outflow of [3H]GABA was observed, however, when magnesium was omitted from the superfusion medium. The stimulatory effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate (1 mM) observed in the presence of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate was not potentiated by glycine (1 microM, in the presence of strychnine 1 microM) and the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked response seen in the absence of magnesium was not enhanced by D-serine (1 mM), suggesting that endogenous glycine is already acting on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In fact, in the absence of magnesium, 7-chloro-kynurenate (1 mM) completely abolished the stimulatory effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate on the release of [3H]GABA confirming that under our conditions, the glycine site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor is saturated. N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked responses were all blocked by MK801 (10 microM). Finally, the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked response seen in the absence of magnesium was markedly reduced in the presence of tetrodotoxin (1 microM).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We used an experimental model of neurogenic inflammation to study the contribution of the primary afferent peptides substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin and somatostatin to plasma extravasation in rat synovium. Perfusion of the C-fiber excitotoxin, capsaicin (1.6 mM), through the knee joint of the pentobarbital anesthetized rat, increased plasma extravasation transiently (&lt; 30 min). Perfusion of substance P (1 microM) or calcitonin gene-related peptide (100 nM), two primary afferent neuropeptides that are released by acute capsaicin administration, had no significant effect on plasma extravasation. Co-perfusion of these two neuropeptides, however, evoked an increase in plasma extravasation that was greater than that produced by capsaicin remaining above 250% of the baseline level by the end of the perfusion period (55 min). Capsaicin co-perfused with either galanin (100 nM) or somatostatin (1 microM) failed to increase plasma extravasation. Neither galanin nor somatostatin significantly affected increase in plasma extravasation induced by co-perfusion of substance P plus calcitonin gene-related peptide. Therefore, we suggest that galanin and somatostatin inhibit, presynaptically, the release of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide from primary afferent terminals. The interactions among these four neuropeptides provide a novel mechanism for the regulation of primary afferent neurogenic inflammation.
Previous observations have revealed labeling in the extracellular space surrounding boutons and unmyelinated fibers in superficial laminae of the spinal cord after injection of the tracer wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase in dorsal root ganglia. The degree of extracellular labeling appeared related to the extent of the damage to the ganglia at the time of the injection. To determine whether injury might produce extracellular labeling, we investigated the effects of unilateral nerve crush or transection on spinal labeling after bilateral injections of the tracer into sciatic nerves. Confirming previous reports, labeling was confined to small dorsal root ganglion cells and to spinal laminae I and II, suggesting a selective affinity of this tracer for unmyelinated fibers. Labeling of both ganglion neurons and superficial spinal laminae was increased on the injured side, probably as a result of increased efficiency of receptor-mediated endocytosis. Electron microscopical observations revealed that the tracer was largely confined to unmyelinated dorsal root fibers bilaterally; a higher percentage of these fibers were labeled on the injured side. In the dorsal horn, the tracer was predominantly within unmyelinated axons and their terminals on the control side, whereas most of the labeling was extracellular and transneuronal on the injured side. The extracellular labeling surrounded unmyelinated fibers and their terminals in the spinal cord, but was excluded from the synaptic cleft. The demonstration that injury is accompanied by significantly increased release of this tracer from the terminals of unmyelinated fibers into the extracellular space suggests that endogenous substances may be released after peripheral lesions as a central signal of injury.
Recent evidence suggests that projections from the superior colliculus to the brainstem in rat are organized into a series of anatomically segregated output channels. To understand how collicular function may be modified by the basal ganglia it is important to know whether particular output modules of the superior colliculus can be selectively influenced by input from substantia nigra. The purpose of the present study was, therefore, to examine in more detail topography within the nigrotectal system in the rat. Small injections (10-50 nl) of a 1% solution of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase were made at different locations within substantia nigra and surrounding structures. A discontinuous puff-like pattern of anterogradely transported label was found in medial and caudal parts of the ipsilateral intermediate layers of the superior colliculus. In contrast, the rostrolateral enlargement of the intermediate layers contained a greater density of more evenly distributed terminal label. Injection sites associated with this dense pattern of laterally located label were concentrated in lateral pars reticulata, while the puff-like pattern was produced by injections into ventromedial pars reticulata. Retrograde tracing experiments with the fluorescent dyes True Blue and Fast Blue revealed that injections involving the rostrolateral intermediate layers were consistently associated with a restricted column of labelled cells in the dorsolateral part of ipsilateral pars reticulata. Comparable injections into medial and caudal regions of the superior colliculus produced retrograde labelling in ventral and medial parts of the rostral two-thirds of pars reticulata. Both anterograde and retrograde tracing data indicated that contralateral nigrotectal projections arise from cells located in ventral and medial pars reticulata. The present results suggest that the main ipsilateral projection from substantia nigra pars reticulata to the superior colliculus comprises two main components characterized by regionally segregated populations of output cells and spatially separated zones of termination. Of particular interest is the apparent close alignment between terminal zones of the nigrotectal channels and previously defined populations of crossed descending output cells in the superior colliculus. Thus, the rostrolateral intermediate layers contain a concentration of terminals specifically from dorsolateral pars reticulata and output cells which project to the contralateral caudal medulla and spinal cord. Conversely, the medial and caudal intermediate layers receive terminals from ventral and medial pars reticulata and contain cells which project specifically to contralateral regions of the paramedian pontine and medullary reticular formation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Anatomical tract-tracing and immunohistochemical techniques involving correlated light and electron microscopy were used to determine whether the descending striatal and pallidal afferents to the substantia nigra pars reticulata converge onto individual neurons projecting to the pontomedullary and medullary reticular formation in the rat. Injections of biocytin into the ventrolateral region of the striatum and Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin into the ventrolateral and caudal regions of the globus pallidus led to overlapping anterogradely labelled terminal fields within the dorsolateral substantia nigra pars reticulata. These terminal fields were punctuated by neurons which had been retrogradely labelled following injections of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase into the lateral pontomedullary reticular formation. The anterogradely labelled striatal and pallidal terminals displayed different morphological characteristics; the striatal terminals were small and diffusely distributed throughout the neuropil without any particular neuronal association whereas the pallidal terminals were large and formed pericellular baskets around the perikarya of retrogradely and non-retrogradely labelled nigral neurons. In areas of the substantia nigra where there was an overlap between the two terminal fields, individual retrogradely labelled nigroreticular neurons were found to be apposed by both sets of anterogradely labelled terminals. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that the striatonigral and pallidonigral terminals displayed different ultrastructural features, the striatal terminals were small, contained few mitochondria and formed symmetric synaptic contacts predominantly with the distal dendrites of nigroreticular neurons whereas the pallidal terminals were large, contained numerous mitochondria and formed symmetric synaptic contacts preferentially with perikarya and proximal dendrites of nigroreticular neurons. Post-embedding immunohistochemical staining revealed that both striatonigral and pallidonigral terminals, some which formed synaptic contact with nigroreticular neurons, displayed GABA immunoreactivity. Examination of twelve retrogradely labelled neurons in the electron microscope revealed that all received synaptic inputs from both sets of anterogradely labelled terminals. In addition to the substantia nigra pars reticulata, neurons of the retrorubral field were also retrogradely labelled following injections of wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase into pontomedullary reticular formation. These retrorubroreticular neurons were part of a continuum of labelled cells which extended from the dorsolateral substantia nigra pars reticulata caudally into the retrorubral field. When combined with anterograde tracing methods it was found that the retrorubroreticular neurons received synaptic inputs from pallidal terminals which were morphologically similar to the pallidonigral terminals and formed symmetric synapses with the neuronal somata and proximal dendrites. In contrast to nigroreticular neurons, the stratonigral terminals were not seen in contact with retrorubroreticular cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Although effects of physical environmental stress, including noise and whole-body vibration, on human psychological activities and emotion are not negligible for environmental and occupational hygiene, attempts to elucidate their physiological and biomedical mechanisms have been not made until recently. Neurobiological researches on the effects of the physical environment, e.g., noise and whole-body vibration on organisms were reviewed. It has been well accepted that such effects can be classified into specific and nonspecific reactions to the stressor. Activations of the mesofrontal and the meso-accumbens dopaminergic (DA) systems and changes of frontal substance P (SP) have been reported to play a part in emotional changes and to be induced by acute physical environmental stressors as a nonspecific reaction. On the basis of data demonstrating that these three systems do not show the same changes with the chronic exposure, it is assumed that emotional changes may account for the differences among the systems. Specific responses of amygdaline DA and SP to noise suggest that the psychopharmacological mechanisms by which actions of DA and SP in the cortical association areas for the sensory systems of hearing, as well as in the amygdala and the mesencephalon together, cause the specific sensation of noise, and furthermore lead to psychological and physical nonspecific reactions. In these mechanisms, descending amygdalofugal neural systems of SP, neurotensin (NT) and somatostatin are activated as a common pathway, and subsequently relayed to the hypothalamus-pituitary system responsible for several endocrinological hormones. The involvements of the hippocampal VIP in whole-body vibration and of the DA and NT in cold exposure have been pointed out. Further researches to elucidate the roles of central neurotransmitters in physical environmental stress will be important in the study of human high-level mental activity.
A group of neonates with Gaucher disease with a particularly devastating clinical course is described. The phenotype of these infants is analogous to that of a Gaucher mouse, which was created by targeted disruption of the mouse glucocerebroside gene. Similar to the homozygous mutant mice with glucocerebrosidase deficiency, these infants present at or shortly after birth, have rapidly progressing fulminant disease, and many have associated ichthyotic skin and/or hydrops fetalis. This transgenetic mouse model of Gaucher disease has helped us to appreciate a distinct Gaucher phenotype. Potentially, as this technology is applied to create other animal models of metabolic diseases, it may enable the recognition of other, as yet unappreciated presentations of inherited disorders.
We examined the perceptual coherence of two-component moving plaids. The gratings that constituted the plaids were either standard Fourier gratings (F), in which luminance was determined by a drifting sinusoid, or non-Fourier gratings (NF), in which the contrast of a random background was modulated by a drifting sinusoid. These NF gratings are examples of stimuli that generate a compelling percept of motion, even though they fail to elicit a motion signal from motion analyzers based on standard cross-correlation (Chubb &amp; Sperling, 1988). Naive observers viewed three types of stimuli consisting of superpositions of these two components: (1) two standard drifting gratings (F/F), (2) two non-Fourier drifting gratings (NF/NF), and (3) one standard and one non-Fourier drifting grating (F/NF). As expected, the F/F stimulus yielded a compelling percept of coherent motion. The dominant percept of all the observers for the NF/NF stimulus was one of coherent motion, provided that both gratings were visible and of approximately equal contrast. None of the observers reported a dominant percept of coherent motion for the F/NF condition, over a wide range of contrasts for the two grating components and across two varieties of NF gratings. In view of the results of Albright (1992) and Albright and Chaudhuri (1989), that show that single cells in macaque V1 and MT respond to both F and NF motion, one cannot interpret our findings as evidence that F and NF motion are processed independently. Alternative, &quot;higher level&quot; interpretations based on the intrinsically ambiguous nature of the stimuli and physical laws governing the appearance of transparent objects are discussed.
A detailed description of the increased intake of 0.5 M NaCl solution by rats after systemic treatment with desoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) or after adrenalectomy was obtained by measuring feeding and drinking activity every 6 s for 23 h. In both models of salt appetite, the induced increase in saline intake occurred mostly at night and in close temporal association with bouts of eating and water drinking rather than in isolation. Consequently, there was no significant change in the total number of ingestive episodes, despite the substantial increase in the number of saline bouts. Saline drinking was in small draughts that usually were preceded by food bouts and followed promptly by water bouts. These and other observations indicate that under standard maintenance conditions of ad lib access to food and fluids, adrenalectomy and DOCA treatment each produce a relatively weak stimulus of salt appetite, and large daily intakes accrue because the animals do not remain satiated and the appetite recurs repeatedly.
We showed recently that bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the lateral hypothalamus (LH) produced three main behavioral disturbances in the rat, i.e., an increase in the gustatory preference and aversion thresholds for saccharin, permanent body weight and water intake deficits, and an alteration of morphine-induced modulation of taste. The two first results could suggest that the modification of the gustatory thresholds and the ingestive deficits are closely interrelated. Given this situation, we hypothesized that, conversely, a brain lesion known to induce obesity and hyperdipsia would therefore decrease the gustatory preference and aversion thresholds for saccharin. In order to test this hypothesis we analyzed the effects of the bilateral lesion of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVH) by injection of ibotenic acid (2 micrograms in each side) on saccharin preference. The main results are as follows: 1) The neurotoxin selectively destroyed parvicellular neurons while the magnocellular cells were spared. 2) In comparison to the normal daily gain in body weight of the sham-lesioned animals, the lesioned rats showed an enhanced weight gain that became significant from the third day after the surgery up until the day of sacrifice, 37 days later. 3) In contrast to electrolytic lesions of the PVH, the ibotenic acid lesions of this nucleus did not induce hyperdipsia. 4) Preference and aversion thresholds for saccharin were not significantly modified by the lesion. 5) Whereas low doses of morphine suppressed the preference for saccharin in sham-lesioned rats when the concentration of the sweetener solution was at the threshold value, this suppressive effect was not observed in PVH-lesioned rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Female rats, with and without maternal experience, received limbic seizure-inducing (SC) injections of lithium and pilocarpine. Following the subsequent parturitions, these rats displayed a complete absence of maternal behavior. Rats that did not display seizures after receiving the lithium/pilocarpine injections displayed behaviors that were comparable to normal controls. Although the multifocal limbic, thalamic, and cingulate damage abolished maternal care, there was no evidence of aberrant effects upon fecundity, litter size, or mammary function; infanticide was negligible. The pattern of brain damage involves the evolutionarily more recent thalamocingulate system of mammals and supports MacLean's theory that these pathways are required for normal mother-offspring interaction.
Molecular cloning identified complementary DNA species, from a rat ventral midbrain library, encoding apparent splice variants of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor NMDAR1 (which we now term NR1a). Sequencing revealed that one variant, NR1b, differs from NR1a by the presence of a 21-amino acid insert near the amino end of the N-terminal domain and by an alternate C-terminal domain in which the last 75 amino acids are replaced by an unrelated sequence of 22 amino acids. NR1b is virtually identical to NR1a in the remainder of the N- and C-terminal domains, at the 5' and 3' noncoding ends, and within the predicted transmembrane domains and extracellular and cytoplasmic loops. These findings suggest that the two forms of the receptor arise by differential splicing of a transcript from the same gene. Sequencing of other clones indicates the existence of a third variant, NR1c, identical to NR1b in its C terminus but lacking the N-terminal insert. NR1b RNA injected into Xenopus oocytes generated functional homomeric NMDA channels with electrophysiological properties distinct from those of NR1a homomeric channels. NR1b channels exhibited a lower apparent affinity for NMDA and for glutamate. NR1b channels exhibited a lower affinity for D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and a higher affinity for Zn2+. The two receptor variants showed nearly identical affinities for glycine, Mg2+, and phencyclidine. Spermine potentiation of NMDA responses, prominent in oocytes injected with rat forebrain message, was also prominent for NR1a receptors, but was greatly reduced or absent for NR1b receptors. Treatment with the protein kinase C activator phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate potentiated NMDA responses in NR1b-injected oocytes by about 20-fold; potentiation of NMDA responses in NR1a-injected oocytes was much less, about 4-fold. These findings support a role for alternate splicing in generating NMDA channels with different functional properties.
Using a competitive polymerase chain reaction assay, we have quantitated the absolute amounts of mRNA encoding 14 distinct subunits of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor in primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule neurons and cerebellar astrocytes. We found that the total amount of GABAA receptor subunit mRNA in astrocytes was 2 orders of magnitude lower than in neuronal cells. Furthermore, granule cell cultures expressed all 14 different GABAA subunit mRNAs, while the astroglial cultures contained detectable amounts of all the subunits expressed by granule cells except the alpha 6 and the gamma 2L subunits. Of the alpha subunit family members, the alpha 1, alpha 5, and alpha 6 mRNAs were prominent in granule cells, while the alpha 1 and alpha 2 mRNAs were abundant in astrocytes. Of the beta receptor subunit mRNAs, the beta 1 and beta 3 mRNAs were abundantly expressed in both cultures. The gamma 2S and gamma 2L mRNAs constituted the great majority of gamma subunit mRNAs in neurons, while the gamma 1 subunit mRNA was the most abundant gamma subunit mRNA in astrocytes. When various allosteric modulators of GABAA receptors were tested electrophysiologically, methyl 6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline- 3-carboxylate (DMCM) was the only one to modulate chloride currents elicited by GABA in a significantly different manner in granule cells (negative modulation) compared with astrocytes (positive modulation). The latter effect was previously observed in transiently expressed recombinant GABAA receptors containing a gamma 1 instead of a gamma 2 subunit. Our quantitative mRNA results suggest that an important molecular determinant responsible for the DMCM-positive modulatory effect on astroglial native GABAA receptors is the presence of the gamma 1 subunit in the receptor assembly.
The majority of studies investigating the diagnostic utility of hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis measures in major depression have focused on the dexamethasone (DEX) suppression test (DST). The DST correlates well, but imperfectly, with other measures of HPA activity. Fewer studies have considered the ability of basal cortisol measures to discriminate depressives from non-depressed patients or normal subjects. We used receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis to examine the mean 24-hr serum cortisol concentration, our benchmark of basal HPA axis activity, compared to smaller segments of the 24-hr cortisol profile, post-DEX serum cortisol values, and pre- and post-DEX 24-hr urinary free cortisol (UFC) levels in 40 primary endogenous major depressives compared to 40 matched normal control subjects. No statistically significant differences in ROC curves were found between mean 24-hr cortisol and the other cortisol measures. The mean 24-hr, 1300h-1600h, 1600h-1900h, and 16-hr post-DEX serum cortisol concentrations and the post-DEX UFC level all appeared to be comparable estimators of HPA activity. The single 2300h pre-DEX serum cortisol concentration and the pre-DEX 24-hr UFC level performed notably poorer than did the other measures. We additionally calculated kappa statistics to determine the optimally sensitive and specific discriminators of the cortisol measures between the depressives and the normal controls. The 2300h post-DEX serum cortisol measure was optimally sensitive, and the 1500h post-DEX serum cortisol was optimally specific. The 0700h, 1500h, and 2300h post-DEX serum cortisols were very close together as the optimally efficient measures (best combination of sensitivity and specificity).

Parafollicular (PF) cells of the thyroid gland are neural crest derivatives, which costore the neurotransmitter, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) with calcitonin. PF cells are located adjacent to follicular (F) cells within the basement membrane of thyroid follicles. It has been proposed that 5-HT serves an intercellular signalling function in the thyroid and that F cells are its target. This proposal was tested by using cell lines derived from PF (medullary thyroid carcinoma [MTC]) and F (FRTL-5) cells to study the mechanisms that mediate the secretion and action of 5-HT. Secretion of 5-HT by MTC cells was evoked by thyroid stimulating hormone, thyrotropin (TSH), elevated extracellular calcium (increases [Ca2+]e), or by agents that increase intracellular cAMP (increases [cAMP]i). When protein kinase C (PKC) was down-regulated by prolonged treatment of MTC cells with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), or PKC was inhibited by staurosporin, the TSH- or PMA-evoked secretion of 5-HT was blocked; however, interference with PKC function did not affect 5-HT secretion evoked by increases [Ca2+]e or increases [cAMP]i. In the putative targets, FRTL-5 cells, 5-HT increased the turnover of phosphoinositides (PI), cytosolic calcium (increases [Ca2+]i), increases [cAMP]i, and biphasically modified the effect of TSH on cAMP. All of these 5-HT effects were inhibited by 5-HT2 receptor antagonists (spiperone and ketanserin) and by pertussis toxin (PTx), suggesting that the actions of 5-HT are mediated by 5-HT2 receptors, which are coupled to a G protein. This suggestion was supported by the following additional observations: FRTL-5 membranes bound the 5-HT2 agonist, [125I]2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenylisopropylamine ([125I]-DOI), and anti-idiotypic antibodies, which recognize 5-HT2 receptors. [125I]-DOI binding was inhibited by guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTP-gamma-S) and the antibodies were displaced by spiperone. Data are consistent with the hypothesis that 5-HT serves as a PF to F cell messenger.

Wistar rat pups (female) were exposed to methylparathion (MPTH) by gastric intubation in single doses, or in a chronic regimen of different durations. A single dose of 1 mg MPTH/kg body weight in 15-day-old pups caused a significant decrease of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in cerebellum (CE), motor cortex (MC) and brain stem (BS). The effect began to appear in about 20 min after administration, the peak effect was attained in 120 min and later on this waned off completely by 24 h. The effect was similar in young (15 days) and in adult (70 days) rats. A single dose of 0.2 mg MPTH/kg in 15 day old pups caused a reduction of AChE activity only in the BS, while a 0.1 mg MPTH/kg single dose given to 15-day-old pups caused no effect even in seven regions of the brain examined. Effect of low dose chronic administration of MPTH on AChE activity was also studied in CE, MC, BS, hippocampus (HI), striatum-accumbens (SA), spinal cord (SC) and also in the hypothalamus (HY). Administration of 0.1 mg MPTH/kg from second day to 15 days of age caused significant reduction of AChE activity in only 2 of the 7 brain regions studied. Administration of double the dose (0.2 mg MPTH/kg) and for a longer duration (2nd day to 150 days of age), caused a depression in all the brain regions studied. In all these regions, the levels of NA, DA and 5HT did practically not change. The results suggest that chronic consumption of MPTH leads to a moderate decrease of AChE activity in several brain regions.
The molecular mechanism of microtubule bundling has been enveloped in controversy for the past few years. At the centre of the debate are MAPs: are they necessary for the formation of microtubule bundles? In this article, Gloria Lee and Roland Brandt weigh the evidence and propose that microtubule stability might be the crucial factor in microtubule bundling. Perhaps then MAPs might act as spacer molecules between microtubules.
Maintaining the highest possible level of talented researchers relies critically on the ability to recruit, train and retain the best young students to the neurosciences. This article addresses the need for trainers to look beyond technical skills, on which research training conventionally concentrates, to some para-scientific skills that may help assure survival during the apparently perennial periods of scarce resources.
Neuroscience training programs in the USA and Canada are awarding about 1000 PhDs each year. This number exceeds the faculty vacancies in these programs by a ratio of three to one. Nonetheless, virtually all graduates are finding employment, usually after a period of postdoctoral experience. On the other hand, recent surveys suggest that there are many other concerns to be addressed. These include an attrition of women during training and within the faculty ranks, a low percentage of minorities throughout the neuroscience community, and a relative lack of federal training funds.

Receptive field size of rod-driven horizontal cells (HCs) in the carp retina was measured by the spread of responses to the slit of light stimulus with changing the distance from the recording electrode and it was found to decay with a single exponential function. By perfusing 10 microM dopamine (DA) the length constant of rod-driven HCs was reduced to half and the response amplitude in the centre increased approximately two-fold, and the input resistance was markedly increased. This suggests that DA as a neuromodulator released from interplexiform cells could decouple the rod-driven HCs which had no direct synaptic contact with the interplexiform cells.
Pigeons were trained to discriminate between spectral lights and additive mixtures in the 350-560 nm spectral range using a successive &quot;autoshaping&quot; discrimination procedure [introduced in Palacios, Martinoya, Bloch &amp; Varela, Vision Research, 30, 587-596 (1990)]. Dichromatic mixtures were found in the short and near UV region, but not in the middle-wave region. Our results suggest that color vision in the pigeon involves the active participation of five different primary mechanisms, which are differentially active in the yellow- and red-sensitive retinal fields.
Incubation of purified protein kinase C with H2O2 results in the generation of a persistently activated form of the enzyme which is no longer dependent on Ca2+ or lipid cofactors. This oxidative activation of purified protein kinase C requires added Fe2+ in the incubation medium. Treatment of the soluble fraction of hippocampal homogenates with H2O2 also leads to persistent activation of protein kinase C; however, oxidative activation of protein kinase C under these conditions does not require the addition of Fe2+. The persistently activated form of protein kinase C appears as a novel peak of activity on DE52 anion exchange columns, suggesting a modification of the charge character of the enzyme. Thus, oxidative modification of protein kinase C can result in its persistent activation, and this mechanism may constitute a pathway for physiological activation of the enzyme in the hippocampus.
Rats that are brought into a novel environment or that are given stimulants or anti-muscarinic drugs exhibit high levels of motor activity. Application of moderate pressure on the sides of the snout of such rats results in immediate cessation of all movements for extended time periods. Hippocampal electrocorticograms show that hippocampal slow wave activity during such induced immobility is equivalent to the hippocampal slow wave pattern typically associated with spontaneous immobility. However, neocortical activity following scopolamine administration contains more 2-6 Hz irregular activity during spontaneous than induced immobility.
We previously showed that the initial acquisition session of a spatial discrimination (mixed reference/working memory) test in an 8-arm radial maze induced differential activations in the ascending cholinergic septo-hippocampal and nBM-cortical pathways in mice. This data showed that the duration of post-test cholinergic activation was longer in the nBM-cortical pathway than in the septo-hippocampal projection. Moreover, the post-test durations but not the immediate post-test amplitudes of activation in each pathway decreased progressively as a function of repeated daily acquisition sessions. In the present study we have thus tested the hypotheses that the time-courses of post-test cholinergic activation in the septo-hippocampal and nBM-cortical pathways may vary both as a function of the type of memory used (working vs. reference) and according to the duration of repeated daily testing. Cholinergic activity in vivo in the hippocampus or frontal cortex of mice was quantified using measures of sodium-dependent high-affinity choline uptake at two different times (30 s and 15 min) following specific spatial working or reference memory testing in an 8-arm radial maze. The memory tests were administered daily over a 13-day period to attain high levels of performance in each type of task. In comparison to control groups both types of memory testing induced significant post-test cholinergic activations in each brain region on Day 15. However, cholinergic activity remained elevated in frontal cortex at 15 min post-test following reference memory testing, whereas significantly shorter durations of cortical and hippocampal cholinergic activation were observed following working memory testing using short (1 min) retention intervals. The possible significance of these differential modifications to the time-course of the post-test activations in these cholinergic pathways in working and reference memory processes and the putative transsynaptic mechanisms involved are discussed.
Retrograde transport and immunohistochemical techniques were utilized to determine if cholecystokinin (CCK)-containing neurons of the primate ventral mesencephalon project to prefrontal cortex, and to examine what relation the CCK innervation of prefrontal cortex bears to the dopaminergic projection to this region. Following injections of Fast blue into monkey prefrontal cortex, retrogradely labeled, CCK-positive neurons were observed predominantly in rostromedial portions of the ventral mesencephalon; these CCK-containing projection neurons were not immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase. Furthermore, dual-labeling studies in the prefrontal cortex revealed that CCK and tyrosine hydroxylase were present in separate populations of axons. These results demonstrate that the CCK innervation of monkey prefrontal cortex arises from both intrinsic and extrinsic sources; in contrast to the rat, the extrinsic CCK innervation of monkey prefrontal cortex is distinct from the dopaminergic mesocortical projection.
Cytochrome P450 (P450) levels were quantitated in microsomes from human brain regions obtained at autopsy. The reduced carbon monoxide binding spectra of cortical microsomes showed two absorption maxima at 449 and 425 nm. On solubilization of the microsomes, essentially a single peak was observed at 449 nm. The P450 levels in human brain cortical microsomes varied from 0.03 to 0.12 nmol/mg protein among the seven samples examined. The concentration of the hemeprotein present as nmol/g tissue was highest in the brain stem and cerebellum and lowest in the striatum and hippocampus.
Primary cultures of neonatal rat cortical neurons and astrocytes synthesize and secrete nerve growth factor (NGF). Co-culturing neurons with astrocytes decreased NGF secretion in the co-cultures. The inhibition of co-culture NGF secretion was partially reversible upon selectively decreasing the number of neurons by glutamate treatment. Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) stimulated NGF secretion from astrocytes, and the magnitude of this secretion was decreased in the co-cultures. Thus, co-culture with neurons decreases astroglial cell secretion of NGF and down-regulates astroglial responsiveness to IL-1.

Cerebral deposition of the beta-amyloid peptide (A beta) is an invariant feature of Alzheimer's disease. Since the original isolation and characterization of A beta (ref. 1) and the subsequent cloning of its precursor protein, no direct evidence for the actual production of discrete A beta has been reported. Here we investigate whether A beta is present in human biological fluids using antibodies specific for an epitope within A beta that spans the site of normal constitutive cleavage. These antibodies were used to construct a sandwich-type enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay that detects A beta in cerebrospinal fluid, plasma and conditioned medium of human mixed-brain cells grown in vitro (see also ref. 14). By affinity chromatography, we have purified and sequenced A beta and a novel A beta fragment from human cerebrospinal fluid and conditioned medium of human mixed-brain cell cultures. These findings demonstrate that A beta is produced and released both in vivo and in vitro. These observations offer new opportunities for developing diagnostic tests for Alzheimer's disease and therapeutic strategies aimed at reducing the cerebral deposition of A beta.
Large changes in the direction of gaze are made with a combination of fast saccadic eye movements and rather slower head movements. Since the first study on freely moving subjects, most authors have agreed that the head movement component of gaze is very variable, with a high 'volitional' component. But in some circumstances head and eye movements can be quite predictable, for example when a subject is asked to shift gaze as quickly as possible. Under these conditions, laboratory studies have shown that the eye and head motor-systems both receive gaze-change commands, although they execute them in rather different ways. Here I reconsider the way gaze direction is changed during free movement, but in the performance of a task where the subject is too busy to exert conscious control over head or eye movements. Using a new portable and inexpensive method for recording head and eye movements, I examine the oculomotor behaviour of car drivers, particularly during the large gaze changes made at road junctions. The results show that the pattern of eye and head movements is highly predictable, given only the sequence of gaze targets.

Alzheimer's disease is characterized by the extracellular deposition in the brain and its blood vessels of insoluble aggregates of the amyloid beta-peptide (A beta), a fragment, of about 40 amino acids in length, of the integral membrane protein beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP). The mechanism of extracellular accumulation of A beta in brain is unknown and no simple in vitro or in vivo model systems that produce extracellular A beta have been described. We report here the unexpected identification of the 4K (M(r) 4,000) A beta and a truncated form of A beta (approximately 3K) in media from cultures of primary cells and untransfected and beta-APP-transfected cell lines grown under normal conditions. These peptides were immunoprecipitated readily from culture medium by A beta-specific antibodies and their identities confirmed by sequencing. The concept that pathological processes are responsible for the production of A beta must not be reassessed in light of the observation that A beta is produced in soluble form in vitro and in vivo during normal cellular metabolism. Further, these findings provide the basis for using simple cell culture systems to identify drugs that block the formation or release of A beta, the primary protein constituent of the senile plaques of Alzheimer's disease.
A recent study, carried out in the monkey brain demonstrated a hitherto undescribed projection from the lateral to the basal nucleus of the amygdaloid complex. In the present study, we used light and electron microscopic techniques to determine whether a similar connection exists in the rat brain and to define what type(s) of synaptic contacts are produced by fibers of this projection. Injections of the lectin tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) were placed into several levels of the lateral nucleus and the distribution of fibers in the basal (basolateral) nucleus was evaluated. All lateral nucleus injections resulted in labeled fibers in the basal nucleus, though the density and distribution of labeled fibers depended on the position of the injection site within the lateral nucleus. In general, the heaviest labeling of the basal nucleus was observed after injections at midrostrocaudal levels of the lateral nucleus, especially when the injection was located ventrally. Fibers originating from cells labeled by these injections were observed throughout much of the rostrocaudal extent of the basal nucleus. Rostrally situated injections resulted in substantially lower levels of labeled fibers in the basal nucleus. Injections placed caudally in the lateral nucleus resulted in light to medium levels of labeled fibers in the basal nucleus; the terminal field in these cases did not extend as far rostrally as after the rostral and midlevel injections. Electron microscopic analysis of PHA-L labeled fibers revealed that they contributed synapses to the basal nucleus. The majority of PHA-L labeled terminals formed asymmetric contacts on dendritic spines or shafts; a smaller number of PHA-L labeled terminals formed symmetrical synapses.
The prepacemaker nucleus (PPn), a bilateral cluster of neurons at the boundary of diencephalon and mesencephalon, controls frequency modulations of the electric organ discharge in weakly electric knifefish (Eigenmannia sp.). Previous light microscopic studies employing retrograde labelling with horseradish peroxidase suggested that the PPn is restricted to a small area, located approximately 400 microns laterally from the third ventricle and fusing at its medial edge with the thalamic central posterior nucleus (CP). In the present investigation we used Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin and cholera toxin as highly sensitive markers. In contrast to the previous studies, these experiments yielded a large number of labelled cells not only in the region of the traditionally defined PPn but also in an area reaching far into the CP. Since the PPn has been defined by retrograde labelling rather than by topographic criteria, this result questions the traditional separation between PPn and CP. Such a notion is in agreement with observations of Nissl-stained sections at the light microscopic level and with a quantitative analysis of several morphological characteristics of the cell bodies in the PPn and CP at the ultrastructural level. Both sets of experiments failed to find differences between the two nuclei. Furthermore, autoradiographic studies have shown that, even in adulthood, cells are continuously born within the ventricular zone of the CP, and at least some of these newborn cells differentiate into CP cells and migrate laterally towards the PPn. Therefore, we postulate that CP and PPn form one large complex, with the medial CP providing precursors of neurons in the lateral CP and PPn.
Depolarization by K+ (50 mM) of cultured chick retina cells released 1.14 +/- 0.28% of the accumulated [3H] gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the absence of Ca2+, but when 1.0 mM Ca2+ was present, the internal free calcium ion concentration [Ca2+]i rose by about 750 nM and the [3H]GABA release about doubled to a value of 2.22 +/- 0.2% of the total [3H]GABA. Nitrendipine (0.1 microM), a blocker of the L-type Ca2+ channels, blocked the [Ca2+]i response to K+ depolarization by about 65%, and the omega-Conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx) (0.5 microM), a blocker of the N-type of Ca2+ channels, inhibited by 27% the [Ca2+]i rise due to K+ depolarization. Parallel experiments showed that nitrendipine inhibits [3H]GABA release to the level observed in the absence of Ca2+, whereas omega-CgTx did not inhibit significantly the release of [3H]GABA. The results also show that the release of [3H]GABA due to K(+)-depolarization in the absence of Ca2+ can be totally blocked by 1-(2-(((Diphenylmethylene) amino)oxy)ethyl)-1,2,5,6-tetrahydro-3-pyridine-carboxylic acid hydrochloride (NNC-711), an inhibitor of the GABA carrier. However, in the presence of Ca2+, NNC-711 blocks the release only by about 66%, corresponding to the Ca(2+)-independent release. Thus, it is concluded that [3H]GABA is released in chick retina cells by the exocytotic mechanism, which is Ca(2+)-dependent, and by reversal of the carrier, which is Ca(2+)-independent, in much the same way as has been found for other GABAergic neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Parallel determinations of muscarinic cholinergic M1 receptor (M1-R) binding and of M1-R mRNA levels were carried out in the gerbil hippocampus 14 days after 5 min of transient ischemia. Both were reduced in the ischemic tissue to about 50% of the levels found in sham-operated controls, indicating that the late loss of M1-R is probably dependent on decreased synthesis. Three administrations of bifemelane hydrochloride (15 mg/kg, i.p., just after ischemia and 6 and 12 h later) completely prevented neuronal death in the hippocampus and ischemia-induced losses of hippocampal M1-R and its mRNA. Since vascular dementia may depend upon the ischemia-induced losses in cholinergic communication in the hippocampus, these findings suggest that it may be possible to prevent its occurrence by post-ischemic treatment with bifemelane hydrochloride.
Axonal growth cone particles (AGCP) isolated from prenatal and postnatal rat brain had different high-affinity 5-HT uptake characteristics. In postnatal AGCP the uptake behaves as in the adult rat brain, while in the prenatal AGCP the uptake characteristics seem to be in a transitional stage. Also in prenatal AGCP we observed specific, high-affinity 5-HT binding sites. These results support the idea of an important role for 5-HT during axogenesis.
Systemic injection of kainic acid (KA) does not cause neuronal pathology in limbic structures in rat brain prior to postnatal day (PND) 21. The present study tested if the development of the pathogenic response is associated with the maturation of a link between seizure activity and polyamine metabolism. Pathology was assessed with histological techniques and with the binding of [3H]Ro5-4864, a ligand for the peripheral type benzodiazepine binding sites (PTBBS), a marker of glial cell proliferation. In agreement with previous results, peripherally administered kainate at doses sufficient to induce intense behavioral seizures produced a loss of Nissl staining in hippocampus after PND 21 but not at earlier ages. The pattern of neuronal damage observed after PND 21 resembled that found in adult animals: extensive losses of Nissl staining in area CA3 of hippocampus and in piriform cortex, more modest effects in CA1 and sparing of the granule cells of the dentate gyrus. Similarly, no increase in [3H]Ro5-4864 binding as a result of KA administration was observed in hippocampus and piriform cortex until PND 21. Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and putrescine levels were high in the neonatal brain and decreased to reach adult values by PND 21. KA-induced seizure activity did not significantly alter both variables until PND 21. After PND 21, ODC activity and putrescine levels markedly increased 16 h after KA-induced seizure activity in hippocampus and piriform cortex. The magnitude of the effects increased between PND 21 and PND 30, at which point the changes in both parameters were comparable to those found in adults. Polyamines stimulate the activity of the calcium-dependent proteases calpain in brain fractions and may increase calpain-mediated proteolysis in situ. In accord with this, kainate-induced breakdown of spectrin, a preferred substrate of calpain, measured 16 h after KA injection followed a developmental curve parallel to that for kainate-induced increases in putrescine levels. These results indicate that the onset of vulnerability to seizure activity triggered by kainic acid is correlated with the development of an ODC/polyamine response to the seizures and further support a critical role for the ODC/polyamine pathway in neuronal pathology following a variety of insults.

Glucose depolarizes the pancreatic beta-cell and induces membrane potential oscillations, but the nature of the underlying oscillatory conductance remains unknown. We have now investigated the effects of the Ca2+ ionophore ionomycin and high external Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]o) on glucose-induced electrical activity and whole islet intracellular free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), under conditions where the K(ATP) channel was blocked (100 microM tolbutamide or 4 microM glibenclamide). Raising [Ca2+]o to 10.2 or 12.8 mM, but not to 5.1 or 7.7 mM, turned continuous electrical activity into bursting activity. High [Ca2+]o (12.8 mM) regenerated a pattern of fast [Ca2+]i oscillations overshooting the levels recorded in tolbutamide. Ionomycin (10 microM) raised the [Ca2+]i and synergized with 5.1 mM Ca2+ to hyperpolarize the beta-cell membrane. The data indicate that a [Ca2+]i-sensitive and sulphonylurea-insensitive oscillatory conductance underlies the beta-cell bursting activity.
Single-channel recordings of dozens of cell types, including invertebrate (molluscan) and vertebrate heart cells, reveal stretch-sensitive ion channels. The physiological roles of these channels are undoubtedly diverse but it is usually assumed that the roles they play are related to the channels' mechanosensitive gating. Whether this assumption is valid remains to be seen. Attempts to connect the single-channel observations with the mechanical aspects of physiological or developmental processes are discussed. In the case of molluscan cells, recent work suggests that their stretch channels have physiological functions unrelated to mechanosensitive gating.
We have examined the isolated postsynaptic density (PSD) fraction for the presence of a G protein. First, we found specific binding of guanosine 5'-[gamma-[35S]thio]triphosphate to the PSD. Second, pertussis toxin-activated ADP-ribosylation of the isolated PSD fraction resulted in the appearance of a G protein with an apparent molecular mass of 41 kDa, and two G proteins with apparent molecular masses of 41 kDa and 39 kDa in synaptic membrane (SM) fraction and total homogenate (H). The amount of the 41-kDa G protein per unit protein was in the order of SM greater than H greater than PSD. Anti-G(i0 antibodies recognized the 41-kDa G protein in both PSD and SM, whereas anti-G(o) antibodies reacted with the 39-kDa G protein in the SM. The absence of G(o) protein in the PSD suggested that there was no contamination with SM. Moreover, unlabeled PSD incubated with an extract of SM that contained the labeled G proteins resulted in no label in the subsequently reisolated PSD, suggesting that the G protein found in the PSD was not due to adsorption of the G protein onto the PSD during its isolation from the SM. PSD pretreated with EGTA gave an 11-fold increase in the ADP-ribosylation reaction of the G(i) protein; similar effects on the G(i) and G(o) proteins of SM were obtained. Restoration of Ca2+/calmodulin to the PSD, but not of either Ca2+ or calmodulin alone, removed the effect of EGTA, indicating a strong complex formation between G(i) and Ca2+/calmodulin that decreased the ADP-ribosylation reaction. Preincubation with the Ca(2+)-channel blocker nifedipine decreased the ADP-ribosylation reaction in the PSD. We conclude that G(i) is present in the PSD, that it may interact with calmodulin and that it is involved in the regulation of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel. We present a theory of the involvement of the G protein and calmodulin in postsynaptic neurophysiological events.
Two isoforms of voltage-dependent Na channels, cloned from rat skeletal muscle, were expressed in Xenopus oocytes. The currents of rSkM1 and rSkM2 differ functionally in 4 properties: (i) tetrodotoxin (TTX) sensitivity, (ii) mu-conotoxin (mu-CTX) sensitivity, (iii) amplitude of single channel currents, and (iv) rate of inactivation. rSkM1 is sensitive to both TTX and mu-CTX. rSkM2 is resistant to both toxins. Currents of rSkM1 have a higher single channel conductance and a slower rate of inactivation than those of rSkM2. We constructed (i) chimeras by interchanging domain 1 (D1) between the two isoforms, (ii) block mutations of 22 amino acids in length that interchanged parts of the loop between transmembrane segments S5 and S6 in both D1 and D4, and (iii) point mutations in the SS2 region of this loop in D1. The TTX sensitivity could be switched between the two isoforms by the exchange of a single amino acid, tyrosine-401 in rSkM1 and cysteine-374 in rSkM2 in SS2 of D1. By contrast most chimeras and point mutants had an intermediate sensitivity to mu-CTX when compared with the wild-type channels. The point mutant rSkM1 (Y401C) had an intermediate single-channel conductance between those of the wild-type isoforms, whereas rSkM2 (C374Y) had a slightly lower conductance than rSkM2. The rate of inactivation was found to be determined by multiple regions of the protein, since chimeras in which D1 was swapped had intermediate rates of inactivation compared with the wild-type isoforms.
The sexual differences and the seasonal variation in the vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) content of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of a desert rodent, the jerboa (Jaculus orientalis) were studied using immunocytochemical techniques. During the period of sexual activity (spring-early summer), the VIP immunoreactivity in the SCN was higher in females than in males. In the period of sexual quiescence (autumn), both males and females exhibited an even more intense VIP immunoreaction in the SCN as compared to spring. However, during this period, the sex-related differences in the VIP content of the SCN observed in spring were no longer detectable. The direct possible influence of sex hormones on the VIP content in the SCN, and the physiological significance of the seasonal variation observed in the VIP immunoreactivity in the SCN in this species remains to be determined.
Two major pharmacological classes of dopamine receptors exist in the central nervous system. These receptors have been designated as D1 or D2 based upon their differing pharmacology and influence on the cyclic AMP second messenger system. Different genes for the D1 and D2 dopamine receptors have been isolated and are found to be expressed in high abundance. Within the neostriatum, however the cellular distribution of the dopamine receptors is equivocal. Dopamine receptors are the targets for drugs used to treat neurological dysfunctions such as Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia, and thus knowledge of their specific cellular location is important for devising future therapeutic manipulations. Using retrograde labeling methods combined with immunofluorescence of various receptor amino acid sequences, this study has examined the postsynaptic distribution of striatal D2 dopamine receptors. We have found that the D2 dopamine receptor can be visualized on a minimum of 60% of the neurons projecting from the neostriatum to the substantia nigra. However, some 65% of all D2 receptor positive cells are represented by other intrinsic neurons of this basal ganglia nucleus.
Neuronal damage induced by 15-min forebrain ischemia was investigated in adult rats 1-5 days (short-term group) and 1-5 months (long-term group) after the initial ischemic attack. In addition to the vulnerable areas reported previously, we observed that the optic tract was also very susceptible. Degeneration of the optic tract and subsequent transsynaptic cell death in the superior colliculus developed slowly and was observed only in the long-term group. The delayed, progressive neuronal damage in this sensory system may serve as a suitable model to investigate the mechanisms of long-term changes in the injured brain.
We evaluated the modulation of baroreceptor reflex (BRR) response by locus coeruleus (LC) in adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with urethane (1.5 g/kg, i.p.). Under an electrical stimulation condition that did not appreciably alter the basal systemic arterial pressure and heart rate, the LC significantly suppressed the BRR response. Microinjection of L-glutamate (1 nmol, 50 nl) into the LC essentially duplicated this depressant effect. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of the alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, prazosin (6.5 nmol), appreciably blunted the inhibition by LC on the BRR response. Yohimbine (6.5 nmol), the alpha 2-adrenoceptor blocker, however, was ineffective. Direct microinjection of prazosin (50 pmol), but not yohimbine (50 pmol), into the terminal site of baroreceptor afferents at the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) also significantly blunted the suppressive effect of LC on the BRR response. These results suggest that the LC may produce an inhibition on the BRR response by a process that involves the alpha 1-adrenoceptors located in the NTS.
The permeability properties of kainate/AMPA receptors are determined by subunit composition. The GluR1 and GluR3 subunits form Ca(2+)-permeable channels and exhibit inward rectification; heteromeric receptors containing the GluR2 subunit are Ca(2+)-impermeable and electrically linear. These observations raise the possibility of a developmental 'switch' in which turning on or off of GluR2 expression regulates the level of Ca2+ permeable kainate/AMPA receptors. We examined the ratio of GluR1 and GluR3 to GluR2 gene expression in developing and adult rat brain by in situ hybridization. A larger value of this ratio is likely to be associated with greater Ca2+ permeability. Our data suggest that in neocortex, striatum and cerebellum the number of Ca(2+)-permeable kainate/AMPA receptors is high at P4 and declines monotonically with age. In hippocampus, the number increases from P7 to P21, after which it declines. These findings provide evidence for a developmental 'switch' in which Ca2+ permeable glutamate receptors are turned off following early developmental events.
Receptor binding assays have shown that diaminodecane (DA-10) reduced binding of open channel blockers to the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of postsynaptic glutamate receptor through an interaction with the polyamine regulatory site. Because the action of DA-10 was opposite to that of the polyamine agonist spermine and was reversed by polyamine antagonists, DA-10 has been classified as an inverse agonist at the polyamine site. Using whole-cell voltage-clamp and single-channel recordings from cultured rat cortical neurons, we show that at negative holding potentials DA-10 (1-300 microM) reduced NMDA receptor whole cell current (IC50 = 34 microM) and produced a flickery block of NMDA single-channel currents. The flickery block of NMDA single channels was voltage-dependent and not reversed by the polyamine antagonist diethylenetriamine (DET). Potential mechanisms for the flickery block of NMDA single channel currents are discussed.
Single unit recordings from neurons of the subthalamic nucleus were made in control and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-treated rats anesthetized with chloral hydrate. Subthalamic nucleus cells in this preparation exhibited a wide range of firing rates and three different firing patterns. These patterns were defined as 'burst', 'normal', and 'mixed' based on comparisons of their interspike interval histograms. Four to 6 weeks after 6-OHDA treatment there was no change in the basal firing rates of subthalamic nucleus cells, but there was a significant shift in firing pattern, with a smaller proportion of cells exhibiting the 'normal' firing pattern. The response of subthalamic nucleus neurons to acute administration of haloperidol was also altered in 6-OHDA-treated rats tested 4-6 weeks post-lesion, with a significantly greater proportion of cells responding to doses of haloperidol as low as 0.2 mg/kg (i.v.) with increases in firing rate of 20% or more. These results suggest that the subthalamic nucleus is probably not involved in the increases in basal levels of dopamine cell activity observed previously in the 6-OHDA-treated rat, but may play a role in the acute induction of depolarization block of dopamine cell firing in response to haloperidol administration in this model.
Immunohistochemical methods were used to study the possible co-localization of two alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive (alpha 7 and alpha 8) and two alpha-bungarotoxin-insensitive (beta 2 and alpha 3) subunits of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in neurons of the chick brain and retina. Several structures contained neurons that were doubly-labeled with antibodies against the alpha 7 subunit and the beta 2 subunit. These structures included, for example, the interpeduncular nucleus, nucleus spiriformis lateralis, optic tectum, pretectal visual nuclei, and the lateral hypothalamus. Double-labeling with antibodies against the alpha 7 and alpha 8 subunits was also seen in several regions, which included the interpeduncular nucleus, visual pretectum, lateral hypothalamus, dorsal thalamus, and the habenular complex. In the retina, many cells in the inner nuclear layer were observed to contain alpha 8 and alpha 3 subunits, whereas neurons in the ganglion cell layer were seen to contain alpha 7 and alpha 8 or, less frequently, alpha 7 and alpha 3 subunits. These results indicate that alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive and alpha-bungarotoxin-insensitive subunits of the nicotinic receptors are co-expressed by neurons of the chick brain and retina.
The F11 cell line is a fusion product of cells of mouse neuroblastoma cell line N18TG-2 with embryonic rat dorsal-root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Previous biochemical results suggest that they express mu- and delta-opioid receptors that are negatively coupled to adenylate cyclase. The present study provides direct agonist-binding and electrophysiologic evidence of mu and delta, but not kappa, receptor expression in F11 cells. Radioligand binding assays show that F11 cell membranes bind the mu- and delta-opioid receptor agonists, DAGO and DPDPE with Kd = 4.5 and 4.9 nM and Bmax = 111 and 195 fmol/mg, respectively. Tight-seal patch-clamp recordings of F11 cells after several days in a differentiating culture medium (low serum, cyclic AMP and nerve growth factor) showed that: (i) the outward K+ current during pulsed depolarization in most of these cells was increased by either DAGO or DPDPE, but none were responsive to both opioids or to the kappa-opioid receptor agonist, U-50,488H. The response was blocked by relevant receptor antagonists, naloxone, beta-funaltrexamine or naltrindole; (ii) cells without processes responded neither to DAGO nor to DPDPE; (iii) treatment with pertussis toxin blocked all opioid-induced increases in outward K+ current. The opioid-induced increase in voltage-dependent membrane K+ current in F11 cells resembles the inhibitory effect elicited by mu- and delta-opioid agonists in primary cultures of mouse DRG neurons.
The effect of excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists, (5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclo-hepten-5, 10-imine hydrogen maleate ((+)-MK-801), (+/-)-3-(2-carboxy-piperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP), 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and (+/-)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoic acid (AP-4), on penile erection and yawning induced by subcutaneous apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg), intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) oxytocin (30 ng) and adrenocorticotropin (ACTH)-(1-24) (10 micrograms) was studied in male rats. Intraperitoneal (0.1-0.4 mg/kg) and i.c.v. (10-50 micrograms) (+)-MK-801 prevented dose dependently the penile erection and yawning induced by the three drugs. The (+)-MK-801 effect coincided with the appearance of head weaving, body rolling, hyperlocomotion and ataxia. Haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) antagonized the prevention by (+)-MK-801 of oxytocin responses. Penile erection but not yawning was also prevented by high, but not low doses of CPP and CNQX, which impaired motor performance, AP-4 was ineffective at all doses tested. The above compounds were ineffective when injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, the brain area where apomorphine and oxytocin act to induce penile erection and yawning. The results suggest that excitatory amino acid transmission is not involved in the expression of penile erection and yawning induced by the above compounds.
The anatomical organization of cholinergic markers such as acetylcholinesterase, choline acetyltransferase, and nerve growth factor receptors was investigated in the basal ganglia of the human brain. The distribution of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive axons and varicosities and their relationship to regional perikarya showed that the caudate, putamen, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle, globus pallidus, substantia nigra, red nucleus, and subthalamic nucleus of the human brain receive widespread cholinergic innervation. Components of the striatum (i.e., the putamen, caudate, olfactory tubercle, and nucleus accumbens) displayed the highest density of cholinergic varicosities. The next highest density of cholinergic innervation was detected in the red nucleus and subthalamic nucleus. The level of cholinergic innervation was of intermediate density in the globus pallidus and the ventral tegmental area and low in the pars compacta of the substantia nigra. Immunoreactivity for nerve growth factor receptors (NGFr) was confined to the cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain and their processes. Axonal immunoreactivity for NGFr was therefore used as a marker for cholinergic projections originating from the basal forebrain (Woolf et al., '89: Neuroscience 30:143-152). Although the vast majority of striatal cholinergic innervation was NGFr-negative and, therefore, intrinsic, the striatum also contained NGFr-positive axons, indicating the existence of an additional cholinergic input from the basal forebrain. This basal forebrain cholinergic innervation was more pronounced in the putamen than in the caudate. The distribution of NGFr-positive axons suggested that the basal forebrain may also project to the globus pallidus but probably not to the subthalamic nucleus, substantia nigra, or red nucleus. The great majority of cholinergic innervation to these latter three structures and to parts of the globus pallidus appeared to come from cholinergic neurons outside the basal forebrain, most of which are probably located in the upper brainstem. These observations indicate that cholinergic neurotransmission originating from multiple sources is likely to play an important role in the diverse motor and behavioral affiliations that have been attributed to the human basal ganglia.
Fifty human livers obtained at autopsy were analyzed for N-acetyltransferase and classified into six genotypes. Determination of N-acetyltransferase activity and proteins from supernatants of liver homogenates indicate that genotype I corresponds to rapid acetylator, genotypes II and III to intermediate acetylator, and genotypes IV, V, and VI to slow acetylator phenotypes. Northern blot analysis shows that levels of mRNA for N-acetyltransferase in the livers do not markedly differ among the six genotypes. Three alleles of the N-acetyltransferase gene were cloned and sequenced. mRNA is coded in two exons. Comparison of alleles 2 and 3, which correspond to low N-acetyltransferase activity, with allele 1, which corresponds to high N-acetyltransferase activity, revealed several polymorphisms. Two gene sequence differences occur in the coding exons of alleles 2 and 3, one of which would produce different amino acids in the proteins. Those sequence differences that lead to amino acid substitutions result in a loss of BamHI and TaqI sites for alleles 2 and 3, respectively. Expression studies of the alleles in Chinese hamster ovary cells show that allele 1 expresses high levels of N-acetyltransferase activity and enzyme protein, while alleles 2 and 3 express low levels of both protein and activity.
A correlational analysis of normalized (regional to whole-brain) regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose obtained in the 'resting' state (eyes covered, ears plugged) using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose, demonstrated differences between old and young women in patterns of functional associations. Fifteen healthy young (age less than 40 years) and 17 healthy old women (age greater than 64 years) were scanned with a Scanditronix PC1024-7B tomograph. The brain was divided into 65 regions of interest. The old women had fewer and less positive correlations between pairs of metabolic ratios in the frontal and parietal cortices. The results suggest an age-related reduction in frontal and parietal functional interactions in the 'resting' state that is consistent with a prior correlation analysis using a low resolution ECAT II scanner on young and old men. Reduced functional interactions may reflect age-related cognitive changes.
The neurotransmitter serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) may play an important role in learning and memory. It has also been suggested that 5-HT abnormalities may mediate some aspects of the cognitive disorders associated with Korsakoff syndrome and Alzheimer's Disease. The effect of intracisternally applied 5-HT neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) on learning and memory in rodents was evaluated. Three-day-old rat pups were treated with pargyline (40 mg/kg, i.p.) followed by 5,7-DHT (50 micrograms/pup) and returned to the dam for a month. At 75 days of age, rats were tested on a learning set problem in the Morris water maze for 5 days followed by 30 days of testing in a 12-arm radial maze with 8 of the 12 arms baited. In the Morris water maze, the latency to locate the hidden platform did not differ significantly for 5,7-DHT treated and control rats (F less than 1.0). Similarly, 5,7-DHT treated rats performed comparably to controls on the 12-arm radial maze (F less than 1.0). At 106 days of age the assay of tryptophan hydroxylase activity in the dorsal raphe nuclei and hippocampus showed marked reduction (86%, 78%, respectively) in 5,7-DHT treated animals compared to vehicle injected controls. Immunocytochemical analysis was consistent with the biochemical results. In 5,7-DHT treated animals there was severe loss of neurons that bind 5-HT antibody in the dorsal and medial raphe nuclei.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The specific binding of [3H]YM-09151-2 was used to investigate the possible differences in age-associated changes in striatal D2 dopamine (DA) receptor properties in genetically obese (fa/fa) Zucker rats and their lean (Fa/?) littermates. The maximal binding sites (Bmax) of D2 DA receptors was found to decline with age in both obese and lean rats; the rate of decline in receptor Bmax was slightly higher in lean than obese rats. However, the Bmax of D2 DA receptor in 6-, 12- and 18-month-old obese rats was significantly lower compared to the age-matched lean rats. These data indicate that obesity decreases the number of striatal D2 DA receptors without affecting the rate at which receptor number decreases with age.
[3H]PN200-110 binding sites were studied by means of quantitative autoradiography in hippocampal sections of patients with Alzheimer's disease and age-matched control subjects. Choline acetyltransferase activity, plaque, tangle and cell densities were also determined in the same tissue samples used for autoradiographic studies. Quantitative autoradiographic analysis of [3H]PN200-110 binding in control hippocampus revealed a heterogeneous pattern similar to that described in rodents, being particularly high in the dentate gyrus. In Alzheimer's disease, [3H]PN200-110 binding was markedly reduced in the subiculum (control = 9.85 +/- 1.41 pmol/g; Alzheimer = 3.41 +/- 0.54 pmol/g, mean +/- S.E.M., P less than 0.001). In the subiculum there was a disproportionate reduction of [3H]PN200-110 binding in comparison to cell loss in Alzheimer's disease. The activity of choline acetyltransferase in the hippocampus was markedly reduced in Alzheimer's disease (controls 6.9 +/- 1.0; Alzheimer 2.7 +/- 0.9 nmol/h/mg protein, mean +/- S.E.M., P less than 0.01). There was a strong correlation between choline acetyltransferase activity and [3H]PN200-110 binding in the subiculum. [3H]PN200-110 binding did not correlate with plaque density in the subiculum. The discrete reduction and preservation of [3H]PN200-110 binding in the present study is consistent with the pattern of selective cellular vulnerability in the hippocampal region in Alzheimer's disease.

The nonpeptide substance P receptor antagonist CP-96,345 was found to displace binding to Ca2+ channel binding sites labelled with either [3H]desmethoxyverapamil or [3H]diltiazem and to enhance [3H]nitrendipine binding. Unlike the substance P receptor antagonist activity of CP-96,345, these effects on Ca2+ channel binding sites were neither stereoselective nor species-dependent. It is concluded that CP-96,345 may act as an antagonist of L-type Ca2+ channels in addition to being a potent NK1 receptor (substance P) antagonist.
Critical issues in the cognitive neuroscience of language are whether there are multiple systems for the representation of meaning, perhaps organized by processing system (such as vision or language), and whether further subsystems are distinguishable within these larger ones. We describe here a patient (K.R.) with cerebral damage whose pattern of acquired deficits offers direct evidence for a major division between visually based and language-based higher-level representations, and for processing subsystems within language. K.R. could not name animals regardless of the type of presentation (auditory or visual), but had no difficulty naming other living things and objects. When asked to describe verbally the physical attributes of animals (for example, 'what colour is an elephant?'), she was strikingly impaired. Nevertheless, she could distinguish the correct physical attributes of animals when they were presented visually (she could distinguish animals that were correctly coloured from those that were not). Her knowledge of input stimulus. To explain this selective deficit, these data mandate the existence of two distinct representations of such properties in normal individuals, one visually based and one language-based. Furthermore, these data establish that knowledge of physical attributes is strictly segregated from knowledge of other properties in the language system.
Thirty patients of acute inflammatory myopathy were seen over a short period of 11 months (February to December 1986) at NIMHANS, Bangalore, South India. The characteristic features were: short febrile illness followed a few days later by myalgia, edema of extremities, severe motor weakness and involvement of multiple other systems. Their mean age was 32.3 years and M:F ratio was 4:1. CK levels were increased in all. EMG done in 23 patients showed spontaneous activity in 13 and myopathic pattern in all. Nerve conduction studies revealed abnormalities in 12 cases. Muscle biopsy done in 21 patients showed varying degree of myophagocytosis and inflammatory infiltrates. All patients received steroids for only 6-8 weeks. Twenty-two patients recovered, one developed residual disability and 7 patients died during the acute phase. None of the survivors has developed relapse so far. Such cases with monophasic illness in clusters have not been reported earlier.
Based on the mental functions according to classical physiological criteria, the authors propose an information management system with heuristical value for Psychiatry. This system assumes that information will be received by the sensoperceptual area, being analyzed within both the cognitive and affective areas later on, the analysis output thus taking place through the psychomotor area. Such a system allows a theoretical structure -correlating some aspects of Neurosciences with psychiatric clinical events, to be elaborated. Furthermore, such a system allows mental disorders to be understood as disturbances in the information processing the nervous tissue performs.
The care of mentally ill people at home is being encouraged nowadays. As a result, the family members feel an increased burden of care and find it difficult to cope with the care of a schizophrenic patient at home. We interviewed the relatives of 62 schizophrenics systematically regarding the behaviour of the patients that was perceived to be distressful. This was done using the Scale for Assessment of Family Distress. It was noted that behaviours related to activity and self-care were perceived to be most distressful, and not aggressive or psychotic behaviour. Distress was more often reported by younger relatives and those with more education. The findings have implications in planning appropriate family intervention methods.
Drinking patterns of male and female Long-Evans rats were compared during a 15-day drinking period. All animals were tested for preference for alcohol for 24 h during which food, water, and beer containing 5% ethanol were freely available. Animals drinking 50 ml or more of beer were chosen for the experiments. On days 1-5, animals were offered food, water, and beer containing 5% ethanol (v/v). On days 6-15, the concentration of ethanol in the beer was doubled to 10% (v/v). Preference ratios (beer/total fluid) were higher for females than males, and females consumed more grams of alcohol per unit of body weight. When alcohol concentration was doubled, females increased alcohol intake (g/kg), while males tended to titrate alcohol intake to levels consumed at 5% concentration. Female patterns of drinking differed from male patterns of drinking.
The effects of metadoxine (pyrrolidone-carboxylic acid; PCA) and pyridoxine on the locomotor responses to ethanol in mice were compared. Metadoxine (200 and 400 mg/kg i.p.) and PCA (86 and 172 mg/kg) prevented, in a dose-related manner, the locomotor stimulant effect of a low dose of ethanol (1.5 g/kg i.p.), whereas pyridoxine (228 mg/kg i.p.) was completely ineffective. Neither compound modified the sedative effect of a high ethanol dose (2.5 g/kg i.p.). The results indicate that the antagonistic effect of metadoxine on ethanol stimulant response is due to the PCA component of the molecule.
Ethanol elicited a biphasic effects on the extracellular noradrenaline (NA) concentrations in the rat frontal cortex, as assessed by microdialysis in awake animals. A low dose of ethanol (0.2 g/kg i.p.) raised NA output to about 160% of baseline levels. In contrast, a dose of 2 g/kg inhibited NA output to about 70% of pre-drug levels. These results suggest that the decrease in cortical NA output may reflect the sedative-hypnotic properties of ethanol at high doses, whereas the stimulation of extraneuronal NA may represent a biochemical correlate of the arousal and increased alertness elicited by low doses of ethanol.
An acute animal model has been developed in the chinchilla for the study of perilymphatic fistulas. Micropunctures were made in three sites to simulate bony, round window, and oval window fistulas. The eye movements in response to pressure applied to the external auditory canal were recorded after micropuncture induction and in preoperative controls. The main pressure stimulus was a pseudorandom binary sequence (PRBS) that rapidly changed between plus and minus 200 mm of water. The PRBS stimulus, with its wide frequency bandwidth, produced responses clearly above the preoperative baseline in 78 percent of the runs. The response was better between 0.5 and 3.3 Hz than it was below 0.5 Hz. The direction of horizontal eye movement was toward the side of the fistula with positive pressure applied in 92 percent of the runs. Vertical eye movements were also observed. The ratio of vertical eye displacement to horizontal eye displacement depended upon the site of the micropuncture induction. Thus, such a ratio measurement may be clinically useful in the noninvasive localization of perilymphatic fistulas in humans.
The extracellular level of lactate is mainly dependent on functional glucose metabolism in most brain cells regulated in part by neuronal activity. We investigated the effect of environmental stimuli on lactate release in rat medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) by in vivo brain microdialysis. Lactate release was clearly demonstrated to increase immediately and transiently from its steady-state levels after various stimuli (tail pinch for 1 min, 100-dB white noise for 5 min, and immobilization for 5 min). These stimuli-induced increments were depressed after a second trial 1 h later in a manner consistent with dishabituation to a novel stimulus and &quot;below-zero&quot; habituation by several repetition. Likewise the local perfusion of dopamine or norepinephrine transiently increased and then diminished the second perfusion-induced increase in MPFC lactate release consistent with desensitization. These results suggest the possibility that stressful stimuli produce one-trial habituation of lactate release in MPFC via a mechanism involving the regulation of the catecholaminergic system.

A spectrum of neurocognitive defects, termed human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-associated cognitive/motor complex, has been described in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). AIDS dementia complex (ADC) is a severe form of this disease seen in 20 to 30% of terminally ill patients. The etiology of this complex is distinct from commonly observed opportunistic infections seen in brains of patients with AIDS and has been attributed to HIV infection within the brain. At autopsy, the brains of patients with ADC contain numerous HIV-infected macrophages/microglia with prominent subcortical damage, together termed HIV encephalitis. We retrospectively analyzed all 107 brains from a three-year period (1988-1990) of AIDS autopsies using immunocytochemistry to detect HIV. Rather than breaking into distinct groups of HIV encephalitis versus non-HIV encephalitis, the specimens revealed a spectrum of severity of HIV infection. Although only 16% of the brains showed the histological hallmarks of HIV encephalitis, more than 50% of the autopsies showed moderate to severe HIV infection. In a subset of 23 AIDS autopsies during which short postmortem times and absence of significant opportunistic infection permitted quantitative analysis of dendritic and synaptic complexities, we identified a strong correlation between neocortical dendritic and presynaptic damage and abundance of HIV envelope protein in the neocortical gray and deep white matter. This correlation suggests that the presence of HIV-1 in the neocortex may be responsible by direct or indirect mechanisms for dendritic and synaptic damage.
Understanding of the organization and function of a newly identified neuronal messenger molecule, nitric oxide, has progressed rapidly. Nitric oxide synthase has been purified and molecularly cloned from brain. Its localization is exclusively neuronal and endothelial. The catalytic activity of nitric oxide synthase accounts for the NADPH diaphorase staining of neurons that are uniquely resistant to toxic insults and neurodegenerative disorders. Nitric oxide has diverse functions. In platelets it inhibits their aggregation, in macrophages it mediates cytotoxicity, and in blood vessels it acts as a vasodilator. In the nervous system nitric oxide may be the retrograde transmitter in long-term potentiation. It is the &quot;neurotransmitter&quot; of cerebral vasodilator nerves and the inhibitory &quot;neurotransmitter&quot; of the motor neurons of the intestines. Nitric oxide in situations of excessive production may function as a neurotoxin, suggesting a role for nitric oxide in neurodegenerative disorders.
This article describes how sociopolitical, scientific, and technologic forces have influenced neonatal pain research and clinical practice. Changing beliefs about pain from the perspective of patients, physicians, nurses, and scientists investigating the neurobiology of pain are discussed. The impact of the development of the specialty of neonatology and its associated technologic advances on neonatal pain is explored. In addition, the influence of increased scientific knowledge about the neurodevelopment of the neonate and neurobiology of the sensory system on neonatal pain is presented. Finally, changes in society's views of children and the role of parents are addressed. The article concludes with a discussion of the relative importance of each of the factors in stimulating recent interest in neonatal pain. The opportunities for nurses to contribute to scientific research to improve the care of neonates in pain are highlighted.
